Report No. 1736A-IN                                      FILE  COPY
India: Appraisal of a Loan to Finance State
Joint/Public Sector Industrial Projects through the
Industrial Development Bank of India
January 5, 1978
Industrial Development and Finance Division
South Asia Projects
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December 29, 1977)
US$1.00            Rs 8.42
Rs 1.00        =   US$0.1188
Rs 1 million  =   US$118,800
(Prior to September 24, 1975, the Rupee was
officially valued at a fixed Pound Sterling
rate. Since then, it has been fixed relative
to a "basket" of currencies. As these curren-
cies are now floating, the US Dollar/Rupee ex-
change rate is subject to change. Conversions
in the appraisal report were made at US$1 to
Rs 9.00, which was the short-term average at
the time of preparation.)
FISCAL YEAR
GOI and SIDCs  -      April 1 - March 31
IDBI           -      July 1  - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LIST OF ACRONYMS
DAF       -    Development Assistance Fund
DFC       -    Development Finance Companies
DRC       -    Domestic Resource Cost
GOI       -    Government of India
ICICI     -    Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
IDBI      -    Industrial Development Bank of India
IFCI      -    Industrial Finance Corporation of India
IERR      -    Internal Economic Rate of Return
IIG       -    Inter-Institutional Group
IIT       -    Inter-Institutional Meeting
IRCI      -    Industrial Reconstruction Corporation of India
KITCO     -    Kerala Industrial and Technical Consultancy Organization
LIC       -    Life Insurance Corporation
HaTP      -    Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act
NEITCO    -    North Eastern Industrial & Technical Consultancy
Organization
NNP       -    Net National Product
NSIC      -    National Small Industries Corporation
RBI       -    Reserve Bank of India
SBI       -    State Bank of India
SFCs      -    State Financial Corporations
SIDCs     -    State Industrial Development Corporations
SIICs     -    State Industrial Investment Corporations
SISI      -    Small Industries Services Institute
SSI       -    Small Scale Industries
SSICs     -    State Small Industries Corporations
SSIDCs    -    State Small Industries Development Corporations
UTI       -    Unit Trust of India
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
ot their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






INDIA
APPRAISAL OF A LOAN TO FINANCE STATE
JOINT/PUBLIC SECTOR INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS THROUGH THE
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ............................   i-ii
I.   INTRODUCTION .......................................           1
II.   THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR AND THE TARGET GROUP .... .....           2
The Industrial Sector and Focus of the Loan  ...         2
The Role of the State Joint/Public Industrial
Sector   .....................................         2
III.   STATE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT/INVESTMENT
CORPORATIONS (SIDCs/SIICs) .........................           6
IV.   IDBI - INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS .......................           9
General .................................                9
Ownership and Organization ............    ..           11
Procedures and Standards ......... ..       ..........    12
Operating Policies and Results ..         ..............    13
V.   IDBI's FINANCIAL POSITION ..........................    14
Quality of Portfolio ........... ..       .............    14
Audit      .................... .....................    15
Financial Performance .........................    15
VI.   IDBI's BUSINESS PROSPECTS ..........................    17
Business Forecasts ......       ...................... .    17
Resource Requirements ............ .............    17
Financial Projections .....        ....................    18
VII.   FEATURES OF THE PROPOSED LOAN ......................    19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of
Messrs. E. Elejalde, W. Schaefer, D. Groves and E. Nassim which visited India
in December 1976.



-2-
ANNEXES
1.   Industrial Sector and Finance
Attachment 1 - Operations of Industrial Financing
Institutions
Attachment 2 - Selective Borrowing and Lending Rates,
FY73 to August 22, 1977
2.   Role of the Public/Joint Industrial Sectors in Madhya Pradesh,
Gujarat, and Andhra Pradesh
Attachment 1 - MADHYA PRADESH
MPIDC Target Group Project Pipeline
as at September 30, 1976
Attachment 2 - GUJARAT
GIIC Target Group Project Pipeline
as of November 30, 1976
Attachment 3 - ANDHRA PRADESH
APIDC Target Group Project Pipeline
as of September 30, 1976
3.   Technical Assistance Fund
4.   Direct Project Assistance by IDBI to Target Group
5.   Target Group's Past Performance
Attachment 1 - Comparison of Performance by Existing
Public/Joint Sector Projects with Private
Sector Projects in the same Industries
which have been in Existence for Comparable
Time
6.   Highlights of Scheme for IDBI Refinance Assistance to SIDCs/SIICs
7.   Public Financial Institutions Law (Amendment) Act
(IDBI Amendment Act) Main Effects on IDBI
8.   Board of Directors and Executive Committee as of June 30, 1977
9.   Staffing Situation
10.   IDBI - Staffing of SFCs Department and Other Loans Departments
11.   IDBI's Structure of Interest Rates
12.   IDBI's Role in the Economy
Attachment I - Sanctions, Commitments, Disbursements and
Repayments
13.   Aging of Arrears
14.   Characteristics of IDBI's Arrears as of June 30, 1977
(Direct Loans Excluding Export Finance)
15.   Summary of Equity Investments held as of September 30, 1977
16.   Income Statement for Years Ending June 30, 1973 - June 30, 1977
17.   Cash-flow Statements, Years Ending June 30, 1973 - June 30, 1977
18.   Balance Sheets, June 30, 1973-1977
19.   Comparative Operational Ratios, FY73-FY77
20.   Forecasts of Approvals, Commitments and Disbursals
21.   Investment Program for the Target Group
Appendix 1 -   Geographical Distribution of Projects in
the Target Group Proposed by State
Governments



-.3-
22.   Projected Income Statement, FY78-FY81
23.   Projected Balance Sheets FY78-FY81
24.   Projected Cash Flow Statements, FY78-FY81
25.   Projected Comparative Operational Ratios, FY78-FY81
26.   IDBI's Strategy Statement
27.   Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Proposed Loan
ORGANIZATION CHART
Chart (No. 16896) - Organization Chart as of November 30, 1976
MAP
IBRD No. 3873R






INDIA
APPRAISAL OF A LOAN TO FINANCE STATE
JOINT/PUBLIC SECTOR INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS THROUGH THE
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI), which is fully
owned by the Government of India (GOI), has requested a line of credit to
finance state ioint/public industrial enterprises in India. IDBI was estab-
lished in 1964, and has since become India's largest institutional source of
finance for industry, and a major promoter of industrial development. IDBI
undertakes a wide variety of activities including direct lending, refinance,
rediscounting, export finance, guarantees, investments in shares and deben-
tures and underwriting. It also acts as the apex institution for all indus-
trial term-lending institutions, and provides capital to financial intermed-
iaries at both the national and state level. This report recommends a $25
million loan for IDBI's direct lending to state government sponsored joint/
public sector enterprises.
ii.       The proposed loan would complement World Bank lines of credit to
the Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India (ICICI) and through
IDBI to the State Financial Corporations (SFCs) which are primarily directed
to the private industrial sector. The proposed loan has been designed to
assist medium sized industrial projects (defined in this report as those in-
volving fixed assets excluding land between Rs 10 million and Rs 200 million)
sponsored by the state governments and their agencies (State Industrial
Development/Investment Corporations, SIDCs/SIICs). The loan would be re-
stricted to financing projects sponsored as state majority (i.e., 51% equity
or more held by the state government or its agency) or joint sector (i.e., at
least 26% equity held by the state government or its agency and upto 25% of
equity held by a private entrepreneur partner with the balance held by the
public at large).
iii.      The concept of the state joint/public industrial sector which evolved
in the early 1960s has received attention particularly after 1971. The state
governments use the joint sector as a promotional tool to attract private
sector investments into high priority projects which often focus on improved
utilization of natural resources in the states. It is designed to encourage
private firms to take up novel investment opportunities through provision of
part of the equity resources and sharing of risks with the states while taking
advantage of private sector management. Entrepreneurs from more developed
areas are thereby encouraged to invest in the less developed ones, where
entrepreneurship is often lacking. GOI has designated IDBI as the central
financial institution with the principal role in development of this sector.
iv.       IDBI will be able to make a substantial contribution to the states'
efforts in promoting industrial development by improving the selection of
high priority state sponsored projects, ensuring coordination of state indus-
trial development plans, preparing, commissioning, and/or assisting SIDCs/SIICs



- ii -
in preparing sector studies, and implementing upgrading programs for the SIDCs/
SIICs. This complements IDBI's present relationship with the SIDCs/SIICs in
connection with IDBI's recent decision to extend to them its refinance facility.
Most of the SIDCs/SIICs are not at the present time fully equipped to provide
a second tier of intermediation for IBRD funds and IDBI will be responsible
directly for appraising and supervising the projects sponsored from the pro-
posed loan. This loan also provides an opportunity to continue a dialogue
between IBRD and IDBI about IDBI's overall lending policies and organization
which had been initiated in connection with earlier operations with IDBI.
v.         IDBI is a mature development finance company with qualified manage-
ment and staff. With the transfer of IDBI's ownership from the Reserve Bank
of India (RBI) to GOI, IDBI's role as the apex institution for industrial
financing was enhanced and IDBI has taken up the responsibility for refinance
of SIDCs/SIICs and for modernization schemes. Thus the scope and level of
its activities have been growing relatively rapidly. To cope more effectively
with these increased responsibilities, IDBI has been implementing a major
reorganization since March 1976. IDBI's standards for appraisal and follow-
up in its direct lending operatiDns are adequate.
vi.        IDBI's financial situation is satisfactory.  However, arrears on
IDBI's direct loan portfolio have increased over the past few years, but this
is expected to improve with the recent pickup in industrial activity.
vii.      Nine tenths of the proposals in the pipeline of state joint/public
sector medium-scale projects are in the joint sector. The emphasis is on
chemical projects (about one-third) and the remainder in a wide variety of
industries, many of which involve exploitation of natural resources. As much
as 70% of the projects are in the 14 less developed states and in the long-
run, this implies a marked shift into less developed states and backward
areas. The pipeline comprises about 220 projects costing Rs 12 billion equiv-
alent, with foreign exchange requirements of Rs 2.2 billion (US$250 million).
However, not all of these projects are at a bankable stage and several may
not be economically justified. It would be IDBI's function to screen this
pipeline and select high priority projects (approximately 15 to 20) requiring
foreign exchange amounting to or exceeding US$25 million over the next 2
years, for financing under this proposed loan. An upper limit of US$4 million
from the loan to any one subproject is proposed.
viii.     The first project, not being a free-limit project, from each of the
first six states would be reviewed for approval by IBRD in addition to all
projects requiring IDBI funds of US$3 million or more. This free limit would
enable IBRD to review for approval some 50% by number and 70% by amount of the
projects financed under the proposed loan.



INDIA
APPRAISAL OF A LOAN TO FIN4ANCE STATE
JOINT/PUBLIC SECTOR INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS THROUGH THE
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI), now fully owned by
the Government of India (GOI), has requested a loan to finance state joint and
public sector industrial enterprises in India. IDBI was established in 1964,
and has since become the largest institutional source of finance for industry.
IDBI undertakes a wide variety of activities, including direct lending, re-
finance, rediscounting, export finance, guarantees, investments in shares and
debentures, and underwriting. It also acts as the apex institution for all
industrial term-lending institutions, and provides capital to financial inter-
mediaries at both the national and state level. This report recommends a
$25 million loan for IDBI's direct lending to a selected size group of state
government sponsored projects.
1.02      The Bank Group has already been involved with IDBI through two lines
of credit in 1973 and 1976 totalling $65 million, channelled through IDBI to
18 State Financial Corporations (SFCs). IDBI was also one of the channels used
for $28 million out of a $105 million IDA Credit for fertilizers in 1975.
Aside from direct loans for steel, coal and fertilizer, and for import credits,
the Bank Group's other involvement in the Indian industrial sector has been
through twelve loans to the Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India (ICICI) amounting to $506 million (net of cancellations), used for
financing medium and large-scale industries mainly in the private sector, and
to a limited extent in the joint sector (para 1.03).
1.03      The proposed loan would complement the existing IDBI/SFCs and ICICI
operations both of which are primarily directed to the private sector, by pro-
viding IDBI with funds to finance directly medium sized industrial projects
sponsored by the state governments and their agencies (State Industrial Devel-
opment/Investment Corporations, SIDCs/SIICs). Therefore, the loan would be
restricted to financing projects sponsored as state majority (i.e, 51% equity
or more held by the state government or its agency) or joint sector (i.e., at
least 26% equity held by the state government or its agency and up to 25% of
equity held by a private partner with the balance held by the public at large).
1.04      The objectives of the proposed loan would be to help IDBI in its
efforts to (i) improve the preparation and implementation of high priority
projects in the target group; (ii) assist more effectively in the preparation
of industrial sector studies focussed on the joint sector and in their coordi-
nation; and (iii) implement institutional upgrading programs for the SIDCs/
SlICs. IBRD's role would be in particular, to ensure high standards through
review of appraisal reports on subloans exceeding the free limit; comment on
the preparation of industrial sector studies; and review, and agree on, the
SIDC/SIIC institutional upgrading programs. This project will also provide



-2
IBRD with the opportunity to continue the dialogue initiated with earlier
IBRD/IDA operations on IDBI's overall activities and policies.
II. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR AND THE TARGET GROUP
The Industrial Sector and Focus of the Loan
2.01      Annex 1 contains an assessment of the current situation, policies
and financial system of India's industrial sector. It describes the recent
growth of industrial production estimated at 10% during FY77, compared with
5.5% in FY76, 2.5% in FY75, and 1% in FY74. Industrial export performance has
also improved. However, growth is highly uneven among the different Indian
states and among different industrial subsectors. For example, the demand
for electrical motors, jeeps, railway wagons, and diesel engines, as well as
cotton textiles continues to be sluggish. As discussed in Annex 1, GOI has
recently taken a number of measures to boost industrial growth, including
liberalization of licensing procedures, relaxation of import and other con-
trols, fiscal incentives, and more emphasis on exports and on industrial
modernization.  While these measures are encouraging, it is not yet clear
whether this will prove enough for sustained growth. In the longer run,
growth will depend on a continued rise in the final demand both for investment
and for consumption, which will in turn depend on the buoyancy of investment
in more efficient plants.  Thus, the focus of this loan will be on investment
promotion at the state level to exploit opportunities for economically effi-
cient projects, particularly in the less developed states.
The Role of the State Joint/Public Industrial Sector
2.02      Background.  The promotion of state level industry dates back to the
early 1960s and has received increased emphasis since 1971. The SIDCs/SIICs
are generally responsible for the promotion of industries at the state-level
(para 3.01 to 3.10). SIDCs/SIICs, on behalf of state governments, sometimes
implement projects on their own by paying in 51% or more of the share capital
(with the rest being sold to the general public), where a private partner is
not forthcoming. In most cases, the state-sponsored projects are implemented
in the joint sector. A joint sector unit is defined as an undertaking in
which the state holds at least 26% of the equity, 1/ with a private collabo-
rator, who provides the management, holding up to 25% and with the balance
held by the public at large. Originally, GOI looked upon the joint sector
concept as an approach to curb the concentration of economic power by restrict-
ing the growth of "large houses". However, this concept has been evolving 2/,
1/   In most cases, the SIDCs/SIICs subscribe on behalf of the state
government.
2/   In fact, in some states some "large houses" are being selected as the
private sector partner.



-3-
and now the state governments use the joint sector as a promotional tool to
attract private sector investment. As illustrated by Annex 2, states are now
utilizing the joint sector to fill investment gaps which are often focussed at
the improved utilization of natural resources in these states. GOI has mean-
while designated IDBI as the central financial institution which is to play
the principal role in the development of this sector.
2.03      Advantages of the Concept and Main Issues.  The joint ventures with
private entrepreneurs have the following advantages for the state governments:
(i) the SIDCs/SIICs can spread their scarce funds over a larger number of proj-
ects than is possible with wholly state owned projects by mobilizing private
resources for investment in industry in their state; and (ii) the private part-
ner provides the management, thus relieving the public sector from administra-
tion of those projects. The joint sector concept also has advantages for the
private partner: (i) the association with the state government is likely to
help the project managers surmount administrative hurdles and assure some
assistance for continued availability of infrastructure facilities and raw
materials; (ii) the SIDCs/SIICs can assist the private entrepreneur in over-
coming pre-operational formalities, such as capital goods clearance, foreign
collaboration approval, and at times even assist in obtaining finance for the
project from other sources; (iii) the financial risk of the entrepreneur is
reduced, although the entrepreneur is still managing the unit; and (iv) the
problem of insufficient equity capital of the entrepreneur is overcome by
the SIDCs/SIICs' equity contribution. These advantages are of particular
importance for investments in the less developed states which need to attract
entrepreneurs from other states.
2.04      However, there are also a number of potential problems as the states
need to strengthen their capacity to identify, prepare, appraise and imple-
ment industrial projects. IDBI can play a useful role in developing and im-
plementing institutional upgrading programs for the SIDCs/SIICs (para 3.10)
which are aimed at solving these problems. However, in the meantime, IDBI
will be responsible for selecting, appraising, and supervising subprojects to
be financed by the proposed loan. IDBI will also, by comparing and reviewing
the pipeline of projects of all states, assure coordination of individual
state plans at an early stage. 1/
2.05      As a first step to strengthen the project identification and prep-
aration capanlilty of the states, IDBI is preparing sector work programs
for individual states. These programs would list priority studies covering
sectoral issues identified for each state, particularly in relation to the
role of the joint sector. These studies would address issues such as a survey
of industrial resources in some states, where still required, 2/ to identify
unexploited investment opportunities and reviews of state industrial policy
1/   In the past, many similar projects were promoted by different states
at the same time, i.e., mini steel plants, motor scooter plants,
automobile parts, etc; leading to the possibility of excess capacity.
2/   IDBI has completed industrial potential surveys for a number of states,
although some need updating.



- 4 -
objectives, procedures and effects and the efficiency of the joint sector
concept. They could also include the preparation of technical feasibility
studies on specific projects and studies of areas of critical importance
such as marketing prospects of particular products, optimal plant size,
and analysis of the efficiency, appropriateness and competitiveness of the
industry incentives offered by these states.
2.06      To assist in the execution of the sectoral work program, $500,000
of the proposed loan would be allocated to a Technical Assistance Fund which
would enable IDBI to engage consultants to assist state government agencies
in preparation of projects and studies. 1/ Priority would be given to the
less developed states which are short of the technical manpower to develop
projects. Annex 3 gives the details of the Technical Assistance Fund pro-
posal, which has been agreed with IDBI.
2.07      Number and Characteristics of State Joint/Public Sector Units.  As
shown in Annex 4, IDBI started financing state joint/public sector projects
in 1970 and has financed up to June 1977, 47 state public sector projects
with an average project cost of Rs 77 million (US$9 million) and 73 state
joint sector projects with an average project cost of Rs 106 million (US$15
million). 2/ The total foreign exchange requirement for these 120 projects
constituted 25% of the total project cost. The cost of individual state
joint and public sector projects financed by IDBI ranged generally from
Rs 10 million to Rs 200 million. The highest IDBI assistance was for fer-
tilizer projects while machinery and basic metal industries accounted for
the largest number of projects. Geographically, the number of projects were
well diversified, with 15 states covered.
2.08      Performance of State Joint/Public Sector Industrial Projects.  Most
state public/joint sector projects are either under construction or just start-
ing up so it is difficult to evaluate their performance. Nevertheless, an
analysis was made of projects in 3 states which are in different stages of
industrial development (Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh). Annex 5
shows that, in 1976, there were 12 operating state joint/public sector projects
(2 in Gujarat, 2 in Madhya Pradesh, and 8 in Andhra Pradesh), the performance
of which was mixed. Five companies were operating profitably and four had
started operations only in 1975 or thereafter. Three were making losses mainly
1/   IDBI will, where appropriate, capitalize expenditures in these studies
in the project cost and use the reimbursement of such expenditures to
finance further technical assistance.
2/   Data on state joint sector companies, other than those financed by IDBI,
are difficult to obtain partly because (i) in general these are not shown
separately as the joint sector but normally classified as part of the
private sector, and (ii) many companies are not yet operating or have
done so for only a limited period due to the recent origin of the joint
sector concept. However, the state joint and public sector projects
financed by IDBI provide background on their characteristics.



- 5 -
due to market problems. 1/ With diversification schemes under consideration
and demand anticipated to improve, all 3 companies are expected to make profits
in the long run. In the case of the bottling company which is IDBI financed,
IDBI lent its experience and knowledge in management and marketing to improve
the company's financial performance. Wihile the sample is small, this record
appears satisfactory given that most of the firms had recently started opera-
tions. Moreover, a comparison of 10 state government sponsored projects
from different states with 8 private sector projects in the same industries
which had been in existence for comparable periods of time shows that generally
the performance of these projects has been similar and that, where involved,
IDBI played a useful role in project formulation and follow up.
2.09      Pipeline.  The states have presented a pipeline of 218 state
joint/public sector investment proposals of medium size (para 7.05) costing
Rs 12 billion equivalent, with foreign exchange requirements of Rs 2.2 bil-
lion ($250 million) or 19%. 2/ However, many of these projects are not ready
for financing and several may not be economically efficient. It would be
IDBI's function to screen this pipeline and select high priority projects
(approximately 15 to 20) requiring foreign exchange amounting to or exceeding
$25 million over the next two years. IDBI's appraisal capability and the
sectoral studies to be undertaken in conjunction with the proposed loan (para
2.05) would ensure that resources are allocated efficiently.
2.10      The list indicates a heavy emphasis in chemicals (35%) which is con-
cerned with downstream development of existing Central Government/State owned
petrochemical and chemical facilities or projects largely based on locally
available raw materials (paper, gas, coal, salt, clay, etc). The remainder
of the industries show a wide diversity of activities many of which involve
exploitation of local natural resources. The majority of these industries
require capital intensive technology with fixed cost per job roughly estimated
at about $30,000. However, while in many cases, the issue of market potential
and economies of scale in production has to be studied thoroughly (confirming
the need for IDBI's involvement also to coordinate and avoid investment dup-
lication), there are possibilities for efficient import substitution and in
1/   One bottling company in Anhdra Pradesh was making losses, as was the
industry generally, because the declaration of prohibition in Tamil
Nadu reduced its market. A cable manufacturer, which made profits
in 1974, was making losses in 1976 because of reduced demand from
its main customers, the electricity boards. The third company,
which was initially started by a private promoter, made losses in
2 out of the last 3 years because of reduced demand for its ferrite
rods from the T.V. and radio manufacturers.
2/   Refer to Annex 21.



- 6 -
selected cases, export orientation. 1/ Further, the effect of such invest-
ments is to stimulate a variety of other industries to utilize the intermediate
goods being produced by these large units as well as to develop ancillary and
service functions. Thus, the employment effect should be substantial. The
geographical distribution shows that about 70% of the proposals came from the
14 less developed industrial states. Although actual resource allocation need
not follow this pattern in the short-run, a marked shift in favor of the less
industrialized states is envisaged, and these will be the major beneficiaries of
the institution building program, resulting in increased investment subsequently.
ITT. STATE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT/INVESTMENT CORPORATIONS (SIDCs/SIICs)
3.01      General.  The role of SIDCs/SIICs is to promote industrial develop-
ment through provision of equity capital and by identifying, preparing, and
implementing high priority projects which constitute the target group for the
proposed loan. 2/ They fill an important gap in the financial system at the
state level. The first SIDC was set up in Bihar in November 1960. Over the
years, all states have established SIDCs/SIICs intended to serve as catalysts
in the industrialization process and at present there are 21 throughout the
country. Although some are reasonably well organized and managed (e.g., in
Iiaharashtra, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh), most need substantial institutional
upgrading. IDBI, which has experience in upgrading the State Financial
Corporations (SFCs), is fully qualified to execute the upgrading programs for
SIDCs/SIICs (para 3.10).
3.02      Functions.  All SIDCs/SIICs are wholly owned by the state govern-
ments, and have been incorporated under the Companies Act, as public or
private limited companies. Their Articles of Association or their Statutes
authorize SIICs/SIDCs to undertake a wide range of activities, which are
generally appropriate in view of the objective to promote industry. The
main activities are: granting of financial assistance (equity and loans);
identification, promotion and management of industrial projects; setting up
of industrial estates; selection and training of entrepreneurs; and provision
of technical assistance. There is, and should be, considerable diversity of
operations from state to state, as well as differences in emphasis, arising
v>. v; L-c Cigree 0± industrialization achieved, the available institutional
network and particular local needs.
1/   A more detailed screening of the pipelines by 3 states (Annex 2) indi-
cates that there are a number of attractive investment opportunities
in these 3 states which implies that out of a total pipeline (for all
states) of about 220 projects, IDBI should be capable of finding 15-20
suitable ones, particularly when also taking into account the sectoral
work to be carried out under the proposed loan.
2/   In most states, these functions are carried out by the SIDCs, but in
some, such as Maharashtra and Gujarat, SIIC's are responsible for these
activities.



3.03      Industrial investment priorities vary widely from state to state
and the SIDCs/SIICs generally cope with the different needs. Thus, in
Maharashtra the SIIC tends to emphasize geographical dispersion of industry
away from the major urban centers. In states like Andhra Pradesh, Kerala and
Punjab, SIDCs concentrate on entrepreneurial promotion through initiating and
implementing arrangements for setting up new industries such as preparation of
detailed feasibility studies, securing licenses, and negotiation of collabora-
tion agreements with entrepreneurs. The Gujarat SIIC also undertakes the above
functions but is now focussing mainly on developing projects to utilize the
by-products of the refinery at Baroda through downstream development. The
Madhya Pradesh IDC concentrates on project identification as the state is
highly undeveloped, despite relatively large resources. However, some SIDCs
are also financing small scale industry, where this is better done by SFCs.
Thus, the adequacy of the functions of individual SIDCs are being evaluated
in the context of the requirements of the particular state, and any proposed
changes are being incorporated in the upgrading programs.
3.04      Management.  In all SIDCs/SIICs, the principal decision making
authority is vested in the Board of Directors which is nominated by the state
governments. Day-to-day operations are handled by a full-time managing direc-
tor, who is the chief executive and who, in some cases, has limited sanction-
ing power. The managing director is a nominee of the state government. He
is usually from the Indian Administrative Service and on average serves from
2 to 3 years. In many instances, the key management staff of SIDCs/SIICs are
deputed from state government service. In some SIDCs/SIICs the staff, par-
ticularly at the middle management level, could be upgraded and the turnover
for the managing director should be reduced.
3.05      Resources.  Taken as a group, the bulk of the resources available
to the SIDCs comes from state governments; about 40% is in the form of equity
and about 20% in the form of loans. The balance comes from bonds on the open
market (40%). The Reserve Bank of India fixes a quota of open market borrow-
ings each year for each state and consequently, SIDCs have difficulties rais-
ing as much capital as they need to expand their operations. Also, SIDCs have
statutory restrictions as to the level of deposits they can accept in relation
to their net worth and their inability to offer attractive interest rates in
relation to their lending rates as well as the competition from commercial
banks make their problem even more acute. In general, very few, of the SIDCs
appear to have effective financial resource planning as a basis for their pro-
jected operations. Most of them rely on annual budgetary allocations from
the states for their resources, which are in certain instances augmented by
commercial borrowings from banks. Recently, IDBI has made available its
refinance facilities to the SIDCs/SIICs which should help alleviate the
resource problem (para 3.10).
3.06      Size and Nature of Operations.  Compared to the size of operations
of SFCs and the all-India financial institutions (Annex 1, paras 13 to 27),
the volume of finance provided by SIDCs is relatively small as shown below:



- 8 -
Disbursements from Term Lending Institutions, 1976/77
Equity Capital
Loans          Subscriptions
------ (Rs million) ------
IDBI               2,720                68
IFCI                 529                19
ICICI                606                65
SFCs               1,050                 3
SIDCs                207                91
3.07       In recent years, SIDCs have disbursed about one-quarter of the
amount disbursed by the other important category of state sponsored develop-
ment institutions, the State Financial Corporations (SFCs). The SFCs essen-
tially deal with the smaller size category of enterprises, almost all of which
are privately owned, and SFCs are able to enhance their resources with re-
finance from IDBI, which the SIDCs have only recently been allowed to do.
However, SFCs are not general:Ly permitted to subscribe to shares 1/ although
they may underwrite. On the other hand, SIDCs can underwrite and subscribe
for shares and as shown in the Table above, their level of share subscriptions
indicates the importance of SIDCs in providing venture capital. One of the
objectives of SIDCs is to rotate funds through sales from their investment
portfolio. The performance OII this score has been relatively poor so far,
either because the continued i nvolvement of the SIDCs in the management of the
enterprise was deemed necessary or the profitability of the undertakings was
insufficient to attract buyers. This situation should change as the portfolio
becomes more mature with time and as the SIDCs become more experienced.
3.08       Operating Results.  The operating results of the SIDCs show consid-
erable variation but in general, and as might be expected, the SIDCs in the
industrialized states have greater resources at their disposal and earn higher
profits than most of the other SIDCs, as shown in the sample below.
1/   However, in 1972 the SFC act was amended to allow SFCs to raise special
capital from the state governments and IDBI for investment in new indus-
trial units. This scheme has not been very successful partly due to
insufficient demand. In any event, this scheme does not overlap with
the SIDCs' activities because (i) it is limited to rather small units
with paid up capital not exceeding Rs 500,000 and (ii) it is limited to
private companies since the SFC capital contribution must not exceed
the promoter's contribution or 20% of the paid up capital of the
company whichever is lower.



- 9 -
SIDCs' Loans and Equity Investments as of March 31, 1977
Ratio of                           Profit before
Outstanding Loans                        Tax as % of
State       SIDC   to Equity Investment    Total Assets            Equity
Maharashtra    SICOM        11   : 1            Rs 815 million           4.1
Gujarat         GIIC         4.1 : 1            Rs 318 million          13.5
Rajasthan       RSIMDC       3.6 : 1            Rs 137 million          -2.0
Assam           AIDC         1.9 : 1            Rs 109 million        - 1.1
Under the upgrading programs, the finances of each SIDC have been analyzed
in detail and measures are proposed, where appropriate, to improve their
financial position.
3.09      Organization and Procedures.  Some SIDCs need to streamline their
organization, to implement efficient and timely financial reporting systems,
institute a planning system which matches the SIDC's institutional capacity
to handle projects with its project pipeline, the absorptive capacity of the
industrial sector and the SIDC's and private investor's financial resources,
and to improve their appraisal standards.
3.10      Upgrading Programs.  In general most of the SIDCs/SIICs are not yet
fully equipped to provide a second tier of intermediation for IBRD funds and
it is essential that IDBI appraise and supervise the subprojects directly.
The upgrading of SIDCs/SIICs which are responsible for promotion of projects
in the target group is a key aspect of the proposed project. In July 1976
IDBI decided to provide assistance and finance for upgrading the SIDC/SIICs
given their potential to play an important role in future state sponsored
industrial development and to make them eligible for IDBI's refinance facil-
ities subject to certain conditions such as maximum loan size of Rs 6 million
and agreement with the concerned SFC where assistance could also be provided
by the SFC (Annex 6). In addition IDBI also decided to subscribe to SIDC
share capital and supervise their activities. IDBI would be represented on
the SIDC/SIIC boards and would routinely inspect their operations and accounts.
In connection with the proposed project, IDBI has been preparing upgrading
programs for SIDCs/SIICs activities, which generally include a review and
appropriate recommendations concerning management, staffing, procedures and
standards, operating policies, resources, operations, financial aspects and
prospects, which would improve SIDCs/SIICs' capability to identify and select
suitable projects and suitable private sector partners for joint sector
enterprises. GOI, IDBI and IBRD agreed that IDBI could declare ineligible
any project sponsored by any SIDC/ SIIC which is failing to make a reasonable
effort to fulfill its upgrading program.
IV. IDBI - INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS
General
4.01      IDBI's function under the proposed loan would be to (i) select and
appraise high priority projects from the pipeline of state joint/public secto)r



- 10 -
projects, (ii) supervise implementation of the institutional upgrading pro-
grams for SIDCs (para 3.10) and (iii) supervise execution of sector work
programs for each state (para 2.05). IDBI is qualified to perform these
fur.tiL,ns. AlthCugh the major emphasis of this operation would be to bring
about improvements in the joint sector, and although the proposed loan would
account for only about 2% of IDBI's approvals during 1978 and 1979, the
dialogue concerning measures to strengthen I1BI as an institution would
continue - as pointed out below.
4.02      IDBI was established in 1964 as a wholly owned subsidiary of RBI,
but is now owned by GOl. It is the apex institution for industrial finance
in India. Its objectives are to: (i) coordinate the activities of, and ex-
tend finance to, other industrial termn financing institutions; (ii) provide
direct and indirect assistance to industrial units; (iii) supplement their
resources to plan and promote industries of key significance in the industrial
sector structure; and (iv) adopt and enforce a system of priorities in promot-
ing future industrial growth. To achieve these objectives, IDBI is empowered
to: (i make direct loans; underwrite and subscribe to shares and debentures;
and make guarantees; (ii) refinance industrial term loans and export credits;
(iii) accept, discount or rediscount bills of exchange and promissory notes,
and (iv) carry out researci. and surveys on marketing or investments, and pro-
vide technical and administrative assistance. The IDBI Act was amended in
December 1972, when IDBI was empowered to assist a wider range of industries
and to provide longer maturities on its loans. In addition, the Public Finan-
cial Institution Laws (Amendment) Act has come into force in February 1976.
This Act includes a series of amendments to the IDBI Act as well as to the
statutes of RBI, IFCI, SFCs, LIC and UTI. 1/ Annex 7 summarizes the more
important amendments affecting IDBI. These brought about a fundamental change
in IDBI's character, structure and its role vis-a-vis other financial institu-
tions. First, the organizational relationship between IDBI and RBI was severed
and IDBI's ownership was transferred to GOI.  Second, IDBI's role as an apex
institltion for industrial financing was strengthened.  Moreover, in 1976 GOI
appointed IDBI to administer industrial modernization programs 2/ and IDBI has
taken up the refinance scheme of SIDCs/SIICs (para 3.10). 3/ In view of this
1/   Reserve Bank of Lndia, Industrial Finance Corporation of India, State
Financial Corporation, Life Insurance Company of India, Unit Trust of
India.
2/   The modernization program, which GOI announced in 1976 for the textiles,
cement, jute, sugar and engineering industries consists mainly in pro-
vision of cheaper funds (7-1/2% interest p.a.) than normal (11% p.a.)
but does not specify how the basic structural problems of these in-
dustries are to be tackled.
i/   IDBI has taken up four other new "schemes" since 1976:  (i) assistance
under the Technical Development Fund Scheme; (ii) scheme for provision
of seed capital assistance to new entrepreneurs; (iii) extension of con-
cessional refinance assistance to single truck operators, and (iv) special
concessions for bills rediscounting scheme in the Nortlh Eastern Region,
consisting rnaLnly of softer financing terms.



- 11 -
increased work load, IDBI is taking adequate steps to ensure continued opera-
tional efficiency (para 4.05), adequate staffing (paras 4.06 to 4.08) and
viable finances (para 6.06). IDBI intends to be cautious in taking up any
new responsibilities beyond those already mentioned since they may create an
undue burden on IDBI.
Ownership and Organization
4.03      Share Capital.  IDBI's original paid up capital was Rs 100 million.
Increases took place in FY67, FY71, FY72 and FY74, each of Rs 100 million,
to reach the then authorized level of Rs 500 million. As a result of the
most recent amendments to its Act, IDBI's authorized capital has increased to
Rs 1 billion with GOI having the power to increase it further to Rs 2 billion.
The Rs 500 million issued capital was transferred from RBI to GOI in February
1976 and any further share capital increases would be paid from budgetary
allocations by GOI.
4.04      Board of Directors.  Before February 1976, IDBI's Board of Directors
was the same as RBI's. In November 1976, IDBI acquired a new Board which has
16 members, 5 short of the provisions of the 21 provided in its Act (Annex 8).
This shortage has been discussed with GOI and IDBI and they expect to fill
these positions by mid-1978. IDBI's present board members are competent and
experienced. IDBI's Board meets about every two months with an attendance
record of over 90%, and concentrates on general policy matters. An Executive
Committee (comprising 5 members as of December 1977) meets once a month and
concentrates on ordinary business, such as loan and investment approvals,
etc.
4.05      Organization.  After the transfer of its ownership, IDBI has under-
gone a major reorganization, the major features of which (Chart I) are:
(a) Decentralization. Regional offices are upgraded and given
much greater powers to approve refinance and direct finance
cases. After a trial period, the authorization limits
have been increased recently again. Two additional regional
offices were set up in Ahmedabad and Gauhati;
(b) Delegation of powers. The powers of the executive directors
and department heads have been increased;
(c) Upgrading of the former Export Department into the "Interna-
tional Finance Wing";
(d) Creation of a new "Soft Loan Division" responsible for the
administration of GOI's modernization program (see para 10
of Annex 1);
(e) Creation of three new units (Regional and Backward Area
Development Department, State Financial Corporations and
other State Level Agencies Department, and Inter-institutional
Coordination Department) enables IDBI to set industrial finance



- 12 -
policies effectively and supervise their implementation.
These are attached to the Domestic Finance Wing, which
deals mainly with direct loans, rediscounting and refinance.
IDBI's operational efficiency and promotional and policy setting capability
has improved as a result of this reorganization.
4.06      Management and Staff.  IDBI's top management is well qualified.
The Chairman and Managing Director is assisted by three Executive Directors,
responsible for the Project Finance Division, the International Finance
Wing, and the Soft Loan Division respectively. The position of one Execu-
tive Director is vacant since August 1977 but is expected to be filled shortly.
Annex 9 shows that IDBI's staff increased during the past year by about 50%
from 914 in June 1976 to 1338 in October 1977 of whom 494 were professionals
(including management, and staff officers in regional offices). In addition
to staff growth due to increased operations, IDBI had to increase its staff
for implementing the modernization program and the refinance scheme for SIDCs/
SIICs. IDBI has special training programs for newly recruited staff at the
Bankers' Training College in Bombay and in-house.
4.07      The departments within IDBI that will play a key role in the pro-
posed project are the State Financial Corporations and other State Level
Agencies Department (SFC/SIDCs Dept.) and the five Loans Departments. 1/
The former will administer the institutional upgrading programs and the latter
will appraise the subprojects (Annex 10). IDBI recognizes that the additional
workload on the SFC/SIDCs Department resulting from IDBI's recent involvement
with SIDCs should not affect its work on upgrading and monitoring the perform-
ance of SFCs. Therefore, IDBI has budgeted for about 50% more staff to under-
take the institution building program for the SIDCs, in addition to some
strengthening -of staff for SFC work and confirmed that it will hire this
staff before mid-1978, IDBI should be able to obtain experienced staff for
the SFC/SIDC Department partly througn transfers from its Imports Loan Depart-
ment and perhaps from RBI. To monitor the sector work program (para 2.05),
IDBI is recruiting at least one senior economist for each of the five regional
offices, which is satisfactory.
4.08      IDBI has also budgeted for a 50% staff increase in its Loan
Departments (including the Soft Loans Division which was created in 1976 to
implement GOIs modernization program (para 4.05 d) to cope with the increased
workload. The actual staff strength is 25% below the budgeted level and IDBI
confirmed that it will fill the vacancies by mid-1978, which is satisfactory.
Procedures and Standards
4.09      Appraisal.  IDBI's appraisal procedures and standards are satis-
factory. Its refinance and rediscount facilities are granted to financial
1/   One of the Loan Departments works exclusively on problem projects while
the other four undertake appraisal and follow-up work with responsi-
bilities divided on a sectoral basis. These Departments are under the
control of the Project Finance Division.



- 13 -
institutions and banks who in turn finance specific projects. Appraisal of
directly financed projects are carried out by IDBI's staff but for screening
of complex projects, prior to Board approval, IDBI calls on the advice of ad-
hoc committees composed of technical and financial experts, or consultants
in particular fields. IDBI's evaluation of the projects' economic contribu-
tion includes the calculation of an Internal Economic Rate of Return, although
the methodology needs improvement mainly by utilization of border rather than
market prices and exclusion of taxes. IDBI has indicated that it will in
future apply the rate of return methodology prepared by the Bank Group for
DFCs and confirmed that it will continue to put more emphasis on market
aspects, optimal plant size and management strength in its appraisals.
4.10      Follow-up.  During the past year IDBI has improved its follow-up
work. It has created a department for monitoring of its problem projects
(about 14% of its projects) which prepares periodically comprehensive reports.
IDBI defines problem projects as those industrial concerns which defaulted
in payment of interest and/or principal for 2 consecutive half-years or more.
For its regular follow-up work on the other projects (about 300 in FY76), IDBI
relies on regular progress and annual reports from its clients, and on its
inspections. It is implementing a policy whereby the progress reports will
be quarterly while the projects are under implementation, and half-yearly
thereafter. In addition, IDBI keeps representatives on the Boards of 148
companies (end June 1976); this is obligatory where the assistance is above
Rs 5 million and where no other all-India financial institution has a nominee
director on the Board. IDBI has confirmed that it intends to strengthen its
follow-up by visiting all projects under implementation at least every six
months and problem projects more frequently, and by reviewing regularly and
promptly all information received from clients, so as to decrease substan-
tially its arrears. IDBI would continue its program for rescheduling of
loans, where appropriate and foreclosing in selected cases.
4.11      Procurement and Disbursement.  IDBI ensures that all capital expend-
itures for projects it finances are technically and economically justified.
It scrutinizes the equipment required for a comparative asseasment of prices
and quality. IDBI disburses usually in installments according to the progress
of the projects and would request disbursements accordingly from IBRD. The
utilization of disbursements is verified through auditors' certificates, pro-
gress reports, or in some cases through inspections by IDBI's staff. IDBI's
procurement and disbursement procedures are adequate.
Operating Policies and Results
4.12      General.  While IDBI has no formal policy statement, the IDBI Act
and the "IDBI Amendment Act" (para 4.02), complemented by Board resolutions
adopted from time to time, and Government guidelines, provide guidelines for
IDBI's activities, which are, in general, satisfactory. Moreover, IDBI's
Performance Strategy 1/ sets a 10:1 risk assets (direct financial assistance)
to equity ratio as a guiding norm, which is satisfactory. IDBI has no specific
1/   Annex 26.



- 14 -
guidelines to determine its maximum exposure in a single enterprise or pro-
ject, but its maximum exposure is 18%, which is satisfactory. 1/
4.13      Lending Terms.  IDBI's interest rate structure is shown in Annex 11.
Its rates were last increased in December 1975. For direct rupee assistance
(other than for export) the lending rate is 9.5% for units in backward areas;
11.0% in other cases. 2/ With long run inflation estimated at about 8% p.a.
which is a reasonable assumption given GOI policies, IDBI should be lending
at positive real rates of interest of 1.5% to 3%.
4.15      Operating Results.  Over the three years 1974 to 1977, IDBI's total
approvals more than tripled from Rs 2.2 billion to Rs 7.9 billion. In 1977,
IDBI's direct assistance to industrial units accounted for 35% of the total,
refinance and share and bond subscription for SFCs for 33%, rediscounting of
bills for 21%, and export finance, 11%. In the past, IDBI has financed high
priority projects and had no difficulties to raise resources (Annex 12).
V. IDBI's FINANCIAL POSITION
Quality of Portfolio
5.01      Loans.  IDBI's arrears position (Annexes 13 and 14) shows that the
total principal outstanding on loans affected by arrears has improved from
50% as of December 31, 1974 of direct loans outstanding to 40% as of June 30,
1977, although the amount of arrears has increased. IDBI's collection ratio
of 85% to 90% is still satisfactory. Annex 14 shows the characteristics of
IDBI's arrears as of June'30, 1977. Four sectors, chemicals-(21%),--fer-tilizers
(20%), iron and steel (14%), and textiles (10%) account for 65% of the total
arrears. IDDBI's aiLears reflect the special pro-blems faced by Indian industry
since 1972; power cuts in 1973; credit restrictions in 1974; business reces-
sion in 1975; insufficient demand in 1976 and the first six months of 1977,
and the effects of industrial strife following the repeal of the emergency
and further power cuts. However, the upward trend in arrears has slowed and
IDBIs' improved follow up (para 4.10) should help to further reduce arrears.
5.02      Investments.  Annex 15 shows that as of June 30, 1976, IDBI's equity
portfolio was Rs 226 million (at cost). Some 24% of the equity portfolio was
1/   If IDBI and Development Assistance Fund (para 6.05, footnote) financ-
ing is taken together the maximum exposure would be 30%. Up until
September 30, 1976 the largest DAF loan was Rs 265 million representing
a 23% exposure.
2/   The lending rates under IDBI's other schemes vary from 6.5% to 10.0%.
Presently IDBI lends the foreign exchange under the fertilizer project
(para 1.02) at 11%. In comparison, ICICI's lending rates for foreign
exchange are 10% and 11% for projects located in backward and non-
backward areas respectively, and those for local currency are identical
to IDBI's lending rates.



- 15 -
in companies operating profitably, 54% in companies under construction or
in a pre-operating stage but not in technical or financial difficulty, and
22% in companies operating at a loss or in difficulties. Such distribution
of the investment portfolio is not unusual for a development finance company,
which is assisting mainly new projects. The estimated market value of the
portfolio was Rs 170.7 million. The current rate of return on the portfolio
is 4% which is somewhat low but still acceptable.
5.03      Provisions.  Although IDBI has no specific provisions for bad and
doubtful debts it has appropriated profits for this purpose and has built up
contingency and general reserves of Rs 67 million 1/ or 1.8% of direct loans
and equitv investments (0.7% of total loans, refinance, equity, and bills dis-
counted) as of June 30, 1977. In absence of an auditor's opinion it is dif-
ficult to assess the adequacy of the provisions (para 5.04). IDBI is satisfied
that its loans are presently well secured, but it intends, by FY80 to increase
the level of reserves for bad and doubtful debts to 2.5% of direct loans and
equity investments. 2/
Audit
5.04      In the past, IDBI's statutory audit has been carried out in accord-
ance with local law and IDBI's accounts have been presented without qualifi-
cation. For FY76, IDBI has submitted - in compliance with a requirement under
the IDBI/SFC II loan - a long form audit, although the position of the audit-
ors with regards to the level of provisions for doubtful accounts was not
made clear. The FY77 long form audit is expected in January 1978 and would
incorporate the auditor's assessment of the adequacy of provisions.
Financial Performance
5.05      General.  Annexes 16 to 19 show IDBI's financial statements
and operational ratios for FY73 to FY77. The statements consolidate the
1/   This consists of an investment reserve of Rs 37 million, provisions of
Rs 21 million and underwriting commission not taken as income of Rs 9
million. In addition there is an interest in suspense account (not
taken into reserves) of about Rs 110 million.
2/   To achieve this coverage, provisions should be increased from Rs 54
million to Rs 160 million. Since the risk of loss on refinancing, re-
discounting and export financing is very low (the financial institutions/
banks, and not the ultimate recipient, are liable to IDBI) IDBI considers
explicit provisions for these assets unnecessary.



- 16 -
activities of ID)BI's General Fund and the Development Assistance Fund
(DAF). 1/
5.06      Profitability.  IDBI's income statements for the period FY73 to
FY77 (Annex 16) show that net profits after provisions increased from Rs 51
million in FY73, to Rs 77 million in FY77. This increase was due to the
growth in disbursements and to an increase in the interest rate structure
in December 1975. The percentage return on net average assets ranged from
1.4% to 0.8% which is low but still adequate. During this time, the overall
lending spread decreased slightly from 1.1% in FY74 to 1.0% in FY77 due to a
decline in the return from refinancing because of increased lending to small
scale industry and projects in backward areas, where IDBI applies lower in-
t~rest rates. The average gross return on direct loans was 6.5% in FY74 -
FY77, while that on rediscounting was 6.9%. With an average spread of 2.7%,
rediscounting is IDBI's most profitable activity particularly in view of the
small administrative expense it entails. During FY76 and FY77, IDBI trans-
ferred Rs 19 million each year to the GOI in payment of a 3.75% dividend on
share capital, as in the past to RBI (pay out.ratio of 15.5%). The other
Rs 163 million of profit in FY77 were appropriated to reserves, interest
suspense and contingencies. Administrative expenses have been kept to 0.4%
of average total assets which is satisfactory.
5.07      Liquidity.  Annex 17 shows IDBI's cash flow statements for FY73 to
FY77. During this time, IDBI's debt service coverage ratio was fully satis-
factory varying from 2 to 3 mainly as a result of large repayments of general
purpose borrowings from RBI.
5.08      Capital Structure.  Total assets reached Rs 11 billion as of
June 30, 1977 after an annual growth of 30% over the previous four years
(Annex 18) which resulted from the rapid increase in IDBI's general opera-
tions (para 4.15). Direct financial assistance accounted for 28% of total
assets, rediscounting for 28%, refinancing for 32% and export credits for 7%.
Total long term borrowings were Rs 8.9 billion, of which 72% was due to GOI
and RBI. As at June 30, 1977, 'LDBI's long term debt/equity (Annex 19) was
10.6:1. Considering that 60% oi- IDBI's assets are in low risk rediscounting
and refinancing, this ratio is satisfactory. IDBI's ratio of direct financial
assistance to equity was 4.1:1 as of that date which is satisfactory.
1/   IDBI administers the DAF and with the prior approval of GOI, which bears
the financial risk, makes loans, investments or guarantees to acceptable
projects. The DAF, which is maintained separately from IDBI's General
Fund, was established in March 1965 to provide supplementary financing
for projects where the financial institutions want to limit their ex-
posure due to the high risk: factor, the magnitude of capital require-
ments, low profitability oI- long gestation period of such projects. As
of September 30, 1976, DAF's assets represented 3% of IDBI's total assets,
and about 7% of its direct assistance outstanding. Since the inception
of the fund to September 30, 1976, DAF has financed six projects for a
total amount of Rs 560 million.



- 17 -
VI. IDBI's BUSINESS PROSPECTS
Business Forecasts
6.01      Annex 20 shows the forecast of IDBI's total approvals, commitments
and disbursements for FY78-FY81. These do not include activities relating to
GOI's modernization program the disbursements under which are still uncertain.
Total approvals are expected to increase from Rs 5.3 billion in FY77 to Rs 7.7
billion in FY81 or by compound rate of 10% per annum. Direct lending would
account for about 26% of total approvals; equity investments in industrial
companies for another 2%; rediscounting for 23%, refinance 37%, export credits
10% and investments in shares and debentures of other financial institutions
2%. Total disbursements are expected to be Rs 4.5 billion in FY78 and to grow
thereafter by about 12% per annum. The proposed loan would account for about
8% of IDBI's direct loan approvals during FY78-FY79.
Resource Requirements
6.02      Foreign Currency.  IDBI's program of financing imports of capital
equipment comprises: (i) loans for the medium and small-scale industrial
sector through the SFCs; (ii) loans for fertilizers; and (iii) loans for the
proposed target group. Annex 21 shows the pipeline of joint/public sector
projects costing from Rs 10 million to Rs 200 million as consolidated from
the investment plans of state governments and SIDCs (para 2.09).
6.03      Domestic Currency.  The local currency requirements (see Annex 21,
para 5) for the proposed loan would be about Rs 860 million ($100 million
equivalent). The bulk of the local currency finance (62%) would come from
the financial institutions (including all-India institutions, commercial banks
and SIDCs), the public at large (19%), share subscription by SIDCs (10%), and
from private entrepreneurs (9%). IDBI's total rupee resource requirements
during FY78-FY81 are expected to be Rs 27 billion, of which its rupee loan
disbursements are estimated to be Rs 20 billion. IDBI anticipates that these
direct disbursements and its other rupee requirements will be financed as
follows:
IDBI Resource Requirements - FY78-FY81
(Rs billion)
Requirements         Amount   %    Sources of Finance          Amount   %
Rupee Disbursements    21.54   79    Cash Generation                3.17   12
Debt Servicing -
Principal              1.39    5    Share Capital Increases        .80    3
Debt Servicing -
Interest               3.89   14    GOI Borrowing                0.47    2
Dividends                0.14    1    Tax Deposits                  2.25    8
Cash Increases           0.15    1    RBI Borrowing                6.77   25
Bond Issues                 2.25    8
Sale of Investments         0.19    1
Collections                11.21   41
27.11  100                                27.11  1W



- 18 -
As a source of funds, collections - particularly from its refinance and re-
discounting assistance where the IDBI has no arrears) - assume a significant
importance because the average maturity of IDBI's borrowings is longer than
that of its lendings and because its bond issues, as well as much of its
borrowings from RBI, are repayable in lump sums. The projected share capital
increases of Rs 0.8 billion though relatively small compared to total sources
of funds, would keep IDBI's debt/equity ratio at about 10:1, provided no
modernization funds are being disbursed.
Financial Projections
6.04      Annexes 22 to 25 show [DBI's projected income statements, balance
sheets, cash flow, and comparative operational ratios from FY78 to FY81. Net
profit after provisions is expeclted to increase from Rs 72 million in FY78 to
Rs 218 million in FY81 as a resu:Lt of the growth in direct loan disbursements
and the increase in lending rates in December 1975. Under the assumption of
an increase in the share of lend:ing to small scale industry, backward areas
and exports which is made with a lower interest spread than the other opera-
tions, net profits after provisions as a percentage of average total assets
would range from 0.5% to 1.0% during FY78 to FY81 which is adequate. The
average interest spread on all its operations is expected to remain also at
around 1.0% during the same period. Administrative expenses are forecast to
grow by 33% per annum 1/, increasing as a percentage of average total assets
from 0.43% in FY78 to 0.46% in FY81, which is reasonable.
6.05      Total assets are expected to almost double from Rs 13.8 billion
in FY78 to Rs 23.6 billion in FY81. Compared to the distribution of assets
in FY77 (para 5.08) direct financial assistance and refinance is projected
to increase to 34% and 35% respectively of total assets in FY81, rediscount-
ing to decrease to 23%, and export credits remain at 7%. Provisions and net
worth should represent 9% of IDBI's total loan and equity portfolio by FY81.
6.06      IDBI's particular asset structure is different from most other
Development Finance Companies to the extent thiat only about one-third of
IDBI's assets is in direct loans and investments for industrial enterprises.
The other two-thirds of IDBI's assets consist of rediscounting for commercial
banks and refinance of commercial banks and of SFGs (para 5.08); these are
basically central banking operations focussed on the industrial sector.
Therefore, IDBI has set in its strategy statement a 10:1 risk assets (direct
financial assistance) to equity norm (para 4.12), which would be about equal
to a 25:1 debt/equity ratio ceiling taking into account IDBI's overall assets
under the present structure. However, IDBI's actual debt/equity ratio is
projected to stay around 10:1 over the next four years due to annual equity
infusions of Rs 200 million. 2/ GOI has already budgeted the FY78 share
1/   This high level of increase reflects the expected increases in staff.
2/   Assuming that, in addition, IDBI disburse Rs 600 million annually,
under GOIs modernization program, the ratio would remain below 12:1.



- 19 -
capital increase. IDBI and G01 confirmed that these projections reflected,
as far as possible, the basis of GOI's and IDBI's plans and objectives for
IDBI's business expansion and the timing and level of equity infusions, and
that they would initiate consultations with IBRD if and when these forecasts
would change to a significant degree.
6.07      Annex 24 shows IDBI's projected cash flows for the period FY78-81.
During this period, IDBI's liquidity position remains satisfactory assuming
a gradual reduction of arrears. IDBI's debt service coverage ratio would
remain above 2.0:1 which is fully satisfactory (Annex 25). This ratio does
not take into account lump sum repayment of bond issues and certain RBI bor-
rowings which do not start maturing until 1984. If sinking fund provisions
were assumed, the level of servicing would still be adequate at 1.2:1 in FY78
and 1.8:1 in FY81.
VII. FEATURES OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
7.01      The Proposed Loan.  As in the two previous operations with IDBI
(Credit 356-IN and Loan 1260-IN) the proceeds of the proposed $25 million
loan to be allocated to subprojects ($24.5 million) would be lent to GOI at
the current IBRD lending rate of 7.45% 0 GOI would relend to IDBI 1/ which
would on-lend these funds to industrial units sponsored by state govern-
ments to meet the foreign cost of capital goods and services. As with other
loans to development finance companies, eligible enterprises would be broadly
defined to include manufacturing, agro-industries and mining enterprises.
Service and utility corporations would be excluded. As IDA has provided a
separate credit (also through IDBI) for the fertilizer industry, this type
of projects would be also excluded from the proposed credit. The $500,000 of
the loan allocated for the Technical Assistance Fund (para 2.06) would be
given by GOI to IDBI as a grant and disbursed by IDBI against 100% of local
and foreign expenditures. IDBI's strategy statement as discussed and con-
firmed during negotiations (Annex 26) outlines IDBI's approach for financing
the target group from the proposed loan for the next 2 to 3 years.
7.02      Onlending Terms and Foreign Exchange Risk.  GOI would onlend the
loan proceeds to IDBI on the terms and conditions of the IBRD loan to GOI,
including interest rate, commitment charge, and repayment schedule, except
for the $500,000 allocated for the Technical Assistance Fund, which GOI would
pass on to IDBI on grant basis. IDBI would onlend to subborrowers at 9-1/2%
and 11% for backward and non-backward areas respectively, in line with its
rupee lending rates. It would charge 1% commitment fee. Since it is likely
that about two-thirds of the loan would go to backward areas, IDBI's average
spread would be over 2% which is satisfactory. As in the previous two opera-
tions with IDBI, GOI would carry the foreign exchange risk. This would make
1/   During negotiations GOI and IDBI confirmed that IDBI will send with-
drawal applications and similar correspondence directly to IBRD rather
than through GOI.



- 20 -
the proposed operation virtually identical to IDBI's rupee lending, which
is desirable since entrepreneurs are able to borrow rupees to buy foreign
exchange which is presently readily available.
7.03      Amortization.  The maximum maturity on subloans would be 15 years.
Allowing for a two year commitment period of the loan, a 17-year maturity
including 3 years of grace is proposed. The amortization schedule is subject
to change to conform substantially to the aggregate of the amortization
schedules of subprojects.
7.04      Approval of Projects and Free Limit.  In order to provide the Bank
with an early assessment of project preparation and appraisal work, the first
project, not being a free limit project, from each of the first six states
should be sent to IBRD for approval. In addition all subsequent projects for
which IDBI would make loans of more than US$3 million from the proposed loan
would require the IBRD's approval. With this arrangement, about 50% by number,
and 70% by amount of the projects financed under the loan would be reviewed
for prior approval.
7.05      Lending Limits.  In order to ensure that the proposed $25 million
loan is channelled to a sufficiently large number of firms, an upper limit
of $4 million is proposed on the amount of assistance in foreign exchange that
IDBI can provide for any single project. In addition, to ensure that funds are
restricted to medium-sized enterprises, and that overlaps with SFCs are mini-
mized, only projects with fixed assets (excluding land) of between Rs 10 mil-
lion to Rs 200 million would be eligible. Virtually all state joint/public
sector enterprises fall within this size range. In special cases, on IDBI's
recommendations, the Bank would consider somewhat larger projects where there
is a clear priority for investment. 1/
7.06      Annex 27 shows the estimated disbursement schedule for the proposed
loan.
1/   Projects for expansion would also be eligible within these criteria,
provided that the corporation concerned does not have fixed assets,
excluding land, of more than Rs 200 million prior to the proposed
expansion.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
Industrial Sector and Industrial Finance
Industrial Sector - Structure and Past Performance
1.        India's industrial output has grown on average by only about 3.5%
per annum since 1965 and manufacturing presently accounts for 16% of NDP,
as opposed to 14% in 1960/61. 1/ Within the manufacturing sector, there
have been gradual changes in structure which reflect the Government's prior-
ities. Consumer goods industries now contribute less to value added than
formerly. For example, the food processing and textile industries' combined
share has fallen from 43% in 1960/61 to 28% in 1974/75. Over the same period,
the share of "basic" industries, (defined to include basic metals industries,
chemicals and fertilizers), together with the engineering industry, increased
from roughly 40% of value added in manufacturing to somewhat more than 50%.
2.        About two-thirds of manufactured output is estimated to come from
registered plants, which are predominantly medium- and large-scale. The more
labor-intensive small scale sector, whic-h accounts for the balance of indus-
trial output, employs two-thirds of the industrial labor force. The Govern-
ment sector dominates mining and power generation and, to an increasing extent,
the "basic" industries within the manufacturing sector. Nonetheless, accord-
ing to the 1970 Annual Survey of Industry, almost 80% of value added in indus-
try and mining originated in the private sector. While in 1974/75, the last
year for which statistics were available, public sector enterprises accounted
for about 15% of manufacturing value-added (22% of value added from the larger,
registered sector) in certain sectors such as steel, petrochemicals and heavy
electrical equipment all or almost all the enterprises in the sector are
government owned. Within the private sector, textiles, chemicals and engi-
neering goods continue to be dominant with food processing, paper and tobacco
making important contributions to manufacturing value-added.
The Environment for Industry
3.        Over the last fifteen years, both supply and demand factors have
hindered industrial growth. Supply constraints have perhaps been more per-
sistent. Through much of this period lack of foreign exchange constrained
the availability of essential intermediate inputs not manufactured in India,
and affected the supply of inputs, such as steel, at times when domestic pro-
duction was unable to match demand. Equally the unpredictable effect of the
monsoon on the supply of agricultural raw materials, such as cotton, has con-
strained industrial growth. Moreover, agricultural supply bottlenecks have
1/   If industry is more broadly defined to include the remainder of the
secondary sector - utilities and construction - then value added in
industry constitutes about 23% of NDP.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
tended to coincide with power shortages, since hydro supply is also dependent
on the monsoon.
4.        However, when these supply constraints have not been binding, de-
mand has not kept pace with increased output. The principal opportunities for
simple import substitution were largely exhausted by the mid-1960s. Exports
have recently contributed to growth, but they still constitute a very small
part of total production. The relatively slow growth trend of agriculture of
little more than 2% since 1967/68 has restricted demand for consumer goods.
Finally, both public and private real investment has been stagnant, although
public sector investment is now increasing and may provide a much needed boost
to demand.
Industrial Policies
5.        The Government has placed central emphasis on rapid industrializa-
tion and national self-sufficiency as the keys to development. At the same
time, the Government has sought to curb the concentration of economic power
through expanded public ownership, restrictions on the growth of "large
houses" and "dominant undertakings"; reservation of many products to the
small-scale sector as well as special assistance to it; and finally support
for development in backward regions. The aim of self-sufficiency has largely
manifested itself in the pursuit of import substitution as well as curbs on
foreign-owned firms and other forms of foreign involvement in industry.
6.        The main instruments of industrial policy have been central licen-
sing of investment and imports, physical allocation of scarce domestically
produced raw materials and controls on industrial prices. This system has
itself tended to conflict with other aims, especially that of curbing econo-
mic concentration, since large firms are much better able to bear the over-
head costs of dealing with a centralized bureaucracy. Controls have also
restricted the ability of firms to respond to changed opportunities, especially
in overseas markets, and thus hampered exports. Price controls appear to have
had an adverse effect on investment and modernization in such critical indus-
tries as cotton textiles, sugar, and cement.
7.        In the last two years, there have been a number of important devel-
opments in industrial policy. In the face of poor industrial performance the
government recognized that existing capacity must be utilized more efficiently
and took steps to require public sector enterprises to meet more commercially
oriented criteria for output, price and profitability. Increased emphasis was
placed on exporting and a number of measures were taken to boost industrial
growth, including liberalization of licensing procedures, relaxation of import
and other controls, fiscal incentives and more emphasis on industrial
modernization.
8.        Liberalization of Licensing Procedures.  The process of simplifying
procedures for the issue of industrial and other licenses started in 1973



KNNEX I
Page 3
when a time limit on the disposal of licensing applications was established. 1/
Subsequent changes towards liberalization of licensing have taken four major
forms. Firstly, diversification of production has been allowed in indus-
trial machinery, machine tools, electrical equipment, steel castings, and
steel forging industries within the overall licensed capacity of a particular
undertaking, in order to facilitate fuller utilization of installed capacity.
Secondly, 15 export-oriented engineering industries are now allowed to grow
automatically in a five-year period by 25% over their licensed capacity.
Thirdly, 21 selected industries in the medium-scale sector have been exempted
from licensing and "Large Houses" and foreign companies (as defined in the
Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, FERA, 1974 2/) have been permitted to expand
in 30 other industries subject to certain conditions. Finally, 29 selected
industries have been allowed to utilize their installed capacity fully. In
general, the obstacles posed by licensing procedures have been virtually
eliminated for all except the Large Houses and FERA companies, for which the
obstacles have been reduced, (but so far with little effect on investment).
However, a recent policy statement by GOI indicates that the further expansion
of the "large" houses will be restricted.
9.        Relaxation of Controls and Fiscal Incentives.  Import controls
have been significantly liberalized and the procedures for obtaining export
incentives and necessary raw materials have been streamlined. Export duties
have been abolished on a number of commodities. Excise duties also have been
reduced for 45 industries and the rate of income tax has been lowered. 3/
Further, price controls have been lifted for many finished manufactures and
price increases permitted for cement, coal and coke, commercial vehicles and
aluminum. Distribution controls on industrial materials have been lifted for
almost all items. The Dividend Ordinance of 1974 was allowed to lapse in July
1976 thus removing the restriction on payment of dividends.
10.       Modernization.  In 1976 GOI has announced a modernization program
for the textiles, cement, jute, sugar and engineering industries. The scheme
will be monitored by IDBI, which would be responsible for textiles and cement,
ICICI for the engineering industry and IFCI for sugar and jute. GOI and the
three financial institutions involved have meanwhile clarified the criteria
1/   The procedural changes then effected have had a marked impact in
clearing the backlog of cases and accelerating the process of issuing
industrial licenses/letters of intent and approvals of applications for
capital goods clearances and foreign collaboration.
2/   FERA was also amended during 1976 to make the maximum foreign owner-
ship allowed more flexible if the company was exporting at certain
levels.
3/   The FY77 budget provided for a reduction in the marginal rate of income
tax from 77% to 66%. The basic exemption level was also raised. To
stimulate investment, the FY77 budget permitted companies an invest-
ment allowance of 25% on the value of plant and machinery.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
and terms of assistance under the modernization scheme. The likelihood that
modernization will result in substantial improvement of the financial situa-
tion of the enterprise concerned within a reasonably short period of time has
to be established, and competent management is a major criterion. The effec-
tive rate of interest to the borrower will depend on the blending between
the soft loan component (at 7.5%) and the balance on normal terms (at 11%),
the blending depending on the dividend paying capability of the firm. Origin-
ally, GOI's disbursement targets for ICICI, IDBI and IFCI under this scheme
were Rs 2,000 million per year for a period of three years. As of July 31,
1977, the institutions had received 379 applications for a total of Rs 7.3
billion, of which 132 (Rs 2.55 billion) were rejected or withdrawn (mainly
due to ineligibility). Of the remaining, 183 applications for Rs 3.84 bil-
lion are pending, and 64 for Rs 790 million have been approved. Assuming
that 70% of the pending applications are approved, total disbursements would
be about Rs 1,160 million per year for three years, which is almost half of
the original target of Rs 2,000 million. No disbursements under the scheme
had been made by IDBI (nor by ICICI or IFCI) as of August 1977. In November
1977 GOI decided that IDBI would take up all the funds required, from the
capital market at about 6% with GOI providing a subsidy so as to allow a 2%
interest spread, and that the loans would carry no conversion option into
equity, as do other rupee loans in India.
Recent Performance and Prospects
11.       With the recent change in government, however, strategy for the
industrial sector is again under review. It is clear that policies relating
to, for example, larger private sector undertakings and foreign investment
in Indian industry are being actively debated within the Government. One of
the elements of strategy that has now emerged is the emphasis to be placed
on small scale enterprises, and on the development of industry in rural areas.
The industrial priorities of the new Government are expected to crystalize
in the process of the preparation of a rolling five year plan. The new plan
is to be initiated in March 1978.
12.       India's foreign exchange situation has turned around in the last
several years, and lack of foreign exchange is no longer a constraint to
industrial growth. Industria:L production increased by about 10% in FY77,
compared with 5.5% in FY76, 2.5% in FY75, and 1% in FY74. Industrial export
performance has also improved. However, growth is highly uneven, and there
are a number of important areas, such as production of electrical motors,
jeeps, railway wagons, and diesel engines, as well as cotton textiles, where
demand continues to be sluggish. In the longer run, overall growth will
depend on a continued rise in the final demand both for investment and for
consumption, which will in turn depend on the buoyancy of investment. There
is considerable opportunity for investment at the state level, particularly
in the less developed states, in economically efficient state-sponsored
projects in the joint/public sector.



ANNEX I
Page 5
Industrial Finance
13.       Financial Institutions.  Industrial financing institutions can be
classified into those working at the all-India levels, and those at State
level. At the all-India level, IDBI, ICICI, IFCI, LIC and UTI 1/ are the main
sources of long-term finance. At the State level, the primary institutions
are the SIDCs/SIICs, the SFCs, the SSICs, and the SSIDCs 2/. Also working
at the all-India level, but playing a more restricted role (para 2) are IRCI
and NSIC 3/. IDBI, as the apex institution for industrial financing in the
country, is responsible for coordinating the activities of these institu-
tions. It also provides finance to some, particularly, to SFCs, and more
recently, SIDCs, mainly through IDBI's refinance facilities (commercial banks
also avail of IDBI's refinance facilities). Appendix 1 shows the financial
assistance provided by these institutions over the period FY72-FY76. 4/
14.       Briefly, term lending for all-India is the main responsibility of
IDBI, ICICI, and IFCI, although they also make equity investments and under-
write public issues. Their total financial assistance approved up to March
31, 1976 was Rs 26 billion. Securities and capital market activities are the
responsibility of LIC and UTI. However, LIC has also become an important
provider of rupee loans. Total approvals by LIC and UTI up to March 31, 1976
were Rs 4.4 billion. IRCI was established to provide financial and managerial
assistance to "sick-industries" in West Bengal but has started diversifying
its operations geographically. Up to March 31, 1976 its total approvals were
Rs 327.3 million. The only all-India financial institution not catering to
the medium-and large-scale sector is NSIC, whose financial assistance consists
of hire purchase financing amounting to Rs 862 million (in terms of value
of machinery) as of March 31, 1976.
15.       At the state level, medium- and large-scale industries are the re-
sponsibility of SIDCs, which apart from promotional activities make loans and
equity investments (Rs 2.1 billion of approvals up to March 31, 1976). A
substantial proportion went to the joint and public sectors. SFCs, which re-
cently received a second line of credit from the Bank Group (Report No.
1158-IN of May 6, 1976), are mainly involved in financing the small1-scale,
and also the medium-scale sector (Rs 7.5 billion of approvals for both up
1/   Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI), Industrial Credit and In-
vestment Corporation of India (ICICI), Industrial Finance Corporation
of India (IFCI), Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC), Unit Trust
of India (UTI).
2/   State Industrial Development/Investment Corporations (SIDCs/SIICs),
State Financial Corporations (SFCs), State Small Industries Corporations
(SSICs), and State Small Industries Development Corporations (SSIDCs).
3/   Industrial Reconstruction of India (IRCI), and National Small Indus-
tries Corporation (NSIC).
4/   Excluding NSIC, SSICs and SSIDCs whose financial assistance is modest,
involving hire purchase finance.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
to March 31, 1976). While their role varies somewhat from state, SSICs are
usually responsible for the distribution and allocation of raw materials to
small industries, although some are also involved in modest amounts of hired
purchase financing as are the SSIDCs, although the main activity of the latter
is the promotion and management of industrial estates.
16.       Attachment 1 indicates that during FY76, approvals by financial
institutions were Rs 6.6 billion and disbursements, Rs 4.3 billion. Of the
total approvals, IDBI accounted for 39% (excluding its refinance of SFCs to
avoid double counting) followed by the SFCs (23%), and ICICI (12%). ICICI
provided about 72% of foreign exchange approvals, followed by the SFCs (20%),
and IFCI (8%). It is difficult to estimate accurately the contributions of
these institutions in relation to total industrial investment in India as
capital formation data are not reliable. On the basis of capital formation
estimates for 1975, their disbursements accounted for about 13% of fixed
capital formation in industry.
17.       Commercial Banks.  Apart from providing short-term working capital
to the economy, commercial banks also provide term financing estimated at
10%-15% of their total outstandings 1/. Outstanding industrial term loans
by scheduled commercial banks were as of March 28, 1976, Rs 2.2 billion to
small-industries and Rs 3.2 billion (rough estimate) to medium and large
industries. Since the nationalization of 14 commercial banks in 1969, credit
to the small-scale sector has substantially increased. There is an extensive
network of bank branches in India totalling 21,200 in 1976 (8,300 in 1969),
or one branch for every 26,000 people.
18.       Consultancy Organizations. At the initiative of IDBI, a number
of institutions have been created 2/, mainly to identify project ideas,
prepare project profiles and feasibility reports, as well as to look for
and assist entrepreneurs in implementing these projects. While not involved
in financing, these organizations are worth mentioning because of the contri-
bution they can make to assist f-inancial institutions in project appraisal and
implementation. It is still too early to judge their promotional effective-
ness. However, they have alreadly made an impact in assisting SFCs and commer-
cial banks to complete techno-economic evaluations of a number of their pro-
posed projects. In addition, these organizations are expected to build a
pool of technical expertise which is so badly needed in the areas they serve.
1/   Commercial banks in India comprise the State Bank of India, 14 na-
tionalized banks, 450 other scheduled banks in India and 14 foreign
banks. Deposits by scheduled commercial banks were Rs 140 billion
as of March 28, 1976.
2/   The Kerala Industrial and Technical Consultancy Organization (KITCO),
The North-Eastern Technical Consultancy Organization (NEITCO), and
the Bihar Industrial and Technical Consultancy Organization (BITCO)
were created between 1972-74. New technical consultancy agencies have
been set up by IDBI in Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Orissa during
1976. IFCI is setting up similar institutions in Himachal Pradesh and
Rajasthan.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
19.       Coordination.  There is a substantial amount of joint financing,
particularly amongst the all-India term lending institutions. About half of
ICICI's financing (by amount) during 1974 and 1975 was jointly financed with
IDBI, IFCI or both 1/. The institutions started joint financing to avoid un-
due exposure in large or risky projects or when underwriting arrangements
were required so as to avoid underwriting relatively large portions of a
certain issue. All-India financial institutions have their own Inter-
institutional (IIM) meetings in order to coordinate their activities.
20.       IDBI initiated the IIII in 1965.  The Chief Executive of IDBI is
the Chairman of this group which also includes the Chief Executives of ICICI,
the Industrial Finance Corporation of India (IFCI), the Life Insurance Cor-
poration of India (LIC), the Union Trust of India (UTI) and, since April
1976, the General Insurance Corporation of India (GIC). The meetings of the
IIM discuss and decide on: (a) policy matters including allocation of in-
stitutional finance between various industrial sectors keeping in view na-
tional priorities; (b) the contribution by each of the institutions to
financing relatively large projects (generally those requiring financial
assistance of more than Rs 5 million; many of these projects are financed
by at least two of the above listed all-India financial institutions to re-
duce their individual exposure particularly in underwriting); (c) waiver of
exercise of the conversion option 2/; (d) the promoters' contribution to
the project cost; (e) business plans for the participating institutions on
the basis of a review of loan applications pending and in the pipeline.
21.       Senior Executive Meetings (SEMs) take place twice a month in between
the IIM meetings. In the first monthly meeting, senior executives of the
organizations discuss more detailed matters such as the: (a) stipulation of
conversion terms; (b) nomination of directors in the borrower's boards (c)
decision on the institution which would take the lead in appraisal and follow-
up; and (d) exercise of conversion options. The second SEM each month is
devoted to review project supervision, particularly problem projects.
22.       A lead bank system was established, by which one institution would
take the "lead" in appraisal and follow-up, although each reserves the right
to submit to its own Board a recommendation by its staff for each project.
The arrangement has been streamlined gradually and by now application forms,
reporting reauirements, legal documentation for disbursements, etc., have
been standardized to avoid duplication of efforts and an additional burden
on the clients. The "lead" bank arrangement is working reasonably well.
23.       Apart from the establishment of the lead bank system which helps
coordination among all-India institutions, better coordination at the state
level is being attempted through cross representation on Board of Directors
and through Inter-Institutional Group (IIG) meetings. IIG meetings comprise
1/   LIC and/or UTI also participated in most of these cases.
2/   Each All-India financial institution has the option to convert 20%
of its rupee loans into share capital of the borrower.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
representatives of all State level and all-India financial institutions, in-
c1uding commercial banks. Where the states are small, one group covers sev-
eral contiguous states. These groups meet periodically and cover a range of
subjects including participation of the different institutions in project
financing; new project proposals and their relation to the state industrial
policy; the state investment program and the need for financial resources
and the availability of private entrepreneurs to participate in state pro-
moted projects.
24.       Evaluation.  In terms of availability of services, the financial
system in India is adequate. There is a tendency at the state level to create
new institutions as the need arises, rather than utilize the expertise already
available. However, this can be justified to a certain extent when taking
into account the diversified culture of the country and efforts are being made
to improve coordination (para 29). Many of the above institutions have been
suffering from resource constraints due to GOI's strict monetary policy, but
this was necessary, and should improve the lending environment in the long
run. A problem has been the lack of equity capital by medium and small entre-
preneurs to start industries. In the case of medium and large industries,
this has been partly tackled through the institution of the joint sector,
whiere a private firm joins with the state government to implement a project,
and which constitutes the target group for the proposed project. In addi-
tion, IDBI and IFCI are experimenting with interest-free loans to medium-scale
entrepreneurs towards their contribution to the equity of projects, although
the amounts are modest. For smal:L-scale industries, SFCs are also establish-
ing a "special capital" mechanism to solve this problem (refer to the ap-
praisal report for the second IDB1/SFCs project No. 1168-IN, para 4.03).
Overal1, while most of the state-level institutions need strengthening,
the financing system is adequate.
25.       Interest Rates.  The Central Bank rate was raised from 6% to 7% in
June 1973 and again to 9% in July 1974. The resources available to banks
for lending were curtailed and the cost to banks of its borrowings and de-
posits, as well as the cost to borrowers of bank funds, was raised. Further,
ceilings on credit expansion were imposed and commercial banks' liquidity
ratios made more stringent. Also, in July 1974, a tax of 7% on commercial
bank interest income was imposed, and is passed on to final borrowers. As
shown in Attachment 2 the rate of interest on fixed deposits is now 8% (1-3
years), and the maximum rate (for deposits of over 5 years) is 10%. Long-
term lending rates by financial institutions range from 9.5%-12%. The com-
mercial banks' prime lending rate is now 15%, though most banks charge more
(up to 16.5% including about 1% tax). IDBI's lending rates are in line with
the country's rate structure (para 4.14).
26.       Capital Market.  The capital market has been weak during the past
few years. Total capital 1/ raised fell from Rs 902 million in FY73 to Rs 703
million in FY74, and to Rs 613 million in FY75 although it increased to Rs 939
1/   Including bonds but excluding bonus issues.



AINNEX I
Page 9
million in FY76. The decline was mainly in the issue of debentures due to
the weak secondary markets; the capital raised as ordinary and preference
shares (inclusive of rights issues) actually increased from Rs 569 million
in FY73 to Rs 687 million in FY74, although it declined to Rs 423 million in
FY75 and again increased to Rs 812 million in FY76. RBI's price index for
ordinary shares increased from 103.1 at the end of FY73 to 125.5 at the end
of FY74, but declined to 99.4 at the end of FY75 as a result of legislative
restrictions on the distribution of dividends. The index rose to 102.4 at
the end of FY76 and to 106.8 by August 1976 after the dividend restrictions
were lifted (para 2.14). However, the lapsing of the Dividend Restrictions
Ordinance did not have a substantial impact on the market because the high
interest rates make deposits with commercial banks quite attractive. Data
on capital issues for the first half of FY77 also reflect the slump in the
stock market. The total capital raised between April to September 1976 was
Rs 516 million compared with Rs 650 million in the corresponding period in
1975.
27.       The limited available data on underwriting reveals that in FY75, 90%
of the total amount of equity issued to the public was underwritten; in FY74
the corresponding figure was 97%. In FY75, underwriters, as part of their
obligation, had to take up equity shares for Rs 31 million compared with Rs 39
million in FY74. During the early 1970s, brokers were active underwriters.
Subsequently, with the slackening of activity in the capital market, brokers
lost interest in this activity and the bulk of the underwriting is now being
done by the financial institutions. The stock market should improve gradu-
ally as the impact of the recent incentives by GOI (para 7) begins to be
felt.



op RAlcl  OF   jLjaEAL FiN       5rIrJrNsITrurioNis - 197e ro L977
( Ra. adll)Lo:
Uiderwriti ne .nd
jjrim  Gu!C  jfa~                            -              Suoee L4o..ns    - -                      Direct Sub,eriDt1on                                       Tot.1
1971-   1972.-  197S-   1974-   197,-  1976-   1971-   197.-  1973-   1974-   1975-  1976-   1971-   197Z-   1973-  1974-  1975-  1                 137-  1972  1973-- 1974-  1          1 1VI76
72      Z        7__. A_4 7 _                               . 73    74      75       76      77       72      75       74 75         76      77      72      75    74      75     76 _      .
IDBI                -      -         -         -       -0 1,2861]  670                ,65      2,148-/ 2,382V/ 4,Wall/  133    55         82       90    73    237  1,419    925  1,720  2,238  2,4Z5  :. CSd
IFCI               28     43        43       35       46       46     237    373       345       2aa     432      663     22    41        31       35   .3S      62    2S7    457    419    292    513    "1
ICICI             225    290       347      415      452     338      120    134       196      160      204     518      52    70        G7       56   129     87    397    494    611    629    786    344
I RC                -      -         -        -        -      -        66     51        72        76      53     l1o)      -     -         -       -      -      -      66     61      72     76      53    ID.
SFCg                -      -        44       86      132     111      634    778       977    1,326   1,491   1,570        7     9         3       6      6      2    641    787  1,031  1,418  1,629  1,665
510DG               -      -         -        -        -       -     164    181       230       213      257     354      72    54        48     122111    119    236    235    279    535    367    474
Sub-Tot-l        253    333       434      534    650       495  2507  2.397        460    4.14    4819   88006         86  229          7     3w 3                                             5.8029.MO
071                _       _         _        _        _       _       _       _        _         _        _       _    130    99         77      70    71      95    151      99    W7       70     71      95
}   Li G-                  -         -         -       -        -     141    116       171       212     292      5a0     90    85        88       26   318      71             I     -!    4AM      5c1   571
Toti         253    3553     434      534       630     495   3x flk    *Oka  tT                 a
___ _ _ _ _84  2,513    3,631    4,357   5.111   8.5C7    526   413         402      605   Ws    675  5,427  3,259  4.468  5,496   6.463 9._
IDBI                -      -         -        -        -        -     774    624    1,134    1,639   1,695   2,720        14    43        48       27    55      68    76    667  1,18E  1,666   1,750 2,788
IFCI               34    41         30       55       26       34     161    215       273       325     302      495      8    24        15       10    20      19    2O5    280    319    569       S46   549
ICI       C I   206    280         23       Z    91 399       389      80     79       138       137     163      217     18    38        35       26    49      65    303    397    435    44        611   670
IRCI                -      -         -        -        -        -      11     35        52        81      46    lOB        -      -        -        -     -       -     11      35     52      81      46   108
SFCs                -      -         -      20        46      54      390    441       541      774      947      996      6     6         5       2      6      3   396    447    546    796   1,CM 1,C53
SIDC1                                -       -         -       -      107    127       381      198      200      207     S6    59        45      69    70       91   1      166    206    267       Z71   298
Sub-Tot .1       239    S21       295     546       472     477   1,525  1,521    2,298    3,154   3,352   4,742         82   150       148     134   200    247  1,845  1,992  2,739  3,635   4,0235s,458
UT}i                -      -         -       -         -       -        -      -         -         -       -        -     16    56        78       76    52      t0     16      56     77      76      52    61
L1C               -      -         -       -         -       -        9     42       107       438     228      274     44    98        93     105    47    115       53    140    20    541        27    389
Tot.1         239    321        293     346       472     477   1,532  1,563    2,405    3,592   3,580   5,016    142   304           319     313   299    422  1,914  2,188  3,016  4,250   4,552 5,916
&I Comprising direct lo.ne, refin.nce to bnkgs -nd redismunts;
refin.nce to SFCs is excluded
gI



ANNEX 1
Attachment 2
IEDUSTRIAL DEVELOPI$T BANK OF INDIA
Selected Borrowing and Lending Rates in India FY73 to
July 31, 1977
As of    As of    As of
1972-73 1973-74  1974-75   September August    July
___1_                      _         - 1976     1972
Bank Rate 1/                 6       7         9           -         9        9
Deposit Rates
Post Office Savings          4       4         5           5         5        5
Fixed Deposits for one
year or less than Two
Years with Large Banks/  6          6         8           8         8        6
Rate on Bank Advances
Rate of Scheduled Banks3'/ 9-12   10-12   12.5-15        12-18    14-16.5   12.5
Long-Term Lending Rates-
Runee Loans
IDBI                       8.5      9.0      10.25       10.25    11.00      11.00
IFCI                       9.0      9.5    11.25         11.25    12.00      12.00
ICICI                      8.5      9.0    10.25         10.25    11.00      11.00
(9.5% for (10.5 for            (for both  (for both
foreign   foreign              foreign    foreign
currency  currency             & rupee    & rupee
loans)    loans)               currency   currency
loans)     loans)
Central Government Se-
curities
:  1986 or later i/         5.00    5.00    5.00          5.00      5.00      5.00
4% 1980 6/                  4.98    4.91    5.37          5.54      5.28       5.54
4% 1979i                   4*34    4.89    5.30           5.45      5.22      5.45
% 19829                     5.03    5.00    5-45          5.62      5.50      5.62
5-1/2 1999                  5.62    5.63    5.17          6.31      6.22      6.31
5-3/4% 2003 W                -      5.74    6.39          6.44      6.37      6.44
Bazaar Bill Rate BombaY1'15.00   17.00   21.00           21.00    21.00      21.00
Private Securities
1. Debentures :
Redemption Yield       9.40    8.86    9.48          10-53    13.14      11.91
Running Yield          7.46    7.98    8.07          8.31      8.44       885
2. Preference Shares      10.36   10.34   10.81          11.50    12.13      12.69
3. Variable Dividend -
Industrial Securi-
ties            6 '   5.59    504.87                    6.06      6.48
J1  Bank Rate raised to 7,S in June 1973 to 9% in July 1974
2/ The highest rate for deposits over five years is now 10.00%.  Between
A,Dril 1, 1974 and July 22, it w's 8%  -rior to April 1, 1974, it was
7.25%.  The rate of 6% reduced from 6% refers to deposits for 1-3 years.
3/ The rates are those most comrronly charged. A ceiling of 12.5%< was imposed
on the lending rates of commercial banks during this period.
4/ Normal lending rate. In case of default, a penalty rate of 0.5% normally
applies.
F/ Flat yield
Redemption Yield.
J Rates at which bills of small traders are discounted by shroffs -
these are unofficial quotations.
a/ The figure above the line is the average for nine months (April-to
December 1972) and the below figure is the average for three months
(January to March 1973)
2/ Due to insignificant trading on account of 'Companies (Temporary
Restriction Dividend) Ordinance, 1974, the yields on ordinary shares
for the month of July 1974 were not compiled. The figure above the line
is the average for threemonths (April to June 1974) and the
below figure is the aversge for eight months (August 1974 to
March 1975).
Source: Reserve Bank of India - Report on Currency and Finance,
1975-76 and RBI Bulletin - July 1977
December 22, 1977



ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
Role of the State Joint and Public Sector in
Madhya Pradesh, Gui-arat and Andhra Pradesh
1.        General.  In order to evaluate the role of the state joint and
public sector in India, three states (Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh and Madhya
Pradesh) representing advanced, medium and backwork development states,
were selected for a detailed ana:Lysis below. Moreover, para 5 describes the
selection mechanism of the management of the state joint sector company.
2.        Gujarat is one of the most industrialized states in India noted for
its entrepreneurship which has been fundamental in its development process.
The State Government plans to resort to the state joint sector for relatively
large projects which the private sector is not undertaking due to heavy invest-
ment requirements or because of Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practicing
(MRTP) Act constraints. There is a pipeline of 13 projects (Attachment 2) most
of which are based on Gujarat's resources, particularly on by-products of the
petrochemical complex at Baroda (the methyl/polymethyl methacrylate and
synthetic cresols look promising although an appraisal is still necessary)
and/or local demand. 1/ The Gujarat SIIC has already arranged foreign colla-
boration and identified its private sector partner (sometimes a Large House)
for many of these projects. GIIC is also commissioning market studies for
some of the products. Apart from market questions, the main issue regarding
the pipeline, which would have to be reviewed at the time of appraisal, is
economic size.
3.        The Andhra Pradesh IDC (APIDC) has been one of the most active
in promoting industry. Andhra Pradesh is a state with potential to develop
minerals (coal, limestone, barytes, silica), agro, forest, and marine based
industries. Its economic growth was severely affected by political insta-
bility during the 1960's. Origirally the state joint sector was seen as the
only vehicle to induce investment in view of the lack of confidence and
entrepreneurship in the state. F[owever, as time elapsed many local entre-
preneurs still want to develop projects in the state joint sector in view of
the advantages of being involved with the state government and because of
their close contact with APIDC which offers a selection of projects for which
feasibility studies have been carried out. APIDC has identified some 38
projects likely to be sponsored in the public or joint sector, of which about
three-fourths (by amount of investment) are based on local resources. Attach-
ment 3 shows a sample of this pipeline and corroborates concerns about the
lack of coordination in state industrial investment (for example, mini-paper
1/   Except for a tyre project (see remarks in Appendix 2).



A4NEX 2
Page 2
mills) and the need to improve project selection (for example, questionable
demand for particle board). On the other hand, some projects such as refrac-
tories, based on locally available clay, seem feasible (a further project can
be developed based on the state's high quality asbestos).
4.        In Madhya Pradesh the state government expects the state joint
sector to play a key role in filling entrepreneurial gaps. MIadhya Pradesh is
one of the most industrially backward states in India but with considerable
natural resources in the form of various agricultural products, forests,
minerals, and coal (which would support related industries) together with
plentiful availability of land, labor, and water. The lack of sufficient
infrastructural facilities in some of the areas where natural resources are
concentrated (forests) is one of the factors that constrains investment, and
the main thrust of the state's industrial policy is towards provision of these
facilities. However, investment also has been limited by lack of entrepreneur-
ship. As the state government itself has limited manpower resources to operate
industrial enterprises, it wants to attract professional management (including
from other states) to operate the units it wants to promote. Madhya Pradesh
has identified 18 projects which would be promoted in the state joint sector
(Attachment 1). Some of these projects seem inappropriate, such as the PVC
plant since this product can be manufactured more economically from a petro-
leum base rather than from a coal base (apart from possible market problems).
Others, such as the carbonization project and paper and pulp, are based on
abundant natural resources in the state and in view of the comparative advan-
tage, should be pursued by commissioning feasibility studies. 1/
5.        Selection of Management.  State joint sector projects are managed
by a Board of Directors, where the SIDCs/SIICs and the private sector partner
generally have equal representation. The SIDC/SIICs normally nominate the
chairman. The private sector partner normally nominates the managing direc-
tor (in charge of the day-to-day management of the unit). There have been
a few variations to this practice and in some states the SIDCs/SIICs have
their representatives on special committees dealing with some of the impor-
tant decisions. The practice in the choice of partners varies among the
SIDCs/SIICs. Some advertise in the local, as well as national, newspapers
for entrepreneurs, while others seek partners through direct contacts. Most
SIDCs/SIICs prefer to choose partners from local entrepreneurs, except when
no suitable candidate is available locally for the larger projects. Some
SICDs/SIICs prefer partners that are already operating in a particular field
or with adequate experience in managing an industry, while others prefer
partners with technical expertise even if they do not have adequate entre-
preneurial experience in industry.
1/   To answer questions such as market, economic size, economic and finan-
cial viability, etc.



MADHYA PRADESH INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Joint and State Majority Sector Pipeline
as at September 30, 1976
(Rs million)
1/                                                                   Estimated       F/E
Project                      Product                      Capacity             Cost       Component    Remarks
MP Glychem Industries         Fatty Acids -                  N.A.              20.0                     Based on locally availabli
Solvent Extracts                                                         sal seeds.
MP Gas Ltd.                   Oxygen and Acetylene Gases   N.A.                10.0                     This Is an ancillary unit to
serve the heavy electrical and
mechanical engineering complex
established in the state.
MP Electrical Machinery       Electrical Motor/              N.A.              11.0                     This is an ancillary unit to
Transformer                                                              serve the established heavy
electrical plants.
Carbonization Project         Semi Coke Gases                N.A.             174.0                     Based upon extensive "soft
coking" coal depoeits in
Korba/Surguja regions.
Pelletization Project         Iron Ore Pellets             1-2 million        250.0         52.0        Based upon Bailadilla iron ore
tons p.a.                                    reserves where there is
adequate infrastructure.
Particle Board Project        Particle Board/Textile       20,000 tons p.a.   42.9                      Based upon similar resources
Fibre                                                                    of Bastan region.
Paper Project                 Paper and Pulp               45,000 tons p.a.  300.0                      Based upon similar resources
of Bastan/Netanegar regions.
Polyvinyl  Chlorium           PVC Product                    N.A.             120.0                     Based upon coal resources of
Project                                                                                                Korba/Surguja regions.
Industrial Explosives         Industrial Explosives        18,000 tons p.a.   40.5                      By-product of the coal
Project                                                                                                carbonization project.
1/ Apart from the 9 projects listed, MPSIDC is also interested in promoting a 27,000 tons p.a. Caustic Soda plant together with
3 related projects. MPSIDC also has letters of intent for a Rayon fibre project, synthetic detergents and a steering gear
project, but these are likely to lapse and seem inappropriate investments for this State.                                         >



ANNEX 2
Attachrment 2
(l C AbOT
ast if lit-rohe 1070
(Re siinkonl       Forolgo Exshasge CotpoyP-nt
of tho proiect ccI'
Ieclceical         Capista
tecoede         Goods
tr< lect                        Product                   Annual CePaclty               slnerd Co-s        Enei.e..  Veo-         _R-roke
Caj..ral Tyrca Ltd.             Tyn./T.etbe                  400,000 lbh.                    277.15             4.1              61.5            lnny s1to-. are in -erecind  -n s       iytrcnsn
thel   type or yruec.  Technical col ahoc:
obtained Irot 8r GoodrIch (USA). CIIC
jostlE (em  project bsed on droan.d althuo,h
lc.iiitle dindlste  retol,ly In tecuble no
qurot.tonObte it 1eind at on country bast.L
"I ymNts Corporation            M4ethyl Methetacrylte                                        1                 12.2                           T-hloloal c,lriab-eanton <btained  orne
of CGtjreL Ltd.                PF.Iyncthyl Matha-oylato                                                                                        rugibtWhe Lt.yo    ho -,  joInt sctOr t.1
-tonoter                     5,000 tense.                                                                    Drug H u-- Ltd   il  bt th. j.i-  --
5100 Sheets                   2 000 xt                                                                        partn-.  Project based on  -ooan 1p,lon .' VS
1A Pellet                      . ISOO tonn.*                                                                  fel,, the PiLrocicbnttL conpictPl   ear h- t2dra
There  -re Iorge ntonho   of F.2,A sheets
nanulocturint units both In 'ho State as
nel l *s country ebchlo se tmnporclnt Y'
suncotr. Sneers end pot lets also eeqoitoc
by saI l-scale  et-croft and othor
toduettls.
bejorat Stats  achIn             Machine To1. Lathes           2.000 units                    9D                Nil              15             Gujarat hbo  large n-nbor Po  snal lndctttrles
Tool Corp. Ltd.                Radist I)Tilig iraItne.          100 units                                                                     sating s-aIl lnchin_o,   orn  rt,  ct
Coleter Drillintg  chinoe       200  uts                                                                       neodod by le   idnecros.   Projec cc-net>
Kydocopying Attatlm-nts         200 units                                                                     bha-d n' dc--d (coin clint r.ot ca.o:.          l
Gc%.  Appratoal voald h          Iec to  loto  a
narket situation carefully
CuJsrst Caromn Ltd.             Carbeo  slack                 10.000 tcnnes                   50                Isgi              3              For-rlrn Collal, ra thin  i0'rer  le),         -
Pr,ir-ru  1(0K.  Prijrct o,iclp t.
.till-e -nsilabln carbon blacit f-dst-.
frc o leilna Pr-iects of irdi-n Pctro-
chotiole Coroostnlo.   btr L      a arid cat
crochet of -fotry.  Subse-titcl p.ru t    -_
pot -'nld bl  foe the tyrt pe%.-_t (Se.t  1L
Gajes&t Arcttius Ltd.            Synthetics Creaols            3,000 tcuors                   90                8                13.8            Foe-JAn colloretiro by Mt.l Jo  t
-nd otir- In Japn.  At present -otite
rryquioenoto of cre.onl  frn inports.
P00(00tnv uld cor05000 toltoortanotlsOh:
leone tho retiterry  neat Fanoola  'can dxci'.
-or coeccin is tn Cu;oat urd Ul.tn I- -
G.Jara-t  ylons Ltd.            Nylo_-  PlO-t VYarn            2.100 nongs bO                                  10.0              400             Proj.ct doi-od because ai nt 4i ot - -
fila...t y-n n - --e-d In CuJara-  by r - r
lo  in  osol -u       esco-   GI It ar go 
thatpeoucnbt t          Wt shc-tag  coil inn
prIcor.    Proboble proble if c  patity
neil (etc on in 01.K <fmislt lo hIcon'
Spons  Irot  Ponjert             Spo-Se leo.                 180.QO.   tunnes                240               11.7             40.0             ((,cg n  ps Ictni-d jroro   hCi  n F'i       <
reduceio  of le-coe r/t-              uoc
has patosiga Rt. Te1onlcl featlbillt.
bengi stadied. As ptoin of surep Ir. Odel
cached this sill afflts sponge iron.  t
*vor- cci 'rohlos and _1 4t ondretaike pt l.-
e-ablitlhad on bass  of reinott   u-I-touoc
tsael tndcseey. Unikely Inplnseenatlonr
Cyanide salts Penj.             Cyosids felte.                 1,500 i  -oess                 45                2.5               5.0            OydrooyaaLl anid sp-ilable  eIt  lediso
penrocherclols Coepooolion noar icizrda
totte  esqueenosots  I yatVile  sotl  Col
by isyots.  CIIC plans In und1reahck  -rtet
sneney. loubrology rot cc. Iluhc in
onootoy *n f orenln  I.llaboost l menolscac"l.
If toyie-ennted otlI stl i   -Ako  sooti l.
Tit Poojelt                     TDI                            5,000 b30                                       18.0              i0.0            GIIC plans lt undetukie '        ,are  surv-y.
burbber of cuorpoent i.e bete Lu  uets
icoospehoten Inlceert of >nlcc3 Clh2 a-
co.hecActerss Furt lOe (i,llat rcatloet v.1I
bo nqul -ed.  ntote ciqolic-ni  ci t1e e
di-iconyOnate I'ieioeld tm 0-ireqt'ul''
of sant,acluorersof poem elat*e fool-.
Tolv.'nr haste roe o.atoerba aesllahin
l os refinery at LLoda
Me¢thanol Pooject                Metbeoato                   2tD0  bOtosses                  120                P.S              20.0            PsoJest prisetted to 55 litre natuiral p.s
coollohie Isonoun. t;u1aran Stat
Feortliems vooad ho the cartntte.
Dotale of proltbeltip oneicod cout.
Phenol  PraJoot                  Phenol                       tGOSO O tOSSO                  00                17T *.5           20.0            Ttheea is neoroi  ebt8ttX tietar    of r piecal dt
oIttuene  see C 121. tIll pnithehin tisb
*o''e Linen to onach sencederelson stae.
Itnloastes sf tIslesce           Tolsess                      14.000 teanses  '               hO          To be decided       To br decided   -  uhensteatl quenchtoew  ..f enloeset corlon
foca C7 Jsnocast                                                                                                                                froot oletine proiree  of Indiec Pt-rcuthnnislw
Coep,ieanion. If ice bItt-ce d es not
deetlde enon earle  blts I-inr-n  GIt 1   vodd
coeider lnirlenaenllt ptuect.



ANDIIRA PRAI)JLSfl
APIDC Target: Group Project Pipeline
as of September 30, 1976
(Rs Million)
1/                                     Annual           Estimated        F/E
Project                   Product              CaDacity            Cost      Component                     Remarks
Novapan India Ltd.           Particle board         20,000 Tons          54.0          10.3         A wood plantation is available. The
product would be used as a substitute for
raw wood which is becoming scarce. Never-
theless, information available on the
market shows that there was over-capacity
in 1972/73.
Delta Paper Mills            Paper                  10,000 Tons          40.8           3.6         This paper mill will use as its raw
material locally-available agro wastes.
It is doubtful if it is an economic size.
A.P. Carbides Ltd.           Calcium Carbide         33,000 Tons         66.0           8.0          High grade limestone is available locally.
At present there are few units
manufacturing this product. The output
of the plant will be used in the chemical
and engineering industries.
A.P. Refractories Ltd.    Refractories               36,500 Tons        150.0          25.0          This project will make use of locally-
available clays and sell part of its
output to local steel plants.
N.A.                         Brake liners and           350 Tons         10.0           3.0          This plant will make use of locally-
clutch facings                                                         available high grade Asbestos.
Southern Transformers        Power transformers   1,000 MVA-             30.0           7.0          The output of this plant will be used in
ILtd.                                                 132 KVA                                      the Andhra Pradesh power development
program.
1/ Some other projects (out of a pipeline of 38) that APIDC is considering that will require foreign exchange are: (1) A sponge iron                               m A
project that could sell its output to local steel mills; (2) A Caustic Soda plant that could use salt produced by another APlDC                                n
project.  T'his plant would supply Chlorine to a planned P.V.C. plant; (3) A Nylon Filament Yarn plant; (4) A second mini paper                                 D
mill; (5) A Rayon Grade Pulp plant and (6) A Fibre Glass plant.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
Technical Assistance Fund
1.        $500,000 of the loan would be allocated to the Technical Assistance
Funds. GOI would make the funds available to IDBI on grant basis.
GOI would repay the $500,000 on or before January 1, 1995.
2.        The fund will be managed by IDBI.
3.        The fund will be used to pay for the services of local and foreign
consultants for the following purposes:
(a) to finalize projects to bankability stage,
(b) project preparation work, and
(c) development of export potential in eligible undertakings
whether existing or proposed.
Priority will be given to the needs of those states which are
short of the necessary in-house technical manpower to develop
projects and identify export possibilities.
4.        Each request for the reimbursement of expenditure will be accom-
panied by a short statement not exceeding two pages, for the in-
formation of the Bank, indicating:
(a) the reasons for the study,
(b) selection process for the consultant, and
(c) proposed follow-up action by IDBI.
The Terms of Reference issued by IDBI for the study should be
attached to this statement.
5.        Consultants will be chosen by IDBI in accordance with Bank guide-
lines.
6.        IDBI will, where appropriate, capitalize expenditures on these
studies in the project cost. IDBI will use the reimbursement of
such expenditures to be credited to the Fund to finance further
technical assistance.
7.        In the usual quarterly reporting to the Bank, IDBI will include a
statement of the accounts for the Technical Assistance Fund.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
8.        After full disbursement for the Technical Assitance Fund from the
credit, IDBI will send IBRD a report describing in summary form:
(a) the technical assistance features of the various studies
undertaken,
(b) the achievements of these studies,
(c) the problems encountered, and
(d) the likely needs for the immediate future.



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
INDUSTR(LCF DWSLOPMT BAK OF INDIA
Direct Pro-1act Assistance by 1001        (Rs. in million)
Yer       No,  Project       Maaa of Tiniincn           86 Foign -      -      et by
(July-June) of    oost     Equity+    Loas    Others   Exchange   ICICI          IFG;    Others
ply-           Pr fe-                         Require-
. . _        t             rence                         me.nti
A.  1f1 Industries
197C-71      16  1935.49   526.97   1363.68    102.84    414.34    83.bs        2a.40   304.03
(25.48)  (317.71)   (25.64)
1171-7       2b  4C14..33   7G1.O,   2C06.37   1545.54    856.6S    3G6.8          9.i3   731.67
(137.5o)  (o93.77)   (10.00)
17.-76       46     o ..-    4G.*;1  1367.13    307.01    174.17    03.4S        11.10    z J. 5,
(53.cG)  (416. 43)   (10.50)
1373-74      57  2297.02   734.10   1487.00       75.92    37C.8S    66.953        4. do   .iL.L4
(76.3se)  (405.51)    (-)
lJ74-75      4i3  451e.86   333.03   44S.w   11'5.77    7ol.46    S0.75            3.57   2o0.06)
(72.G6)  t5J,..55)   (36.00)            (s5.5s  - IF5- +
1975-7b      94  %46e.57  1l76.06   3171.eb    ou .55       14. .31   156.67     63.66   49.56
(b7-6e)  i.J60.,4)
147-77       63 943.96  el21.57   540o.64    ',6 .05    r4.5O   6lo.2u          77u.6.  4dl&.'4
(Z6*&62) (15b J. 57 i
ic3 26150.10  6860.86  17535.63   473b.66   3300.96  1G6.74.    31G.0u  7550.25
Tot els                 (74-.53j (S15.78)   (76,34)
B. Publio Sector
137c)7-71     .   102.54    24.50      72.95       5.09     17.39      -                   17.39
(-)      (30.0u)    (-)
1971-74       1   150.53    31.50    113.00        6.03      21.63     -          -        21.63
(_j      (46.50)    (-)
147k:-73      4   1 14.7U    67. u    115.41    1l.29 i                -          -        27.95
(11.15)   (30.50)    (-)
1975-74       a   144.Z0    55.00      67.60       u.6L     35.57      -          _         5.57
(5.Uo)   (12'.6)    (-)
Ia7   75      5   755.e0   lb2.50    491.20       b1.50      -         -          -         -
(7.00)  (2S.505    (-)
1975-76     1   377.56   300.69    431.02^   125.65   li,.20    10.03            7.90   11'..7
(A4.60)  (148.67)
1J76-77      lb  161'/.bO   333.S0    002.77      83.b       -         7.50     167.Z0   53M.9q
(10-40 )  (46'i. 3a)
47  364Z.53  1121.89   2203.95    314.44    435.ok   37.53         175.10   611.31
Total 'd,                   (6d.15)  (973.69)
C. Joint Sector
1970-71       1      3.60     Z.00      -          1.60      -         -          -         -
(0.90)    ( -)       ( -)
1371-72       7  2116.56   493.50   1551.66       71.40    558.74      3.z6       3.12   552.36
(Lo4.47)  (454.19)    (-)
1s7a-73       8   769.62   127.60    635.56        5.46     70.C3    15.57         i.52    49.94
(20.87)  (200.60)    (-)
1973-74      10   766.5?   255.50    506.70        4.32      99.11    10.60       4.10    84.21
(27.07)  (160.56)    (-)
1974-75      10  131b.9&   377.90    885.81       50.a7    47i.97      5.00        5.00   430.47
(40.47)  (136.45)    (-)                (35.50 - IFCI + ICTCI)
1975-76      19  133.91   405.72    837.41       60.78    136.82      5.78       8.19   122.65
(26.26)  (301.34)
1976-77      18  3278.08   741.57   z526.55    252.66        50.65    19.90       20.55   196.89
(148.52)  (7?±3.34)
Total ic  73  9571.2?  2403.79   6343.69    466.49         30.76    60.31      45.48  1436.72
(370.56)  (1954.48)
Tot el b & C
Public &    120 13d53.G0   55sa.6&   Y147.b4    7D0.93    62b.10   276.96        22U.5b  4020.01
Joint                      (426.71)  (e934.17)              (3x.50)
Total B & C
as %of
Total a
(Pablic &   331    46.94    51.x4      5e.17     16.50       9.68    26.21       24.08    54.63
Joint Seo-
to re as %
of all In-
dustries)
(I'iguire in ouracketr represeait IDI assistaoce)



ANNEX 4
Page 2
INDUSTRIA]. DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
Industry-wise Direct Financial Assistance to Public
and Joint Sector Projects (July 1964 to June 1976)
(Amount in Rs Million)
Industry                         No. of       Project      Assistance
Projects       Cost         Sanctioned
1.  Fertilizers                                4          2,144.2         559.4
2.  Basic Metal Industries                    13          1,475.1         270.7
3.  Rubber                                     3             915.9        165.0
4. Basic Industrial Chemicals
other than Fertilizers                     9            837.0         225.8
5.  Cement                                     2             818.0        259.0
6.  Paper                                      5             887.6        323.5
7.  Machinery                                 13             588.1        147.5
8.  Sugar                                      6             286.5         64.6
9.  Transport Equipment                        4             236.7         50.9
10.  Textiles (including jute)                  8             288.2         83.6
11.  Other Chemicals & Chemical Products    4                 182.3         62.4
12.  Others                                    13             306.5         74.6
Total                                     84          8,966.1      2,286.9



ANNEX 5
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
Target Group's Past Performance
1.        It is difficult to evaluate the performance of state government
sponsored projects since most are either under construction or have been
in operation for less than three years. In Gujarat, only two state government
sponsored projects are in operation. 1/ One, Gujarat State Fertilizers Com-
pany, Ltd., which started production in 1967 and is well known to IBRD, has
shown very good performance. The other, Gujarat Alkalies and Chemicals
Ltd. (producing caustic soda/chlorine), only started operations in October,
1976. It was completed with a 45% cost overrun and 6 month delay which is
in line with the outcome of a similar private sector company now under im-
plementation (Gujarat Alkalies was appraised in 1973 before the oil crisis,
etc.). By December 1976, it was operating at 60% capacity utilization which
is good considering that production had just started. The market for caustic
soda is poor at present but ICICI and IDBI expect profits to be fair.
2.        Madhya Pradesh has two state joint sector projects in operation.
One, M .P  Electri^c' Fl  . T zna -lled wires) started operations in 1975.  It
is still experiencing some start-up difficulties because the company has yet
to stabilize production and the market is depressed. However, poor market
conditions also affected similar companies in the private sector. The other
company, M.P. Lamps started operations only six months ago. Its production
and operational performance are reportedly in line with budget forecasts.
3.        Andhra Pradesh has eight joint/public sector projects in opera-
tion 2/. Of the eight, four are operating profitably (one of these four
companies had been a private sector company that failed and was subsequently
acquired by APIDC). Another three are having temporary market problems due
to initial market entry difficulties, recession, etc. The other company,
Associated Glass Ltd., producing bottles has suffered from the impact of
prohibition and recycling of bottles on demand and is now trying to diversify
its nrodrict lin'  (?wq,' fr-om  ct f1es! ood t^ expor! its zrystal glass which is
of reasonable quality.
4.        As most existing projects in the target group (particularly joint
sector) started operations only recently, an attempt was made to evaluate
their performance by comparing a sample of them with private sector projects
in the same industries which had been in existence for comparable periods
of time. While the evidence in Attachment I does not contain sufficient in-
formation for a solid conclusion, it suggests that, in general, the per-
formance of these projects has been similar to that of comparable private
sector units.
1/   Both are wholly state govcrnment owned and not state joint sector.
2/   Excluding a miaing company and a sugar company set up before India's
independence and now owned by the state.



Co-n.rison of Perfor,-cce by Entotirn Public/Joint Sector
Projocts with Private Sector ?rolccts in the em-a Industries
which have bcen Ln E.iot-cCe for C-parable Tite
-- ------- ---P--- -----  -----------7ublic/.boint Sector------------------------P-i--t- S-t-_o___                            ----------------------------------------Priat  Sector--------------------------_______              -__
1/          Cost            Deloy in            Profitability 6                                                           1/      Co.t           DOI&y in              Profitability &
Produ.t             Copoanv Name                        Tie             Overrun      Co.pletion (montha)  Capacity Cotil.   M;,naoc                  Co-pany Name                  i*"-      Overrun      Completion (fonthse    Capacity Util.    maogsmet
2/
Fertili.-rf           GCJarat State Fertilizers          1967              Nil              Nil                    Cood              G.d               2-ar  Agro Chemidcls        1973          2%                 6                     Fair              Good
Fertilioer-           Southern Petrochbpicals            1975              41%               12                    Poor               Fair             Indian Farmers &
Fertlftrers          Mangalore Chemicals A                                                                                                              Fertilizers Cooperative
3/          Fertilizers                       1976               31%              15                    Fair               Cood              Ltd.                        1975         7%                13                     Fair              Pair
Drv Cet1is           To.biba Anand Batteries             1973              I;I              Nil                    Fair              Good              Lakhnpal National           1973         11                  5                     Fair              Fair
Lao,                 Toshiba Anand Lanps                 1968              627.             NA.                    Poor              Cood              Sylvani & La-n  Ltd.   1973              397.             N.A.                     Poor              Fair
Phth.lic            iMysore Potroche.icals               1976              16%               9                     Faic/Good         F.ir              Thir.malai Chroicals        1976         107                 4                     FaLr/cood         Fair
Ar,hydride
Ca..  ic soda/       Gujarot AIKalies A                  1976              457.               6                    Fair              Coed              Kothari Ltd.              isp. Jao. 78 Overruns in cost And tim  aapeted to be si-ilar tO GACL
chl-I n.             Che,icals
Steel-               Gogte Steels Ltd.                   1976              20%               13                    Poor              Fair              Usha Alloys A St*el.        1975         26%                11                     Poor              Good
Steel             6  Steel Corplex Ltd.                  1975              157              24                     Poor              Good
Cl^as  co -raloe/ Eocl Cl.seo Ltd.                     1972               177              14                    Poor               Poor               ivciers.l Class            1976        277.               24                     Poor              Fair
1/ Ti   wh=Ien prod-ction started.
2/ Tht peftability of a11 fertili.er plota set up before 1974 both in the privace *nd pblic sectors is snbst.ntially better than tho..
Ot' .:cd s.5soquonti          0; has appoioted Aco -ittee to study the p-vitabiliLy of fe-til-   nit  and r-                   vend anions
Ic: loc= fertilizer plants.zru s^                                                                                           e
-/ Y .-e: cob ^- Trhb b:  :nd B-          ttcrN r dy           - --t l -r-.T Ine   tt y culi    uni     -    in  t.e
private secor.
4/ Both ocepanie were Affected due to Attempt to enpand and diversify too quickly.  Toshiba Aetd Ita-P
055 01.0 Affected by labor/political problems is Kerala.  The fioaocial insicutions hove rescheduled
their loans to this pro,ect fuer company took action to strengthen v-rio-s Aspecta of its activities.
Sitoatios itprovig.
5/ The *to.; industry in general, and aslil steel plants in particular Are severely affected by market conditions.
Ml arket proble,a hae boons ag&ravat&d by imsposition of prohibition (14upr) in some staces.
rC3
ft
(D:3
He



ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
Highlights of Scheme for IDBI Refinance Assistance to SIDCs/SIICs
On July 9, 1976 IDBI's Board approved a scheme for refinance of
SIDCs/SIICs, of which the salient features are summarized below:
Eligibility: IDBI shall refinance loans made by 21 listed SIDCs/SIICs to
industrial concerns for acquisition of fixed assets and margin money for
working capital.
Coordination with SFCs: In all cases where units are eligible for assistance
from an SFC (i.e. having paid up capital and reserves less than Rs 10 million)
refinance assistance shall be given to SIDCs/SIICs, if financing of such proj-
ect by SIDC/SIIC is agreed to by the concerned SFC.
Overall limits for refinancing of individual SIDC/SIIC; IDBI shall determine
on an annual basis ceilings of refinance to individual SIDCs/SIICs.
Limits for refinanced loans: Normally refinance would be available for loans
ranging from Rs 0.5 million to Rs 3 million, for projects costing at least
Rs 5 million. For smaller-projects agreement of the concerned SFC is neces-
sary. In exceptional cases refinance would be available for loans up to Rs 6
million, with an overall ceiling of IDBI refinance per unit through different
intermediaries of Rs 9 million.
Extent of refinance: 100% of loans for projects in specified backward areas
and 80% of loans for projects in all other areas.
Rate of interest: Interest on refinance will be charged at the rate prevalent
at the time of disbursal of refinance in full or instalments. The present
structure of rates of interest for refinance is as below:
Ceiling on rate of
interest to be charged
IDBI Rate            by SIDCs/SIIC
(a)  Normal rate                  9%                      12-1/2%
(b) Special rate on
refinance to proj-
ects in specified
backward areas               6%                       9-1/2%



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Period for repayment: Normally, loans granted for a period up to 10 years
shall be considered eligible for refinance, but in special cases, a longer
period for repayment can be considered. The period for repayment should be
so fixed that it gives a debt service coverage ratio of 2:1.
Repayment of refinance: The schedule for repayment of refinance should syn-
chronize with the schedule for repayment of the corresponding loan.
Security for loans. The SIDCs/'SIICs shall assume full credit risk in respect
of the loans sanctioned by them.
Upgrading of SIDCs/SIICs: To ensure proper utilization of refinance assistance
extended by IDBI and to streamline the working of SIDCs/SIICs, the latter will
be subjected to the same discipline as has been done in the case of SFCs. For
this purpose, IDBI contemplates to conduct regular and periodic inspections,
nominate its representative on the Board of Directors and Executive Committees
of SIDCs/SIICs, call for regular returns and issue guidelines on important
policy matters.
Guidelines relating to norms about promoters' contribution, debt-
equity ratio, debt-service coverage ratio and other related subjects will be
issued from time to time by IDBI and these have to be adhered to by the Corpo-
rations to be eligible for refinance.
Amount of business:  IDBI estimates that refinance of SIDCs/SIICs might not
exceed Rs 100 million in the first year. This is a small amount compared to
Rs 1,807 million (for 8,244 cases) of refinance which IDBI granted to SFCs in
FY75/76.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
Public Financial Institutions Law (Amendment) Act
1.        Policy.  The Act now states explicitly that IDBI shall function as
the principal financial institution for co-ordinating the working of other
institutions engaged in financing, promoting or developing industry. IDBI
shall deploy its resources in conformity with national priorities. GOI will
have the power to give directions to IDBI in matters of policy involving the
public interest.
2.        Ownership.  IDBI's authorized capital will be increased from Rs 500
million to Rs I billion, with GOI having the power to increase it further to
Rs 2 billion. The issued capital will be transferred from RBI to GOI, and
any further share issues will be wholly subscribed by GOI.
3.        Board of Directors.  IDBI will have an independent Board with a
maximum membership of 23, consisting of a Chairman, a Managing Director, an
RBI Deputy Governor, two Government officials up to five representatives
of other all-India term-lending institutions, 1/ up to six representatives
of the State Bank, the nationalized banks and the SFCs, and at least five
persons who have special knowledge or professional experience which, in GOI's
opinion, would be useful to IDBI. There will also be two directors chosen
from the employees of IDBI and the term-lending institutions, one from among
the officers and one from the workmen employees.  Except for the Deputy
Governor of RBI, all Directors will be appointed by GOI. IDBI's Executive
Committee will consist of 11 members inclusive of the Chairman and the Man-
aging Director. They will hold office for terms not exceeding five years,
and they will be eligible for reappointment.
4.        Staff.  Those staff members currently assigned to IDBI, or whose
functions are being transferred to IDBI from RBI, will have 18 months in
which to decide whether to return to RBI or to remain in IDBI; the actual
transfer to staff will take place within 30 months.
5.        Audit.  IDBI's accounts will continue to be audited by auditors
duly qualified under the Companies Act, but they will now be appointed by
GOI instead of by RBI. IDBI's accounts and the auditors' report have been
published in the official gazette; they will now first be placed before
Parliament.
6.        Amendments to SFC Act.  The amendments to the SFC Act will transfer
to IDBI most of the powers hitherto held by RBI:
(a) RBI's holdings of shares in SFCs will be transferred
to IDBI.
I/   Inclusive of UTI.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
(b) IDBI's representation on an SFC's Board will increase
from one to two.
(c) IDBI will take over the responsibility of inspecting
SFCs. 1/
(d) IDBI will take over from RBI (or join with it in per-
forming) the supervisory functions regarding SFCs' re-
source mobilization. RBI will still be consulted re-
garding the issuing of bonds and debentures, the rate
of interest on such bonds, borrowings from the State
Government, and the acceptance of deposits.
1/   The Industrial Finance Department of RBI has been transferred to IDBI.
January 18, 1977



ANNEX 8
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
Board of Directors and Executive Directors
as of December 30, 1977
Name                           Primary Occupation
*1.  Shri J. N. Saxena                    Chairman & Managing Director
*2.  Shri Maumahan Singh                  Secretary to the Government of India,
Department of Economic Affairs
3.  Shri H.T. Parekh                    Chairman, ICICI
4.  Shri Baldev Pasricha                Chairman, IFCI
5.  Shri R.B. Pradhan                   Chairman, Life Insurance Corporation of
India
6.  Shri G.S. Patel                     Chairman, Unit Trust of India
*7.  Shri A. Niyogi                       Chairman, Industrial Reconstruction
Corporation of India Ltd.
8.  Shri Mukul Chand Barua              Managing Director, Assam Financial
Corporation
9.  Shri B.P.R. Vithal                  Secretary, Finance & Planning Department,
Government of Andhra Pradesh
10.  Shri K.S. Krishnaswamy              Deputy Governor, Reserve Bank of India
11.  Shri S.S. Marathe                   Secretary, Ministry of Industrial
Development
12.  Shri O.P. Gupta                     Private Sector Industrialist
13.  Shri P.P. Khanna                    Private Sector Industrialist
14.  Shri N.M. Waghle                    Private Sector Industrialist
15.  Shri Freddi Mehta                   Private Sector Industrialist
16.  Shri P.C.D. Nambiar                 Chairman, State Bank of India
* Executive Committee Members.



INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
Staffing Situation
New Recruits                                                       Terminations-                                            Staff on Hand
July 1973-  July 1974-  July 1975-  July 1976- Nov. 1976- July 1973-  July 1974-  July 1975-  July 1976-  Nov. 1976- June   June   June   June   Oct   31st
June 1974   June 1975   June 1976   Oct. 1976  Oct. 1977   June 1974   June 1975   June 1976   Oct. 1976   Oct. 1977   1973   1974   1975   1976   1976  Oct. 1977
Management                    -             -            3            -              5                  -             -                    -2                        2       2       3       6              9
Professional Staff-         22            13            30            3           190           12             8             8            3              6        273     283      288     310    310   494
EconoMists                 1             3             -            1             8            1            1             1             -              2         24      24      26      25      26      32
Engineers                  -             3             9           1              -            3            1             1             -              3         29      26      28      36      37      34
Financial Analysts        21             5            19*           -           170            6            5             4             2              1        162     177     177     192     190   359
Others                     0             2             2*           1            12           2             1             2             1              -         58      56      57      57      57     69
Other Staff                  59           29            36*          19            226           -             -            -             3              5        474     533     562    59R    61b    S35
Total                     81            40            69          22            421          12             8             8             6             13       749      818     852     913    930  1338
l/ Mainly deputations.
2/ Excluding staff officers from regional offices (62 in October 1976).
Representing personnel drawn from Industrial Finance Department of RBI.
D
Decembet 22. 1977



IDBI - Staffing of SFCs Department and Other Loan Departments
(Additional Requirements as of December 1977)
SFCs & OSLAs Dept.                         Soft Loans Division               Special Loans Div.        Project Finance Div.
SS     WS      Vac      AS      AR    SS       WS      Vac      AS      AR       SS     WS       Vac      SS      WS      Vac
G.M. (Fin.)       1       1       -        -       -      1       1       -        -       -       1       1       -        1       1       -
G.M. (Tech.)    -         -                               -       -       -        -       -               -       -        1       1       -
Dy.G.M. (F)       1       1       -        -       -      3       3       -        -       -       1       1       -        2       2       -
Dy.G.M.(T)        -       -       -        -       -      1       1       -        -       -       1       -       1        1        2     -1
Manager (F)       3       4      -1        2       1      7       7       -        2       2       2       3      -1       13      13        -
Manager (T)       -       -       -        -       -      2       2       -        4       4       2       3      -1         8       7       1
Dy. Mgr. (F)    7         2       5        3       8    10        -      10       12      22       2       -       2       17        4      13
Dy. Mgr. (T)      2       -       2        -       2      6       -       6        6      12       2       -       2       10        5       5
I.F.O. (F)       11       9       2        3       5      -       _       -       14      14       4       4       -       20      22      -2
I.F.O. (T)        2       -       2        -       2      -       -       -       12      12       2       -       2       12       1      11
S.O.Gr. II       17      13       4        3       7    22       17       5        6      11       4       4       -       26      24        2
44      30      14       11      25    52       31      21       56      77      21      16       5      111      92      29
I.F.A./C1.
Gr.I           17      15       2        -       2    16        9       7        -       7       2       2       -       25      27      -2
Clerk Gr. II   11         3       8        -       8    20        9      11       12      23       2       2       -        18       8      10
SS   -  Sanctioned strength
WS   -  Working strength
Vac  -  Vacancies
AS   -  Additional sanctions required as per the Dept.
AR   -  Total additional requirements as per AS has been advertised
C0



ANNEX 11
11DU3TRTAL DEVEDLOPFET B9ANK OF TIYDIA
DBIt's Structure of Interest Rates l/
(Percent Per Annum)
IDBI          Ceiling on Primary
Rate          Lenders' Rate
1.  DXrect Assistance to Industrial
Concerns (other than for exports)
xa) 'Nornall rate                      11.00
(b) Concessioraal rate to units in
specified backward districts        9.50
2.  ReNfnance of Industrial Loans
'a) Normal rate                         9.00                12.50
~b) Special rate for small-scale
industrial units covered under
the Credit Guarantee Scheme
and Technician-entrepreneur
schemes                             7.50                 11.00
c` .-nder IDA line of credit
(Foreign currency component)
(i) To small-scale industries
covered under Credit Guarantee
Scheme, Technician-entrepreneur
schemes and units in specified
backward districts              8.50                 11.00
(ii) Other cases                     9.00                11.50
'.  Export Credit
(a) Refinance against medium-term
export credits                      6.50                  c.OO
(b) Participation export finance scheme   The rate on IDBI's portion of the
credit is such that after taking into
(c') Buyer's credit scheme                  account the participating bank's rate,
I the average rate to the exporter on
I the entire credit will generally be
1 7.50 percent.
L.  Bi''s "hediscounting Scheme2/
T'nexpired issuance of bills/promissory notes
(a) 6 to 36 months                     10.00                 11.75
(b) Over 36 months and upto 8L months  9.50                  11.25
I/ These are IDBIts current lending rates.  The latest increase was implemented
on December 1975.
2/ SDecial rediscount rate to State Road Transport Corporation situated in the
qtpt's of wortl, 1astprr Region (Assar, Mvphalava, mar,alarl, Maripoor and
Tripura) and the Union Territories (Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram) are
3-1/2 percent less than the current rediscount rate of IDBI/Bank with effect
from 9th October, 1976.
Penaity rate is 0.57 on the amount of principal outstanding.  Thus, the effec-
tive penalty rate will in most cases be quite high. There is no commitment
charge up to 12 months. After 12 months, the commitment charge is 1/2% and
after 19 months 1%.



ANNEX 12
Page 1
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
IDBI's Role in the Economy
Resource Allocation
1.        Overall Operations.  From its inception in July 1964 to June 30,
1977, IDBI's net approvals of financial assistance totalled Rs 24.5 billion.
Direct loans 1/ accounted for Rs 6.4 billion (or 26%) underwriting and direct
subscriptions to shares and debentures of industrial companies for Rs 1.0
billion (4X), and guarantees Rs 0.7 billion (1%). IDBI's direct financial
assistance to develop industry therefore accounted for 32% of the total.
The balance consisted of rediscounting of bills (29%), refinance (26%), ex-
port finance (9.0%) and subscription to shares and bonds of financial insti-
tutions (4%).
2.        There has been a substantial growth in IDBI's operations in the
last five years. Net approvals grew from Rs 1.3 billion in FY73 to Rs 7.7
billion in FY77 and disbursements from Rs 1.0 billion to Rs 3.9 billion res-
pectively. Most of this growth took place in the refinance and rediscounting
operations. The former has increased six fold in the last five years while
the latter has more than trebled in the same period. This increase was due
to the tight resource position of commercial banks and SFCs and their in-
creased reliance on IDBI as a source of funds. Also, the Liberalized Refinance
Scheme (LRS) which was introduced in 1971 was extended to the commercial banks
Jnt February 1975 and their share of the refinance operations has increased
f--- 16.2% in FY74 to 40% in FY77.
3.        Net approvals of export finance grew substantially from Rs 195
million in FY74 to Rs 442 million in FY75, increasing to Rs 829 milliorn in
FY77.
4.        IDBI's net approval of direct loans (otlher than for export finance)
increased from Rs 492 million in FY74 to Rs 671 million in FY75 to Rs 1,035
'illion in FY76 and to Rs 2,449 million in FY77.  The large increase that took
place in FY76 and FY77 is explained by the improvement in the economic climate
and the introduction of new procedures for faster processing of the backlog of
loan applications. On the other hand, disbursements were Rs 468 million in
FY74, Rs 403 million in FY,75 Rs 487 million in FY76 and Rs 810 million in
FY77. The decline in d-'sbursements in FY75 is consistent with the relatively
poor economic conditions at that time.
1/   Not counting direct loans for export, which consist of loans to finance
pre-shipment and post-shipment requirements of exporters, when offering
deferred credit terms to importers abroad.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
Economic Impact
5.        Since inception and up to March 1977, IDBI accounted for 41%
(including its refinancing of SFC's) of all the assistance sanctioned by
industrial term-lending institutions. The latest data which was available
for 1973/74 shows that IDBI's total assistance during that year represented
27% of the investment in fixed assets of the private corporate sector. It
is the apex industrial lending institution in the country, which assists in
the formulation and implementation of GOI's industrial policies and coor-
dinates the activities of other financial institutions, with which it works
closely. It finances the small and medium scale sector through its refinanc-
ing of SFCs and finances the large-scale sector directly. It is involved in
the private, public and joint sectors, and is also a lender of last resort.
IDBI-assisted companies provide a major proportion of installed capacity
in many important industrial fields such as 95% in introgeneous fertilizers
and 65% in PVC and aluminum. Some 45 out of the 458 projects to which IDBI
has approved direct financial assistance up to June 1967 have introduced new
technologies into the country 1/, 149 involved foreign collaboration and 48
were sponsored by new technician entrepreneurs. It has also contributed
through its promotional activities to the development of backward areas.
Further, it has become the focal point for export finance in India.
6.        Between FY71 and FY77 the number of companies financed by IDBI and
in operation increased from 88 to 171, their direct employment from 133,000
to 281,000. The average investment/direct employment ratio of these companies
was $9,500 indicating reasonable capital intensity of IDBI's projects. The
production of these 171 companies represents 23% of the output, 14% of the
net value added and 4% of the exports 2/ of the private corporate sector in
India during FY75. The data on the 88 companies that have been in operation
since 1971 indicates that between 1971 and 1975 their output grew by an aver-
age of 17% per year, their net value added by 15.6%, their capital employed
by 12% and their gross earnings by 14.5% which is satisfactory. IDBI esti-
mates that through its direct assistance in FY77 it catalyzed investments of
the order of Rs 5.5 billion; these projects are expected to produce a net
value added of Rs 1.8 billion and provide employment for 42,000 persons.
7.        Ex-ante internal economic rates of return and DRC (domestic resource
cost per unit of foreign exchange earned/saved) calculations were prepared for
181 projects. Of these projects, 43 had DRC's of more than Rs 10. However,
of the 43, only 10 had IERR 3/ of less than 15%.
1/   Mainly in metal products and chemicals.
2/   The total impact of these companies on the foreign exchange position
of the country would be larger if their import savings are taken into
account.
3/   However, the methodology IDBI uses to calculate IERR is questionable.
Of the 181 projects, 10 had IERR of less than 15%, 104 had IERR between
15% and 30% and 67 had IERR above 30%.



ANNEX 12
Page 3
Resource Mobilization
8.        Of total resources of Rs 10,374 million borrowings from RBI
accounted for 51%, bond issues 24%, borrowings from GOI, 11% 1/, shareholders
funds (i.e. share capital and reserves) 9% and others 5%. Since FY70 (when
GOI stopped budgetary lending to IDBI) IDBI's resources have been provided
mainly by bond issues and RBI advances. Bond issues generate little actual
mobilization of primary savings, as they are taken up by commercial banks
and insurance companies. This is mainly due to (i) the controls exerted
by RBI upon the maturities and rates of interest that can be offered, (ii)
traditional investment habits, and (iii) lack of secondary markets. At the
project level, IDBI plays an important role in mobilizing direct financial
assistance -- each rupee of IDBI investment, generates Rs 4 of additional
investment by the project sponsors or other financial institutions.
9.        Taking into account all disbursements and undisbursed commitments,
IDBI had a negative long-term resource position of Rs 297 million which IDBI,
consistent with its normal practice, has covered with a facility to borrow
against lodgement of commercial bills under its overall short-term borrowing
facility with RBI.
1/   The borrowings from GOI include Rs 145 million (or 2% of total resources)
on account of the Development Assistance Fund (DAF) (footnote to para
6.05).



ANNEX 12
Attachment 1
INDUSTRIAL DEfE PVIT BAK C' INDIA
SUMKARY C' OtPEIIONS
(Ph.million )
Year ended       Direct assistance to indubtri±l               Refinaoe  Redie-    Export  Invest-    Sub-Total  Total
June 30,         oto                                           of indue-  counting  Aemie-   ments in
on Egt-yr   Bond    OuwW  SubTotal trial                   taned/ Financial
invest-   ir=vet-  antee             loans                          Institu-
mert.     ment        _                                             tions
Gross sanctions
1971           431.7    40.4        16.9      26.1   515.1     261.3      284.8      265.2    81,0        892.3      1407o4
(26)    (11)        (3)      (2)            (1552)                  (36)      (6)
1972           560,5   148.9        17.5       -    726.9      322.0      452.9      226.8     32.1      1033.8      1760.6
(35)     (20)        (1)                       (2194)                (22)       (4)
1973           585.5     65.0       17.5       3.1   671.1     3i2.6      498.4       26.4     27.7       907.1      1578.2
(57)     (36)       ti*()   (1)                (2517)                 (6)      (5)
1974           591.7     68.6         -        0.4   660.7     461.6      763.0      231.6   102,0       1558.2       2219.0
(46)    (22)                  (1)             (2975)                 (10)      (5)
1975           696.3     81.5       30.0       -    807.8   1078.6    1143.9         472.4     65.9      2760.8      3568.8
(51)     (38)        (1)                       (6453)                (42)     (10)
1976          1049.2    81.8        41.3       -   1172.3   1807.1       1207.7     467.4    167.8       3650.0      4822.3
(97)     (51)        (2)                       (9255)                (39)     (21)
1977          2512.8    292,6       50.00      -   2815.4    2601.9      1513.1    844.1    105.8        5064.9      78a0.4
(193)     (76)        (1)                      (14818)                (39)     (23)
Net Sanctions2/
1971           296.4     26.4        6.9      21.3   351.0     235.5      284.8      236.3    81.0        837.6      1188.e
(23)      (9)        (2)                       (1366)                (33;      (6)
1972           502.8   131.3        10.0       -    644.1      255.5      452.9    162 8       32,1       902.3      1546.4
(33)     (19)        (1)                       (1646)                (21)      (4)
1973           392.0     56.2       10.5      3.1  461.8       269.1      498.4       27.9     27.7       823.0      1284.9
(48)     (32)        (1)      (1)             (2035)                  (6)      (5)
1974           487.0     66.3         -       (.4   553.7      397.2      763.0     194.6   102.0        1456.8      2010.5
(43)     (20)                 (.)              (2474)                 (9)      (5)
1975           670.3    81.5        30.0       -    781.8      917.1    1143.9    443.8       65.9       2570.7      3352.6
(51)     (38)        (1)                       (5342)                (39)     (10)
1976          1034.8    79.8        41.3       -   1155.9   1631.9    1207.7        444.0    167.8       3451.4      4607.4
(96)     (50)        (2)                       (8132)                (38)     (21)
2449 2    252.6       32.5       -   2734.3    2516.5      1513.1     829.1   105.8       4964.5       7698.9
(193)     (76)        (1)                      (14214)                (38)     (23)
Commitments
1971             61.3        -         -                61.3      235.5     243.4     168.7      81.0      728.6       789.9
(13)                                             (1366)               (44)      (6)
1972            125.7        -         -               125.7      255.5     383.0     178.5      32.1      849.1       974.8
(17)                                             (1646)               (34)      (4)
1973            569.0        -         -               569.0      269.1     424.7    105.7       27.7      827.1      1396.1
(23)                                             (2035)               (20)       (5)
1974            218(2        -         -               218.2      397.2     637.5    311.3    102.0       1448.0      1666.2
(36)                                             (2474)               (17)      (5)
1975            323.7        -         -        -      323.7      917.1    916.9    190.3        65.9     2090.2      2413.9
(38)                                             (5342)               (17)     (10)
1976            437.8        -         -        _     437.8    1631.9       916.6     273.9    167.8      2990.2      3428.0
(45)                                             (8132)               (31)      (21.)
1977            540.0        -         -         -     540.0     2516.5    1132.5      278.9    105.8     4033.5      4573.5
(62)                                           (14214)                (25)     (23)
Diabuirsements
1971             48.8      37.9        -         -      86.7      212.3     243.4      218.7     36.5      710.9       797.5
1972             95.9      14.5       4.3        -     114.7      239.9     383.0     149.9      51.6      824.4       939.1
1973            252.4      41.2       7.7        -     301.3      249.9     424.7       61.1     27.7      7b3.4      1064.8
1974            468.4      36.9       9.9        -     515.2      277.1    637.5       77.5    114.5      1106.6      1621,9
1975            403,1      20.8       2.4       -      426.3      524.5    916.9    175.6        73.4     1690.4       2116.7
1976-           486.8      58.4      10.0        -     555.2    1024.7      916.6      278.1    141.5     2360.9       2916.1
1977            883.1      35.8      45.0        -     963.9     1414.1   1132.5       288.0    127.7     2962.2       3926.2
it 97?1 ents     69.3       3.1       0.3        -      72.7      150.9     125.4       24.0       -       300.3        373.0
1972             85.9        -        0.3        -      86.2      163.7     184.9       76.0      8.0      432.6        518,8
1973             92.3       1,9       0.3       -       94,5      179.7     264.3      88.4       8,0      540.4       634,9
1974            108.8       5.7       0.1       -      114.6      210.1     356.9      72.8      10.5      650.3      764.9
1975            106.7       1.0       0.4       -      108.1      216.6     580.0      75.3      12.3      884.2       992.3
1976                        3.8       1.3       -      105.3      310.0     721.9       83,8     25.2    1140.9       1246.2
1977            134.        4.8       0.3        -     139.6      506.5    890.5        87.5     35.3     1519.8       1654.i
chtgtanM
1971            757.1     160.5       7.9        -     925.5      662.8      588.0     260.2    225.5    1736.5        2662.0
1972            767.1    173.7       11.9       -      952.7      738.9    855.9       334,0    330.9     2259.7       3212.4
1973            926.9     205.4      19.1        -    1151.4      809.2   1090.1    306.6    340.6        2546.5       3697.9
1974           1284.9     238.9      19.0       -    1542.8       876.2   1496.2       311.4    450.9     3134.7       4677.5
1975           1583.7     257.4       28.9       -    1870.0     1184.1    2060.1    411.7    508.2    4164.1          6034.1
1976           1989.6     320.8       27.1       -    2337.5     1898.8    2546.0      605.0    617.7     5667.5       8005.0
1977           2793.0     363.0       26.8      -    3182.8      2806.7    316e.6    806.9    705.5    7487.7        10670.5
I/ Comprising loans, Refinance, foreign line of credit, overseas buyers' credit
and guarantee assistance.
2/ Net of reductions, oancellations and take-ups by other institutioni.
() Refers to number of applications approved.



ANNEX 13
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
Aging of Arrears 1/
(Rs '000)
Total         Amount of   Amount of    (3) as % of    (4) as % of    (4) + (5) as %
Age of          No. of      Principal    Principal   Interest         Total Loans    Total Loans    of Total Loans
Arrears         Projects   Outstanding  in Arrears  in Arrears   Outstanding    Outstanding    Outstanding
1               2            3              4            5              6                7                8
As of June 30, 1977
Total            126       1,359,725        149,163      198,991          39.81            4.37            10.19
As of September 30, 1976
0-3 months         -
3-8 months        24         290,782          3,108       10,918          13.09             0.14            0.63
6-12 months       18         240,363          3,318       18,237          10.82             0.15            0.97
12-24 months      16         203,848          6,170       30,449           9.18             0.28            1.65
Over 24 months   21          206,639         59,162       53,656           9.30             2.66            5.08
Total         79         941,632         71,778      113,260         42.39             3.23             8.33
As of December 31, 1975
0-3 months        31         328,104          4,400       11,601          19.48             0.26            0.69
3-6 months          1         10,000          1,000         -              0.59             0.06             -
6-12 months       10          36,302          3,945        2,076           2.15             0.23            0.12
12-24 months      12         175,735          5,340       19,797          10.43             0.32            1.18
Over 24 months   21           322,451        51,913       61,638          19.14             3.08            3.66
Total         75         872,592         66,598       95,112         51.79             3.95             5.65
As of December 31, 1974
0-3 months        22         270,204         10,845       10,195          21.92             0.88            1.70
3-6 months         1          13,500          1,750         -              1.08             0.14            0.14
6-12 months        5          15,400          1,750           663          1.24             0.14            0.20
12-24 months        7        217,219         16,375       15,856          17.62             1.33            2.61
Over 24 months   16            99,040        29,179       28,583           8.03             2.37            4.69
Total         51         615,363         59,899       55,297         49.89             4.86             9.34
As of December 31, 1973
0-3 months        3          27,650          1,950           705          2.83              0.20            0.27
3-6 months        1              300           100          -             0.03              0.01            0.01
6-12 months       4          58,663          4,525         4,422          6.00              0.46            0.92
12-24 months    10           92,322         13,336        11,357          9.45              1.36            2.53
Over 24 months  12           67,180         11,435        19,904          6.87              1.17            3.21
sv Lo,       j _        .246,115       31,346         36,388        25.18              3.20             6.94
i/ Direct loans to industrial concerns other than for export.
December 22, 1977



INDUSTRIAL DEVELO ST LUX 0S OJNDLA                                              ANNEX 14
Characteristica of lDB7'a Arrean  t of June 30. 1977 (D±rct Loanat   xc1udini bxo1t Financ)
mo1unt Of_rinolka1  and interest in arrears
(Rs thousanda)
-----------   -          o-,- cf     ±ota     riRotp;        ri7otp2L-   neeit - - -            otal        A1OunA of  outet;n&in
proueota   oompaniea  outatanding                                                                ao heoted by arreare
- - -- -     - -- -     - -- -    - -- -    - -- -     - -     - --    -    - -- -    -o--e-  - hree tre ontnts
Geographioal lbreakdown
Andhre Prauesh                    12            12             73017                 9840        11886              21726                44020
As am8t                            2             2            l1^2840zi V.             3 %00       21110            214                1.0
P. are                               IM                 ii-0.0                          1   0             ~~~~~~~~1 00
hery&al                            4             4             31995                                  64              964                  900
Ijimichal 9ri vl.                  1             1             2000                   -               85               85                  -
mlmntel:sk                      16              16           261175                33075         41459            74534               232275
.eresla                            7             7            109939                 5635          12348            17983                66459
;IAdUya i'rndcsh                  3              3            15157                  1140          1486              2626               10954
,eaLn.rsvbLwrr.                  19            19            175370                11278          19750            31008              100856
;.: I A1FII d                      1             1              4850                 200             -                200                  -
risset                            2             2             10460                  910           1933            2843                10460
A'nJab                             2             2             13000                 2550            771             3321                3500
i.nJa5t':Su.                       4             4             21487                 2500           2840             5340               16487
i.n1il i.du                      14             14            256634                43864          52648           96512               216555
"Plvr crvnosh                    14             14             8498f4               6720           5420            12140                41215
.,.st  scr,:al                   14             14             61500                21651         11967            33bl8                47450
.,hoin Territoris s                2             2              5500                  600.           592             11392                2500
Totel:        126            126         rn159725               T491 -3    -i                   '48154              102(4W
4*.e of Ciielt (owitrahiD)
li-iblic                                 11             11           144350               22700          16208            3t908               107200
Joirt                                    23             23          570370                51345        112658            164203               527145
zrjv:to                                  79             79          541115                74218          66486           140704               368358
0;-.cr t1tive                            13             13          1C3890                  900           3439              4339               17790
't 1:         126            12b         I;s9725               149163         198991            34B154             1020493
0 I Client  .b,   v C
.L uni                                  86             86          403540                55531          49413            104944              273302
L r, e                                  40             40          156185                93632         149578            243210              747191
Tot; 1:      1-2b            126         1359725               149163         198991            348154              1020493
Industrial Breakdown
Textiles                            10            10            70487                23085         13163             36248                55240
Sugar                               16            16          145675                  4100          5647              9749                39425
Paper and Paper Products             6             6          123120                  1930         20678             22608               111145
Chemicals (other than               10            10          161251                 47483         33827             81310               129525
fertilizers and Petro chemical)
Petrochebical                        2             2            22500                  800           2850             3650                22500
Fertilizers                          4             4           258781                19810         55040             74850               258781
Cement                               1             1             7506                 5434          1954              7388                 7506
Basic Metal Induatries
i) Iron & Steel                     32            32           274054                18913         33206             52119               229814
ii) Non-ferrous Metals                4             4            18945                 5275            901             6176                13995
Manufacture of Machisaw  except      9             9            50420                 1760          7150              S910                 47420
electrical machinery
Manufacture of Electrical            4              4           18833                 1355           4743             6098                 16333
Machinery
Transport Equipment                  7             7            53264                 2798           4548             7346                 16750
Other Industries                    21            21           154889                16420          15284            31704                 72059
Total                     126           126         1359725                149163        198991            348154              1020493



INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
Summary of Equity Investments held as of September 30, 1976
(Rs million)
Amount held                                     1/      Dividend received
Name of the Company                            Face Value  Book Value  %   Estimated Market Value                Amount
Companies operating profitably                    56.0         53.2     24           113.3                          6.8
Companies under construction or
in pre-operating stage not in
technical/financial difficulties                134.3        122.5     54            51.0
Companies operating at loss or
in technical/financial difficulties              50.7         49.5     22             6.4
Companies in liquidation                           1.5          0.7      -               -
Total                                  242.5        225.9    100%           170.7                         6.8
1/ As all the shares are not quoted in the market, the  estimated value has been shown.
December 22. 1977
t>



.ANNEX 16
INEUSTRIA. DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA         11
Income Statement for Years Ending June 30, 1973-77-
(Rs Million)
Audited
1973     1974      1975      1976     1977
Income
Interest
(a) Direct loans to industrial            63.99    86.15   118.68   146.29    217.88
concerns (other than for
exports)
(b) Direct loans - Exports                10.08    10.92    12.09    20.35        29.70
(c) Refinance                             43.18    44.59    55.68    94.77    169.32
(d) Ppfinance - Export Credit              4.06      2.93      3.93      9.21      9.54
Discount (Earned on bills
rediscounted)                                53.61    73.04   118.09   168.66    240.54
Income from Investments
(a) Dividend on shares of Joint             8.54     4.60      7.40      7.11     18.22
Stock Companies
(b) Dividend on shares of financial         3.48     1.65      3.00      3.03      3.00
institutions
(c) Interest on debentures of Joint         1.48     1.54      2.31      2.26      2.24
Stock Companies
(d) Interest on debentures of             13.28    14.99    20.99    22.95        24.22
financial institutions
(e) Interest on Government
securities                            13.95      7.32      5.58      7.43      8.63
(f) Interest on short term deposits
with commercial banks                    -         -         -        -        0.41
Other Income
(a) Guarantee Commission                    4.66     3.11      1.66      1.37     0.56
(b) Prnfit- n -'le ^ -        _r__e.ent     5.82    19.56      3.94    11.43    12.55
in shares of joint stock
companies
(c) Others                                  1.30     3.53      3.66      8.64     9.65
227.43   273.93   357.01   503.50   736.46
Expenditures
Payment of Interest
(a) Reserve Bank of India                 53.62    86.17   156.87   239.05   332.77
(b) Government of India                    79.72    74.87    68.45    61.76    54.99
(c) IDA                                      -        -        0.17      1.49     4.21
(d) Market borrowings bonds &             15.01    16.84    27.36    48.90    94.68
debentures
(e) Stamp duty and brokerage on             1.06     0.97      0.99      4.40    13.20
bonds
(f) Deposits from companies                  -        -         -         -      11.96
Other Expenditures
(a) Establishment expenses                10.19    14.60    16.51    19.90    24.35
(b) Law charges                             0.18     0.53      0^26      0.27      3.03
(c) Others                                  3.05     3.30      4.05      6.72    18.00
162.83   197.28   274.66   382.49   554.19
Profits                                      64.60    76.65    82.35   121.01   182.27
Profits after provisions (c) & (d)           50.66    61.19    46.35    59.65    77.19
Appropriation
(a) Transfer to Reserves                  35.86    44.81    27.60    40.90    58.44
(b) Transfer to Reserve Bank of           15.00    16.38    18.75    18.75    18.75
India (by way of dividend) 2/
(c) Interest on loans and advances -    11.74    12.46    30.00    51.36    90.08
(Suspense Account)
(d) Contingencies & provisions              2.00     3.00      6.00    10.00    15.00
l/ Includes Development Assistance Fund
2/ In FY76 payment to GOI.
December 22, 1977



ANNEX 17
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPNENT BANK OF INDIA
Cash-flow Statements, Years Ending June 30, 1973-77
(Rs Million)
Audited
1973     1974      1975     1 _      1977
SOURCES
Cash generation                             194       176      181       240     290
Increase in share capital                    -        100       -         -
IDA/GOI borrowings                           -         -        12        41      47
Other GOI borrowings                         -         -        -         -       50
Reserve Bank of India borrowings            363       696    1,287    1,779    1580
Bond issue                                  160       152      165       550    1320
Deposits from companies                      -         -        -         -      499
Rupee loan collections                      625       748      978    1,207    1619
Sale of investments/redemption of            10        17       13        31      52
debentures                               ____352   _1__88__    ____6_6  _____84 _  5457
Total                1,352    1,889    2,636    3          5457
USES
Disbursement of loans                       988    1,459    2,032    2,707    3717
Disbursement of investments                  78       163       97       209     209
Repayment of loans -
Rupee Loans (Governmefrt of India)         89       119      124       129     135
IDA/GOI borrowings                         -         -        -                 *
Reserve Bank of India borrowings           -         -       200       428     744
Payment of interest                         148       178      253       356     507
Dividend payments                            15        16       19        19      19
Total                1,318    1,935    2,725    3,848    5331
Cash surplus (shortage)                      34       (46)     (89)       -      126
Opening cash balance (including             150       184      138        49      49
Government of India Securities)
Closing cash balance (including             184       138       49        49    175
Government of India Securities)
1/ Includes Development Assistance Fund.
December 22, 1977



ANNEX 18
INIDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
Balance Sheets, June 30, 1973-77l/
(Rs Million)
Audited
1973     1974      1975      1976     1977
Assets
Cash, bank balances and invest-    183.81   137.78    48.69    49.48   174.64
ment in Government securities
Investment in stocks, shares,
bonds and debentures
(i) Financial Institutions
(a) Shares                     108.41   129.73   166.55   253.67   326.54
(b) Bonds                       232.21   321.11   341.66   364.08   378.94
(ii) Industrial Concerns
(a) Shares                      195.43   238.94   257.88   320.77   362.73
(b) Bonds                        19.10    18.96    28.39    27.12    26.81
Loans and Advances
(1) Scheduled banks, State
Cooperative Banks and
other financial
institutions
(a) Refinance                   809.19   876.23  1184.14  1898.76  2806.70
(b) Export credit                80.14    60.27   134.22   188.27   186.19
(ii) Industrial concerns
(a) Direct loans                926.93  1284.87  1583.74  1999.57  2792.99
(b) Export credit               226.55   251.10   289.79   417.95   621.58
Bills of exchange or promissory   1090.09  1498.24  2060.14  2545.98  3168.64
notes discounted or redis-
counted
Other Assets less interest            71.85    67.09    75.75   110.05   212.91
suspense
3943.71  4882.40  6168.93  8164.70 11058.67
Liabilities and Capital
Paid-up capital                      400.00   500.00   500.00   500.00   500.00
Reserves and Reserve Fund            249.67   294.47   322.08   362.98   421.42
Borrowings
(a) Government of India           1576.27  1457.61  1333.84  1204.68  1119.86
(b) Reserve Bank of India         1290.94  1786.98  2646.45  3881.76  5262.05
(c) Temporary borrowings
against bills                  -       200.00   427.94   543.95          -
(d) Market borrowings by way       286.90   439.93   603.93  1153.93  2473.93
of bonds and debentures
(e) IDA (SFC Credit)               --          -       11.69    52.81    99.00
(f) Deposits from companies         -          -         -         -     499.25
Current liabilities & provisions   139.93   204.45   323.00   464.59   683.16
3943.71  4882.40  6168.93  8164.70 11058.67
Guarantee Outstanding                579.23   340.70   251.30   150.12         -
l/ Includes Development Assistance Fund



INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
Comparative Operational Ratios, FY73-FY71
FY73       FY74        FY75        FY76      FY77
Ratios of Profitability
l.Profit before tax and provisions as % of the average total assets             1.75        1.75        1.49        1.69      1.90
2.Profit after  tax and provisions as % of average total assets 1/              1.38        1.40        0.8i        0.83      0.80
3.Profit after tax as x of year-end share capital 1/                           16.15       15.33       16.47       24.20    36.45
Ratios of Structure
4.Non-current conventional Debt-Equity 2/                                       5.04        4.75        5.70        7.36    10.56
5.Debt Service Coverage                                                         3.53        3.11        2.20        1.84      2.92
Average rate of Growth
6.Average Annual Rate of Growth of Total Assets (%)                            14.30       23.80       26.35       32.35    35.44
Financial Earnings and Margins
7.Income from term loans as % of average term loan portfolio                    6.00        6.14        6.70        7.00      7.57
8.Cost of term debt as % of average term debt                                   5.04        5.08        5.70        6.00      6.28
9.Equity income (including net
(a) Shares of capital gains before Tax) as %
Joint Stock Companies of average equity portfolio                    7.69      11.12        4.57        6.41      9.00
(b) Shares pf Financial institutions                                    3.49        1.39        1.80        1.44      1.03
Costs
lO.Financial costs as % of average total assets                                   4.04        4.03       4.59        4.96      5.18
ll.Administrative costs as % of average total assets                              0.36        0.42        0.36        0.38     0.44
Reserves
12.Reserves (including retained earnings) plus provisions as % of
year-end lending portfolio (Direct loans, refinance, rediscounting,
and export credits)                                                          7.97        7.42        6.32        4.91      4.40
13.Reserves for bad debts as % of year-end portfolio                               -           -           -          0.67      0.94
Share Capital
14.Book value as % of par value                                                 162.42      158.89      171.32      172.60   184.28
Dividend
15.Dividend as % of par value of share capital                                    3.75        3.75        3.75        3.75      3.75
1,.Dividend as % of net earnings (pay-out ratio)                                 23.22       21.37       22.77       15.50    10.29
1/ IDBI pays no tax
2/ Excluding temporary borrowings, guarantees of GOI, and portion of guarantees which are liabilities agreed to be
borne by other financial institutions.
December 22, 1977



ANNEX 20
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
Forecasts of approvals, commitments and disbursals
FY77-FY81
(Rs Million)
1974  1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  ]980 1981
------Actuals    -----  ------Projected-------
I. APPROVALS -
1. Direct Loans (other than for exports)            492   671  1035  2734  1595  1760  1935  2125
2/
2. Export Loans                                     167   281   375   769   495   545   600   660
3. Refinance of Industrial loans                    402   939  1715  2516  2120  2360  2650  2865
4. Refinance or export credits                       27   159    53    60   100   120   140   160
5. Rediscounting of Bills                           763  1144  1205  1513  1410  1510  1610  1710
6. Investment in shares, bonds & debent:ures    102    66   164   106   120   140   160   180
of Financial institutions                                         -           -              -
TOTAL                       2020  3372  4669  7698  5840  6435  7095  7700
II. COMMITMENTS
1.  Direct loans (other than for exports)            218   324   438   540  1425  1560  1725  1895
2.  Export loans 2/                                   33   112   201   240   330   490   535   590
3.  Refinance of industrial loans                    402   939  1715  2516  2120  2360  2645  2865
4.  Refinance of export credits                       28   132    44    39   100   120   140   160
5.  Rediscounting of bills                           637   917   917  1132  1045  1120  1195  1270
6 . Investment in shares, bonds & debentures         115    73   142   106   120   140   160   180
of Financial institutions
III. DISBURSALS         TOTAL                         1480  2520  3525  4573  5040  5790  6400  6960
1.  Direct Loans (other than for exports)            468   403   487   944  1154  1516  1813  2010
2.  Export loans 2/                                    67    76   192   188   300   350   400   450
3.  Refinance of Industrial loans                     277   524  1025  1414  1725  2150  2350  2525
4.  Refinance of export credit                         10    99    86   100   110   120   130   140
5.  Rediscounting of bills -/                         638   917   917  1152  1045  L120  1195  1270
6.  Investment in shares, bonds & debentures          115    73   142   128   120   140   160   180
of Financial institutions
TOTAL                       1622  2115  2917  3926  4454  5396  6048  6575
1/ Sanctions effective as of September 1.976
2/  Including lines of credit to Bangladesh and Overseas buyer's credit.
3/ Face value of bills minus rediscount retained.



ANNEX 21
Page 1
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
Investment Program for the Target Group
1.        From basic data provided by state governments and SIDCs/SIICs, a
tentative program of projects within the target group definition has been
prepared. This program anticipates a total investment of Rs 12 billion in
state joint and public sector projects over the next 3 years with about 90%
of the investment being for state joint sector projects. The geographical
distribution of these projects is shown in Appendix 1, while the sectoral
distribution is shown below:
Table 1: Sectoral Distribution of Proposed Projects
Sector                      Investment                       Foreign Exchange
__%            Amount                    Requirement
(Rs Million)                 (Rs Million)
Chemicals               36.4            4384                           771
Consumer Goods           3.5             422                           195
Electrical Goods         2.1             253                            73
Electronics              3.8             458                           139
Goods and Beverage       2.4             289                            69
Glass and Glass          9.6            1156                           142
Products
Iron and Steel           9.4            1132                           175
Jute                     1.8             217                            11
Leather - Leather        0.9             108                            14
Products
Light Engineering        5.2             626                           145
Mechanical Equipment    2.4              289                            91
Metal Products            5.0            602                           148
Pulp - Paper Products   5.7              687                            57
Rubber - Rubber Goods   1.3              157                            44
Transport Equipment      2.9             349                            38
Textiles                 5.4             650                           112
Wood - Wood Products    0.2               24                            14
Miscellaneous            2.0             242
100.0           12045                         2238
US$ Millions                            1401                           260
Equivalent
Average Cost per
Project:
Rs Million                            55                            10
US$ Million                            6                             1



ANNEX 21
Page 2
2.        So far as the financing of Bank financed projects is concerned,
about 20% of total project costs (as has been IDBI's experience to date for
joint sector projects) is expected to be required in foreign exchange and
about Rs 1.1 billion (US$125 million) for total project investment. Under
the proposed loan, these needs would be financed as follows:
Table 2: Financing of Subprojects
% of Total
Project Cost      US$ Million    Rs. Million
Equity Capital
SIDCs/SIICs            26%)          8                10             88
Private Entrepreneurs 252)           7                 9             79
Public at Large        49%)         15                19            167
Sub-Total:  Equity Capital    30                  38            334
Loans
Foreign Exchange (Bank loan)        20                25            220
Local currency loans (National
Institutions, SIDCs/SIlCs and
commercial banks)                 50                62            546
Sub-Total:  Loans               70                87            766
Total                          100               125           1100
3.        The SIDCs/SIICs would need to invest about Rs 88 million (US$10
million) in equity over the next two to three years. These funds would have
to come mainly from state governments to the SIDCs/SIICs, and from SIDCs/SIICs'
internal funds (sale of investments and cash generation). The internal
funding would co-qtitutc approAiwaLely 5/o of SIDCs/SIICs' present resources
and is expected to be raised by them without too much difficulty. IDBI would
finance the foreign exchange cost of the proposed projects from the Bank loan.
IDBI, together with the nat:ional institutions, SIDCs/SIICs and the commercial
banks, would have to provide another Rs 546 million (US$62 million) in local
currency loans over the next 2-3 years which represents about 4% of the
financing extended by the various institutions over the past three years.
Private Sector Financing
4.        Private sector contributions to project financing will be vital in
two respects. In financial terms, the participation of private sector part-
ners should enable more extensive state level investment to take place than
would have been the case without them. As far as projects likely to be
financed under the proposed. loan are concerned, the private sector partners
will be expected to put up around Rs 80 million over the next 2-3 years; this



ANNEX 21
Page 3
amount is negligible in terms of overall private sector investment. The se-
cond aspect is that these contributions will demonstrate the willingness of
the private sector to enter into partnership with government. At the pre-
sent, there is considerable enthusiasm for this approach because it permits
the private entrepreneur to reap the benefits of the state government's
superior leverage in matters affecting licensing, location and infrastruc-
ture, and importing of raw materials. The intention of the state govern-
ments is to leave management responsibilities with the private partner
and so long as this continues, as it appears to have done so far, then
the private sector should be prepared to continue with its strong support.
5.        The contribution from the public at large will be in respect of
the public offering of 49% of the equity of state joint sector companies.
In financial terms, the amount is not large in relation to annual capital
issues in India. Joint sector companies will require about Rs 170 million
over 2-3 years, while recently the annual level of capital raises through
capital issues alone has been around Rs 2 billion p.a. However, the market-
ing of shares in virtually unknown companies in a limited capital market
could pose a problem. At the moment, IDBI is confident that underwriting
at the projected level should be well within the capability of the princi-
pal national financial institutions which are presently underwriting and sub-
scribing at the rate of Rs 600 million p.a. However, in the future, if the
joint sector develops as anticipated, underwriting is likely to become a
problem unless the SIDCs/SIICs have been sufficiently upgraded and given
adequate funds to play an effective role in developing capital markets at the
state level.



ANNEX 21
Appendix 1
Page 1
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
Geographical Distribution of Projects in
the Target Group Proposed by State Governments Ia
Foreign
Number of        Cost of         Exchange /b
Projects         Projects        Required
-------Rs Million------
Andhra Pradesh /c                   25             1,772.4          300.3
Assam /d                              9              677.5          190.0
Bihar Te                             13              321.7           27.9
Gujarat If                           11              940.0          166.5
Haryana /g                          20               938.9          145.4
Hichamal Pradesh /h                   1               37.5            7.2
Jammu and Kashmir 7Ii                 7              470.0           14.0
Karnataka X                          13              860.8          241.1
Kerala /k                            13              675.5          138.2
Madhya Pradesh /1                    10              556.3          142.0
Maharashtra /m                       24            1,075.9          348.1
Orissa /n                            14              861.5          128.1
Punjab /o                            10              502.5           N.A.
Rajasthan jP                          7              274.0           37.8
Tamil Nadu /a                        14              853.7          235.2
Uttar Pradesh /r                     15              639.0          116.4
West Bengal /s                       12              588.2           N.A.
TOTAL                         218           12,045.4        2,238.2
/a   It includes projects with the estimated investment of below Rs 200
mil1ion and above Rs 10 million.
/b   Foreign exchange requirements are not given for every project.  The
figures in this column, therefore, have partial coverage.
/C   Source:  A.P.S.I.D.C. 4 projects with investment requirement over Rs 200
million are not included. Total investment for these 4 projects esti-
mated to be Rs 1,470 million with foreign exchange requirement of Rs 125.5
million.
/d   Source:  Secretary of Industries, Assam.  Requirements for expansion of
existing units and for proposed sugar mills are not included.
/e   Source:  Industrial Development Commissioner, Government of Bihar.  Twenty
additional investment ideas with total cost estimated to be Rs 12 million
are not included so are projects of Bihar State Agro-Industrial Develop-
ment Corporation.



AJNEX 21
Appendix I
Page 2
/f   Source:  Gujarat Ind. Inv. Corp. Ltd., Projects over Rs 200 million
excluded, it includes G.U.D.C. projects as well.
jg   Source:  I.D.B.I.
/h   Source:  I.D.B.I.
/i   Source:  Annual ReDorts and Accounts - 31st Ma-ch, 1975, J & K, SIDC,
IDBI.
/j   Source:  Government of Karnataka, Department of Industries and Commerce.
/k   Source:  Kerala SIDC, Expansions and projects with a capital outlay over
Ps 200 million excluded.
/1   Source:  Madhya Pradesh Andyogik Visak Nigam Ltd.
/pi  Source:  SICOtI, It is not clear that all projects would be realized
through public or joint sector.
/n   Source:  Industrial Promotion & Investment Corporation of Orissa Ltd.
(IPICOL).
/o   Source:  Pun,ab SIDC.
/p   Source:  IDBI.
/q   Source:  TIIC.
/r   Source:  IDBI, Projects with an investment over Rs 200 million and
below Rs 10 million are not included.
/s   Source:  A review of Industrial Growth in West: Bengal, Commerce and
Industry Department, Governnent of West Bengal, March 1976.  Projects
over Rs 200 million excluded.



ANNEY 29
FNDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
Projected Income Statement, FY78-FY81
(Rs Million)
INCOME                                             1974      1975       1976      1977       1978      1979       1980       1981
---- Audited Actuals ------------         ------------Projected-------------
1.  Interest
a) Direct loans (other than for exports)       86.15    118.68    146.29    217.88    259.96    364.73    500.00    657.35
b) Direct loans - exports                      10.92     12.09      20.35     29.70      40.42     53.75      68.47      84.07
c) Refinance - industrial loans                44.59     55.68      94.77    169.32    203.54    293.20    396.43    501.88
d) Refinance - Export credits                   2.93      3.93       9.21      9.54      16.17     20.54      24.72      28.82
2.  Discount (earned on bills rediscounted)        73.04    118.09    168.66    240.54    248.28    272.36    315.49    372.61
3.  Income from investments
a) Dividend on shares of Joint Sector
Companies                                  4.60       7.40       7.11     18.22      13.75     16.75      20.12     23.95
b) Dividend on shares of financial
institution                                1.65       3.00       3.03      3.00       3.00      3.00       3.00      3.00
c) Interest on debentures of Joint Sector
Companies                                   1.54      2.31       2.26      2.24       2.58      2.74       2.90      2.90
d) Interest on bonds of financial
institution                                14.99     20.99     22.95      24.22      26.59     28.38      29.84     31.34
e) Interest on Government securities            7.32      5.58       7.43      8.63       4.00      4.00       4.00       4.00
f) Interest on short term deposits with                                        0.41
4.  Other Income           commercial banks
a) Guarantee commission                         3.11      1.66       1.37      0.56       1.37      1.37       1.37       1.37
b) Profit on sale of investment in shares
of Joint Sector Companies                 19.56       3.94     11.43      12.55      20.00     20.00      20.00     20.00
c) Others                                       3.53      3.66       8.64      9.65       9.00      9.00       9.00       9.00
Total          273.93    357.01    503.50    736.46    848.66   1089.82   1395.34   1740.29
E.XPENDITURE
1.  Payment of interest
a) Reserve Bank of India                       86.17    156.87    239.05    332.77    425.14    549.15    670.20    785.32
8,) Govornnent of India                        74.87     68.45      61.76     54.99      47.46     39.83      31.87      23.87
c) IDA
i) Refinance                               -         0.17      1.49       4.21     11.10      17.68      25.92     36.85
ii) Foreign exchange - Fertilizer           -          -         -            -      4.08      11.05      21.25     33.40
iii) Foreign exchange - others                -         -          -           -       2.72     10.20      20.91     33.49
d) Market borrowings - bonds and
debentures                                16.84      27.36       48.90    94.68    125.94    162.48    200.17    237.84
e) Deposits from companies                       -         -          -       11.96      39.00     70.50    105.00    141.00
f) Stamp duty and brokerage on bonds            0.97      0.99        4.40    13.20       2.U       Z.au       L.JU       2.U
2.  other expenditure
a) Establishment expenses                    * 14.60     16.51       19.90    24.35      40.43     53.74      67.59      80.69
b) Law charges                                  0.53      0.26        0.27     0.03       0.36      0.45       0.53       0.61
c) Others                                       3.30      4.05        6.72    18.00      11.89     14.93      17.76      20.17
3. Net profit                                      76.65     82.35      121.01    554.19   138.04    157.31    231.64    344.55
Total          273.93    357.01      503.50    182.27   848.66   1089.82   1395.34   1740.29
Net profit after provisions (c) and (d)        61.19     46.35       59.65     77.19    72.05      71.89    123.99    217.78
a) Transfer to reserve                             44.81     27.60       40.90     58.44    49.45      41.89      86.49    172.66
b) Transfer to RBI/Government by way of
dividend                                       15.38     18.75       18.75     18.75    22.50       30.00     37.50      45.12
c) Interest on loans and advances - Suspense
Account                                        12.46     30.00       51.36 \   90.08
d) Contingencies  and provisions                    5.00      6.00       10.00 )  15. 00    65.99       °5.42    107.65    126.77



ANNEX 23
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
Projected Balance Sheets FY7 -FY81
(Rs Million)
1974       1975        1976        1977        1978        l3,9        1980        1981
-----------------Audited----          -       -----projected------------------------
ASSETS
1.  Cash and bank balances                     1.75        0.21        0.79       0.97         0.79        0.79        0.79       0.79
2.  Government securities                    136.03       48.48       47.69     173.85      173.69    1iG.'         107.69    188.69
3.  Investment in shares, bonds and
debentures
a) Financial institutions
i) Shares                            129.78       166.53    253.67       326.54      386,54      61,,4      551.54    556.5''
ii) Bonds                             321.11       341.66    364.08       378.94      438.94      503.94      573.94   6o8.99
b) Industrial concerns
i) Shares                            238.94       257.88    320.77       362.73      467.73      582.73      712.73    857.73
ii) Debentures                         18.96        28.39      27.12       26.81       26.81       26.81       26.81      26.81
4. Loans and advances
a) Scheduled banks, State
Cooperative Banks and other
financial institutions
i) Refinance                         876.26    1184.14    1898.76    2806.70    3841.70    5043.00    6146.00   7100.00
ii) Export credits                     60.27      134.22      188.27      186.19      244.00      293.00      331.00    356.00
b) Industrial concerns
i) Direct  loans                    1284.87    1583.74    1989.57    2792.99    3621.00    4711.00    5967.00   7250.00
ii) Export credits                    251.10      289.79      417.95      621.58      789.00      961.00    1130.00   1288.00
5. Bills of exchange or promissory
note discounted or rediscounted        1496.24    2060.14    2545.98    3168.64    3768.64    4255.00    4723.00   5352.00
6.  Other assets                              67.09       73.75      110.05      212.91     211.82      164.05      214.54    155.27
TOTAL         4882.40    6168.93    8164.70   11058.67   13970.66   17164.55   20485.04  23880.77
LIABILITIES
1.  Paid up capital                          500.00      500.00      500.00      500.00     700.00      900.00    1100.00   1300.00
2.  Reserve and Reserve fund                 294.47      322.08      362.98      421.42     470.87      512.76      599.25    771.91
3.  Borrowings
a) Government of India                  1457.61    1333.84    1204.69       1119.86     977.86      818.86      653.86    481.56
b) Reserve Bank of India                1786.96    2646.45    3881.76    5262.05    6427.00    8027.00    9627.00  11227.00
c) Temporary borrowings against          200.00     427.94      543.95          -       185,00      185.00        -           -
bills
d) Market borrowings by way of
bonds and debentures                 438.93      603.93    1153.93    2473.93    3073.93    3623.93    4223.93   4723.93
e) Deposits from companies                 -           -          -          499.25     999.00    1549.00    2149.00   2749.00
f) IDA/World Bank
i) Refinance                           -          11.69       52.81       99.00    212.00        289.00      404.00    533.00
ii) Fertilizer                          -           -           -                      60.00      164.00      299.00    442.00
iii) Public & Joint Sector                -           -          -             -        64.00      175.00      318.00    473.00
4.  Current liabilities and provisions    204.43         323.39      464.59      683.16     801.00      920.00    1111.00   1180.00
TOTAL         4882.40    6168.92    8164.70   11058.67   13970.66   17164.55   20485.04  23880.77
December 22, 1977



INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA                            ANNEX 24
Projected Cash-Flow Statements, FY76-FY81
(Rs million)
SOURCES                                          1974       1975       1976      1977        1978       1979        1980       1981
-------------Audited Actual-------          --------------- Projected ------- --
1.  Cash generation                               176       1l9l        240      290          482         663        884       1143
2.  Increase in share capital                     10(         -          -       -            200        200         200        200
3.  IDA/GOI borrowings
i) Refinance                               -          12         41       47          114          81        126        150
ii) Foreign exchange - Fertilizer           -          -          -       -              60        104        136        150
iii) Foreign exchange - others               -          -          -        50            64        111        143        160
4.
4.  Deposits from companies                        -          -          -       499          500        550         600        600
5.  Reserve Bank of India borrowings              696       1287       1779    1580          1785       1785       1600        1600
(of which short-tern)                        (-)       (-)          (-)                  (185)      (185)      (-)        ()
6.  Bond issues                                   152        165        550    1320           600        550         600        500
7. Collection
i) Rupee loans                            748        978       1207    1619          1904        2531       3130       3641
ii) Foreign exchange - Fertilizers          -          -          -       -              -          -          -
iii) Foreign exchange - others               -          -          -       -              -          -          -           -
Sale of investments/redemption of                                            52
debenture                                    17         13          31                    40         50         50          50
Total                1889 -     2636       3848    5457          5749        6625       7469       8194
LBSES
1. Disbursement of loans
i) Rupee                                 1459       2032       2707    3717          4105        4926       5479       5940
ii) Fertilizer-Foreign exchange             -          -          -       -              60        104        136        150
iii) Others-Foreign exchange                 -          -          -       -              64       ill         143        160
z.  Disbursement of investments                  163         97        209      209           225        255        290        325
3. Repayment of loans
i) Ruipee loans (COI)                     119        124        129      135           142        159        165        172
ii) Refinance                               -          -          -                       1          4         11         21
iii) FertiliZers                             -          -          -                      -           -          1           7
iv) Others                                  -          -          -                      -           -          -           5
4.  Reserve Bank of India Borrowings               -         200        428     744           435        185         185          -
,.  Payment of interest                           178        253        356     507           658        863       1075        1288
6.  Dividend Payment                               16         19         19      19            23         30          38         45
Total                1935       2725       3848    5331          5713        6637       7523       8113
Cash surolujs (shorta2e)                    (46)       (89)                 126            36       (12)       (54)          81
Opening Cash balance (including                                              49
GOI securities)                             18'        138          49                   133        17'        162        109
Cissing Cash balance (including
GODI securities                             133         49          49     175           174        162       1].9        1S9
J:nuiry 3, 1?77



ATMN   25
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
Projected Comparative Operational Ratios, FY76-FY81
FY76          FY77        FY78        FY79        FY80        FY81
Ratios of Profitability                                      -----    actual-----   ----------          projected -------------
1.  Profit before tax and provisions as % of the
average total assets                                       1.69          1.33        1.10        1.01        1.23        1.55
2.  Profit after tax and provisions as % of average
total assets 1/                                           0.83           0.75        0.58        0.47        C.66        0.99
3.  Profit after tax as % of year-end share capital 1/   24.20              25.32       19.72       17.45       21.05       26.50
Ratios of Structure                           2/
4.  Non-current conventional Debt - Equity                     7.36:1        9.62:1    10.10:1    10.37:1    10.04:1         9.96:1
5.  Debt Service Coverage                                      1.84          1.82        2.18        2.94        3.11        3.62
Average rate of Growth
6.  Average Annual Rate of Growth of Total Assets(%)          32.35         33.00        26.00      22.87       19.35       16.58
Financial Earnings and Margins
7.  Income from term loans as % of average term loan
portfolio                                                 7.00          5.62        6.16        6.67        7.28        7.93
8.  Cost of term debt as % of average term debt                6.00          4.90        6.26        5.54        6.74        6.87
9. Equity income ( including net
(a) Shares of capital gains before tax) ss %
Joint Stock Companies of average equity           6.41          8.47        7.36        6.58        5.98        5.51
portfolio
(b) Shares of Financial institutions                  1.44          1.09        0.91        0.76        0.63         0.52
10.  Financial cost as % of average total assets                4.96          4.13        5.32        5.60         5.79        5.90
11.  Administrative costs as % of average total assets          0.38          0.41        0.43        0.48         0.46        0.46
aeserves
12. Reserves (including retained earnings) plus provi-
sions as % of year-end lending portfolio (Direct
loans, refinance, rediscounting, and export credits)  4.91               4.93        4.33        3.85        3.77        4.06
13.  Reserves for bad debts as % of year-end portfolio          0.67          1.02        0.39        0.83         0.d0        0.77
Share Capital
14.  Book value as % of par value                             172.60        183.20      167,27      156.97       154.48      159.84
Dividend
15.  Dividend as % of par value of share capital                3.75          3.75        3.21        3.33         3.41        3.47
16.  Dividend as % of net earnings (pay-out ratio)             15.50         14.81       16.30       19.07       16.19        13.10
I/ IDBI pays no tax.
2/ Excluding temporary borrowings, guarantees of GOI, and portion of guarantees which are liabilities agreed to be borne by
.ther f.inancial institutions.
December 22, 1977



ANNEX 26
INDIA                              Page 1 of 4
INDU- &RIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
Strategy Statement
The main objective of establishing IDBI was to bring into existence
an apex term lending institution for coordinating the activities of other
financial institutions (includ:ing commercial banks), providing term finance
to industries and to plan, promote and develop industries to fill up gaps in
the industrial structure of the country. With effect from February 16, 1976,
IDBI was restructured with the objective of enlarging its role as the principal
financial institution for finarcing industries and for more effective coordina-
tion of the working of the other all-India as well as state-level financial
institutions engaged in the financing or promotion or development of industry.
The commercial banks, which participate with the Development Bank and other
term lending institutions in financing industry, were also brought within the
purview of coordination by the Development Bank.
The objectives have necessarily to be achieved within the broad
framework of national economic policy as enunciated in the Five-Year Plans
and the guidelines issued by Government from time to time.
IDBI's basic sphere of work is industry and institutions working in
the field of industry. IDBI is one of several institutions in the country
which deal with industrial progress and whose main objectives and efforts have
to be directed towards achievement of national economic objectives in the field
of industrv. The basic objectives of the IDBI, therefore, are to help step
up industrial employment and industrial growth in the socially desirable
sectors by augmenting the supply of essential goods as well as the supply of
those basic and intermediate goods that go in producing essential goods. Care
has always to be taken to give priority to projects coming up in rural and
backward areas, projects in the tiny and small sectors, and to projects sponsored
by technician entrepreneurs, new entrepreneurs and small entrepreneurs. While
ensuring fulfillment of social objectives and priorities, the main guiding
principle in its appraisal of projects has always been the socio-economic
benefits that the nation would derive from the project in the international
setting, apart from the technical feasibility and economic viability aspects.
Unlike many financial institutions in most of other countries, in
addition to its direct industrial assistance to projects, IDBI operates other
schemes of indirect assistance, namely, the refinance assistance scheme, the
Bills Rediscounting Scheme. The assistance to small-scale and tiny sector is
largely through refinance to SFCs, SIDCs and commercial banks. In addition,
IDBI promotes export of capital goods on deferred payment basis, through its
financial services and assistance.
Direct assistance sanctioned to industrial projects has been around
one-third of the total assistance in the last three years. Under its indirect
schemes of assistance, the risk of lending is borne by the primary lending
institution and hence, from IDBI's point of view, this assistance happens to
be risk-free. IDBI's cover for debt service charges as reflected in its debt/
service coverage ratio, therefore, has been exceptionally good -- the ratio
being more than three in recent years.



ANNEX 26
Page 2 of 4
The resources of IDBI comprise apart from the internal generation of
funds -
(1) market borrowings against bonds guaranteed by the Government
of India - these bonds have 12-year maturity and the
maturities are well spread;
(2) borrowings from the Reserve Bank of India out of its National
Industrial Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund;
(3)  borrowings from Government against the World Bank credit;
and
(4) company deposits.
Insofar as (4) is concerned, this source of company deposits was available
only during 1976-77 and the deposits so received will mature for payment only
in 1982-83. And, in the case of other outside liabilities aforementioned,
there is none which can all of a sudden be required to be repaid. Further,
all "refinance assistance" and "bills rediscounted" carry the obligations of
first class banks or financial institutions. In the case of IDBI, therefore,
the adequacy of equity (viz., capital and surplus) needs to be viewed as a
buffer or shock absorber only for that part of its credit portfolio which
covers direct lending plus the guarantee obligations. For its operations,
accordingly, IDBI is guided by the ratio of its risk assets to equity, apart
from the debt/service coverage ratio. And, as all the risk assets cannot
simultaneously go bad, they being well spread in different industries and
over different units in the same industry, a ceiling of 10:1 for its "risk
assets to equity" ratio is considered as a good guiding norm.
IDBI since 1976 has been extending refinance to one more state-level
institution, viz. State Industrial Development Corporation. With the introduc-
tion of this measure IDBI is now covering practically all major financial
institutions - both at central and state level - in the country by its schemes
of assistance. It was also simultaneously proposed to streamline the working
of SIDCs/SIICs, and to ensure proper utilization of refinance assistance
extended by IDBI through regular and periodic inspections, nomination of IDBI
representative on Board and Executive Committees of SIDCs/SIICs, issuance of
guidelines on policy matters, etc. IDBI's missions have already visited the
SIDCs and an upgradation program is being prepared for each SIDC/SIIC.
IDBI is keenly aware that the existing capacity needs to be utilized
fully and effectively before assisting creation of new capacity. At the same
time, IDBI has to keep in view demands from priority industries and priority
sectors. There is also the question of modernization of plants and machinery
in certain key industries. Keeping in view these considerations, IDBI, in
consultation with the Government of India, has introduced a scheme for soft
loan assistance to selected industries. The scheme envisages grant of conces-
sional finance to cement, sugar, certain engineering industries and to cotton
and jute textiles for modernization of their plant and machinery, including
technological upgradation, to improve their performance and competiti'qe capa-
bility. The soft loan assistance is given to units in the eligible industries
which are not in a position to service loans on normal lending terms but have



ANNEX 26
Page 3 of 4
fair prospects of attaining viability in a relatively short period. These
loans carrv the concessional rate of 7.5% p.a. and are repayable over 12 to
14 years with initial moratorium of 3 to 5 years.
In order to assist those entrepreneurs who have skills but lack
finance to put up the minimum promoters' contribution normally required, IDBI
has initiated two seed capital assistance schemes. Under the first scheme,
meant primarily for the small scale industry, IDBI has issued guidelines to
SFCs for granting such assistance from a special class of share capital which
is contributed equally by IDBI and the state governments. This assistance is
by way of equity or soft loan towards meeting the gap between the normal
expected level of promoters' contribution as envisaged by the SFC and the
actual amount that the promoter could bring on his own, subject to a ceiling
of 20% of the project cost of Rs. 2 lakhs, whichever is lower. Under the second
scheme, which is operated through the agency of the State Industrial Corpora-
tions, seed capital assistance is provided in respect of bigger projects with
cost upto Rs. 1 crore. These seed capital loans carry a service charge of
1% p.a. and moratorium is permitted in regard to interest and repayment of the
principal of the loan upto five years.  We expect the Schemes to gather momentum
in the coming years.
As in the past, and consistent with the national objectives, IDBI
will continue to consider favorablv proiects coming up in the backward areas,
in the small scale sector and projects promoted by technician entrepreneurs.
IDBI is already having schemes of concessional assistance for projects in
backward regions, in the small sector and projects promoted by technician
entrepreneurs. In the context of emphasis on tiny industrial sector in an
employment-oriented strategy, IDBI is contemplating some measures to see that
a larger quantum of its indirect assistance goes to this smaller of the small
scale sector.
In its procedure for allocation of resources IDBI is guided by the
following principles:
(i)  Projects which have been sanctioned assistance where
some progress in implementation has already been made
and which face cost over-runs for reasons beyond their
control are given first priority;
(ii) Projects which are employment-intensive and in the
priority sector are given preference;
(iii) Projects to be located in the backward and rural regions
are also given preference;
(iv) Given all other factors, projects promoted by technician
entrepreneurs, projects in the joint sector and co-
operative sector are given additional weightage.
When the financial resources are in short supply, a larger contri-
bution from promoters, particularly in the case of established entrepreneurs,
greater use of internal accruals in expansion projects, lowering of debt/equity
ratio, shorter repayment periods in case of profitable projects have to be
emphasized. These norms will form a subject of careful study in the coming
years.



ANNEX 26
Page 4 of 4
Strategy Regarding the Target Group
IDBI has agreed to refinance loans given by SIDCs/SIICs. One of the
main intentions of strengthening the activities of SIDCs during refinance
facility of IDBI is to accelerate industrial development by so encouraging
the activities of these organizations that the resources constraint from
which they are at present suffering is removed to some extent. At present,
most of the joint sector projects are promoted mainly by SIDCs. SIDCs also
take considerable interest in promoting local entrepreneurs and also technically
qualified entrepreneurs who are not able to go ahead with their projects on
account of lack of adequate resources and the necessary support which an or-
ganization like SIDC could provide. The role of SIDCs cannot be adequately
over-emphasized in the context of promoting industrial development, especially
in the relatively industrial backward areas of the state.
A number of joint sector projects do have foreign exchange component
in their investment costs. While extending financial support to such projects
if IDBI is also in a position to meet the foreign exchange investment component
of the joint sector projects, their implementation could not only be facilitated
but also expedited. The availability of foreign exchange to the joint sector
projects through the agency of IDBI would help considerably in furthering IDBI's
efforts at improving the organizational set-up as well as the overall func-
tioning of SIDCs.
As noted above, the IDBI has also initiated steps in nominating its
officers on the Board of-SIDCs as well as conducting inspections and issuing
suitable guidelines in regard to policy matters, etc. And, IDBI has taken
up in earnest the upgradation program of SIDCs as is being done in the case of
SFCs. The experience of IDBI in the upgradation program of SFCs has been quite
satisfactory during the recent past. It is hoped that the same would be the
case with regard to the upgradation program of SIDCs.



ANNEX 27
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
Estimated Disbursement Schedule for the Proposed Loan
Per Quarter Cumulative
(US$ thousand)
FY79   July-September                             1,000            1,000
October-December                          1,000            2,000
January-March                             1,500            3,500
April-June                                2,000            5,500
Sub-total                              5,500
FY80   July-September                             2,000            7,500
October-December                          2,000            9,500
January-March                             2,500           12,000
April-June                                3,000           15,000
Sub-total                              9,500
FY81   July-September                             3,000           18,000
October-December                          3,000           21,000
January-March                             1,000           22,000
April-June                                1,000           23,000
Sub-total                             10,000
FY82   July-September                             1,000         24,000
October-December                          1,000          25,000
Total                                 25,000



ORGANIZATION CHNAT
(as of November 30,1976)
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE                                        CHAIRMAN ~~~~~~~~~AND MANAGING DIRECTO                                                                                 REGIONAL COMMITTEES
E.ECUTIVE UIRKTOR                                                                    CH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AFIRATARIAS SOEIIA
'w",                           vE D.. CI."                                           11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L.lIIDING SECLIIII
5 U'VIIIO"         10 P D".,~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IA   W.
LU AU  LOAN ALLAIIIRLNL   II              NA MW.                                                        RPORI LOANS AEIIAAMENI           DL GM      Ss~ cr~.                  LEGAKPARLALOERS                 ISAPAAIl,,NINT
LSGDA.IAL II A. ALO*SANC AAIMEXPU    FIEF61
LISIMA A NANACREITANEA,  CME 
ADAAIIRLDIRATLL13  II12 I0.5&NLL
AANLNIA.I                                                          ORl DLISANGA ..A  R,                                                                             ICOASELLINCI SEAV'CEL APLLL                        S.-AI
RELATICORS ALPAJITMANT                         lAIR
I DA.AAlUN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A ONAPLUN    LA   EAIEII
[I ACIL ANEIA  t                            AINEA FINALS2 CASUINOS FOAGIAAS RAID                                                                                                                                                                I      t AL CAlLAH
SOAPS    LAIIA  NI                      61AWRE                                                                                                                                                                          RILI I                         I                   Lo O6OI,,LDLLL
IHARLAL ILLCANDAAPA,LL  N PLASIICS                     I MANSCOOTANCIAN-A OMACINULERY                                                                                                                      ES~ 
ollAACNILA  'F)LL Is        LI GAS  CERAMIC PRDCSICILILSAFR                                                                     .IA   hAl004I                                                                                               AA
DRGSI I'-RAILACELAIIASR A            L"aIOSIRA  ACLLLAIREs                           AD'R G.   AIGIRMMM.I                                                                      EDI  ..AM                   MNAI                  A       
AALCAIC ANUAL C.HEMICALS          I INSIFIADRLNDS N bOLL                                                                                                                          1211                                          (S.
_______             LA IANN~~~~IAN  LADLILA A                   l"I"A,IOAIESL
ILALAN MINI LA              ~~~lkAIIILR PhOOLCI                     .NIALNS P,AwMESN[C
lI Il S lAlS MaIDLA  ILK              IA    MAL RNAA(,SIIARES
1INIGNLNIL   AAILS                  I IISAA   N   I AAE                                                                                                                                                                                                               S .T  5f*GOSAI0OFFICE
YALDIA DIA DI ALICILAL                                                                                                                     C IR511l11,,,A 6321
A UNNILLALILLAL  IL LILLIALLAL   LOAN LIEFAAIILENIAN IL                                                                            11* CACLyLIANS SACADIARILLI RIItEC COANSIStREYARIM     L CO. SIAOf SENIOR
SII'AAIMLLI WILL lOLL CARL ILL                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~OFFICERS ANTI WILL BE WALL C001ALDSIAII *11H lA  FUMI                           --11.  TLvS10
LC LINCSWANAANI  NLAAl IARC.  OFlLN                                                                                                                                                       n-LADE OPEFLNTI6T D-IAIS3S AND WILL MOIRIOR
1,11 LALIALLS                                                                                                                 OPERATIONS ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AS WELL AS ILLALADLANAV PADIIS FOR TML WTI1
lIlt MANA,,GErEN  SERACA b,IFSIONI WAR  BE RESPCRASRL ik
LOLI -ILA  CAL S                                                                                                                                                      - o  PESO PACELANINPO FOr 6,D I   A$IR.AIFCOPADNCTAIG AL
LIIIL,LLILISAC IIAIlES OF lIl IDOL ANSI ARCh, STAIIST!CS .INLoAMTI
7CTA"LL  _           P7   "III    " 'OCI                                                  W.0Bank - 18096
1/ Replaced by Mr. J. N. Saxena in June 1977.






IBRD 3873R
7L   5vr5v.rE'           rsoQ                                               t| ta V      A G AN Ttr 7              J\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NUARY 19751
4-.-                                   \                                  r  7;GDsH o'                      4-  4  -      4- !ET
t ~   ~      ~      ~      0                                                                               44sM   &44.,{aP      i  s
M 4MU & K0,51iMP
C       H      I     N       A
,   g  -,   \.                                                 |   /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N   r   t    C P A N           '.4
PRADES
.4(4  >  '4ANGAL      / '
PIJ'JA0                                                       ( T    I   8   E  T)
*5               .4'                                                       5 0 g   /'  ~)_  >    /  30
q   t't   kt<->k  ;ELHI   Af t- pIs'1 - \ f                                L N     ~    ~   c-
.1                              *-~~~          '4      ~     ~      .~EKI5jJ ~BHUTAN          
IJTTAR    P5gDFSH   >'<     .'4       £               5    J; .
>  JAIPUR                              A      h   -._                 .,ENAMRUP 1
JAIPUR  ~    IELGORAKIS'                        -..j.-.~1                           M      ~         
l     .A .'iS T H A N                  <        ILGRK;                                 x '        e\                r                4
DCM                                                                                    . .. -     -*
-, r         g                . BA NGLADESHs
IJRNrIUR 
r - z 3 , g - < ~~~~~~~~4 4.-4)                                                   SINDRIv       
.A A ID H y A    PRADESH                   JAMSHEPr  WESr             ,          .        .    t    .    . 
. .'  UJARAT              ',               E.DHi                                                            NqAE5  LOR >CTTt{b    4 IX
,  - ,U  ASF                                                                                           C     ROA>         l          -               0S C
40   ELA
SHILA I             HIRAKUD
rOOR I                   5 S A
jr TROMBAY          ,         ,         ' 3
"Ot A Y          I                         F                    LT R,>O
POONA 
< _ AUM             ANDHRA PRADESh                                              IN DI A
V     '      z~~~~ELGAUM       r'..
- ' X   -J. t'LOCATION  OF MAJOR INDUSTRIAL CENTERS
EHADRAVATI  c- !nd,sSr4oI Centlss
K.ARNsArAKA    r.                                                        A      S-eiei 2     Piontsr
4          i       SANGALORE                    MF :0AAOiA
40          .-1 S2-                                                                      Stoae or Union Territory  B45umd6a rJ
-               ,l> NEYVELI;                             ~'-   [nrlernotioncl Bourdqries
NT YV IAE
....SALEM
FACT IS45L\tO AdWA''   NSrDU
-7D14441 4H7t -,                                                                MILES
-        I                 4--  SRI LANKA             I°                  505      300       400     Soo
I     4-                                      0 ,00                A SS         S00         0oo
) -                                             RLO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1CMETERS



