CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1511 IN
Project Agreement
(IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
Dated March 1, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1511 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 1, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and Industrial Development Bank of India (hereinafter called
IDBI).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between India, acting by its President (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that IDBI agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as
are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and IDBI, the proceeds of the loan provided
for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to IDBI on the
terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS IDBI, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of IDBI
Section 2.01. IDBI shall carry out the Project described in
Section 3.01 (a) of the Loan Agreement and maintain its financial
position, conduct its operations and affairs, and plan its future
expansion with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with


﻿-2-
sound business and financial standards and practices, under the
supervision of experienced and competent management assisted by
experienced and competent technical staff and in accordance with
the IDBI Act.
Section 2.02. (a) In accordance with and subject to the pro-
visions of the Loan Agreement, IDBI shall submit to the Bank (i)
sub-loans for approval or for authorization to make withdrawals
from the Loan Account in respect thereof, and (ii) requests for
authorization to make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect
of expenditures under Part B (1) of the Project.
(b) When submitting a sub-loan (other than a free-limit
sub-loan) to the Bank for approval, IDBI shall furnish to the Bank
an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together with a
description of the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the
Investment Project, including a description of the expenditures
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
proposed terms and conditions of the sub-loan, including the
schedule of amortization of the sub-loan, and such other infor-
mation as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c) Each request by IDBI for authorization to make with-
drawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit sub-loan
shall contain a summary description of the Investment Enterprise
and the Investment Project, including a description of the expen-
ditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
and the terms and conditions of the sub-loan, including the
schedule of amortization therefor. The Bank shall be entitled to
require IDBI to submit to the Bank for its review the appraisal of
the Investment Project for which authorization to make withdrawals
from the Loan Account has been requested.
(d) (i) Each request by IDBI for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 2.02
(a) (ii) of the Loan Agreement in respect of Part B (1) of the
Project shall be accompanied by a summary of the reasons for the
proposed technical assistance, the process for selection of the
consultants and proposed follow-up action by IDBI. The terms of
reference issued by IDBI shall be attached to the summary, and
(ii) within three months after the funds for said Part of the
Project shall have been fully withdrawn, IDBI shall send to the
Bank a report including a summary of the technical assistance
features of the various studies undertaken, the results of these
studies, the problems encountered and the likely technical assis-
tance needs in the future.


﻿-3-
(e) Except as the Bank and IDBI shall otherwise agree,
applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of
paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this Section shall be presented
to the Bank on or before September 30, 1980.
Section 2.03. (a) IDBI undertakes that, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, each sub-loan shall be made under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and IDBI, including
*the principal terms and conditions set forth in the Schedule
to this Agreement, and under which IDBI shall obtain, by written
contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank
and IDBI, including the right of IDBI to: (i) require the Invest-
ment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain
adequate records; (ii) require that: (1) the goods and services to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased at
a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of
the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare
parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of their quality and
the competence of the parties rendering them and (2) such goods
and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with
representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such
goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included in
the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents; (iv) require that: (1) the Investment
Enterprise shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers
such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall
be consistent with sound business practice; and (2) without any
limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or
installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or
repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information as the Bank or
IDBI shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing, to the
administration, operations and financial condition of the Invest-
ment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the Invest-
ment Project; and (vi) suspend or terminate the right of the
Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon
failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its obligations
under its contract with IDBI.


﻿-4-
(b) IDBI shall: (i) exercise its rights in relation to
each Investment Project in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Bank and IDBI, to comply with its obligations under this
Agreement, and to achieve the purposes of the Project; and (ii)
transmit to the Bank for its prior approval, any substantial
changes proposed to be made by IDBI in respect of the repayment
provisions of any sub-loan.
Section 2.04. (a) IDBI shall furnish to the Bank at regular
intervals all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan,
the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects,
the sub-loans and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived
from the foregoing.
(b) Within six months following the last withdrawal from the
LoanAccount in respect of sub-loans or by such later date as the
Bank shall request, IDBI shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operations of the
Investment Projects, their costs and the benefits derived or to be
derived from them, the performance by the Bank and IDBI of their
respective obligations under the Project Agreement and the accom-
plishments of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 2.05. If IDBI establishes or acquires any subsidiary,
IDBI shall cause such subsidiary to observe and perform the obli-
gations of IDBI hereunder to the extent to which such obligations
shall or can be applicable thereto, as though such obligations
were binding upon such subsidiary.
Section 2.06. IDBI shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, IDBI shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) The Bank and IDBI shall cooperate fully to
ensure that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To that
end, the Bank and IDBI shall from time to time, at the request of
either party, exchange views through their representatives with
regard to the progress of the Project, the performance by IDBI of
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition
of IDBI and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.


﻿-5-
(b) IDBI shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, the
maintenance of the service thereof or the performance by IDBI
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.08. Except as the Bank and IDBI shall otherwise
agree, IDBI: (i) shall not sell, lease transfer or otherwise
dispose of any of its property or assets, except in the ordinary
course of business, and (ii) shall take all action necessary
to maintain its corporate existence and right to carry on opera-
tions and to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers,
privileges and franchises necessary or useful in the conduct of
its business.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. IDBI shall maintain procedures and records
adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project and
of each Investment Project (including its cost and the benefits
to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained sound accounting practices the operations and
financial condition of IDBI.
Section 3.02. IDBI shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, profit and loss accounts and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited in accordance with sound
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent and
qualified auditors;* (ii) furnish to the Bank, as soon as available
but in any case not later than five months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
IDBI and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 3.03. IDBI shall not make any repayment in advance of
maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of IDBI which, in the
judgement of the Bank, would materially affect IDBI's ability to
meet its financial obligations.


﻿-6-
Section 3.04. IDBI shall take such steps as shall be neces-
sary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes
in the rates of exchange between the currencies (including Rupees)
used in its operations.
Section 3.05. The Bank and IDBI shall from time to time, at
the request of either party, exchange views through their repre-
sentatives with regard to the administration, operations and
financial condition of IDBI and its subsidiaries, and IDBI shall
furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the administration, operations and finan-
cial condition of IDBI and its subsidiaries.
Section 3.06. IDBI shall enable the Bank's representatives to
inspect the records referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement
and any relevant documents.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of IDBI thereunder shall terminate on the date upon which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
Section 4.02. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall


﻿-7-
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For IDBI:
Industrial Development
Bank of India
Jolby Makers Chambers No. 1
227, Backbay Reclamation Scheme
Bombay 400021, India
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDBANKIND                         011-2193
Bombay
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of IDBI, or by IDBI on behalf of the Borrower
under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by its Chairman
or such other person or persons as said Chairman shall designate
in writing, and IDBI shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Robert Picciotto
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
By /sf J.S. Baijal
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE
Principal Terms and Conditions of Sub-Loans
Except as the Borrower, the Bank and IDBI may otherwise
agree, the principal terms and conditions of the sub-loans to be
made by IDBI under the Project shall be as follows:
(1) In respect of sub-loans for Investment Projects within
classified backward areas, IDBI shall charge interest at
a rate of not less than nine and one-half per cent
(9-1/2%) per annum on the principal amount of each such
sub-loan withdrawn and outstanding.
(2) In respect of sub-loans for Investment Projects within
areas outside classified backward areas, IDBI shall
charge interest at a rate of not less than eleven per
cent (11%) per annum on the principal amount of each
such sub-loan withdrawn and outstanding.
(3) IDBI shall charge a commitment charge at a rate of not
less than one per cent (1%) on the principal amount of
each sub-loan under both (1) and (2) above not withdrawn
from time to time.
(4) The amortization schedule applicable to each sub-loan
under both (1) and (2) above shall provide for an
appropriate period of grace, and, unless the Borrower,
the Bank and IDBI may otherwise mutually agree (i)
shall not extend beyond fifteen years from the date of
approval by the Bank of such sub-loan, or in the case of
a free-limit sub-loan, of authorization by the Bank to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect
uiereof, and (ii) shall provide for approximately equal
semi-annual, or more frequent, aggregate payments of
principal and interest or approximately equal semi-
annual, or more frequent, payments of principal.


