Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 20033
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHIILE
SMALL FARMER SERVICES PROJECT
(Loan No. 3473-CR)
December 29, 1999
Argentina, Chile and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Local Currency Unit             Chilean Peso (Ch$)
Exchange Rate at
Project Appraisal:             US$1  Ch$360.0
(September 30, 1991)           Ch$1 =US$0.0028
Exchange Rate at
Loan Closing:                  US$1 = Ch$465.0
(June 30, 1998)                 Ch$1 = US$0.0022
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President    David de Ferranti
CMU Director      Myrna Alexander
SMU Dirqctor      John Redwood
Team Leader       Steven Oliver



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAF            Financial Sector Articulation Bond
BIH            Basic Irrigated Hectare
CA             Area Committee
CATT           Center of Technological Change and Transfer
CNR            National Irrigation Committee
CONAF          National Forestry Corporation
COTRISA        Wheat Marketing Company
CREDAP         INDAP Credit Information System
FUCOA          Agricultural Communication Foundation
INDAP          Agricultural Development Institute
INIA           Agricultural Research Institute
MAG            Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
MBN            Ministry of National Property
M&E            Monitoring and Evaluation
MTR            Mid-Term Review
PCMU           Project Coordination & Management Unit
PDAA           Area Agricultural Development Program
PDL            Local Dexelopment Project
PRODESAL    Local Development Service in Poor Rural Communities
PMG            Management Improvement Program
PMR            Micro-regional Project
PTT            Technology Transfer Program
PTTB           Basic Technology Transfer Program
PTTI           Integrated Technology Transfer Program
SAE            Specialized Advisory service
SAL            Local Advisory Service
SAP            Project Advisory Service
SOE            Statement of Expenditures
TELEDUC        Distance Learning Program of the Television Corporation of the
Catholic University
UF             Development Unit (monetary unit adjusted for inflation)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
SMALL FARMER SERVICES PROJECT
(Loan No. 3473-CH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No
PREFACE  ................................................................... i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .......................................................1
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .................................... 11
A.  Statement and Evaluation of the Objectives ...................................................  11
B.  Achievement of Project Objectives .....................................                         ................ 14
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project .....................................                        ................ 24
D.  Project Sustainability ..................................................... 25
E.  Bank Performance .....................................................                                            26
F.  Borrower Performance .....................................................                                        29
G. Assessment of Outcome ......................................................                                       30
H.  Future Operation ..................................................... 31
I.   Key Lessons Learned .....................................................                                        32
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION ......................................................                                             34
Table   1:  Summary of Assessments .........................                           ............................ 34
Table   2: Related Bank Loans .....................................................                                   37
Table   3: Project Timetable .....................................................                                    38
Table  4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .................... 39
Table   5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ......................................... 40
Table   6:  Studies Included in the Project .....................................................     42
Table   7: Project Costs ......................................................                                       43
Table   8: Project Financing .....................................................                                    43
Table   9:  Status of Legal Covenants ............................                         ......................... 44
Table  10: Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs ......................................................                        48
Table  11: Bank Resources:  Missions ......................................................                           49
APPENDIX 1:  Summary of the Borrower's Report
APPENDIX 2:  INDAP: Program of Technology Transfer
APPENDIX 3:  INDAP: Credit
APPENDIX 4:  Rural Land Titling
MAP:                       IBRD No. 23006






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
SMALL FARMER SERVICES PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3473-CH)
PREFACE
1.   This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Small Farmer Services
Project in Chile, for which Loan No. 3473-CH, in the amount of US$95.0 million
equivalent, was approved by the Board on May 21, 1992 and became effective on
October 1, 1992.
2.   At the request of the Borrower, the amount of US$36,210,613.08 equivalent was
cancelled with effect from July 24, 1997, the date of receipt by the Bank of the request.
This cancellation reflected the Borrower's decision to fund part of project expenditures
from fiscal resources and not from the proceeds of the Loan. The Loan was closed on
June 30, 1998. The final disbursement was made on March 31, 1998.
3.   This ICR was prepared by Steven Oliver (LCSER); it was reviewed by Thomas
Wiens (LCSER) and by Myrna Alexander and Asif Faiz (LCC7C). The report has also
benefited from comments received from Isabelle Tsakok and Michael Carroll (LCSER),
Mark Wilson (EASRD), Surajit Goswami (LCC3C) and Selim Mohor (FAO/CP
Santiago).
4.   The preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision and
completion mission in January 1998. It is based on material in the project file,
discussions with Bank and project staff, and a report prepared by a consultant, Lic.
Fernando Rodriguez Schuller, on behalf of the office of the Bank/FAO Cooperative
Program (FAO/CP) in Santiago. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR
by providing a separate report (the Borrower's Report), a summary of which is shown in
Appendix 1.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
SMALL FARMER SERVICES PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3473-CH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.   At the time of appraisal of this project in 1991, the Government of Chile could look
back on twenty-five years of solid, export-oriented growth in the agricultural sector,
whose relatively small contribution to GDP - at about 9% - belied its importance to
overseas trade, providing as it did more than one-third of all merchandize exports. The
agricultural sector has been a major beneficiary of the liberalization, reform and
stabilization measures which have been so important in Chile's economic transformation,
and large domestic and foreign investments in commercial agriculture have fueled
growth. By the late 1980s, however, it was clear that the productive potential of the
small farm sector containing 253,000 producers' was not being exploited properly, and
that significant problems of rural poverty persisted within the overall context of
agricultural sector prosperity and growth.
2.   The Bank's country strategy at that time focussed on five areas: (a) the expansion
of coverage and the improvement in quality of social programs and services, to improve
welfare; (b) the alleviation of poverty; (c) the strengthening of the institutional capacity
of public sector agencies; (d) the proper management of natural resources and protection
of the environment; and (e) the development of infrastructure to support private sector
investment. This strategy was strongly supportive of the Government's rural program,
which gave priority to an improvement of productivity, incomes and welfare via public
support to small farmers, designed to improve their access to technology and credit and to
increase their articulation with the commercial sector.
3.   The initial formulation of the project emphasized the alleviation of the most
significant constraints to the development of small farmers. The strategy of the Ministry
of Agriculture and Livestock (MAG) towards small farmers was defined in a program
matrix presented to the Bank. The institutions responsible for support to small farmers -
the Agricultural Development Institute (INDAP), in the case of credit and technology
transfer, and the Ministry of National Property (MBN), in the case of land titling - each
prepared a strategic plan.
i It was estimated in 1991 that there were 105,000 small farmers (minifundistas) with land holdings of less
than the equivalent of 5 "basic irrigated hectares" - BIH - each, and 148,000 medium farmers with between
5-12 BIH each. The concept of the BIH is explained in footnote #20.



-2-
Project Objectives
4.   The project was intended: (a) to overcome the constraints to increasing the
productivity, incomes and well-being of small farmers; (b) to improve the institutional
capability and effectiveness of INDAP and MBN; and (c) to improve the access of small
farmers (i) to commercial markets for factors of production and output, and (ii) to
publicly-sponsored agricultural development programs.
5.    Two fundamental subsidiary objectives can also be defined. These were:
(a) the achievement of certain quantitative measures of improvement in the loan portfolio
of INDAP and the graduation of small farmers to the commercial banking sector; and
(b) the achievement of defined levels of cost recovery from small farmers and their
graduation from INDAP's programs of technology transfer.
6.   The target number of beneficiaries2 was estimated to be about 92,000 farmers, of
whom 76,000 were small farmers (minifundistas) and 16,000 medium farmers (who
would all be graduated from the program of technical assistance during the life of the
project). The project focused on three areas critical to their development: technology
transfer, credit, and land titling. A phased, structured and selective approach to
interventions, a set of actions to enhance the quality and efficiency of services, and steps
towards farmer graduation from government-supported programs were all built in to the
project's design to make it more effective. Project efficiency and sustainability, and
support to a major expansion of the coverage of services, were to be ensured by
strengthening the institutional capacity of INDAP and MBN.
7.   The project was designed to achieve benefits in four major areas. First, from the
adoption of technology and on-farm investment, substantial increases in farm
productivity, family incomes and welfare were expected to be achieved. Second,
institutional development was expected to improve and to reduce the unit costs of
providing agricultural services. Third, small farmers receiving technology transfer, credit
and/or titling services were expected to become more credit-worthy and, thus, more
attractive to commercial banks. Fourth, improved targeting of government-provided
services was anticipated, with a marked improvement in services to women farmers.
Evaluation of the Objectives
8.   The project's objectives are considered to have been important for the small farmer
sector and for the Bank's country strategy. The objectives of the project addressed some
of the key issues facing small farmers, and were oriented towards economic growth and
their greater participation in the market economy. Although they were clearly stated, the
objectives were rather subjective and qualitative in nature. The objectives were not
2 The beneficiaries of the project were projected to be a target number of small farmers (less than 5 BIH
each) and medium farmers (between 5 and 12 BIH each). Under the project, 16,000 medium farmers
already being attended by INDAP at project initiation would continue through Phases I and II of
technology transfer; no new medium farmers would be added. The project's main cohort of beneficiaries
was to be made up of the 18,000 small farmers already being attended plus 58,000 new entrants.



- 3 -
modified during implementation, but the changes that were made in INDAP's extension
service and technology transfer strategy, to assist small farmers to cope with a swiftly-
deteriorating business environment, modified fundamental aspects of the project's
operations and, hence, the basic structure of the project.
9.   The original project design was appropriate for the achievement of the objectives
under the assumptions specified in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) concerning the
suitability of the simple extension model, the credit system's operational framework, and
the economic conditions for agriculture. However, the redesign of the strategy of service
provision, with respect to technology transfer and credit, that occurred during
implementation lacked the simplicity of the original model. The MBN's land titling
program was well designed, and allowed the project's objectives and targets to be fully
achieved.
Implementation Experience and Results
10.  The project implementation period can be divided into three separate stages:
*  the period from 1993 to 1994, when the project was implemented essentially in
accordance with the original design;
*  the period from 1995 to 1996, when the extension and technology transfer service
strategy was restructured and based on the concept of micro-regional projects; and
*  the period from 1997 onwards, when the service strategy was oriented towards
associative groups of producers.
11. Extension services and credit in the project's original design were predominantly
farm-oriented, and directed towards the improvement of crop productivity and simple on-
farm investment. The reformulated service strategy, by contrast, focused on farrner
innovation and became oriented towards the implementation of small on-farm "projects".
Extension and credit support were concentrated on those farmers with greater potential
for innovative investment, and farmers' groups became the primary target for the
project's action. These changes involved an extensive redesign of INDAP's instruments
and mechanisms, and a major departure from the project's original target population of
the smallest farmers.
12.  The main objectives of the project were concentrated in the categories of
institutional development and financial sector development; they did not include
macro-economic objectives, but the subsidiary objectives did include elements of sector
policy, particularly concerning the graduation of farmers from technical assistance and
credit programs, the achievement of partial cost recovery for technical assistance, and
support to women. Finally, on-farm investment under the credit component was expected
to contribute to the objective of physical results. In these four categories of objectives,
the achievements were mixed. The project did not achieve a significant strengthening of
INDAP, though it succeeded in consolidating the land titling capacity of the MBN. The
achievements of the project were partial in technology transfer and investment, but
substantial in rural land titling. The achievement of financial sector objectives, which



- 4 -
focused on reduced levels of loan arrears and improved portfolio management at INDAP,
was negligible.
13. The project was not particularly onerous for the two implementing agencies,
INDAP and MBN, nor was it a complex operation in its original design. However, it
now seems clear that in certain aspects the objectives were not fully realistic. With
hindsight, it can be seen as a risky operation in that a conjunction of factors conspired to
alter radically the profitability of the agricultural sector which, combined with an
extended drought, reduced the financial returns for many agricultural activities. As a
result of these changing circumstances, the project's design accommodated major
changes made by the Borrower during implementation with respect to the project's
service strategy, although the results were mixed.
14. Technology Transfer A substantial expansion of extension coverage of small
farmers was achieved by the project during the first two years of its implementation, but
in later years this coverage was progressively reduced as these farmers (or some of them)
were inappropriate for the new strategy for extension services adopted by INDAP. At the
project's completion, coverage had been reduced to 17,000 of these farmers,
approximately the level achieved by INDAP before the project started. Nevertheless,
through the graduation .of medium farmers, the remaining farmers were more clearly part
of the project's target population.
15. INDAP's redesigned extension schemes were refocused towards medium farmers
at the expense of a reduced coverage of the original project target population, the small
farmers. The overall coverage of the technology transfer program increased from 47,000
farmers in 1992 to an average of about 50,400 farmers between 1993-1997, with a
maximum of 52,500 farmers being reached in 1997. Although the project target of
92,000 beneficiaries was not reached, coverage was almost double the number of farmers
reached in 1990 (when the project was identified); this achievement, allied to the
graduation from the program of two-thirds of the 16,000 medium farmers enrolled in
1991, indicates the sharper focus on the smallest, poor farmers in evidence by the end of
the project's life.
16.  During the first two years of project execution, several project-designed
innovations were introduced to INDAP's extension scheme and made significant
contributions to improve service quality. Of particular importance was the coordinated
effort between the Agricultural Research Institute (INIA) and INDAP to address small-
farm technology development and validation, aimed at closing the well-documented gap
in Chile between technology generation and extension. The early termination of this
scheme (after only three years of the project) thwarted expectations concerning the
availability and provision of suitable technology to the smallest farmers, and presented an
additional burden to INDAP as it forced a continued reliance on traditional crops.
17. The quality of extension deteriorated as a result of difficulties in implementing the
redesigned extension strategies. The wide coverage of beneficiaries by the redesigned
scheme became an added hindrance to maintaining and improving quality, as the type of
assistance provided did not lend itself to a massive approach. Though expansion was
brought to a halt at the mid-point of the project (and stabilized thereafter), INDAP could



- 5 -
not manage to keep an adequate balance between extension quality and quantity, a
potential problem that had been emphasized in the SAR.
18.  The extension program of INDAP was also expected to improve the access of small
farmers to markets (for inputs and production) and to promote their participation in
publicly-sponsored agricultural development programs. Indirect evidence provided by
survey shows that farmers receiving technology from INDAP sold about 30% of their
output in formal markets, compared to about 20% for non-participants. Of the former,
about 12% had production contracts with some form of agro-industry, compared to about
9% for the latter. Only a very small proportion (between 4-6%) of farmers reached by
INDAP with technology are involved in other publicly-sponsored programs, but the
proportion of non-participants is even less, at about 2%. However, in the absence of
valid base-line data these differences cannot be confidently attributed to the benefits of
participation in INDAP programs and may merely reflect a self-selection bias. The major
achievement in this area seems to have been to link INDAP' s extension and credit
programs with the government-subsidized, small-scale irrigation program.
19. Monitoring and Evaluation Strengthening the monitoring and evaluation of
extension was initiated early in project execution. Progress was made in designing the
project indicators into the system during the first two years. Subsequently, the whole
idea of monitoring extension was abandoned because keeping track of the beneficiaries'
progress under constantly-changing extension schemes became unmanageable. The
maintenance of a monitoring and evaluation system should have been assigned a much
higher priority, as INDAP would have benefited considerably from indicators reflecting
the effects of its changed support to farmers.
20. Gender A team of female extensionists was used to train and coordinate regular
extensionists in accommodating improved practices to the needs of rural women and in
developing their economic potential during the early years of the project. This proved
successful under the original extension model, but was discontinued when the model
changed; it was assumed that women did not need separate attention, and that they would
receive assistance as part of the farm family.
21. Credit Under the original project design, expansion of INDAP's activities was to
benefit mainly the small farmers through working capital loans; credit to farmer
organizations was encouraged, though it was to be limited to well-qualified cases. Under
INDAP's redesigned extension strategies, credit resources were concentrated on an
increased number of farmers other than the smallest and the poorest, and on farmers'
organizations, and emphasis was placed on long-term lending. Investment loans reached
the level of 44% of the individual farmer credit portfolio and about 60% of the credit
portfolio for organizations. The resulting portfolio composition was contrary to the
project's original, risk-averse design for INDAP's credit management and expansion.
INDAP's more risky term lending to individuals and organizations under the redesigned
extension and credit schemes placed INDAP in a financial condition that was no longer
compatible with the high level of small-holder coverage achieved earlier in the project.



- 6 -
The level of INDAP's loan arrears eventually far exceeded even those levels that had
been considered unacceptable at appraisal3.
22. The project's goals regarding fanner graduation to the commercial banking system
were focused on INDAP's activities to explore and pilot-test the necessary conditions.
No targets were set for the number of farmers to be graduated from INDAP's credit
system. A scheme promoted by INDAP to subsidize the transaction costs of commercial
banks for lending to small and medium farmers achieved only meager results; only about
580 loans had been granted under the scheme by the end of 1997. It is important to
recognize that commercial banks had by this time drastically reduced their lending to the
agricultural sector in general, as a result of poor sector and loan performance during
the 1990s. Contrary to expectations, INDAP thus became virtually the only source of
credit to small farmers.
23. Credit ceased to be a mere complement to extension when INDAP focused small-
farmer extension on innovative investment projects; term credit became almost a
necessary condition for extension to materialize. Although no indicators on the level of
the linkages between credit and extension are available from INDAP, the findings of a
survey contracted by the Ministry of Economy to evaluate the performance of INDAP's
instruments indicate that credit operations linked to extension had reached 44% in 1993
and 80% in 1997.
24. A major concern expressed in the SAR was the critical financial condition of
INDAP's credit system. The credit management system installed at INDAP was
designed to develop a credit record for its borrowers and to share the information with
private credit agencies. This was expected to be a strong incentive to farmers to service
their loans. To provide an incentive to the local branches (area agencies) of INDAP to
improve the quality and status of their portfolio, their operating budgets were geared to
the level of loan recoveries. The immediacy of this incentive was significantly diluted as
the long-term lending grew at the expense of short-term, working capital lending. At the
end of 1991, INDAP's credit system had a current level of arrears of 31%, a situation
deemed unacceptable by both the government and the Bank. This level of arrears was
virtually unchanged in 1992, but loan collection rates improved significantly during the
first two years of the project's implementation and met project targets. Subsequently,
however, loan arrears increased dramatically. Term loans, notably those to organizations,
performed the poorest, despite the increasing grants received by borrowers in connection
with term credit operations.
25. The decline in INDAP's loan collection rate can be attributed largely to the adverse
business conditions faced by farmers during most of the project's implementation period
and to a severe three-year drought that ended only in 1996, which combined to stress
farm finances. However, the poor performance of INDAP's long-term loan portfolio also
hinged heavily on INDAP's own lending policy and capabilities. In supporting farmer
innovation, INDAP's lending had focused on operations bearing a high risk, and it was
unable to develop adequate business criteria to analyze and make appropriate decisions in
connection with the farmers' proposed operations. As a consequence of INDAP's heavy
3 At the end of 1991, INDAP's arrears had been 31% of its portfolio (see Appendix 3).



- 7 -
term lending, the share of term loans in INDAP's overall portfolio - and thus the overall
portfolio level of loan arrears - increased to unmanageable levels. It was difficult for
INDAP to reverse its financial condition through more stringent debt collection
procedures. Contrary to the original project goal, INDAP's financial condition
deteriorated considerably.
26. Rural Communications The utilization of audio-visual techniques was seen as a
key to enhancing both project extension quality and efficiency. The implementation
problems faced by INDAP with the rural communication system were later compounded
by the complexity of the messages that were to be conveyed to farmers under the
restructured extension strategies. The system achieved little in adding efficiency to
extension, and its implementation was discontinued at an early stage of project execution.
27. Land Titling The achievement of project objectives in rural land titling was
substantial in terms of meeting project targets, increased service efficiency and
beneficiary satisfaction. The titling program of MBN was extended beyond the end of
the project's execution. The extended program will regularize the titling situation of the
remaining families lacking secure land tenure.
28. The land titling capacity of MBN was strengthened by the project, and its division
responsible for land titling is well prepared to sustain subsequent titling activities. The
division is staffed with a team of well-trained professionals, operates a significantly
improved computerized client information and monitoring system, and has established a
transparent contracting system with private consultants for title regularization.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
29. Important economic factors significantly affected the evolution of the project. At
the time of project preparation and appraisal, the success of INDAP's basic model of
productivity-focused technical assistance in support of small fanners over the period
1983-1989 was evident. A favorable business environment for traditional agriculture,
resulting from the policy adjustments of the early 1980s, was assumed by the
Government and the Bank to continue to encourage technology adoption by small
farmers. Under these conditions, the expected success of the project mainly depended on
INDAP's ability to manage efficiently the delivery of services to a significantly expanded
target group of farmers.
30. It was hard to foresee at the time of appraisal the extent to which business
conditions throughout agriculture would deteriorate during the 1990s. Unfavorable
international market conditions and the negative sectoral effects of the government's
successful macro-economic policies combined progressively to erode the profitability of
agricultural activities. The Chilean economy became a victim of its own success; export
growth and the inflow of foreign investment drove the real rate of exchange down by
nearly 40% between 1992-1997. In a unilateral decision, the government had reduced
import duties drastically in 1990. The strong structure of incentives to traditional crops
of the 1980s then began weakening in the early 1990s.



- 8 -
31. Although this would have been evident at the time of project preparation and loan
processing, it is apparent that the deterioration was not fully taken into account. Sectoral
growth declined from a high of 5.8% per annum during 1983-1989 to less than 4% per
annum in the 1990s. The new scenario severely curtailed competitiveness in agriculture,
most notably in the traditional crops. Development options for small farmers were thus
progressively reduced to the more innovative, higher-risk end of agriculture, and to adjust
to this new scenario, INDAP's extension and credit strategies were radically redesigned.
This had the result of significantly reducing INDAP's intensive focus on the small
farmers who were the main beneficiaries defined in the project's design, and the new
strategies were not successful in meeting INDAP's revised institutional objectives.
Summary of Findings, Future Operation and Key Lessons Learned
32.  The sustainability of extension and credit programs to small farmers is uncertain, at
least on the scale at which assistance was provided under the project. The redesigned
extension schemes required a more intensive and higher quality support to farmers, which
was only compatible with reduced and selected coverage. INDAP proved to have the
flexibility to introduce change when necessary, and also continued to demonstrate a
strong commitment to public service and to the improvement of the welfare of its client
base. However, under the project, INDAP did not prove that it had the capacity to
manage effectively farmer assistance under increasingly difficult conditions for
agriculture.
33.  The unacceptably high levels of loan arrears in the portfolio make unlikely the
long-run sustainability of INDAP's public sector small-farmer credit system. As no
alternative financing source is available to small-farmers, INDAP's current system is
likely to prevail as long as it remains acceptable to the government to subsidize small-
farmer borrowing.
34.  The project's overall outcome is considered to have been unsatisfactory. The
objectives as defined in the SAR are qualitative and it is difficult to be specific about
their achievement, particularly in the absence of a proper monitoring and evaluation
framework. However, although there were a number of important achievements under
the project, it is clear that the project failed to achieve important parts of its objectives,
particularly in the areas of graduation to commercial credit and cost recovery for
technology transfer.
35. Although the number of small and medium farmers reached with technology (at
51,000) was less than the goal of 92,000 it was double the number attended in 1990; with
the graduation or exit of two-thirds of the medium farmers enrolled at the very beginning
of the project, a much closer focus was achieved on the poorest and smallest farmers by
the end of the project. With the two re-formulations of the technology transfer program,
the objective of small farmer graduation and cost-recovery remained in effect but little
was actually achieved. The anticipated technological development, which was expected
to allow the individual producer to progress beyond the need for continued government
assistance, was not realized; the dynamic changes in the sector meant that, in many cases,
continuous technical support was needed solely to maintain competitiveness. Similarly,
little was achieved in terms of cost recovery from farmers for technology transfer.



- 9 -
36. The credit component was responsible for major improvements in INDAP's
systems; new information technology provided up-to-date information on sub-loans and
the portfolio status at all area agencies, a credit management system was implemented
with accurate and timely information on over-due loans and recoveries, a systematic set
of penalties was applied, data was included in commercial credit agencies' records, and
full training was achieved of account executives and other staff. However, a major
concern of the SAR was the financial health of INDAP's credit system. At the end of
1991, at the time of appraisal, arrears were 3 1%, and this level was maintained during
1992. During the first two years of the project (1993-1994), the level of arrears improved
significantly and met the defined targets, but later the level of arrears rose again
substantially, and the long-term loans performed the poorest. Arrears on short-term
working capital loans rose to an average of 30% (over 50% in the case of loans to
organizations) while arrears on long-term loans rose to over 30% (and as high as 64% in
the case of organizations).
37.  A significant number of changes was made in the activities carried out under the
project between preparation/appraisal and the latter phases of its implementation. As
described above, changes in the sector's economic environment demanded these changes,
which affected both the technology transfer and credit components.
38.  INDAP is the public sector's designated point of contact with the smallest and
poorest of Chile's rural dwellers, and MBN will continue to have responsibility for the
regularization of land titles amongst small farmers; technology transfer and credit supply,
on the one hand, and titling services, on the other, will continue to be provided as the
permanent functions of these institutions funded from fiscal resources.
39. The most important lessons learned from the implementation of this project are:
*  Adaptive research, oriented towards the needs of small farmers in a farming-systems
context and recognizing the regional and micro-climatic variations under which they
operate, is essential to maintain competitiveness, and the need is continuous. This is
particularly important where (as in the case of Chile) small farmers operate in the
same environment as large-scale, entrepreneurial and (above all) export-oriented
larger farmers and agro-industries.
*  Credit and technology transfer in combination are necessary but not sufficient
conditions to increase productivity. However, increasing productivity alone will not
guarantee an increase in net income and well-being; in a competitive and open
environment, emphasis must also be given to other important factors, particularly the
development of infrastructure, marketing and farmer organizations.
*  Beside the objectives of financial sustainability (in credit recovery and cost recovery),
there are other legitimate objectives which should be taken into account when
attempting to reach and improve the well-being of the small, poor farmer. In this
respect, the project would have benefited from a detailed social assessment.



- 10-
*  Where cost recovery and graduation are objectives of public-sector technology
transfer and credit, it must be recognized that not all participants will be successful;
the strategy adopted must recognize this and should have specific rules for the "non-
graduates".
*  The concept of credit graduation rests ultimately on the willingness of the financial
sector to take on credit-worthy farmers as customers; this should be realistically
assessed ex ante, because the combination of small average loan size, relatively high
transaction costs, and significant risks associated with agriculture make small farmers
an inherently unattractive client base from a commercial banking point of view.
*  A project which is recognized by both the Bank and the Borrower as supporting an
existing government program runs the risk that little weight will be given to the
Bank's views if the program is restructured and/or reoriented by the government,
especially if the proportion of program expenditures supported by the loan is small.
The options available to the Bank, including reformulation or restructuring of a
project and cancellation of a loan, should be fully considered.
*  A properly identified and calibrated monitoring and evaluation system is critical for a
project of this type. The appropriate base-line studies and the definition of the
sampling methods should be specified as early as possible in the project cycle, and
their preparation should be part of the early-acting conditionality attached to the loan.
Without a proper monitoring and evaluation system, it is impossible to measure the
achievement of objectives.
*  The private sector delivery of extension services, pioneered by INDAP in the early
1980s, continues to be both feasible and effective. In this respect, Chile has modified
both the philosophy and the practice of delivering extension services to small fanners;
the number of public sector employees has been reduced, responsibility has been
shifted to the private sector, and competition has been engendered among service
suppliers.



- 11 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
SMALL FARMER SERVICES PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3473-CH)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   Statement and Evaluation of the Objectives
1.   At the time of appraisal of the Small Farmer Services Project in late- 1991, the
Government of Chile could look back on twenty-five years of solid, export-oriented
growth in the agricultural sector, whose relatively small contribution to GDP - at about
9% - belied its importance to overseas trade, providing as it did more than one-third of all
merchandize exports. Macro-economic and trade policy had, and continue to have, a
significant influence on the agricultural sector, which on balance has been a major
beneficiary of the liberalization, reforn and stabilization measures. Large domestic and
foreign investments in commercial agriculture, coupled with imports of advanced
agricultural technology, also helped to fuel growth. By the late 1 980s, however, it was
becoming increasingly clear that the productive potential of the small farm sector4,
estimated to contain 253,000 producers, was not being exploited properly and that
significant problems of rural poverty persisted within the overall context of agricultural
sector prosperity and growth.
2.   The Bank's country strategy at that time focused on five areas: (a) the expansion of
coverage and the improvement in quality of selected social programs and services, to
improve welfare; (b) the alleviation of poverty; (c) the strengthening of the institutional
capacity of public sector agencies; (d) the management of natural resources and
protection of the environment; and (e) the development of infrastructure to support
private sector investment.
3.   In the agricultural sector, this strategy was strongly supporlive of the Government's
program, which gave priority to an improvement of productivity, incomes and welfare in
the rural areas via public support to small farmers designed to improve their access to
technology and credit and to increase their articulation with the commercial sector. This
coherence of views and strategies was supported by the findings of the Bank's recent
sector work5 which advocated, amongst other measures: (a) selective and fiscally-
prudent growth in support to small farmers; (b) increased investment in the generation of
technology for small farmers; and (c) increased investment in land titling initiatives.
4 At the time of appraisal, the Agricultural Development Institute (INDAP) estimated that there were
253,000 small farm-families, of which 105,000 were small farmners (riinifundistas) with less than five
"basic irrigated hectares" (BIH - see footnote #20) and farming between 1-2% of the total arable land, and
148,000 were medium farmers with between 5-12 BIH and farming 45% of the arable land. In addition,
there were 140,000 rural families whose main income was derived from share-cropping and farm labor.
5 Sustaining Growth: An Agricultural Sector Review Report No. 8759 June 29, 1990.



- 12 -
4.   The initial formulation of the project emphasized the need to focus sharply on the
alleviation of those constraints considered most significant in the development of small
farmers. The strategy of the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAG) towards small
farmers was defined in a program matrix presented to the Bank. The institutions
responsible for support to small farmers - the Agricultural Development Institute
(INDAP), in the case of credit and technology transfer, and the Ministry of National
Property (MBN), in the case of land titling - each prepared a strategic plan6.
5.  Identification and Preparation  Before this project, the Bank had made eight
loans to Chile in support of the development of the agricultural sector, totaling US$180
million. These loans were primarily in support of credit operations. However, from the
mid- 1 970s onwards the Bank's lending had evolved into programs of support to small
farmers and for the alleviation of poverty. One project in particular, the Agricultural
Rehabilitation Project (Loan 11 19-CH, approved in 1975), is credited both with having
initiated a dialogue with the Govermnent that led to the liberalization of prices and
structural reform of the agricultural sector and with increasing public sector orientation
towards small farmers, including a major expansion in the activities of INDAP.
Beginning in 1990, the economic policy of growth with equity resulted in important
changes in sector policy, especially where it concerned public sector support to small
farmners. The programs of a number of public sector agencies, including that of INDAP,
were adjusted to improve small farmer access to credit and technology.
6.   The project was identified in 1990, and prepared by INDAP and MBN with
assistance from short-term consultants. Three preparation missions visited Chile, in
October 1990 and in March and July 1991; in addition, there were several individual
missions that dealt with the specific issues of institutional development and computerized
information systems. The project was pre-appraised in July 1991 and appraised in
October 1991. The loan negotiations were held in March 1992 in Washington, D.C.
7.   Project Objectives  The project's objectives, as defined in the Staff Appraisal
Report and the Loan Agreement, were: (a) to overcome the constraints to increasing the
productivity, incomes and well-being of small farmers; (b) to improve the institutional
capability and effectiveness of INDAP and MBN; and (c) to improve the access of small
farmers: (i) to commercial markets for factors of production and output, and (ii) to
publicly-sponsored agricultural development programs. Two fundamental subsidiary
objectives can also be defined. These were the achievement of certain quantitative
measures of improvement in the loan portfolio of INDAP and the graduation of small
farmers to the commercial banking sector, and the achievement of defined levels of cost
recovery from small farmers and their graduation from INDAP's programs of technology
transfer.
8.   The project focused on three areas considered essential for small farmer
development: these were technology transfer, credit, and land titling. A more phased,
structured and selective approach to interventions, a set of actions to enhance quality and
6 These three documents are shown in Annexes I and 2 of the Staff Appraisal Report.
Report No.10133-CH April 14, 1992



- 13 -
efficiency of services, and steps towards farmer graduation from government-supported
programs were all built in to the project's design to enhance its effectiveness. Project
efficiency and sustainability, and support to a major expansion of the coverage of
services, were to be ensured by strengthening the institutional capacity of INDAP and
MBN.
9.   Project Components To achieve these objectives, the project focused on the
poorest small farmers through six components: (a) the transfer of technology, including
both farm-oriented and home-centered assistance, emphasizing: (i) the gradual phasing-
out of subsidized support to larger farmers; (ii) the quality of extension; (iii) the enhanced
efficiency in service delivery through the adoption of an integrated rural communications
system; (iv) strengthened monitoring and evaluation; (v) an increased role for existing
rural community organizations as catalysts for change; and (vi) specific support for
women's productive activities; (b) the provision of credit for investment and working
capital, focused on: (i) the graduation of farmers into the commercial banking sector; and
(ii) a set of reforms in INDAP to improve its sub-loan portfolio performance; (c) the
establishment of a rural communication system; (d) the provision of land titling
services; (e) the institutional strengthening of INDAP; and (f) the institutional
strengthening of MBN.
10. Project Benefits The project was designed to achieve benefits in four major
areas. First, as a result of the adoption of technology and on-farm investment, substantial
increases in farm productivity, family incomes and welfare were expected to be achieved.
Second, institutional development was expected to improve and reduce the unit costs of
the provision of agricultural services. Third, small farmers reached by the project
through technology transfer, credit and/or titling services were expected to become more
credit-worthy and, thus, more attractive to commercial banks. Fourth, improved targeting
of publicly-provided services was anticipated, with a marked improvement in services to
women farmers.
11. Evaluation of the Objectives The project's objectives are considered to have
been important for the small farner sector and for the Bank's country strategy. The
objectives addressed some of the key issues facing small farmers, and were oriented
towards economic growth and greater participation in the market economy. Although
they were clearly stated, the objectives were rather subjective and qualitative in nature.
The objectives were not modified during project implementation, but the changes that
were made in INDAP's extension service and technology transfer strategy to assist
farmers to cope with a swiftly-deteriorating business environment modified fundamental
aspects of the project's operations (and hence the basic structure of the project). It is now
clear that in certain aspects the objectives were not fully realistic. The objective of
"overcoming the constraints to increasing the productivity, incomes and well-being of
small farmers" was, if taken literally, a very ambitious one. In addition, the banking
system was in practice not prepared to take on small farmers as good credit risks, and still
has not done so. The goals of improved portfolio performance, cost recovery and farmer
graduation were set unrealistically high. The project as originally designed was not
particularly onerous for the two implementing agencies, INDAP and MBN, nor was it a
complex operation.



- 14 -
12. With hindsight, it can be seen as a risky operation in the sense that (as will be seen
below) a conjunction of factors conspired to alter radically the profitability of the
agricultural sector and this, combined with an extended drought, greatly reduced the
financial returns for many activities. The project's design accommodated the major
changes made by the Borrower with respect to the project's service strategy, although the
results were mixed. It can be argued that the project's design and objectives were not
fully realistic, in the sense that they were not consistent with certain aspects of macro-
economic policy (e.g., reductions in import duties, exchange rate policy) and the
declining agricultural prices that were beginning to emerge. However, these influences,
which set the scene for the decline in sector profitability in the 1 990s, were only incipient
and their longer-term (if not structural) nature was not at all obvious at the time.
B.  Achievement of Project Objectives
13.  The objectives of the project were concentrated in the categories of institutional
development and financial sector development; they did not include macro-economic
objectives, but they did include elements of sector policy, particularly concerning the
graduation of farmers from credit and technical assistance and cost recovery. Finally, on-
farm investment under the credit component was expected to contribute to the objective
of physical results. In these four categories of objectives, the achievements of the
project were mixed. The project did not achieve a significant strengthening of INDAP,
though it succeeded in consolidating the land titling capacity of the MBN. The
achievements of the project were partial in technology transfer and investment, but
substantial in rural land titling.
14.  The project overall failed to achieve the objective of overcoming the constraints
operating against the achievement of improved incomes for the majority of poor farmers.
The achievement of the financial sector development objectives, which were focused on
reduced levels of loan arrears and improved portfolio management at INDAP, was
negligible; the levels of arrears, notably on term loans to organizations, reached critical
levels at project completion, compromising the long-term sustainability of INDAP's
credit system. Similarly, the subsidiary objectives of partial to full cost recovery in, and
graduation of small farmers from, the programs of technology transfer were not achieved.
15.  The original project design was appropriate for the achievement of the project's
objectives under the assumptions specified in the SAR concerning: (a) the suitability of
the simple extension model; (b) the credit system's operational framework; and (c) the
economic conditions for agriculture at the time. However, the virtual redesign of the
service delivery strategy that was performed during project implementation lacked the
effectiveness of the original model. The MBN's land titling program was well designed,
and allowed the project's objectives and targets to be fully achieved.
16.  The criteria for measuring the achievement of the project's objectives were not well
quantified in the SAR. Although the SAR7 stated that " ... (a) rigorous program of
monitoring and evaluation would be established ... ", in practice this did not happen.
The SAR also stated that a detailed system of monitorable indicators had been developed
7 Paragraph 4.25(d)



- 15 -
(SAR, Annex 7), but the indicators defined there are exclusively implementation
measures; there are no measures of impact or effect, and thus there were no means to
assess the achievement of the relatively qualitative project objectives. The SAR does not
provide any quantitative criteria for judging the achievement of the project's objectives in
terms of improved farm incomes. In this respect, it limits itself to presenting evidence of
the considerable potential which existed for productivity gains by small farmers to be
achieved using INDAP's proven extension and credit mechanisms. Under this premise,
the project performance indicators in the SAR focus on the achievement of goals in terms
of the number of beneficiary families, special target groups (e.g., women) and proxy-
indicators for the quality of extension. As a consequence of INDAP's changing focus on
extension, most original project goals were only partially pursued, and their monitoring
was discontinued at an early stage of the project. The outcomes of the project are
difficult, and in some cases impossible, to assess because no effective monitoring and
evaluation program8, critical to the implementation of this type of project, was put in
place.
17. The project's basic objectives were not modified during implementation. However,
the service strategy was radically changed, beginning in the third year, in an effort to
assist small farmers to cope with a swiftly-deteriorating business environment9. In the
original project design, extension and credit were predominantly farm-oriented and were
mainly directed towards increasing crop productivity and simple on-farm investment.
INDAP's reformulated strategy, by contrast, focused on farmer innovation and became
oriented towards small on-farm "projects". Extension and credit support were
concentrated on those farmers with a greater potential for innovative investment, and
organizations became the primary target for INDAP's action. These changes involved an
extensive redesign of INDAP's instruments and mechanisms, and a major departure
from the project's original target population of the smallest farmers (the minifundistas).
18.  The objectives of the redesigned strategy were clear, though not wholly realistic.
Addressing small-farmer innovation required a higher quality, more intensive and
personalized extension system and a highly professional credit management capacity to
deal with increased lending risk. INDAP lacked the capacity and the means to implement
a system responding effectively to more demanding schemes. Farm-families were
poorly-endowed and ill-prepared to benefit from the restructured support schemes.
These changes thus turned the project into a more complex and risky venture, and
stressed the system's capacities beyond their potential.
19. At appraisal, no economic rate of return calculations were made because of the
"service and institutional development nature of the non-credit components""0 of the
project. In project design and appraisal, there is no statement made concerning the
comparison of alternative courses of action or the selection of a "least-cost solution to
8 The monitoring system was to be the key to the use of evaluation criteria for the graduation of farmers
between Phases I and 11 of technical assistance provision and, ultimately, out of INDAP's care.
9 Between 1985-89 and 1990-92, prices for crops typically grown by small-fanTers declined as follows:
wheat 25%, maize 17%, rice 11%, oats and barley over 20%.
10 Staff Appraisal Report, paragraph 6.01



- 16 -
attain identified and measurable benefits"". In practice, the project was designed
specifically to use and to improve existing institutions and to implement programs and
actions of public services designed to reach the smallest and poorest of Chile's small
farmers. Weaknesses in institutional capacity were recognized and, as a result, programs
of institutional strengthening were incorporated into the design of the project. It can be
argued that the project was designed to expand a successful formula to a larger set of
small poor farmers as a continuation of the project'2 then under implementation. This
would not have been an invalid approach, and could not have foreseen the fundamental
shift in business conditions in the agricultural sector that was approaching. However, it is
clear that the Bank did not simply "rubber-stamp" the existing programs of INDAP and
the MBN. Innovations, considered at the time to be worth the risk, included the
graduation of farmers from technical assistance (to allow the limited available public
funds to reach a larger number of small farmers) and the creation of farmer-level "credit
history" as an incentive to the commercial banks to take on the small farmers as clients.
Changes in the Mechanisms of Technology Transfer
20. The component of technology transfer underwent significant modification during
the life of the project, as a result of the changes in emphasis on the part of the public
sector towards small farmers. These changes modified fundamental aspects of INDAP's
operations (and hence the basic structure of the project) and to discuss the degree of
achievement of the project's objectives it is first necessary to analyze the changes. The
project implementation period"3 can be divided into three separate stages:
* the period from 1993 to 1994, when the project was implemented essentially in
accordance with the original design;
* the period from 1995 to 1996, when the project was restructured and based on the
concept of micro-regional projects; and
* the period from 1997 onwards, when the project was oriented towards associative
groups of producers.
21. In the first period, coverage was increased to 50,000 beneficiaries; the number of
small farmers assisted under the different mechanisms of the Basic Technology Transfer
Program (PTTB)14 grew to 39,000 whereas the number of medium-sized farmers
considered to be in Stage II of the Integrated Technology Transfer Program (PTTI)'5 fell
to 11,000. Given the significant improvement in the status of INDAP's sub-loan portfolio
during 1993 and 1994, at this point the project was being implemented following its
original design and appeared to be on track.
1 " GP 13.55, paragraph 15.
12 The Agricultural Services and Credit Project (Ln. 248 1-CH)
13 Although the Loan did not become effective until October 1992, Bank and INDAP staff worked closely
throughout 1992 on start-up activities (e.g., procurement, audit procedures, improvements to the credit
administration system), and significant progress was achieved with the project during 1992.
14 Programa de Transferencia de Tecnologia Basica
15 Programa de Transferencia de Tecnologia Integral



- 17-
22.  In 1994, with a change in government and, hence, the authorities in MAG, a debate
was provoked within INDAP concerning its role in modernizing the agricultural sector.
As a result, INDAP adopted a new role and mission to consolidate the productive
capacity of the small farmer, based on competitive production systems and efficient
organizations. Emphasis was placed on micro-regional projects"6 (PMRs) and local
development projects (PDLs); these were based on a central productive activity and the
development/consolidation of small fanner organizations capable of giving the necessary
commercial dimensions to productive activities. INDAP supported these "projects" via
the coordinated application of its services (technical assistance, credit, organizational
support management and specific consultancies) to prepare and implement them.
23.  Under this approach, technology transfer was structured according to the capacity
and potential of different groups of producers. Three broad classifications were defined
(SAAP, SAAL and SAAS)17, and cost recovery policies were modified"8. The
implementation of this approach, from 1995-1996, was limited by: (a) the institutional
capacity of INDAP itself, as a result of the increase and diversification of services
provided; (b) the restrictions on its ability to prepare "projects"; and (c) the limits on its
ability to coordinate its different activities of support at the level of the "projects".
24.  In 1997, a fuirther reorganization of INDAP's technology transfer program was
made, based on the need to achieve a transformation of the "production" culture to one of
"agricultural enterprise". In operational terms, this involved the provision of the set of
services required to achieve the success of associative "projects". Four types of services
were provided: (a) Local Advisory Service (SAL); (b) Project Advisory Service (SAP);
(c) Specialized Advisory Service (SAE); and (d) Local Development Service for Poor
Rural Communities (PRODESAL)'9. These changes tended to give emphasis to that
section of the small farmner sector with potential for innovation and growth. PRODESAL
was specifically designed for the small farmer considered to be below the level of
poverty; these were defined as small farmers with less than 5 "basic irrigated hectares" -
BIH20 - held under various forns of tenure. This further reformulation of the program
was based on a structure of demand from groups of producers with support from an
external consultant based on a specific line of production. PRODESAL was, in effect,
INDAP's vehicle for reaching the smallest poor farmers who were the focus of the Small
Farmer Services Project.
16 Proyectos Micro-regionales and Proyectos de Desarrollo Local
1 Servicio de Asesoria Agricola "Proyecto Micro-regional", Servicio de Asesoria Agricola Local, and
Servicio de Asesoria Agricola Semipresencial
Is The cost recovery targets for those producers in Stage I varied between I and 7%, whereas those for
producers in Stage II were set between 6 and 18% of the full cost of service provision.
19 Servicio de Asesoria Local, Servicio de Asesoria a Proyectos, Servicio de Asesoria Especializada, and
Servicio de Desarrollo Local en Comunidades Rurales Pobres.
20 The concept of the Basic Irrigated Hectare (hectarea bdsica de riego) allows the measurement of the
potential productivity of any given piece of land relative to the standard of one hectare of land in the valley
of the Rio Maipo, near Santiago. For example, one hectare of un-irrigated land is usually measured as
being between 0.1 and 0.2 BIH.



- 18-
The Implementation of the Project's Components
25. Technology Transfer21 Under the project, INDAP continued its successful and
innovative use of private sector firms to carry out the delivery of technology to farmers.
A substantial expansion of extension coverage of the smallest farmers was achieved by
the project during the two first years of execution, but in later years this coverage was
progressively reduced. At completion, coverage had been reduced to around 17,000
small farmers, approximately the level achieved before the project started. INDAP's
redesigned extension schemes were refocused towards a different stratum of small
farmers at the expense of a reduced coverage of the original project target population.
The overall coverage of the technology transfer program increased from 47,000 farmers
in 1992 to an average of about 50,400 farmers between 1993-1997, with a maximum of
52,500 farmers in 1997. Although the project target22 of 92,000 beneficiaries was not
reached, coverage was almost double the number of farmers reached in 1990 (when the
project was identified); this achievement, allied to the graduation or exit from the
program of two-thirds of the 16,000 medium farmers enrolled in 1991, indicates the
sharper focus on small, poor farmers in evidence by the end of the project's life.
26. INDAP's original extension model was successfully utilized during the first two
years of project execution. During that period, several project-designed innovations were
introduced to INDAP's extension scheme, and made significant contributions to improve
service quality. Of particular importance was the coordinated effort between INIA and
INDAP to address small-farm technology development and validation, a project-designed
mechanism aimed at closing the well-documented gap in Chile between technology
generation and extension. The Government insisted on the separation of research from
technology transfer. The early termination of this scheme thwarted expectations
concerning the availability and provision of suitable technology to small farmers, and this
presented an additional burden to INDAP as it forced a continued reliance on traditional
crops.
27. The quality of extension services significantly deteriorated as a result of the severe
difficulties experienced throughout the system in implementing INDAP's redesigned
extension strategies. The wide coverage of beneficiaries became an added hindrance to
maintaining or improving quality, as the nature of the assistance that was provided did
not lend itself to a massive approach. Though expansion was brought to a halt at the mid-
term of the project - and stabilized thereafter - INDAP could not manage to keep an
adequate balance between extension quality and quantity, a potential problem that had
been strongly emphasized in the SAR.
21 INDAP's activities were seriously cut back in the 1970s, and in 1982 it initiated a pilot technical
assistance program to small farmers using subsidized private sector agencies, including consulting fimns
and NGOs. It grew slowly, and then expanded rapidly from 1987. The private firms contracted to deliver
technology to farmers are well qualified and dedicated, drawing on local experienced staff. The model
limits INDAP's role to that of supervision and quality control, and minimizes bureaucratic interventions.
22 The project would "inherit" 16,000 medium farmers, who would pass through Phases I and II of
technology transfer and all graduate from INDAP support. The project would also inherit 18,000 small
fanners to whom would be added 58,000 new entrants. This cohort of 76,000 farmers would progress
through Phase I, with 14,000 of the original entrants passing to Phase II in the last year of the project.



- 19-
28. INDAP's work towards strengthened monitoring and evaluation of extension was
initiated early during project execution. Progress was made in designing the project
indicators into the system during the first two years. Subsequently, the whole idea of
monitoring extension was effectively abandoned. Keeping track of the beneficiaries'
progress under constantly-changing extension schemes became unmanageable to an
INDAP that was already over-burdened by change. It is evident that the monitoring and
evaluation system should have been assigned a much higher priority, as INDAP would
have benefited greatly from the availability of indicators reflecting the effects of its
changed support to farmers. In the absence of an effective monitoring system, it is
simply impossible to measure the achievement of objectives.
29. Project-designed mechanisms to train and coordinate the efforts of extensionists in
accommodating their practices to the needs of rural women and the development of their
economic potential were adopted during the early years of the project. This proved
successful under the original model, but when the extension strategy changed no specific
efforts to reach women with production technology were subsequently made. INDAP
assumed that women were as eligible for assistance as any other farm-family member.
No information was available to assess women's participation in INDAP's extension
program.
30. A more detailed description of the implementation of the technology transfer
component of the project is shown in Appendix 2.
31. Credit Under the project's design, expansion of INDAP's activities was to benefit
mainly small farmers through working capital loans; credit to farmer organizations was
encouraged to a degree, though limited to well-qualified cases. Under INDAP's re-
designed extension strategies, credit resources were concentrated on an increased number
of farmers other than the small farmers and on farmer organizations. To complement
project-focused extension, emphasis was placed on long-term lending. These investment
loans reached the level of 44% of the individual farmers' credit portfolio and about 60%
of the organizations' credit portfolio. The resulting portfolio composition was contrary to
the project's cautious, risk-averse design which had been implemented to foster
INDAP's credit management and expansion. INDAP's more risky term-lending to
individuals and organizations under the redesigned extension and credit schemes placed
INDAP in a financial condition no longer compatible with the high level of small farner
coverage achieved earlier in the project. In the latter years of the project's
implementation, INDAP's loan arrears surpassed by far the rates that had been
considered unacceptable at appraisal.
32. Project goals regarding farmer graduation into the commercial banking system
were focused on INDAP's activities to explore and pilot-test the necessary conditions for
such graduation. No targets were set as to the number of farmers to be graduated from
INDAP's credit system. A scheme promoted by INDAP to subsidize the transaction
costs of commercial banks for small-farmer credit achieved meager results; only about
580 loans had been granted under the scheme by the end of 199723. It is important to
23 Available evidence indicates that only 4% of farmers under INDAP's extension program had access to
credit from the commercial banking system in 1997.



- 20 -
emphasize that commercial banks had by this time drastically reduced their lending to the
agricultural sector in general, as a result of poor sector and loan performance during
the 1 990s. Contrary to expectations, INDAP thus became virtually the only source of
credit available to small farmers.
33. Credit ceased to be a mere complement to extension when INDAP changed its
strategy and began to focus extension on innovative investment projects; term credit
became almost a necessary condition for extension to materialize. Although no
indicators on the level of the linkages between credit and extension are available from
INDAP, the findings of a survey contracted by the Ministry of Economy to evaluate the
performance of INDAP's instruments24 indicated that credit operations linked to
extension were 44% of the total in 1993 and 80% in 1997.
34.  A major concern expressed in the SAR was the critical financial condition of
INDAP's credit system. The credit management system installed at INDAP was
designed to develop a "credit record" for its borrowers and to share the information with
private credit agencies. This was expected to provide a strong incentive to farmers to
service their loans. To provide an incentive to the area agencies of INDAP to improve
the quality and status of their portfolios, their operating budgets were geared to the level
of loan recoveries. The imnmediacy of this incentive was significantly diluted as long-
term lending grew at the expense of short-term, working capital lending.
35.  At the end of 1991, INDAP's credit system had a current level of arrears of 31%25,
a situation deemed unacceptable by both the government and the Bank. This was
virtually unchanged in 1992, but loan collection rates improved significantly during the
first two years of the project's full implementation (1993-1994) and met project targets26.
However, during subsequent years, loan arrears27 increased dramatically, surpassing the
level that had been considered unacceptable pre-project. Term loans, notably those to
organizations, performed poorest, despite the increasing grants received by borrowers in
connection with term credit operations.
36. To a great extent, the general decline in INDAP's loan collection performance can
be attributed to the adverse business conditions of the agricultural sector faced by farners
during project execution and to a severe three-year drought that ended only in 1996
which combined to impose severe stresses on farm finances. However, the poor
performance of INDAP's long-term loan portfolio also hinged heavily on INDAP's own
lending policy and capabilities. In supporting farmer innovation, INDAP's lending had
focused on high-risk operations, and it was unable to develop adequate business criteria
to analyze and make appropriate decisions in connection with the farmers' proposed
operations.
24 Universidad Cat6lica de Chile, et al. Evaluaci6n de los Instrumentos de Fomento Productivo: El
Programa de Transferencia Tecnol6gica del Instituto de Desarrollo Agropecuario (Santiago, Chile, 1997).
25 28% in the short-tern loan portfolio, and 40% in the long-term loan portfolio.
26 A 90% collection rate, to be achieved by 1995, was established in the Loan Agreement.
27 After significant improvements in the early project years, arrears on short-term working capital loans
rose to about 30% (over 50% in the case of organizations). For long-term loans, arrears on first-installment
collections rose to 34% and were significantly higher for second and subsequent installments; in the case of
organizations, arrears rose as high as 64% in 1996.



- 21 -
37. As a consequence of INDAP's heavy term lending, the share of term loans in
INDAP's overall portfolio - and thus the overall portfolio level of loan arrears - increased
to unmanageable levels28. It will be difficult, if not impossible, for INDAP to restore its
financial condition through more stringent debt-collection procedures. As was done in
the past, most bad debts will probably be forgiven, and thus turned into a net government
subsidy. Contrary to the original project goal, INDAP's financial condition deteriorated
to the point at which only political will assured its viability.
38. A more detailed description of the implementation of the credit component of the
project is shown in Appendix 3.
39.  Rural Communication System    The utilization, of audio-visual techniques was
seen as a key tool in enhancing both project extension quality and efficiency in service
delivery. The rural communications system's initial implementation problems faced by
INDAP were later compounded by the complexity of the messages that were to be
conveyed to farmers under the restructured extension strategies. The system achieved
little in adding efficiency to extension, as its implementation was discontinued at an early
stage of project execution.
40.  Rural Land Titling   The achievement of project objectives in rural land titling
was substantial in terms of meeting project targets, increased service efficiency and
beneficiary satisfaction. The titling program of the MBN was extended by the
government beyond the project execution period. The extended program will regularize
the titles of the remaining families lacking secure land tenure.
41. A more detailed description of the implementation of the rural land titling
component is shown in Appendix 4.
42. Institutional Strengthening of INDAP The project's design included inputs and
activities to strengthen INDAP and to expand its capacity to undertake delivery of credit
and technology transfer. Most of the physical objectives of the component, in terms of
procurement of vehicles, computers and software, creation of new area agencies, etc.,
were achieved in the early years of the project's life. This improved INDAP's
information systems, including credit reporting and management, accounting, and
monitoring and evaluation. This improvement, however, was not fully reflected in
institutional performance; as described above, the status of the loan portfolio declined
over time, and the monitoring and evaluation system which was strengthened early in the
project's life was, in effect, abandoned under the burden of the changes implemented in
the extension schemes.
43.  Institutional Strengthening of MBN    To support the increase in land titling
activities under the project, a series of institutional strengthening activities was
implemented to improve the facilities of the MBN (e.g., office rehabilitation, the
acquisition of vehicles and surveying equipment) and its information systems. These
28 The share of long-term loans in INDAP's overall portfolio increased from 25% in 1992 to 48% in 1997,
and the share of long-term loans to organizations increased from 8% to 28%.



- 22 -
activities are considered to have been fully successful, not only allowing the full
achievement of the project's targets but also providing the basis for continuity of
operation.
The Specific Objectives of the Project
Objective #1 - to overcome the constraints to increasing the productivity, incomes
and well-being of small farmers.
44. Taken literally, such a broad objective is extremely ambitious. Implicitly, the
constraints are considered to be security of land tenure, access to technology, and credit,
but in retrospect it can be seen that there are many more constraints in effect and not all
of them are amenable to government-sponsored actions. Even if it is assumed that the
"small farmers" in question are limited to those proposed to be reached by the project
through technology transfer, credit and land titling, the intention to overcome the
constraints operating on them and limiting their ability to increase productivity, incomes
and well-being is laudable but somewhat heroic. The coverage of the technology transfer
program increased from 47,000 farmers in 1992 to an average of about 50,400 farmers
between 1993-1997, with a maximum of 52,500 farmers in 1997. Although the project
targets were not reached, the coverage achieved did, in fact, almost double the number of
farmers that had been reached in 1990 (when the project was identified), and this
achievement, allied to the graduation from the program of two-thirds of those medium
farmers enrolled in 1991, indicates clearly the sharper focus on small, poor farmers in
evidence by the end of the project's life.
45.  The objective of the technology transfer program was to reach a total of 92,000
small farmers and to make significant changes in their production practices and systems.
The project's original design focused on improving the quality of extension and its
delivery in terms of the basic, proven INDAP model. The scope for improvement by
small farmers was defined by the observed higher yields and incomes achieved by the
larger farmers in the same areas. In this model, success in achieving the project's
objectives mainly relied on maintaining INDAP's capacity to deliver services to a
significantly expanded target group; its limitations in this respect were addressed through
an institutional strengthening component.
46.  Rapid reductions in crop profitability weakened the potential for results from
INDAP's traditional extension model which was successfully implemented during the
first two years of the project. Without abandoning the traditional extension model,
INDAP made an unsuccessful attempt to restructure its strategy in 1995-1996 by focusing
on micro-regional production systems; as economic conditions for farming deteriorated
further, INDAP initiated the implementation of a radically new strategy in 1997,
supporting the transition of farmers towards a more innovative, business-driven
agriculture. This moved INDAP's focus away from the smallest farmers, and their
number attended by INDAP declined without their having alternative sources of
technology or credit available to them.



- 23 -
Objective #2 - to improve the institutional capability and effectiveness of INDAP
and the MBN.
47. During the early years of project implementation, significant progress was achieved
in INDAP, particularly in the improvement of monitoring of the performance of the credit
portfolio. However, the redesigned service strategies strained INDAP's capacities
beyond the project's provisions for institutional strengthening. Extension and credit
under the changed schemes required levels of organization, qualified inputs and a
systems approach to farmer support which, by its institutional nature, INDAP was
unprepared to structure or operate.
48. MBN's land titling capacities were adequately strengthened by the project. By the
time of project completion, the MBN's division responsible for land titling was well
prepared to sustain subsequent titling activities without the project's support. The
responsible division in MBN is staffed with a team of well-trained professionals, operates
a significantly improved computerized client information and monitoring system, and has
established a transparent contracting system with private consultants for title
regularization.
Objective #3 - to improve the access of small farmers to commercial markets and
agricultural development programs.
49. In the project's design, the extension program of INDAP was intended to take on
the additional responsibilities of improving the access of small farmers to markets (both
for inputs and production) and promoting their increased participation in publicly-
sponsored agricultural development programs. Indirect evidence provided by survey29
shows that, for those farm-families participating in INDAP's Technology Transfer
Program, about 30% of output is sold in formal markets compared to about 20% for non-
participants. Of the former, about 12% had production contracts with some form of agro-
industry, compared to about 9% for the latter. However, in the absence of valid base-line
data these differences cannot confidently be attributed to the benefits of participation in
the project and may merely reflect a bias in selection. Given the increased focus of
INDAP on "business-oriented" projects after 1995, a stronger impact on the linkages of
small farmers to formal markets would have been expected.
50. Using its leverage as the major supplier of production-related services in the rural
areas, INDAP was expected under the project to provide information and contacts for
small farmers to gain access to other public services and development programs. Only a
very small proportion (between 4-6%) of farm families reached by INDAP's Technology
Transfer Program are involved in other publicly-sponsored programs, but the proportion
of non-participants is even less, at about 2%. The major achievement seems to have been
to link INDAP's extension and credit program with the government-subsidized small-
scale irrigation program.
29 The survey was conducted based on a questionnaire and a representative sample of farmers, both
beneficiaries and non-beneficiaries of INDAP. Universidad de Chile, et al. 1997 op.cit.



- 24 -
C.   Major Factors Affecting the Project
51.  Important economic factors significantly affected the evolution of the project. It
was hard to foresee at the time of appraisal the extent to which business conditions
throughout agriculture would deteriorate during the 1990s. Unfavorable intemational
market conditions and the negative sectoral effects of the government's successful
macro-economic policies combined progressively to erode the profitability of agricultural
activities. The strong structure of incentives to traditional crops of the 1980s began
weakening in the early 1990s and sectoral growth declined, from 5.8% per annum during
1983-1989 to less than 4% per annum in the 1990s30.
Factors not subject to Government control:
52. Available information at the time of project preparation and appraisal pointed
clearly to the success of INDAP's basic model of productivity-focused technical
assistance in supporting the development of small farmers over the period 1983-19893'.
A particularly favorable business environment for traditional agriculture, resulting from
the policy adjustments of the early 1980s32, was expected to continue to be an important
contributing factor encouraging technology adoption by small farmers during project
implementation. Under these conditions, the success of the project was expected mainly
to depend on INDAP's capability to manage efficiently the delivery of services to a
significantly expanded target group. It was impossible to foresee the extent to which the
business conditions for agriculture that prevailed in the 1980s would deteriorate during
the early 1990s; the significantly decreased profitability of most traditional crops meant
that farmers were faced with a need to increase productivity merely to maintain
competitiveness. During 1993-1995, extension was predominantly farm-oriented and
addressed crop productivity issues in terms of increased yields per hectare, an approach
that had proved to be highly successful under the attractive conditions of the 1980s.
53.  Decreasing intemational prices for basic products during the 199@s combined with
reduced levels of nominal and effective protection resulted in lower local prices to
producers. Consumption of pulses, a staple of small farmer production in the dry-lands,
decreased substantially as a result of their negative income elasticity of demand in the
face of the economy's sustained income growth. On the supply side, a three-year drought
ending in 1996 severely affected production and crop yields, hitting hardest the small
farmers in the dry land rain-fed areas (the Secano).
30 The average growth rate in sectoral product masks an extraordinary variation in annual rates, from
+11.2% in 1992 to -4.2 in 1997. ODEPA/Banco Centralde Chile
31 Crop yields of PTTI farmers had increased significantly over this period, particularly in wheat (7 1%),
maize (35%), rice (40%), and beans (40%). All PTTI yields exceeded national averages in 1988-1999. No
data for the PTTB farmers were available during appraisal as this program was at an early stage of
development (see SAR, Annex 3). National averages yields of wheat and maize in 1990-1992 were 100%
higher than during 1980-1983; over the same period, yields for oilseeds, sugar beet, barley and oats
increased by 50%.
32 Producer prices increased significantly, mainly as a result of the currency devaluations that followed the
economic crisis of 1982-1983. The adjustment included higher customs duties and the introduction of
price stabilization schemes (the price bands) for wheat and sugar.



- 25 -
Factors generally subject to Government control:
54.  Another factor considerably limiting the project's effect was the decline in the
average quality of the services provided by the consulting firms contracted by INDAP to
provide extension services to farmers. Operating on tight budgets, and often under
difficult field conditions, consulting firms could not afford to contract extension
professionals of the required experience and ability. This limitation worsened as more
personalized and specialized resources were required to assist farmers under the
redesigned extension and credit schemes.
55. The Chilean economy became a victim of its own success; export growth and a
massive inflow of foreign investment drove the real rate of exchange down by nearly
40% during 1992-97. In a unilateral decision, the government reduced import duties
drastically in 199033. By totally reversing the favorable structure of incentives to
agriculture which had prevailed during the 1 980s, the new scenario severely curtailed
competitiveness in agriculture, most notably in the traditional crops. Development
options for small farmers were thus progressively reduced to the more innovative, higher-
risk end of agriculture, and to adjust to this new scenario project extension and credit
strategies had to be radically redesigned.
Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
56. The achievement of the project's objectives had relied heavily on INDAP's existing
capacity to manage its basic, proven technology transfer program. However, its
extension and credit programs were redesigned into much more complex schemes.
INDAP's management was ineffective to implement adequately the changes associated
with the redesigned strategy. The new schemes involved utilizing technical and business
criteria of a complexity that was beyond the scope of INDAP's capacity or institutional
potential.
D.  Project Sustainability
57.  The sustainability of extension and credit programs to small farmers is uncertain, at
least on the scale that assistance was provided under the project. The redesigned
extension schemes required a more intensive and higher-quality support to farmers,
which was only compatible with a reduced and selected coverage and under a sound
organization of the services to be provided. INDAP proved to have the flexibility to
introduce change when necessary, and also continued to demonstrate a strong
commitment to public service and to the improvement of the welfare of its client base.
However, under the project, INDAP did not prove that it had the capacity effectively to
manage farmer assistance under increasingly difficult conditions for agriculture.
58. The unacceptably high levels of loan arrears in the portfolio make unlikely the
long-run sustainability of INDAP's public sector small-farmer credit system. As no
alternative financing source is available to small-farmers, INDAP's current system is
33 Custom duties were reduced from 19.2% in 1985-89 to an average of 11% in 1990.



- 26 -
likely to prevail as long as it remains acceptable to the government to subsidize small-
farmer borrowing.
59. The sustainability of the rural land titling program of the MBN was ensured
through the institution's decision to carry on with the work initiated in the project. The
new program has similar objectives, and will build on the experience and systems
developed in the project.
E.  Bank Performance
Project Identification
60.  Background    The curtailment of public programs in the 1970s resulted in small
farmers losing access to credit and technical assistance. In 1984, INDAP launched a
program to address the needs of those small farmers considered to have the potential to
be self-sufficient (i.e., those farmers with 5-12 BIH) and in 1987/1988 extended this to
smaller farmers with minimal resources. Assistance to these smaller farmers was limited
mainly to technical assistance, and INDAP itself could only reach about 10% of its
potential beneficiaries, who numbered around 250,000. The Bank supported this
strategy; INDAP credit and technical assistance were at the core of the Agricultural
Services and Credit Project, a loan to support which (Ln.248 1 -CH) was approved in
December 1984 and closed in October 1991.
61. The identification of the Small Farmer Services Project evolved from the
experience of implementing the Agricultural Services and Credit Project, and the date of
identification is defined as May 1990, coinciding with a full project supervision mission.
At that time, it was expected that Loan 2481 -CH would be fully disbursed towards the
end of CY1991 which was, in fact, the case.
Project Preparation
62.  The Bank put a considerable effort into supporting the preparation of the project.
The earliest preparation missions were concerned about the lack of definition of the
project's contents and objectives. Institutional analysis was an early focus of preparation,
with a "capacity gaps analysis" being instituted in August 1990 to provide the eventual
basis for the institutional development components in INDAP and MBN.
63.  The two main issues that faced the first main preparation mission in
September/October 1990 were significant; both were financial, and concerned the
solvency of INDAP and the level of arrears in its sub-loan portfolio. At that stage, the
Bank estimated that about 50% of INDAP's portfolio was at risk; emphasizing the fact
that this put in jeopardy the Bank's future support for INDAP's credit program, the
preparation mission recommended three specific actions concerning: (a) the adoption of a
standard system of arrears accounting; (b) the need for a plan of action to improve the
portfolio; and (c) the development of alternative lending and collection arrangements.
64. The preparation mission recommended a project outline which added three new,
relatively small, components to the basic structure of credit, technology transfer,
institutional development and land titling; these were demonstration and research centers,



- 27 -
mass communication, and a scholarship fund. It also concluded that certain key steps
should be taken to ensure steady progress in project preparation; as a result, a preparation
unit was established in INDAP and staffed by short-term consultants financed under the
existing loan (Ln. 2481-CH). It was agreed that the preparation unit's project proposal,
reviewed as necessary within the Government, would be formally presented to the Bank
by the end of December, 1990. In the interim period, further preparation missions dealt
with the specific issues of institutional weaknesses and the requirements for
computerized information systems at INDAP and MBN.
Project Appraisal
65.  The level of Government commitment to the project at this stage is not at all clear.
The first effort to pre-appraise the project, in March 1991, was frustrated by the lack of
decision-making by the authorities on a broad range of issues. Nevertheless, the mission
was able to review the project's technical content, to reach agreement on technical issues
at the working level, and to identify the few remaining preparation tasks. Despite the fact
that the Bank had asked for a project proposal with the full review and support of the
government, this was not forthcoming. Moreover, it became clear that there were major
differences of opinion between the Ministerio de Hacienda and INDAP on a number of
fumdamental issues, including the extent of subsidies, interest rates, the length of
beneficiary participation in technology transfer programs, and the links between credit
and technical assistance.
66. On the recommendation of the mission, a working group was formed to review the
project proposal in detail, but no conclusions were communicated to the mission. At this
stage, there was also uncertainty regarding the inclusion of the land titling component.
The revision of INDAP's portfolio accounting system had not been made, and there was
concern on the part of the Bank that INDAP was less than serious about making the
review, perhaps reluctant to see its loan recovery performance made transparent.
67.  It was noted that the performance of the project preparation unit, which had been
fully satisfactory between Novemberl 990 and January 1991, had deteriorated markedly
with the departure of the unit's coordinator to fulfill a long-standing consultancy
commitment. The mission urged the Government to find a suitable replacement without
delay. It was concluded that the definition of the subsequent mission as being "appraisal"
or "second pre-appraisal" should be made contingent on a letter from the Government to
the Bank, to be presented by April, 1991.
68. In July 1991, the project (with the exception of the credit component) was pre-
appraised a second time; the credit component was pre-appraised a second time in August
1991. A number of key issues were resolved during these two missions. INDAP agreed
to proceed more slowly with the expansion of its extension activities and to adopt a two-
phased approach to the graduation of small farmers from the technology transfer
program. Phase I would last for 3-6 years, with farmer evaluation beginning in year 3,
and Phase II would last for three years. The small-farmer focus of the project meant that
a certain level of subsidy was implicit, but INDAP agreed to make the subsidies
transparent and automatic.



- 28 -
69.  INDAP formally defined its strategy as preparing its clients for graduation from its
credit program to commercial sources. To develop the necessary mechanisms for this, a
study would be completed before the mid-term review of the proposed project in its third
year. It is important to record that the conclusion was reached at this stage that the
poorest farmers would be unable to borrow commercially even at the conclusion of the
project because their average requirement would be less than one-tenth of the break-even
loan level for commercial banks (estimated at US$8000 equivalent). The study of
accounting systems and loan arrears was completed in August, 1991, and concluded that
the accounting system was adequate but that the portfolio information system was
deficient.
70. Following pre-appraisal, a number of themes dominated the Bank's discussion of
the project proposal and the appraisal. INDAP's role in the provision of rural credit was
questioned. Confidence was expressed that sub-loan recovery would improve under the
project with the incorporation of a greater weight of the smallest farmers (those with less
than 5 BIH being considered a better credit risk than those with between 5-11 BIH). A
policy of "no interest-rate subsidy" was to be adhered to by INDAP. The financial status
of INDAP was also questioned, and it was agreed that the government's budgetary
support to INDAP over the life of the project should be formally agreed to.
71. It was considered that the project would build on lessons learned in the
implementation of the Agricultural Services and Credit Project, in particular the need for
more discipline in INDAP's management and accounting in credit operations, the non-
sustainability of the financing of technology transfer, deficient monitoring and
evaluation, and the defacto unlimited length of client participation in INDAP's
programs. The Bank's role was seen as being important and catalytic in provoking and
sustaining these much-needed reforms in INDAP.
72. Appraisal of the project was made subject to a number of conditions concerning:
(a) the transitional nature of INDAP's credit to small farmers, preparing them for access
to commercial bank credit; (b) improvements in INDAP's portfolio management system
and in portfolio management itself; and (c) the link between INDAP's measurable
performance and its budget. Although poverty alleviation was stated at this stage by the
Bank to be a key objective of the project, project documentation does not identify it as
such, although the clear focus on income-enhancing productive interventions among the
smallest and poorest farmers meant that it was at least one of the implicit objectives.
Appraisal emphasized the issue of transition of small farmers to commercial credit,
placing emphasis on the need to establish sound credit records for clients and to lend at
market rates. Improvement in portfolio management by INDAP was expected to improve
the collection rate to 90% by the end of 1992.
Project Supervision
73. The Bank sent seventeen supervision missions to Chile over the course of the five
and a half year period between July 1992 (in anticipation of Loan Effectiveness) and
January 1998. The mid-term review of the project became a rather long drawn-out affair,
which began in November 1994 and was not concluded until July 1996. The mid-term
review began several months after the date specified in the Loan Agreement (July 1,



- 29 -
1994); it must be kept in mind, however, that the implementation period defined in the
Loan Agreement (Schedule 5) covers a five-year period 1992-1996 whereas, in practice,
with Loan Effectiveness not being declared until October 1992, the implementation
period more properly should be described as covering calendar years 1993 to 1997. The
mid-term review thus began barely two years after the actual project start-up.
74. Early supervision missions involved staff who had been associated with preparation
and appraisal; in terms of expertise applied, there was an emphasis on financial analysis
(although other technical disciplines were by no means excluded). Later missions tended
to emphasize technical aspects of agriculture and technology transfer. The supervision of
the project had certain deficiencies, particularly when it was critically needed. The
failure, for example, to put in place (and to maintain through the changes in strategy) a
properly functioning monitoring and evaluation system should have been corrected.
F.  Borrower Performance
Project Identification
75. Emphasizing its desire to attack rural poverty and its concern for the low level of
coverage achieved in the past, the then-recently installed Government in 1990 gave new
emphasis to INDAP, which was to be reoriented and expanded over four years with the
ambitious target of bringing 100,000 small farmers within the orbit of its credit and
technology transfer programs. Greater emphasis, including both technology transfer and
credit, was to be given to the smallest and poorest farmers.
Project Preparation
76. INDAP worked closely with the Bank in the preparation of the project. Although
the project concept took some time to achieve definition, in terms of specific objectives
and activities, the establishment of the preparation unit, isolated from the day-to-day
issues of INDAP's operations, enabled a much more focused approach to be adopted.
Project Appraisal
77.  The pre-appraisal and appraisal of the project lasted from March to October 1991
and were characterized by a lack of decision-making on the part of the Government on a
range of issues. This was the result of a significant difference of opinion between the
Ministerio de Hacienda and INDAP on a number of key issues. During the whole
process of preparation and appraisal, the level of the Borrower's ownership of the project
and the degree of commitment to the achievement of the principal and subsidiary
objectives are far from clear.
Project Implementation
78. As described above, there were important modifications in the service strategy of
INDAP , particularly in the technology transfer component, as a result of changes in the
economic environment of the agricultural sector and the Government's response to them.
Given that the implementation period was of only five years, there was little time fully to
implement and absorb the lessons of one approach before the next one was launched.



- 30 -
79. In 1994, the Government proposed to reduce its requests for Bank disbursements
for financing the project to 50% of the projected level, on the basis that the robust status
of public finance made loan draw-down (and increased debt) unnecessary. This was
subsequefitly increased to 75%. Between FY1994 and FY1996, actual disbursements
varied between 55% and 88% of the appraisal estimates, but in FY1997 and FY1998
disbursements fell to close to zero and, at the request of the Government, US$36.2
million (38%) of the Loan was canceled, with effect from July 1997.
G. Assessment of Outcome
80. The project's overall outcome is considered to have been unsatisfactory. The
objectives as defined in the SAR are qualitative and subjective, and it is difficult to be
specific about their achievement particularly in the absence of a proper system of
monitoring and evaluation. Although there were several important achievements under
the project, the project failed to achieve important parts of its objectives, particularly in
the areas of graduation to commercial credit and cost recovery for technology transfer.
Table 1 shows the relationship between the objectives and the components of the project;
and an assessment of the achievement of the objectives.
Table 1: Assessment of Outcome
OBJECTIVES
(a) increasing  (b) improving   (c) (i) improving    (c) (ii) improving
COMPONENTS            productivity,  the institutional  small farmer access  small farmer access
incomes and   capacity of   to commercial     to agricultural
well-being of  INDAP and    markets for products  development
small farmers  MBN          and inputs        programs
(a) Technology Transfer
(i) emphasis on smallest
farmers and phase-out of       S                                                          l
support to others
(ii) improved quality of       S                                                S 5
extension
(iii) improved efficiency in   S                              S                 S
service delivery
(iv) strengthened monitoring   U             U
and evaluation
(v) enhanced role for rural    S-                            S-                 S-
community organizations
(vi) enhanced support for      S-                                               S-
women's groups
(b) Provision of Credit
(i) graduation of farmers to   U
the commercial banking
sector
(ii) reforms in INDAP to
improve its sub-loan portfolio  U            U
performance
(c) Rural Communications       S             -               S-                 S-
(d) Land Titling Services      S+
(e) Institutional              S-            S-
Strengthening of INDAP                    .
(f) Institutional              S             S
Strengthening of MBN



- 31 -
81. There were some laudable achievements in the implementation of the project.
Although the number of small farmers reached with technology (at 51,000) was less than
the goal of 92,000, it was twice the number attended in 1990; with the graduation or exit
of two-thirds of the medium farmers, a much closer focus was achieved on the poorest
and smallest farmers by the end of the project. Small farmers receiving technology
transfer had higher gross revenue and net margins in their production, cropped a higher
percentage of their land, produced higher-value crops and marketed their output better
than those who did not.
82. With the two re-formulations of the technology transfer program, the concept of
graduation remained constant but, in practice, very little was actually achieved. The
concept of on-farm technological development, which would allow the individual
producer to progress beyond the need for continued assistance, did not happen; the
dynamic changes in the agricultural sector, in terns of improved management and
technology among larger farmers and worsening terms of trade, meant that technical
support was needed continuously to maintain competitivity. Similarly, little was
achieved in terms of cost recovery from farmers for technology transfer.
83. The credit component was responsible for several major improvements in INDAP's
systems; new information technology provided up-to-date information on loans and the
portfolio status at all the area agencies; a credit management system was implemented to
provide accurate and timely information concerning over-due loans and recoveries; a
systematic set of penalties was applied to farmers with over-due loans; data on borrowers
was included in commercial credit agencies' records; and full training was achieved of
account executives and other staff. A major concern of the SAR was the financial health
of INDAP's credit system; at the end of 199 1, the level of arrears was 31 %. During the
first two years of the project, the level of arrears improved significantly and met the
defined targets, but later the level of arrears rose again substantially, and the long-term
loans performed the worst. At the end of the project, the status of INDAP's credit
portfolio was significantly worse than it had been before the project started.
H.  Future Operation
84. A significant number of changes was made in the activities carried out under the
project between preparation/appraisal and the latter phases of its implementation. As
described above, changes in the sector's economic environment demanded these changes,
which affected both the technology transfer and credit components. INDAP is the public
sector's designated point of contact with the smallest and poorest of Chile's rural
dwellers, and MBN will continue to have responsibility for the regularization of land
titles amongst small farmers; technology transfer and credit supply, on the one hand, and
titling services, on the other, will continue to be provided as the permanent functions of
these institutions funded from fiscal resources.



- 32 -
I.   Key Lessons Learned
85. The most important lessons learned from the implementation of this project are:
*  Adaptive research, oriented towards the needs of small farmers in a farming-systems
context and recognizing the regional and micro-climatic variations under which they
operate, is essential to maintain competitiveness, and the need is continuous. This is
particularly important where (as in the case of Chile) small farmers operate in the
same environment as large-scale, entrepreneurial and (above all) export-oriented
larger farmers and agro-industries.
*  Credit and technology transfer in combination are necessary but not sufficient
conditions to increase productivity; increasing productivity alone will not guarantee
an increase in net income and well-being; in a competitive and open environment,
emphasis must also be given to other important factors, particularly the development
of infrastructure, marketing and farmer organizations.
*  Beside the objectives of financial sustainability (in credit recovery and cost recovery),
there are other legitimate objectives when attempting to reach and improve the well-
being of the small, poor farmer. The project would have benefited from a detailed
social assessment.
*  Where cost recovery and graduation are objectives of public-sector technology
transfer and credit, it must be recognized that not all participants will be successful;
the strategy adopted must recognize this and have specific rules for the "non-
graduates".
?  The concept of credit graduation rests ultimately on the willingness of the financial
sector to take on credit-worthy farmers as customers; this should be realistically
assessed ex ante, because the combination of small average loan size, relatively high
transaction costs, and significant risks associated with agriculture make small farmers
an inherently unattractive client base from a commercial banking point of view.
*  A project which is recognized by both the Bank and the Borrower as supporting an
existing government program runs the risk that little weight will be given to the
Bank's views if the program is restructured and/or reoriented by the government,
especially if the proportion of program expenditures supported by the loan is small.
The options available to the Bank, including reformulation or restructuring of the
project and cancellation of the loan, should be fully considered.
*  A properly identified and calibrated monitoring and evaluation system is critical for a
project of this type. The appropriate base-line studies and the definition of the
sampling methods should be specified as early as possible in the project cycle, and
their preparation should be part of the early-acting conditionality attached to the loan.
Without a proper monitoring and evaluation system, it is impossible to measure the
achievement of objectives.



- 33 -
The private sector delivery of extension services, pioneered by INDAP in the early
1 980s, continues to be both feasible and effective. In this respect, Chile has modified
both the philosophy and the practice of delivering extension services to small farmers;
the number of public sector employees has been reduced, responsibility has been
shifted to the private sector, and competition has been engendered among service
suppliers.






- 34 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
SMALL FARMER SERVICES PROJECT
(Loan No. 3473-CH)
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives           Substantial        Partial         Neg]igible       Not applicable
(V)              (V)               (V)                (V)
Macro Policies                        FI                                 II]
Sector Policies                       LI               L                                     LI
Financial Objectives                   a               LI                                    LI
Institutional Development             LI                                 El                 LI 
Physical Objectives                                    LI                L                   LI
Poverty Reduction                     LI                                 LI                 L-I
Gender Issues                         L                                  LI                  LI
Other Social Objectives               Li               LI                LI
Environmental Objectives              L                L                 LI
Public Sector Management              I                L                 LI                 I3
Private Sector Development            L                                  F] L1
Other (specify)                       FL               L                 LI



- 35 -
(Continued)
B. Project Sustainability             Likely                  Unlikely                 Uncertain
(v')                     (1)                       (1)
C. Bank Performance                    Satisfactory         Satisfactory               Deficient
(1)                     (1)                       (/)
Identification                                              E3
Preparation Assistance                                     Ii]
Appraisal                           Ol
Supervision                          ]                      DI
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                      Satisfactory    Satisfactory    Deficient
(1t)           (1)             (i)
Preparation                                  E                              El
Implementation                               C              El
Covenant Compliance                          E              El
Operation (if applicable)                    n              El 
Hisaly      HSisay
E. Assessment of Outcome              satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
E              El)                                 El ()  



- 37 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Project Name and Loan No.                   Purpose                    Year of          Status
approval
Agricultural Machinery Project  Agricultural mechanization               1948            Closed
(Ln. 0006-CH)
Rio Elqui Groundwater Resources   Water resource evaluation              1951           Closed
Project
(Ln. 0049-CH)
Livestock Development Project   Extensive pasture improvement and        1963           Closed
(Ln. 0266)                      on-farm construction, purchase of
machinery and livestock.
Milk and Meat Processing Project   Modernization and expansion of meat   1967           Closed
(Ln. 0367-CH)                   and milk processing industry.
Agriculture Rehabilitation Project    Credit for agricultural rehabilitation  1975      Closed
(Ln. 1119-CH)                   and on-farm investment in post-
agrarian reform period.                 1976
Livestock, Fruits, Vineyards and
Agro-industry Credit Project
(Ln. 1350-CH)                                                            1980
Second Agricultural Credit Project.
(Ln. 1902-CH)
Agricultural Services and Credit  Credit and Technical Assistance for    1984            Closed
Project                         agricultural development
(Ln. 2481 -CH)
Irrigation Development Project  Investment in small- and medium-         1992           Closes in
(Ln. 3528-CH)                   scale investmnent                                      June 1999
Secano Rural Poverty Alleviation    Small-scale on-farm investment       1996         Operational
and Natural Resource Management
Project
(Ln. 3974-CH



- 38 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle         Date Planned       [                           Actual Date
Identification                                        May 1990 (during supervision of the Agricultural Services and Credit
Project)
Initial Executive Project  August 1990                August 8, 1990
Summary
Preparation                August 1990 --             August 1990 - March 1991
Pre-appraisal              March 1991                 July - August 1991
Appraisal                  March 1991      (IEPS)     October 1991
September 1991  (FEPS)
Negotiations                                          March 16-20, 1992
Letter of Development Policy                          A Statement of Policy/Program Matrix was provided by MAG and
(if applicable)                                       Strategic Plans were provided by INDAP and MBN prior to loan
negotiations which took place in March 1992.
Board Presentation         December 1991  (IEPS)      May 21, 1992
March 1992     (FEPS)
Signing                                               August 7, 1992
Effectiveness              November 10, 1992          October 1, 1992
Mid-term review            July 1994                  November 1994 - July 1996
Project Completion         December 31, 1997          December 31, 1997
Loan Closing               June 30, 1998              June 30, 1998



- 39 -
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
IBRD Fiscal Year              1992    1993    1994    1995   1996   1997    1998
Appraisal Estimate            9.7      16.0    30.4    52.0   77.1    91.5    95.0
Actual                        0.0      13.8    22.7    35.0    56.8    58.8    58.8
Actual as % of Estimate       0.0      86.3    74.7    67.3    73.7    64.3    61.9
Date of Final Disbursement    March 31, 1998



- 40 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation34
Projected   Achieved    Projected     Achieved     Projected    Achieved     Projected      Achieved     Projected    Achieved
1992        1993         1993         1994         1994         1995         1995           1996         1996         1997
1- Technology Transfer
(a) Total number of beneficiary families                                                                                                                                 l
Phase I                                  25000       41000        45000        37000         52000         38000      62000          38000          54000
Phase II                                     0         7000        8000        14000         16000         13000      16000          13000          22000
Phase III                                    0                         0                         0                        0                          8000
Total                                    25000        48000       53000        51000         68000         51000      78000          51000          84000
(b) Number of women beneficiaries
16000       21600        37000        24950         52000         20100     62000          35000          62000
1250
(c) Beneficiaries trained                    0                     3750                       3750                     3750                          3750
(d) Extensionists and Supervisors employed
Phase I production                         352         471          625          423           722           820        861          1120             861        1250
Phase 11 production                          0         292           88          288           177           180        177           -               243         -
Social                                      73         314          171          281           241           -          287           -               287         -
Supervisors                                132         153          182          161           222           173        257           159             280         157
Total                                      557        1230         1066         1153          1362          1173       1582          1279            1671        1407
(e) Support to extension                                                                                                                                                 l
Extensionists and supervisors trained      430         1268         885         1040          1140          1170       1325          1170            1390
INIA - INDAP committees trained             41                       51                         61                       66            51              66
Technology Transfer Centers                 27                       34                         44                       55            34              55
(f) Number of farmers receiving credit and
technology expressed as a percentage of the  32          28          44                         56                      64             41             74
number of farmers receiving credit                                                                                                                                       I
34 The implementation period defined in the Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, covers a five-year period 1992 - 1996. In practice, Loan Effectiveness was declared in October 1992,
and the actual implementation period is more accurately described as covering the period 1993 - 1997. The project's Completion Date was December 31, 1997. The performance
indicators shown in the Staff Appraisal Report, Annex 7, correspond to "project years" I - 5. The indicators for project year I correspond to the calendar year 1992, in terms of
the Loan Agreement, and to calendar year 1993, in terms of actual achievement.



- 41 -
Projected   Achieved    Projected    Achieved      Projected   Achieved    Projected      Achieved    Projected    Achieved
1992        1993        1993         1994          1994        1995         1995          1996         1996         1997
2. Credit                                                                                                      _
(a) Number of credit beneficiaries
Working capital sub-loans               43900        54833       74000        55815         94000      54958        105500         60030         100000       47888
Investment sub-loans                     2600        15995       23800        19279         23500        28991      23300          39166         23100        37985
(b) Amount of credit approved                                                                                                                                         l
Working capital sub-loans (US$ '000)    15900        31822       26500        36367         30600        34356      35500          45957         34400        40161
Investment sub-loans (US$ '000)          2200        10811        8300        19093          8200        23376       8100          28881           8000       37066
Total                                   18100        42633       34800        55460         38800        57732      43600          74838         42400        77227
3. Land Titling                                                                                                                                                        l
(a) Number of titles issued              3500        1900         14000       10121         16000         13764     10000          7953               0       8195
(b) % of titles received by women           6                         7                         8                       8            30
(c) % acquisition of measurement
equipment                                  70                       100                  I
(d) % installation of computer system      65                       100
(e) % operational (computer system)        40                       80                        100                                                                     ll



- 42 -
Table 6: Studies Included in the Project
Purpose as Defined at
Study                      Appraisal                       Status                Impact
Study to address the needs of  The study identified in the Loan  Unknown                Unknown
rural women for agricultural   Agreement is not defined as to its
technology transfer         purpose in the SAR. The SAR
[L.A. Schedule 2, Part A. 3    defines a much broader "base-line
and Schedule 5, 2(a)]       study on rural women to describe
their activities, needs, and
constraints with the objective of
designing policies and programs
to address the issues.
Study on incentives for     To improve incentives for private  The study was carried out in   The pilot
commercial banks to increase  intermediaries to lend to farmers   199335. A further related  program was
their lending to INDAP's    graduating from the INDAP      study was carried out in 1995  implemented.
clients including the       credit program and to complete,      36                    The results are
preparation of a plan of    by December 31, 1994, the      - 19963.                    described in Part
action to apply the incentives  implementation of the pilot                            I, paragraph 30.
on a pilot basis.           schemes to test the viability of
[L.A. Schedule 2, Part D. 5]   options proposed.
Detailed reviews (2) by     The first report was to provide the  There is no evidence of the    The mid-term l
consultants of progress made   basis for the mid-term review of   first review having been  review was
in the implementation of the   the project, to be carried out  made. INDAP prepared a  concluded, and a
project: April 1, 1994 and  before July 1, 1994.           "strategic plan" for the mid-   Plan of Action
April 1, 1996.                                             term review which began in   prepared and
[L.A. Schedule 5, 6(a)]                                    November 1994 and became   implemented.
extended over the period to
July 1996. In December
1995, INDAP hired a
consultant to prepare the
second review37.
35 Chile: Plan Piloto para Egresar Prestatarios de INDAP. Diciembre de 1993. Departamento de Economia
Agraria, Universidad Cat6lica de Chile.
36 Diseno de una Estrategia para Facilitar la Migraci6n de Agricultores Campesinos a la Banca Comercial:
Informe de Resultados. Santiago. 1996.
37 Analisis de Medio Plazo del Proyecto BIRF 3473-CH: Informe Final. Abril de 1996. Ing. Patricio Fernaendez
Seyler



- 43 -
Table 7: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)       Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)
Local     Foreign       Total     Local      Foreign     Total
Item                     Costs      Costs                   Costs      Costs
1. Technology Transfer      75.4        12.6       88.0         -           -        93.6
2. Credit                   101.3       18.7       120.0                              77.2
3. Rural Communications      2.3          -         2.3          -          -          1.0
4. Land Titling              7.9         0.5        8.4          -          -          8.1
5. Institutional            14.3         1.2        15.5
Development - INDAP
6. Institutional             0.6         1.2        1.8          -          -         3.7
Development - MBN
TOTAL                    201.8        34.2      236.0
Table 8: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)         Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)
Local      Foreign      Total       Local       Foreign      Total
Source           Costs       Costs                   Costs        Costs
IBRD                    61.4        33.6        95.0                                58.8
Govemment of Chile      90.0         -          90.0
INDAP                   14.1         -          14.1
Beneficiaries and       36.9         -          36.9
Intermediaries
TOTAL                 202.4        33.6        236.0



- 44 -
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section   Covenant Present  Original    Revised                                   Description of                                 Comments
type     Status  fulfillment  fulfillment                             Covenant
date        date
LA          2.02 (b)  3          C                                 The Borrower shall ... open and maintain ... a special deposit account in
the Central Bank or in a commercial bank ...
LA          3.01 (b)   5         CP                                 ... the Borrower shall carry out Part E ... and shall cause INDAP to carry
out Parts A through D of the Project ... in accordance with the
Implementation Program (LA, Schedule 5).
LA,         I .       5          CP                                (The Borrower shall) establish, and thereafter maintain, a Project
Schedule 5                                                         coordination and management unit ... headed by a Project manager and
coordinator ... satisfactory to the Bank
LA          2 (a)     10                  March 31,                (The Borrower shall) cause INDAP to furnish to the Bank ... INDAP's
Schedule 5                                 1994                    recommendations on ... the study to address the needs of rural women for
agricultural technology transfer ... (LA, Schedule 2, Part A.3)
LA          2 (b)     10         C        April 1,                 (The Borrower shall) cause INDAP to furnish to the Bank ... INDAP's
Schedule 5                                 1993                    recommendations on ... the study of incentives to commercial banks to
increase their lending to INDAP's clients including ... a plan of action for
applying, on a pilot basis, the incentives ... (LA, Schedule 2, Part 5)
LA          3 (a)     10         C        December                 (The Borrower shall) ... complete implementation of the plan of action
Schedule 5                                31, 1994                 for applying incentives for Jending by commercial banks ... (see 5.2 (b)
above)
LA          3 (b)     10         C        December                 (The Borrower shall) cause INDAP to implement the recommendations of
Schedule 5                                31, 1994                 the study of incentives to commercial banks ... (see 5.2 (b) above)
LA          4 (a)     10                  April 1,                 (The Borrower shall) cause INDAP to furnish to the Bank ... a plan of
Schedule 5                                 1993                    action for improving rural women's access to credit
LA          4 (b)     5                                            (The Borrower shall) cause INDAP to carry out the plan of action referred
Schedule 5                                                         to in 4 (a) ...
LA          5 (a)     9          C        Feb. 28,                 (The Borrower shall) ... furnish ... to the Bank ... reports on the progress
Schedule 5                                Aug. 31                  made in the implementation of the Project
each year,
starting on
Feb. 28,
1993
LA          5 (b)     9          CP       October 31               (The Borrower shall) ... furnish ... to the Bank . . the proposed
Schedule 5                                each year,               investments to be made under the project in the following calendar year.
starting on
October
31, 1992



- 45 -
Agreement  Section   Covenant Present  Original    Revised                                   Description of                                 Comments
type     Status  fulfillment  fulfillment                             Covenant
date        date
LA          6 (a)     9          PC       April 1,                 (The Borrower shall) employ consultants to carry out an in-depth review
Schedule 5                                 1994                    of the progress made in the implementation of the project ...
c       April 1,
1996
LA          6 (b)     9           C       June 15,                * (The Borrower shall) furnish to the Bank ... the reports prepared by the
Schedule 5                                 1994                    consultants referred to in 6 (a) above.
C        June 30,
1996
LA          7         10         C                                 (The Borrower shall) cause INDAP to ... engage FUCOA to assist
Schedule 5                                                          INDAP in the implementation of Part C of the Project
LA          8 (a)     2          NC        June 1,                 (The Borrower shall) cause INDAP to charge a fee to all medium farmers
Schedule 5                                 1993                    which receive Phase 2 technology transfer services which shall cover at
least 30% of the cost to INDAP of providing such services
LA          8 (b)     2          NC        June 1,                 (The Borrower shall) cause INDAP to charge a fee for any technology
Schedule 5                                 1994                    transfer services to ... medium farmers which shall cover at least 30% of
the cost to INDAP of providing such services
LA          8 (c)     2                    June 1,                 (The Borrower shall) cause INDAP to furnish to the Bank ... the criteria
Schedule 5                                 1994                    (for) selection of (i) small farmers and (ii) medium farmers that will be
requested to cover, from June 1, 1996, at least 30% and 100%,
respectively, of the cost to INDAP of providing technology transfer
services.
LA          8 (d)     2          NC       June 1,                  (The Borrower shall) cause INDAP to charge a fee for technology transfer
Schedule 5                                 1996                    services to be provided to medium farmers ... which shall cover 100% of
any direct cost of providing such services ...
LA          8 (e)     2          NC        June 1,                 (The Borrower shall) cause INDAP to charge a fee for technology transfer
Schedule 5                                 1996                    services to be provided to small farmers ... which shall cover at least 30%
of the cost to INDAP of providing such services.
LA          9         5          PC                                (The Borrower shall) take and/or cause INDAP to take all actions
Schedule 5                                                         necessary to meet the performance indicators (Annex to Schedule 5).
LA          3.01 (c)   3         C                                 The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan ... (for) Parts A
through D of the Project available to INDAP under a Subsidiary
Agreement ... approved by the Bank
LA          3.02      10         PC                                The Borrower shall carry out the research activities related to the Project



- 46 -
Agreement  Section   Covenant Present  Original    Revised                                       Description of                                    Comments
type     Status  fulfillment  fulfillment                                Covenant
date         date
LA           3.04      5           C                                   ... the procurement of goods and services ... shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 (of the LA).
LA           3.05      9           PC        July 1,                   The Borrower shall ... not later than July 1, 1994 ... review with the
1994                     Bank ... progress in the implementation of the project and the actions set
forth in Schedule 5 (of the LA) ... and submit to the Bank ... an action
plan ... to remedy any deficiencies in the implementation of the project
... and ... promptly thereafter carry out such action plan.
LA           3.06 (a)   2          C                                   ... Sub-loans and Working Capital Sub-loans will be made in accordance
with ... Schedule 8 (of the LA).
LA           3.07      2           NC                                  The Borrower shall cause INDAP ... to gradually improve its
performance in the collection of the loans made ... after January 1, 1992
...  (principal + interest collected as a % of principal + interest due to
be not less than: 85% in 1992, 88% in 1994, and 90% in 1995 and
thereafter).
LA           4.01 (a)   I          C                                   The Borrower shall maintain ... separate accounts ... in respect of Part E
of the Project
LA           4.01      1           C                                   ... have the ... accounts ... including ... the Special Account for each
(b)(i)                                                    Fiscal Year audited ... by independent auditors ...
LA          4.01        1          C                                   ... furnish to the Bank .. the report of such audit ...
(b)(ii)
LA          4.01 (c)   I           C                                  For all expenditures ... for Part E ... made on the basis of SOEs, the
Borrower shall ... maintain separate accounts ... retain all records ...
(and) ensure that such records are included in the annual audit
LA           4.02 (a)   I          C                                   The Borrower shall cause INDAP to maintain records and separate
accounts ... to reflect ... the operations and financial condition of
INDAP.
LA           4.02       1          C                                   The Borrower shall cause INDAP to ... have its records, accounts, and
(b)(i)                                                   financial statements ... audited.
LA           4.02      1           C                                   . . . furnish to the Bank ... copies of its financial statements ... and the
(b)(ii)                                                  report of such audit
LA           4.02 (c)   I          C                                   For all expenditures ... for Parts A, B, C, and D of the Project ... made on
the basis of SOEs, the Borrower shall cause INDAP to ... maintain
separate accounts ... retain all records ... (and) ensure that such records
are included in the annual audit.



- 47 -
Agreement  Section   Covenant Present  Original    Revised                                      Description of                                   Comments
type     Status  fulfillment  fulfillment                               Covenant
date        date
LA          5.01       5           C                                 The Borrower shall cause INDAP ... (a) to take out insurance
consistent with appropriate practice; (b) to carry out its operations ... in
accordance with sound ... practices under the supervision of qualified ...
management assisted by competent staff ...
Covenant types:
1. =  Accounts/audits                                   8. = Indigenous people
2.     Financial performance/revenue generation from    9.  = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                   10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds            11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                     allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the project cr executing   12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
agency                                                 regulatory/institutional action
6. =  Environmental covenants                          13. = Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
8. Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with



- 48 -
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of               Planned           Revised            Actual
Project Cycle
Weeks   US$    Weeks    US$    Weeks    US$
('000)           ('000)            ('000)
Preparation to Pre-Appraisal                                     126.0    277.4
Appraisal                                                         35.2      78.0
Negotiations to Board Approval                                    12.1      19.7
Supervision                                                       82.0    245.2
Completion                                                         6.1      18.7
TOTAL                                                           261.4    639.0



- 49 -
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number                    Specialized     Implementatio    Developmen
Stage of         Month/           of        Days in      Staff Skills           n          t Objectives                             Types of
Project Cycle        Year         Persons      Field       Represented          Status                                                Problems
1. Preparation      August 1990        1            7      Institutional             _                         Lack of awareness of priorities and content of the proposed project.
Specialist                                         Capacity gaps analysis initiated.
2. Preparation        Sept/Oct         6           18      Agriculture               _               -         Slow progress in project preparation. Main issues -INDAP's financial
1990                               Ag. Economics                                      solvency and the level of loan arrears
Fin. Analysis
Social Science
3. Preparation        Oct/Nov           1           4      Institutional             _               _         Greater coordination effort needed in inter-institutional effort of project
1990                               Specialist                                         preparation
4. Preparation        Oct 1990          1           4      Information               _                         Consulting assistance required to define the information technology
technology                                         needs at INDAP and the MBN.
5. Pre-appraisal     March 1991        8           12      Agriculture               _                         Lack of decision-making on a broad range of issues. Major differences
Ag. Economics                                      of opinion between theMinisterio de Hacienda and INDAP on a range
Fin. Analysis                                      of issues, including subsidy programs, length of beneficiary
Institutions Social                                participation in technology transfer programs, interest rates, credit -
Science Inf.                                       technical assistance linkage.
Tcchnology Legal
6. Pre-appraisal      July 1991        6           17      Agriculture               _               _         Key issues defined were: build-up rates in technology transfer;
Ag. Economics                                      graduation from technology transfer program; loan arrears and
Institutions                                       portfolio accounting; subsidies; graduation from INDAP credit
Social Science                                     program; and project coordination.
Procurement
7. Pre-appraisal    August 1991         1          12      Fin. Analysis             _               _         The portfolio information system was found to be inadequate. The
poorest farmers will have difficulty graduating to the commercial
banking sector because their average requirement is lcss than one-tenth
of the average break-even loan of US$8000 equivalent.
8 Appraisal           October          5            ?      Agriculture               __                        Appraisal emphasized: transition to commercial bank credit,
1991                               Ag. Economics                                      improvement in portfolio management, targeted beneficiaries, interest
Fin. Analysis                                      rates, social extension and the graduation of INDAP technology
Institutions                                       transfer beneficiaries.
Social Science
Supervision  1      July 1992      1            5          Fin. Analysis             _                         None. "Pre-Loan Effectiveness" mission



- 50-
Performance Rating
Number                    Specialized     Implementatio    Developmen
Stage of         Month/           of        Days in       Staff Skills          n          t Objectives                             Types of
Project Cycle        Year         Persons      Field       Represented          Status                                                Problems
Supervision 2       Nov 1992       1            7          Fin. Analysis              I               I           Anticipated slow start to disbursements for Balanec of Payments
reasons
Supervision 3       Mar/April      1             10        Agriculture
1993
Supervision 4       April 1993     1            5          Fin. Analysis              1               I
Supervision 5       Aug 1993       2             10        Fin. Analysis              I               I         Over-burdening of INDAP with other governmental social programs;
Agriculture                                               anticipation of possible interest rate covenant problem
Supervision 6       Nov 1993       2            8          Fin. Analysis              1               I          Delay in making the scheduled change of interest rate on sub-loans
Agriculture
Supervision 7       May 1994       5             11        Fin. Analysis             2               2           Budget restrictions, including funding from the Loan, for 1994 (and
Agriculture                                                             anticipated for 1995).
Institutional
Development
Rural development
Supervision 8       Aug 1994       1                       Fin. Analysis
Supervision 9       Nov 1994       3            3          Economics                 S               S          Evidence that commercial banks are reluctant to lend to farmers that
(mid-term review,                                          Agriculture                                                    could graduate fromiNDAP's credit program
first stage)                                               Rural development
Supervision 10      April 1995     1             16        Economics                 S               S            Reluctance of commercial banks to lend to potential graduating
(mid-term review,                                                                                               farmers of INDAP's credit program. Failure by Stage 11 technology
second stage)                                                                                                      transfer beneficiaries to make the required contribution to cost
recovery.
Supervision 11      Sept 1995      3            7          Agriculture                                           It was concluded that the mid-tcrm review had not been finalized.
Irrigation                                             INDAP agreed to hire an independent consultant to prepare a
Economics                                             consolidated mid-term review report for the supervision mission
scheduled for January, 1995
Supervision 12      Jan 1996       4            7?         Agriculture
Irrigation
Economics
Supervision 13      April 1996     2            5          Agriculture                                         Issues were raised coneeming the audit of internal control processes at
Economics ?                                          INDAP and MBN, as well as the information presented in the audit
I                  I                I        .       -                     reports of the CGR.



- 51 -
Performance Rating
Number                    Specialized     Implementatio   Developmen
Stage of         Month/           of        Days in       Staff Skills          n          t Objectives                             Types of
Project Cycle        Year         Persons      Field       Represented          Status                                                Problems
Supervision 14      July 1996      2            7          Agriculture                                         The mid-term review report high-lighted as areas for improvement the
(finalization of the                                       Ag. Economics                                          graduation strategy (both credit and technology transfer) and the
mid-term review)                                                                                                      overall quality control of technology transfer services.
Supervision 15      Jan 1997       4             14        Agriculture               S               S             The difficulties anticipated earlier in graduating INDAP credit
Ag. Economics                                          recipients to the commercial banking sector started to become
Economics                                             apparent. The Action Plan, resulting firom the mid-term review
finalized in July 1996, was agreed. A plan to improve the monitoring
and evaluation system was agreed upon.
Supervision 16      July 1997      3            7          Agriculture
Ag. Economics
Economics
Supervision 17      Jan 1998       3            9          Agriculture                                           Despite advances in the project accounting system, it still does not
(and completion)                                           Ag. Economics                                        generate a Sources and Uses of Funds Statement in accordance with
Economics                                                               Bank's requirements.






53
APPENDIX 1
SUMMARY' OF THE BORROWER'S REPORT
A. Background
1.    The project grew out of an initiative of the Government of Chile during 1990-
1991 and had as its major objective an expansion and improvement of public sector
intervention in the development of the small farmer sector. Since 1985, the agricultural
sector had grown at more than 5% per year but this growth had only marginally benefited
small farmers with the result that the technology and income gulf between them and the
rest of the sector had widened. The stratum of small farmers was made up of 105,000
farmers with less than five "basic irrigated hectares" (HRB) of land and 148,000 farmers
with between five and twelve HRB. These farmers were considered to be at a
disadvantage in terms of their access to credit and technology, both deficiencies being
strongly relevant in explaining the high levels of rural poverty. The technical and
economic gulf was not considered irreversible or beyond control, and it was considered
that small farmers could be the beneficiaries of an increasingly self-sufficient process of
agricultural development.
2.    The Agricultural Development Institute (INDAP) of the Ministry of Agriculture
(MIA) was created in 1962 to support rural development throughout Chile; by 1990, it
was concentrating its efforts on supplying technology and credit to small farmers with 12
HRB or less and with assets of 3,500 UF or less. The Ministry of National Assets
(MBN) is responsible for regularizing land titles in both rural and urban areas.
3.    From 1983, INDAP had been implementing a Program of Technology Transfer
(PTT) which was supported under the Bank's loan 2481-CH3. Groups of farmers were
attended by competitively-hired private firms or individuals supported by INDAP.
Initially, the PTT was oriented exclusively to small beneficiaries of the agrarian reform,
through the PTT14 which involved 15-20 intensive, technical, individual visits per year,
and in 1990 some 16,000 producers were being attended. In 1986, the PTTB5 was
created to reach the very poorest farmers, designed to improve their subsistence
agriculture and their access to other state-run subsidy programs oriented towards the
reduction of rural poverty. This program included nutrition and hygiene but not credit,
since cash crop production was not a focus; by 1990, some 11,000 farmers were being
reached via the PTTB.
1 The translation and precis of the Borrower's Report was the responsibility of the author of the ICR. The
Borrower's Report is entitled "Informe Final, Proyecto BIRF 3473-CH, Santiago, Chile, Septiembre 1998,
Instituto de Desarrollo Agropecuario - INDAP."
2Development Unit (Unidad de Fomento)
3 The Agricultural Services and Credit Project, the loan for which was approved on December 20, 1984 and
closed on October 30, 1991.
4Program of Integrated Technology Transfer
5Program of Basic Technology Transfer



54
4.    Since the 1960s, INDAP has been the major source of small farmer credit in
Chile. In 1990, short-term credit totaling Ch$15,716 million6 was extended to 28,000
farmers; investment credit of Ch$2,183 million to 2,300 farmers; and Ch$285 million to
small farmer groups. Loan recovery rates were 77% for short-term and 51% for long-
term credits. INDAP was lending only 4% of the total credit extended to the sector but
attending 64% of the sector's credit recipients. By 1990, INDAP's portfolio was a total
of Ch$47,000 million with 32% in arrears, which figure had been reached during 1985-
1989 through the forgiveness of Ch$34,800 million. The high levels of arrears and
forgiveness were in part the result of the financial crisis of 1982, during which INDAP
did not have access to the program of portfolio purchases by the Central Bank which
resolved the crisis in loan recoveries of other financial institutions.
5.    Beginning in 1984, the economy recovered from the crisis of the early 1980s with
agriculture growing at a faster rate than the economy as a whole. In the late 1980s and
early 1990s, the economy was marked by a high real rate of exchange derived from the
policy of deficits in the balance of payments, which generated incentives to tradable
sectors, especially agriculture. The expansion of exports, rapid growth of agro-industry,
high investment and modernization of production followed one another in a virtuous
cycle; increasing yields of traditional crops, the incorporation of new crops for export
markets, and the improvement in irrigation and post-harvest technology were some of the
main results.
6.    From 1990, the economic policies of growth with equity gave rise to important
changes in sectoral policy especially in public sector support to small farmers. The
concept of small farmer used in INDAP's programs was widened to include all
producers, not just those considered capable of developing into commercial farmers. All
public sector agencies7 adjusted their programs to give access to small farmers to credit,
technology, irrigation subsidies and basic grain marketing. MNDAP itself expanded into
investments in groups, irrigation infrastructure, and marketing.
B. Objectives of the Project
7.    The project had six components and a total cost of US$236 million:
Components                      Cost
__ (US$ million)
.  Technology Transfer                    88.0
*  Credit                                120.0
*  Rural Communication                    2.3
*  Land Titling                            8.4
*  Institutional Strengthening: INDAP     15.5
.  Institutional Strengthening: MBN        1.8
6 In December 1997 values.
' INDAP, INIA, COTRISA, CNR and CONAF.



55
8.    The objectives of the project were:
(a)  to overcome restrictions to increases in productivity, incomes and well-
being of small farmers;
(b)  to improve the institutional capacity of INDAP and MBN;
(c)  to improve the access of small farmers: (i) to commercial markets for
products and factors of production; and (ii) to public sector agricultural
programs; and
(d)  to regularize the land titles of small farmers.
9.    The specific objectives of each component were:
(a)  Technology transfer: (i) to increase output, productivity, incomes and well-
being of the poorest farmers, with a target of 84,000 farmers; (ii) to
"graduate" those farmers with greater resources and time-in-program, via
transitional phases with increasing costs to the farmer; (iii) to improve the
quality of extension service and the efficiency of delivery; (iv) to increase
farmers' payment for services in step with production and income,
distinguishing between medium-scale farmers (PTTI) and small farmers
(PTTB).
(b)  Credit; (i) to provide access to working capital and investment finance to
100,000 farmers; (ii) to improve INDAP's credit management, and achieve
at least 90% loan recovery; and (iii) to graduate clients to the financial
system, establishing market interest rates and loan terms, including a pilot
plan for graduation.
(c)  Rural communication: to develop mass information and audio-visual
methods.
(d)  Institutional development of INDAP: to provide training, equipment,
vehicles and offices.
(e)  Land titling: to provide titles of ownership to 43,500 small farmers and to
strengthen MBN via the acquisition of computers and GPS equipment.
C. Self-Evaluation by the Borrower
10.   The project was prepared in 1990-1991. Loan effectiveness was in August 19928
but expenditures only began in 1993. In practice, the implementation period of the
project was 1993-1997, whereas the target dates of the Loan Agreement are defined for
the period 1992-1996.
8 Editor's note: Loan Effectiveness was, in fact, declared on October 1, 1992



56
Technology Transfer
11.   There were important modifications in the technology transfer component as a
consequence of changes in the agricultural sector environment and the Government's
responses to these changes. These changes modified the objectives and the initial
concepts of the project in fundamental ways, which must be understood if a meaningful
analysis is to be made of the project's achievements. The period of project
implementation can be divided into three:
(a)  1993-1994, when the project was implemented in accordance with the
original design;
(b)  1995-1996, when the project was restructured and based on the concept of
micro-regional projects; and
(c)  1997- on, when the project was oriented towards associated groups of
producers.
12.   The period 1993-1994: coverage was extended to 50,000 small farmers,
increasing to 39,000 the beneficiaries of the PTTB and reducing to 11,000 the
beneficiaries of the PTTI Stage II. Methods of contracting extensionists and the level of
subsidy were allowed to vary by region. Extension methodologies were also made more
flexible, permitting more group activities and commercial aspects. MNIA established
Technology Adjustment Centers (CATs) in the main agro-ecological zones with
significant small farmer presence in terms of numbers.
13.  In 1994, with a change in the authorities of the MA, a debate began in INDAP
concerning its role in agricultural modernization. The recent evolution of the sector
caused a reformulation of the project. The main influences were: (a) the increasing
difficulty in maintaining competitivity with the declining exchange rate; (b) the successes
of intensive crops (e.g., vegetable production in greenhouses, and dairy), which improved
prices and profitability for farmers; and (c) the growing importance of group projects to
make investments, reduce costs and improve marketing, as well as of the services needed
to support these projects.
14.   The period 1995-1996: the new mission statement of INDAP was to consolidate
the productive capacity of small farmers on the basis of competitive production systems
and efficiently functioning organizations. This implied several new approaches:
(a)  the promotion of Micro-Regional Projects (PMR) and Local Development
Projects (PDL), designed to incorporate the small farm sector into the
process of modernization. Prepared by INDAP, they were defined as a set
of actions to provide the basis for development and modernization of a
given area based on the advantages shown by the small farmers of that area
and their production systems to capture market opportunities. These
projects had a central productive activity and an organizational structure of
small farmers to manage the commercial aspects related to production.



57
(b)  INDAP supported these projects via an integrated set of actions: technical
assistance, finance, organizational and management support, and specific
consulting services for project preparation and implementation.
15.   Technology transfer was tailored to the potential and level of advance of the
different participating groups. Similarly, each approach had different intensities,
according to the effective demand of each farmer, which, in turn, determined the costs
recoverable from the farmer: These were: (a) SAP Project - this was established for the
beneficiaries of the PTT under the condition of participation in a PMR, and producers
could be in Stage I or Stage II; (b) SAL Local - these were oriented to producers who
did not meet the conditions to participate in the SAP; and (c) SAA - this was designed
for producers who did not demand service under the above two approaches, and was
based on audio-visual methods and practical demonstrations.
16.   The cost recovery policy was modified, varying between Ch$1,500-10,000 per
year for the Stage 1 producers (between 1-7% of the actual cost) and between
Ch$10,000-30,000 per year for the Stage II producers (between 6-18% of the actual cost).
17.   The implementation of this approach from 1995 was limited by the exhaustion of
INDAP's institutional capacity by the increasing diversification and volume of services,
the limitations on its capability to prepare PMRs, and the difficulties of achieving
efficient joint action of the different services at the project level.
18.   The period from 1997-on: a further reorganization of technology transfer was
planned, based on moving producers away from a production culture to one of
agricultural business. Operationally, the set of services needed to implement associative
projects would come from one source - the consulting advisory firm. Four types of
service would be provided:
(a) Local Advisory Service (SAL), designed to improve existing
technical/financial management and provide the basic conditions for
associative agricultural business. These had a two-year life, and the users'
contribution is 7% in the first year and 10% in the second, with a cost of
UF12 per producer.
(b)  Project Advisory Service (SAP), includes support for primary production,
farm management, management of associative business units, processing,
organizational development and specific studies. These projects last for five
years, with user support on a scale of 10% in the first year to 30% in the
fifth year and at a cost of UF18 per producer.
(c)  Specialized Advisory Service (SAE), oriented to problem-solving in groups
already formed. This support is not limited in time. The subsidy covers 65-
75% of the cost, with an annual limit per organization of UF2,200 and cost
per producer of UF 10.



58
(d) PRODESAL, aimed at the poorest farmers without the capacity to
accumulate capital, and managed by the rural municipalities at a cost of
UF8.5 per beneficiary.
19.   These changes tended to benefit those small farmers with the potential for
innovation, a heterogenous segment with basic land and water resources with productive
potential and without major restrictions in terms of climate and location. Also benefiting
were the poorest small farmers (through PRODESAL), those with less than 5 HRB. The
new formulation of the program was based on a demand for services from groups of
producers, with support from an external advisor, that originate "lines of business"
oriented towards a specific activity; based on this, an operator is hired subject to a joint
decision of INDAP and the group, which participates in financing the service by paying
5-15% of the cost.
Achievement of the Objectives of Technology Transfer
20.   The program covered 47,000 small farmers in 1992 and 51,000 in 1993, and has
remained roughly at that level until the present. Although the goal of 84,000 farmers was
not met, this achievement is double the number of farmers attended in 1990. This
increase, and the graduation or exit of two-thirds of the medium-scale farmers attended in
1991, means that a much closer focus was achieved on the strata of the smallest and
poorest farmers than at the commencement of the project.
21.   The cost of the program was significantly increased, to US$89.5 million, financed
49% from the Bank's loan. This should be compared to the US$87 million projected to
be spent to reach a coverage of 84,000 farmers. The explanation lies basically in the
strong revaluation in the Chilean peso with respect to the US dollar; over the period
1993-1997, the domestic price level rose by 54.9% but the exchange rate rose by only
12.9%. The costs per beneficiary did not vary much, except in the case of SAP
beneficiaries.
22.   Women. During the early years of the project, the PTTB included female
extensionists to support the productive and family-oriented activities of rural women. In
1996, these were eliminated and services were provided integrally to the whole family
group.
23.   Graduation. In practice, the reformulations of the program meant that the same
beneficiaries were incorporated into the new mechanisms with new periods of
involvement that did not take into account the previous years in programs. Thus,
although each reformulation contained the concept of a program of assistance limited in
time, in practice the idea of graduation remained, basically, only an idea. The Stage 1,
planned as a structural incorporation of producers into the market for private extension,
was not established. However, some two-thirds of medium-sized producers have, in
effect, left after Stages I and II, on not having been included in the projects.
24.  In terms of the original design of the project, the concept of technological
development - defined as an improvement over initial conditions that would allow the
producer no longer to depend on the service - in practice never worked. The project's



59
design did not take account of the strongly dynamic nature of the sector in terms of
technology and of management, which meant that the need for technical support to
farmers became continuous, in order to maintain competitivity.
25.   Cost Recovery. Little was achieved in this respect. The targets were not met,
and the pre-existing status of medium-scale farmers, already paying 20% of the cost in
Stage II, was not altered. Several reasons can be advanced:
(a) a lack of confidence in the results and an absence of a tradition of paying for
services, even among large farmers;
(b) the lack of incentive for the service provider (the firm) to be demanding
over payment;
(c) changes in the program and re-incorporation of farmers under new
procedures; and
(d) a gradual reduction in net income from many products.
26.   Quality of Service. The project involved the incorporation of small farmer
production systems where INDAP had not previously undertaken extension work in any
systematic way. These are more complex than larger farmers, requiring proposals better
adapted to a reality of scarce resources and important restrictions. Extension quality was
improved considerably by the incorporation of the CATs into small-holder farms and the
establishment of Area Committees (CAs) in which INDAP, INIA and staff of the
extension firms participated in the evaluation and annual program of extension, research
validation and training. The CATs and the CAs operated from the III to the X Regions,
inclusive.
27.   From 1994-1995, a Technical Secretariat for the INIA/ANDAP Agreement was
formed to give a more flexible methodological support of higher impact to producers,
focussing the efforts in twenty-four areas considered to have particular business
opportunities; in these, the bases for PDLs were established to allow INIA to make a
proposal for an Integrated Technical Proposal (PTI). Lack of finance from INIA meant
that the experience did not continue after 1995.
28.   New methodologies were introduced to improve quality including the generation
of more developed planning instruments (Area Agricultural Development Programs -
PDAA) which typified producers and established the technical development options as a
function of resources and market opportunities. New methodologies were also
implemented in the organization of technology transfer, and regular training of
extensionists was undertaken, involving around 1,000 extensionists per year between
1993 and 1996. Later, INDAP had no further role in such training.
29.   To complement the PTT, the project carried out training of producers in
production and farm management via private firms from 1993 to 1996, after which the
distance training system TELEDUC began. The development of audio-visual methods



60
which could have improved quality and reduced costs of training did not advance far
enough to be implemented in the program.
30.   Advances were made in the development of a monitoring system based on
surveys at the level of module, but the system was not implemented because of all the
changes in the organization and the objectives of the program.
Credit
31.   The credit component represented an important institutional effort for INDAP,
particularly if one considers the situation at project preparation; in 1991, over-due loans
were 33.5% of the total and recoveries of the loans falling due within the year were
73.4% for short-term and 50.8% for long-term loans. The credit management system did
not allow proper control and only worked in some Area Agencies. There was no
adequate risk-classification system of the portfolio, loan applications were handled
inconsistently, and there was no procedure for systematic collection or penalties for late
payments. Expansion of credit to the smallest farmer was also risky; apart from the sheer
increase in numbers, there were fundamental doubts about the recoverability of loans
made to the poorest farmers.
Achievement of the Objectives of Credit
32.   Management. The following achievements were made:
(a)  procurement of equipment and implementation of an information system to
provide up-to-date data on loans and the portfolio status in all Agency
Areas;
(b)  implementation of credit norms based on a system of classification of
debtors;
(c)  establishment of a credit management system with monthly data on over-
due loans and recoveries;
(d)  the structuring of credit management at the level of Agency Area, based on
account managers evaluated on the basis of their portfolio;
(e)  systematic penalty system applied to late payers, communicated via an
external firm, with automatically escalating penalties and inclusion of data
in the commercial credit agencies' records; and
(f)  training of account executives and the staff of the Area Agencies.
33.   Lending. The project included only the regular9 INDAP lines of credit, that is
short-term credit, basic credit, and credit to organizations. The goal was to increase to
100,000 small farmers the recipients of working capital loans, who would all receive
investment loans over the life of the project. To achieve this, the basic lines of credit
9 It did not, therefore, include emergency, irrigation, forestry and housing credits.



61
were created, to distinguish them from the traditional credit lines of INDAP aimed at
medium-sized producers; at the same time, the volume of resources was increased during
the five years of the project to US$69.6 million.
34.   Working capital loans (short-term current and basic) reached their maximum
number of beneficiaries in 1992 with 49,200 farmers. The decrease in subsequent years
is partially the result of an increase in requirement for working capital, taking these
farmers beyond the limits of the short-term loans and into the long-term current category.
The number of investment credit recipients grew from 6,700 in 1992 to 27,000 in 1997.
Between 1992-1997, 97,000 investment loans were made, two-thirds of them to small
farmers.
35.   Lending during the five years of the project was a total of US$308 million with
the commitment of an additional US$104 million, 49% more than the original target. The
main changes were the increase in the number of long-term current credits, from 1,715
loans in 1992 to 14,946 loans in 1997, and the large revaluation of the Chilean peso
against the US Dollar.
36.   Interest Rates. The Loan Agreement defined INDAP's obligation to lend at
market rates, avoiding unfair competition with the financial system and promoting
eventual graduation. This was only partially achieved. In 1994-1996, INDAP
maintained its rates whilst market rates rose. However, the differences were not of great
magnitude and reached a maximum of 1.2% (in UF terms, see Table 5).
37.   Loan Recovery Rates. In project design, a loan recovery of 90% was projected;
in the Loan Agreement, loan recoveries for loans made after 1992 were to be not less
than 85% in 1992, 88% in 1994, and 90% in 1995 and thereafter. The repayment
indicators establish the amount recovered each year of the amounts due at December 31
of the previous year, differentiating the amount due and the payment received according
to loans made in the previous year and earlier years (loans with 2-6 years of age) and to
loans more than six years old.
38.   Although this type of indicator does not allow the system to determine the total
amount recovered from the amount lent in any given year, it is very effective in
estimating credit recovery of annual credits when recovery rates are high in the first year,
given that the balances recovered in the first and second years illustrate a high percentage
of the debt contracted. The same is not true for long-term credits because the first-year
recovery is only a small fraction of the total. In addition, the balances of unpaid debts
during a calendar year which are forgiven, renegotiated or penalized during that year
affect the loans falling due the next year.
39.   For working capital loans, recovery indicators (measured as the sum of the
percentages recovered in the two years following loan placement) indicate high levels of
repayment during the first years of the project (1992-1994), but these fall later.
40.   The recovery rates of working capital loans do not show significant differences
between medium and small farmers, the higher risk assumed (at the time of preparation)
to be associated with the latter, proving to be largely unfounded. The same is not true of



62
working capital loans to organizations, particularly those loans made in 1995 and after,
indicating possible short-comings in the evaluation of their capacity to pay and/or the
financial merits of these projects.
41.   For investment loans, mainly made for five years, the analysis is limited to the
recovery of the first two payments; the data on recoveries of the second payment under-
estimate the recovery, because they are calculated for all payments after the first which
fall due for all credits given after 1990. The long-term investment loans achieved
recovery rates lower than those for working capital loans, reaching 87% for the first
payment and around 70% for the second, for loans made up to and including 1994. After
1994, recovery rates for the first and second years fell significantly, and this is
particularly marked in the case of loans to organizations where, in 1995-1996 loans, the
repayment of the first amortization fell to less than 40%. There is, however, little
difference between small- and medium-sized producers, reflecting the observation made
with respect to working capital loans.
42.   Subsidies. The Loan Agreement made possible the granting of subsidies to both
short-term (working capital) and long-term (investment) loans. In 1995, this policy was
modified to concentrate subsidies in long-term loans, giving them only once per
beneficiary in amounts equivalent to (up to): 20% for basic capitalization grants (small
farmers); between 2.5% and 15% for long-term current credits; and between 2.5-10.0%
for organizations. The incidence of the subsidies is low in the first years of the project,
but grew as credit for investment grew. In 1995 and 1996, subsidies were more than 15%
of lending but this had no effect on the level of recovery of loans made in those years.
43.   Debt forgiveness. During the project's life, 1993-1997, debts equal to Ch$9,958
million were forgiven,'0 equivalent to 7.8% of loans made in the period. The forgiveness
of debts was particularly marked in long-term current credit, where it represented over
25% of the amount lent.
44.   Evolution of the portfolio. The status of the portfolio evolved in consistency
with the level of recoveries. Between 1993-1996, the total value of loans overdue fell
from 15.2% tolO.4% of the total but in the last year it increased abruptly to 15.2% once
more.
45.   Graduation of credit recipients. A study"' on the issue of graduation of INDAP
clients to the commercial banks found that 70% of the current credit clients (around
12,000 clients) were in a position to graduate within 2-3 years. In 1996, a graduation
pilot program was introduced through the implementation of a state subsidy named the
"Financial (Sector) Articulation Bond" (BAF), aimed at simultaneously removing the
restrictions to both the supply of and the demand for loans for small farmers by
subsidizing the higher transaction costs involved on both sides. The value of the BAF on
the supply side (BAF Transacci6n) was determined by a bidding process, open to all
financial institutions, and was defined as a function of the higher transaction costs that
these operations involve. The origination BAF, designed to cover the farmer's cost (of
The debts forgiven do not coffespond to the loans made in the same period.
' Departamiento de Economia Agraria, Universidad Cat6lica



63
establishing guarantees, accounting information, etc.) is currently UF2.5 (US$85.00) and
is provided to all farmers accepted by a commercial bank.
46.  In addition, INDAP gave to the financial institution awarded the BAF the credit
history of the clients suitable for graduation and held training courses for bank staff. The
bidding procedures were preceded by full publicity. In 1996 and 1997, two bidding
procedures were made with only limited participation by banks. A total of 1,418 BAFs
were adjudicated to three banks and two credit cooperatives; by the end of 1997, only 579
BAFs had been used. This result is clearly insufficient and does not allow the financing
of small- and medium-scale farms by the formal financial sector to be viewed with much
optimism.
Rural Communication
47.   The project was important in establishing the weekly television program "Tierra
Adentro" which still retains a large audience among small farmers and the rural
population in general. The program shows examples of new technology, helps to bring
the reality of the rural world to urban dwellers, and provides useful technical and
commercial information for decision making.
48.   Significant efforts were made in the project's early years to introduce audio-visual
techniques to the work of extension. Programs were prepared by private sector firms, but
because of their lack of experience in preparing educational material there were serious
deficiencies in the early material prepared. Beginning in 1994, an agreement with FAO
provided training courses for the preparation of audio-visual material for staff of the
firms and of INDAP. In 1995, several training units were prepared, linked to goat
production in the IV Region, and their enthusiastic reception led to the incorporation of
the technology into PRODESAL. However, lack of financing and agreement on content
prevented the implementation of this innovation.
49.   In 1997, through an agreement with FUCOA and TELEDUC12, a distance training
program for small farmers was incorporated into the PTT. Oriented towards management
training, an estimated 3,066 producers were incorporated during 1997 and 3,000 during
1998 and received training to allow them to generate and to make progress with
initiatives to develop agricultural business on an associative basis.
Institutional Development of INDAP
50.   The objective was to strengthen INDAP by the creation of 17 new Area Agencies,
the purchase of vehicles and office equipment, and training. In addition, it included the
acquisition of hardware and software for INDAP's information system, to include credit
reporting and management, accounting, and the monitoring and evaluation of the PTT.
All of the objectives of this component were achieved in the first years of the project, and
in many cases the quantitative targets were exceeded. This resulted in a strong
improvement in the institutional capacity of INDAP, particularly in the area of credit
12 FUCOA - Agricultural Communication Foundation
TELEDUC - Distance Learning Program of the Television Corporation of the Catholic University



64
management. Partly as a result, coverage achieved in technology transfer and credit was
doubled, and new activities not considered at the time of project preparation were
included, such as irrigation, projects for poor areas, etc. The investment made had
contributed decisively to an improvement in management and in the quality and
availability of information.
Titling of Land
51.   The regularization of titles was implemented in accordance with project design;
42,027 titles were completed by the end of 1997, 46% of them corresponding to women.
It is expected that the overall goal will be reached in 1998; modifications in the
iegislation during the life of the project have introduced new, and more time consuming,
procedures to ensure that the titles delivered do not affect other land owners. The firms
now require between 12-24 months to complete the process of regularization of a
property title.
52.   The cost of titling increased relative to that projected because of the decline in the
exchange rate. The total cost was US$8,098,812 of which US$7,552,085 was financed
from the loan.
Institutional Development of MBN
53.   During 1993, computer hardware and software was acquired, as was the
measurement equipment. During 1994, the relevant staff were trained to operate the new
systems. These investments were also more costly than projected; US$794,646 was
spent, of which US$637,072 was financed from the loan.
D. Determining Factors in the Achievement of the Objectives and Goals of the
Project
54.  Institutional Capacity of INDAP. The limited institutional capacity of INDAP
was a determining factor not only in the reduction of coverage, as was foreseen in the
Staff Appraisal Report, but also in the quality of management in the transfer of
technology and distribution of credit. The project is at times confused with the institution
of INDAP, which has objectives and activities which go far beyond the project. In this
respect, the institutional development component went beyond the goals set in project
design but was insufficient for the development of the institution as a whole with its
growing responsibilities, its public function, and its new projects (e.g., PROMM,
PRODECOM) in which it participated as an executing agency.
55.   Evolution of the Agricultural Sector. There were a number of changes
experienced during the project's life in the development of Chile's agricultural sector that
had not been foreseen during project preparation. A new "scenario" developed after
1992. The success of the export policy tied to the large inflow of foreign capital
generated significant reductions in the real exchange rate. In the past five years, the
value of (a unit of) foreign exchange has fallen by 40% which, with an open economy,
has been translated into a major fall in the profitability of all productive sectors and has



65
caused a continuous pressure on the need to increase productivity as the only means of
maintaining competitiveness.
56.   Changes in Sectoral Policy. The policies in INDAP have changed in response to
the economic environment and the new political authorities post-1994, and these have
had an impact in the evolution of technology transfer and credit. During the project, the
PTT has been subject to constant changes which have frequently been only incompletely
implemented before the next wave of change arrived. Thus, the greater demands for
competitiveness caused the program to be restructured in favor of associative projects,
but in these the institutional capacity and the demands on the extension firms and the
producers were much more complicated and diversified than those foreseen in the
project, which aimed to support the producer as a farm-family. These changes redefined
fundamental aspects of the program (e.g., type of beneficiary, services, type of agent,
graduation, cost recovery) and it is not possible to analyze the results of the program
based on the criteria used in its formulation.
57.   The changes in the PTT worsened the deficits in institutional development, not
only because there were new activities to be developed by the Area Agencies and others
but also because on concentrating efforts on these activities the importance was lost of
other activities related to quality improvement in the PTT. The changes in INDAP
policies also affected credit; the systems for credit evaluation and management did not
foresee associative projects as being important and, equally, the importance and size
acquired by long-term investment loans was not foreseen in project design. Finally, the
continued changes in the formulation of the program made impossible the
implementation of a quality control system for services provided.
58.   Support to INIA. This was an important contribution to the achievement of the
project's objectives, especially for those producers with the most limited resources. In
1993-1994, INIA began systematic support to the program but later did not have the
financial resources to continue. In the report of the Mid-Term Review (MTR), this was
described, and the low quality of the technology on offer was defined as one of the major
limitations of the program, especially for the smallest farmers.
59.   Financial Sector Performance. In spite of the study on graduation defined in the
Loan Agreement and the implementation of the graduation pilot program, there has not
been a significant transfer of credit clients to the commercial banking system. The basic
lack of interest in this type of client was recognized as a risk at appraisal, but to this must
be added the results of the greater competition in the financial system that has reduced
spreads and reoriented the system towards new services and mass lending at low
transaction cost, principally consumer lending.
60.   Loan Recovery. Loan recovery rates have not reached the goals set because:
(a) a decline in agricultural profitability, especially in those products typical of
INDAP producers: the decline in prices (of cereals and milk, important to
many small producers in the VIII, IX and X Regions, where 60% of
INDAP's borrowers are located) directly affected loan recovery rates.



66
(b) climatic variability: from 1994 until mid-1997, prolonged and severe drought
from the III to the XI Region caused crop and livestock losses of the order of
US$250 million which seriously affected small farmers. As a result, INDAP
was obliged to renegotiate and reschedule debts, and in some cases, requested
the Minister of Agriculture to forgive debts altogether.
(c) institutional bet on loans for innovative investment, with higher risk: long-
term loans for investment made by INDAP increased from 25.4% of loan
commitments in 1993 to 48% in 1997. The decision to give priority to
investment above operating costs accompanied INDAP's decision that the
best option for small farmers was their incorporation into innovative projects;
these required finance which the small farmer could not generate from his
own resources, but these necessarily brought with them a higher risk which,
ultimately, was expressed through lower recovery rates.
(d) increase in loans to organizations, which also brought a higher risk: in 1993,
10.9% of commitments were to organizations and this grew to 21% in 1997.
This institutional decision also brought an increase in risk.
(e) the changes in technology services brought many additional tasks and caused
a drop in the attention given to credit management: the new challenges of the
sector brought a consensus within and outside INDAP concerning the change
to a technical/business skills approach which had to be made in the services
that had been developed up until the crop year 1996/1997. This was made
instrumental at the beginning of 1997 and made large demands on INDAP,
particularly its units and Area Agencies where much of the responsibility for
credit management lay. The new demands were super-imposed on the
already over-worked structure measured in terms of staff at the Area
Agencies and the number of credit recipients. The new demands
immediately had a negative impact on time available for credit management.
(f) increase in coverage, volume and complexity of credit extended, with fixed
resources of staff and support: in agricultural credit alone (excluding
irrigation and farm business management), the volume of credit increased by
72.9% between 1994-1997 but staff and support costs increased only by
50.1%. In some areas, an account executive must now be responsible for in
excess of 1,000 clients.
(g) the methodology of calculating percentages in credit analysis produces
certain distortions because of early loan recoveries: the amount payable
disappears from both the enumerator and the denominator whenever an early
payment is made. 13
61.   INDAP is aware of the need to reverse these tendencies in credit management
which are reflected in the fall in indicators referred to above. A series of measures has
13 Example: In Agency 'A", payments due at 12/31/1997 are 300, to be collected in 1998. From this figure
has already been deducted 50, due in 1998 but paid in 1997. If only 150 are paid in 1998, the apparent
"recovery" is 150/300 = 50% but the actual recovery is higher, and should be expressed as 200/350 = 570/o.



67
been put into effect aimed at improving administrative processes with respect to the
portfolio, including:
(a) audits, for the larger loans;
(b) the formulation of collection programs, including the rescheduling of loans,
at the level of the Area Agencies;
(c) a program of staff awareness of the importance of credit recovery in the
achievement of some of the goals of the Management Improvement Program
(PMG);
(d) the integrated application of the new methods of technical support to
producers should induce an improvement in the ability of small producers to
service their INDAP loans; and
(e) the maintenance of existing levels of coverage and lending in the absence of
an increase in resources for operating expenditures.
E. Other Indicators of Impact and Results
62.   A study14 is in progress, forming part of a global evaluation of development
instruments for the period 1983-1997. It is based on a survey of almost 3,000 farmers,
with and without PTT, in five Regions of Chile. The survey was carried out between
July-October 1997 and covered data for the crop year 1996-1997.
63.   The impossibility of re-creating a base-line of data to reflect the pre-project
situation of beneficiaries led to the option of establishing the comparison between
participation in the PTT and 92 specific indicators at the moment of making the survey,
which establishes an approximation to the main types of impact but only allows partial
expression and does not allow the attribution of causality.
64.   The control group shows similar characteristics to the farms incorporated in the
PTT. The following indicators refer to preliminary results and refer to those groups of
producers for which the variable is significant at an aggregate national level:
(a)   Yields in five main crops - oats, potatoes, beans, sugar beet and wheat -
show no difference between the group with PTT and those without PTT; over
the long period analyzed, innovations in these crops have probably become
generalized.
(b)   The group with PTT dedicated 0.75 ha each to non-traditional crops"5, 83%
more than the groups without PTT.
14 Estudio del Impacto del PIT, commissioned by the Ministry of Economy; Asociaci6n EMG-RIMISP -
Corporaci6n GIA
i5 Example: vegetables in green houses, fruit and vegetables for agro-industrial use, flowers, improved
pastures.



68
(c)   12% of the producers with PTT had at least one product under agro-industrial
contract; this is 28% more than the corresponding proportion of producers
without PTT.
(d)   Annual gross farm income is 49% higher in the group with PTT (CH$2.83
million) than the groups without PTT (Ch$1.90 million).
(e)   The gross value of agricultural output was 48% higher for the group with
PTT (Ch$2. 17 million) than the groups without PTT (Ch$1.47 million).
(t)   On farms with livestock production, the gross value of livestock output was
48% higher in the groups with PTT (Ch$0.75 million) than the groups
without PTT (Ch$0.49 million).
(g)  In the X Region, groups with PTT had gross sales revenue from livestock
products 82% higher than those groups without PTT.
65.   Credit. It is impossible to isolate the effect of credit on the results obtained
because 50% of those in the group without PTT have credit from INDAP. An important
part of the incremental production and productivity of both groups was possible only
because of access to this finance, especially because only 8% of producers have access to
other sources of credit. Credit has been an essential element for the adoption of the
innovations promoted by the PTT, especially where new crops are concerned, which are
apparently the ones with the greatest impact on gross incomes.
66.   Titling. The regularization of title has been greatly valued by the beneficiaries.
In addition to security and increase in property value, the access to subsidies and the
incentive to make investments, both in housing and in agriculture, have been important.
F. Conclusions
67.   The project had a decisive impact in overcoming the restrictions that affect
productivity, income and well-being of small farmers, in circumstances which were
complicated for agricultural development in general and for the small farmer in
particular, especially when the changes which occurred during the period in production
alternatives, investment and technological development are taken into account. The
impact in terms of coverage was less than expected, and the evaluation indicates
important impacts in small farmer agriculture not associated with the program, especially
in traditional crops. It is possible that the introduction of new varieties and cultivation
methods, today generalized throughout small farms, is due in part to the introduction of
these innovations amongst program participants.
68.   The results obtained from the incorporation of new products and markets are of
equal relevance. This would have been very difficult to achieve without a systematic
effort to incorporate jointly the promotion of technology and innovation and the provision
of finance.
69.   The access to credit by the smallest farms is an important achievement. The
incorporation of these strata to financing was a decisive element in the productivity
increases and investment made by the poorest farmers.



69
70.   No significant progress was made in incorporating the smallest farms to the
financial sector. This was to be explored during the project (in the pilot plan) but was
affected by the dynamic changes that occurred in the financial sector during the period.
71.   The net effect of the project on the income of the 50,000 beneficiary families is
the order of US$56 million per year, if it is assumed that 50% of the increase in gross
farm income corresponds to incremental family income.
72.   The sustainability of the activities of credit, technology transfer and regularization
of titles are permanent functions of INDAP and MBN, and will be continued in future
with annual funding from the budgetary law.
G. Evaluation of the Role of the Bank
73.   The Bank played a fundamental role during project preparation, where it
participated in the conformation of a multi-disciplinary team. This was made up of staff
of a high level of proficiency who made a great effort to understand the institutional
aspects as well as the reality of small farmer agriculture in Chile.
74.   During the first years of project implementation, supervision was carried out by
one of the staff who had been involved in project preparation; supervision was made in
two annual missions, each of ten days' duration. During this period, supervision played
an important role in determining priorities and the resolution of necessary changes.
Later, when the most important changes in the project concept were produced, the Task
Manager of the project had changed and mission duration had been reduced, such that the
Bank's support was of relatively little significance.
Ranjinee Rudran
\\LCRCL02\LCR-PROJECT\!CL\PROJECTS\ESSD\SMALL\APPEN1.DOC
02/01/00 1:58 PM



70
APPENDIX 1
Table 1
Number of Beneficiaries Incorporated into the Program
MODE              1993         1994         1995         1996        1997
PTTB Stage I           33,848       30,428      20,244        5,448
PTTI Stage I           13,159       12,993        5,682
SAAL                                            14,450       31,013
SAAP                                                          7,763
PRODESAL                             4,340        4,438       4,990        16,624
SAL                                                                       29,802
SAP                                                                        6,039
Others                  2,602        2,665       5,298
TOTAL                  49,609       50,426      50,157       49,214       52,465
APPENDIX 1
Table 2
Value of the Subsidy per Beneficiary
(Ch$ of December 1997)
MODE              1993         1994         1995         1996        1997
PTTB StageI           185,279      182,893      188,300
PTTI Stage II         113,904      113,313       93,741
SAAL                ___                                     170,036
SAAP                                                        192,804
PRODESAL                                                     115,723     116,700
SAL                                                                      162,636
SAP                                                                      243,654



71                                Appendix 1
Table 3
INDAP Credit Beneficiaries (1992-1997)
Short-term                Long-term      Capital                    Organizations
Year     Current       Basic       Current        Basic       Total     Short Term   Long Term    Total
1992      15,246      33,997        1,715        4,944       55,902       5,796       1,619      63,317
1993      14,459      31,515        2,531         8,530      57,035       8,859       4,934      70,828
1994      15,731      28,037        4,252        10,933      58,953      12,047-      4,094      75,094
1995      15,053      28,289        5,657        12,549      61,548      11,616      10,785      83,949
1996      18,758      24,934        7,233        12,231      63,156      16,338       19,702     99,196
1997      17,904      22,675        14,946       12,074      67,599       7,309      10,965      85,873
Appendix 1
Table 4
Total Credit of INDAP
(Ch$ of December 1997)
Year    Short Term                Long Term      Capital         Organizations                    US$
Current      Basic        Current       Basic     Short Term   Long Term     Total      Million
1993    7,611,928    4,088,337    1,662,404     2,510,688    1,601,610   345,786    17,820,753   42.633
1994    8,961,573    4,543,492    2,963,827     3,203,388    1,696,680    1,813,770   23,182,730  55.461
1995    8,793,692    4,109,002    4,615,350     2,829,079    1,458,320    2,326,811   24,132,254  57.733
1996    11,273,240    4,215,040   5,387,462     2,615,715    3,722,065    4,069,188   31,282,710  74.839
1997    10,876,187    3,345,137   8,530,595     2,606,392    2,566,201    4,356,664   32,281 176    77.228
Total   47,516,619   20,301,009    23,159,638    13,765,262   11,044,876   12,912,219  128,699,623    307.893



72
APPENDIX 1
Table 5
Interest Rates: INDAP and the Market (at December of each year)
Year           Rate of Interest - INDAP        Market
1992                UF+7.2%                   UF+7.1%
1993                UF+8.3%                   UF+8.2%
1994                UF+7.1%                   UF+8.3%
1995                UF+7.1%                   UF+7.5%
1996                UF+7.1%                   UF+8.3%
1997                UF+7.8%                   UF+7.8%
APPENDIX 1
Table 6
Recovery by the Second Year for Working Capital Loans
% of Recovery
Year of Loan             First Year            Second Year
1992 - Current                 90.5                     5.7
Basic                   90.0                     7.0
Organizations           77.9                     3.1
1993 - Current                 91.0                     5.1
Basic                   89.0                     5.3
Organizations           81.7                    14.7
1994 - Current                 90.4                     4.4
Basic                   89.1                     3.6
Organizations           97.4                     1.4
1995 - Current                 71.3                    13.8
Basic                   69.1                    16.6
Organizations          64.3                      1.6
1996 - Current                 72.6
Basic                   74.4
Organizations          43.4
Ranjinee Rudan
\\StreetTaIk\Projects@FileslLAC\PROJECTS\ICL\PROJECTS\ESSD\SMALL\APPTAB3.DOC
02/09/99 4:52 PM



73
APPENDIX 1
Table 7
Recovery by the Second Year of Investment Loans
% of Recovery at First
Year of the Loan          Total Lending             Payment Due
1992 - Current                1,398,558                     85.9
Basic                  2,212,469                     85.6
Organizations            261,923                     86.6
1993 - Current                1,662,404                     84.0
Basic                  2,510,688                     83.0
Organizations           345,786                      93.0
1994 - Current                2,963,827                     87.3
Basic                  3,203,388                     79.1
Organizations          1,813,770                     97.4
1995 - Current                4,615,350                     66.5
Basic                  2,829,079                     68.9
Organizations          2,326,811                     37.8
1996 - Current                5,387,462                     67.4
Basic                  2,615,715                     76.1
Organizations          4,069,188                     36.4
APPENDIX 1
Table 8
Credit Subsidies - 1993-1997
(Ch$ x 1000, in December 1997 Values)
Subsidies as of
Year         Amount Lent          Subsidies        Lending
1993         17,820,753             697,495           3.9%
1994         23,182,730             994,038           4.2%
1995          9,771,240           1,184,027          15.9%
1996         12,072,365           1,972,538          16.3%
1997         15,493,651           1,341,010           8.7%
Ranjinee Rudran
\\StreetTalk\Projects@Files@LAC\PROJECTS\!CL\PROJECTS\ESSD\SMALL\APPTAB4.DOC
02/10/99 9:08 AM



74
APPENDIX 1
Table 9
Number of Titles Contracted and Delivered by MEN, 1993 - 1997
Year         Target      Number Contracted    Number Delivered
1993         3,500               17,600               1,900
1994        14,000               14,100              10,121
1995        16,000                7,340              13,764
1996         10,000              10,980               7,953
1997         __          _8,289
Total       43,500               50,020              42,027



75
APPENDIX
Table 10
Payments Due and Annual Recovery Rates - 1993-1997
(Current Ch$)
Current                     Current                            Organizations
Year   Year of Origin   Amount Due    Short Term    Basic       Long Term      Basic Capital      Short Tenn,Long Term         Total
1993       1993          43,041        85.9         80.2           70.1            74.9          105.0           100.0           87.0
1992       9681387          90.5        90.0            85.9           85.6            86.6          118.4            90.0
1990-1991   1,219,856       65.8        66.7            79.2           70.1            81.7           77.1            73.0
_   1984-1989    906,946         55.4         0.0            38.9            0.0             0.0           73.3           44.0
Prior to 1984   498,581        50.3         74.8           48.1           106.0            0.0             0.0           49.0
Total      12,349,811       87.2        89.5            58.7           82.9            87.8           98.4            83.0
1994       1994         454,277        87.0         67.0           85.0            83.0          102.0           100.0           83.0
1993       1,329,630        91.0        89.0            84.0           83.0            93.0           70.0            90.0
1990-1992   1,801,237       60.0        70.0            73.0           73.0            14.0           62.0            68.0
-   1984-1989    554,659        49.0          0.0           37.0             0.0            0.0           100.0           40.0
Prior to 1989   414,494        44.0         99.0           45.0            23.0            0.0             0.0           45.0
Total      14,554,297       88.0        88.0            63.0           79.0            92.0           65.0            84.0
1995       1995         970,094        83.2         69.4           91.1            86.5           93.8           205.0           79.4
1994       13,662,992       90.4        89.1            87.3           79.1            97.4           60.4            89.3
1   1990-1993   2,599,856        56.2        48.4            75.6           71.0            80.4           66.3            68.6
1984-1989    365,249        35.9         0.0            28.5            0.0             0.0                           30.3
Prior to 1984   327,427        34.0         98.9           23.5           100.0            0.0                           24.1
Total      17,925,618       87.3        87.5            70.0           75.4            89.2           65.3            83.3
1996       1996        1,263,468       76.1         68.4           57.9            86.3           69.7            21.2           69.5
1995       19,351,586       71.3        69.1            66.5           68.9            64.3           37.8            69.1
1990-1994   4,055,587       45.5        33.2            59.2           56.5            40.2           38.2            52.3
1984-1989    159,805        26.3         0.0            43.4            0.0                                           40.0
Prior to 1984    98,291        24.9         53.5           42.1             0.0                                          40.7
Total      24,928,737       69.8        67.9            61.8           62.4            65.2           37.8            66.1
1997       1997         894,357        71.2         75.1           54.4            75.3           42.6           167.0           69.2
1996      22,151,788        72.6        74.4            67.4           76.1            43.4           67.4            76.1
1990-1995   8,445,883       46.3        53.8            54.9           53.8             4.6           54.9            53.8
1984-1989    113,898        20.9         0.0            42.1            0.0             0.0            0.0            32.4
Prior to 1984    80,071        19.2          0.0            35.0            0.0            0.0             0.0           32.6
Total      31,685,997       69.1        70.3            59.2           60.1            39.6           28.6            61.9



76
APPENDIX 1
Table 11
Credit Outstanding and Overdue
(Ch$ in December 1997 values)
1993             1994              1995            1996           1997
Current Short Term.:         _
Outstanding                      9,429,164         9,921,134       10,741,970      12,661,894    11,328,255
Overdue                          1,594,150         1,270,175        1,375,860       1,790,660     2,167,038
Current Long Tenn:
Outstanding                      6,221,443         6,607,663        7,756,556      10,172,245    10,634,419
Overdue                          2,022,981         1,562,208        1,093,574       1,298,714     1,429,169
Production Basic:
Outstanding                      4,196,098        4,464,927         4,316,332       4,283,483     3,343,004
Overdue                            520,706          661,107          812,655         839,483      1,262,347
Capital Basic:          _  ______.
Outstanding                      3,252,492        4,213,536         4,776,638       4,323,242     3,497,912
Overdue                            198,293          319,614          542,775         732,334      1,007,055
Organizations Short Term:
Outstanding                      1,308,763         1,682,628        2,043,358       4,125,106     3,563,438
Overdue                             84,069          136,031           119,950        178,836      1,035,845
Organizations Long Term:
Outstanding                        567,344         2,174,962        4,551,583       8,508,904    10,847,177
Overdue                             47,724           26,963           91,324         269,574       865,949
Total Outstanding'                24,975,264        29,064,850       34,186,437      44,074,873    43,214,205
Total Overdue                      4,467,927         3,976,099        4,036,138       5,109,781     7,767,403
Total                             29,443,191        33,040,949       38,222,575      49,184,654    50,981,608
% Overdue                                 15.17            12.03            10.56           10.39         15.24
' Minor sunmmation errors in this table are to be found in the original Borrower's Report



77
APPENDIX 2
INDAP: PROGRAM OF TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER
Small Farmers in Chile
1.    The small farm sector in Chile includes an estimated 148,000 medium farmers with
5-12 BlH and 105,000 small farmers (minifundistas) with less than 5 BIH. These farmers
are responsible for 27% of the marketed agricultural production and hold 39% of the
farmland. The majority of small and medium farmers: (a) are located in marginal, dry
coastal areas and Andean foothills; (b) make a living from low-yielding traditional crops
and livestock production, off-farm seasonal work, and government subsidies; and (c) lack
the resources to increase farm productivity or to gain access to the formal markets through
increased competitiveness. About one-third of the small farmers have better resources and
greater commercial potential, as their holdings are located in more fertile, irrigated land and
closer to the markets; most small farmers (minifundistas) fall outside this group, and are the
farmers in the greatest comparative poverty.
Project Objectives and Targets
2.    The overall objective of the technology transfer program was to increase on-farm
productivity, income and well-being of about 92,000 small and medium farmers throughout
Chile. A greater emphasis was to be placed on the minifundistas, the recipients of the Basic
Technology Transfer Program (PTTB), where coverage was to be increased from 18,000 to
76,000 families over a five-year period. A separate program would be maintained for the
16,000 medium farmers, under a separate and existing INDAP assistance program (the
Integral Technology Transfer Program - PTTI), who would be eventually graduated out of
the public extension system.
3.    The project focused heavily on improving the quality of extension and service
delivery, as a way of maximizing the project's impact at the level of each farm family, and
on improving the prospects of long-term sustainability of INDAP's extension programs.
Most project-designed mechanisms, instruments and inputs addressed quality, and aimed at
enhancing the effectiveness of the basic, proven INDAP extension model'. The extension
program was built chiefly on achieving the better use of existing resources and sought to
minimize risks.
4.    The technical foundation for supporting minifundistas was the evidence at the time
of appraisal that there was a realizable potential for higher productivity among small
farmers, as indicated by the higher yields obtained by larger farmers operating with more
1 INDAP's extension model was primarily designed to provide farn-oriented extension, stressing productivity
and home-centered assistance. In its most simple version, the model assumes that appropriate technology for
the crops cultivated by small fanners (most frequently, commodity-type crops) is available and can be
delivered to farmers through qualified extensionists. Inputs to be delivered are mainly technological and
address factors affecting yields. The use of this model assumes that the typical INDAP beneficiary is
prepared to understand and is open to the extensionist's instructions and advice.



78
resources and located in similar areas. Available information had also confirmed the
considerable success of INDAP's model in increasing small-farm productivity during the
period 1983-19892. A particularly favorable business environment for traditional
agriculture, resulting from economic policy adjustments in the early 198Os3, encouraged
technology adoption during the 1980s by small farmers at the time the project was being
prepared. Under these conditions, the achievement of the project's objectives would mainly
rely on INDAP's capacity to manage efficiently the delivery of services to a significantly
expanded target group. INDAP's limitations in this last aspect were addressed by
designing a strong institutional strengthening component for the project.
5.    It was hard to predict at the time of appraisal the extent to which those business
conditions so favorable for agriculture in the 1980s would deteriorate during the 1990s4.
Swiftly decreasing profitability in traditional crops among small farmers significantly
weakened the potential for results from INDAP's traditional extension model. The model
had been well designed, however, and was successfully utilized during the first two years of
project execution.
6.    Without fully abandoning the traditional scheme, a first attempt was made to
redesign INDAP's extension strategy during 1995-1996. Action plans (or projects) to
develop community-level production systems tapping existing market opportunities5 were
contracted by INDAP with private consulting firms and utilized to determine the extension
program's scope and activities. INDAP's extension instruments were diversified to allow
provision of differential assistance to farmers under the new scheme.
7.    Mounting difficulties in implementing the above strategy and worsening economic
conditions for agriculture prompted the implementation of a radically new approach to
extension in 1997. The new strategy supported farmer transition towards a more
innovative, business-driven agriculture as demanded by farmers on the basis of presenting a
formal business plan to INDAP. Extension was made project-oriented, it stressed on-farm
and processing investment, and it favored farmers' associative schemes to canry out
business. A wide array of extension instruments, with varying degrees of intensity and
specialization, was developed by MNDAP to suit the differing needs of farmers for
assistance under this new approach. Operationally, one single private contractor provided
organization and business advice to INDAP's beneficiaries, and was also responsible for
contracting and delivering all other agreed specialized assistance services.
2 Crop yields of PMl farmers had increased significantly over this period, particularly in wheat (71%), maize
(35%), rice (40%), and beans (40%). All PTTI yields exceeded national averages in 1988-1989. No data for
the P1TB farmers were available during appraisal, as this program was in an early stage of development (see
SAR, Annex 3). National averages for wheat and maize yields in 1990-1992 were 100% higher than during
1980-1983; over the same period, yields for oilseeds, sugar beet, barley and oats increased by 50%.
3Prices to local producers increased significantly, mainly as a result of the devaluations of the Chilean
currency after the 1992-1993 economic crisis. The adjustment included higher custom duties and the
implementation of price stabilization schemes (the "price bands") to wheat and sugar beet.
4Between 1985-1989 and 1990-1992, prices for crops typically grown by small-farmers declined as follows:
wheat 25%, maize 17%, rice 11%, oats and barley over 20%.
5 Known as Micro-regional Projects or Local Development Projects.



79
Achievement of Objectives
8.    The implementation complexities of the new strategies required capabilities from
INDAP that went well beyond those foreseen in the original project. The changes also
made it increasingly difficult for the private consulting firms contracted by INDAP to
organize and deliver adequate assistance in the redesign and implementation of farmer's
activity. Consulting firms were well-equipped to provide technical assistance on the
traditional production side, but lacked the criteria and specialized inputs effectively to
address the business issues associated with the new approaches to extension.
9.    At the receiving end, both limited on-farm resources and most small farmers' lack of
basic entrepreneurial aptitude made it unlikely that the new schemes could be successfully
implemented. INDAP's stress on productivity, and subsequently on innovative endeavors,
imposed on small farmers an intricate business strategy with which even the larger, more
resourceful producers had difficulties in dealing.
10.   There is no available evidence, other than anecdotal results from a small number of
success stories, to evaluate the effect on small farmers' income of the new extension
schemes. However, from the above discussion and poor loan repayment record it becomes
apparent that the effects of these models on income were significantly thwarted by the
prevailing economic conditions and the effectiveness of the models themselves.
11.   The SAR does not provide quantitative criteria for judging the achievement of the
project's income objectives. It limits itself to the presentation of past evidence suggesting a
considerable potential for productivity gains by small farmers from INDAP's extension.
Under this premise, project performance indicators presented in the SAR focus rather on
the achievement of goals in terms of the number of beneficiary families, special target
groups (e.g., women), and proxy-indicators for quality of extension. As a consequence of
INDAP's changing focus on extension, most original project goals were only partially
pursued and their monitoring discontinued at an early stage of execution.
- Expanded Coverage
12.  Project goals were adequately met during the first two years of execution.
Technology transfer coverage almost doubled for the minifundista group; medium farmers
were transferred to successive program phases, and eventually graduated out of the system.
However, during the forthcoming years, coverage of minifundistas under the original
project extension scheme was progressively reduced, and reached pre-project levels of
about 17,000 beneficiaries upon completion. The reduction coincided with INDAP's efforts
to concentrate its extension resources on those farmers endowed with a higher potential to
succeed under the more demanding economic conditions6.
13.   The project's overall extension coverage reached a peak of 50,000 beneficiaries in
1994, and was maintained roughly at that level until project completion. Even though this
coverage was short of the project's 92,000 mark, it represents a critical mass relative to the
size of the target population.
6 About 68% of INDAP's beneficiaries were under INDAP's restructured extension schemes in 1997.



80
- Quality of Extension
14.   The project's achievements in improving the quality of extension were only partial.
Expected results in this area had relied heavily on a coordinated effort by INIA and INDAP
to address local small-farm technology development and validation and to provide adequate
training to extensionists. The program that was implemented to this effect made important
contributions to improve INDAP's extension to minifundistas during the first three years of
project execution. However, the program's early termination thwarted project expectations
concerning the quality and wider availability of technology proposals suited to
minifundistas' needs . Technology and extension problems associated with minifundistas
proved to be much more complex than anticipated by INIA and INDAP, and definitely
needed a more sustained and dedicated effort.
15.   The project's cooperative mechanism, linking up 1NIA's small-farm technology
development with INDAP' s extension program, was well designed to address
minifundistas' deficient productivity. However, the mechanism would not have been
appropriate to deal with the complex issues associated with INDAP's subsequent
approaches to extension. The new extension strategies involved the application of a
different set of criteria, which was alien to INIA's institutional culture and installed
research capacities.
16.   New extension criteria were also difficult to comprehend and to make operative by
INDAP's contracted extensionists. Though goals for the project-designed training program
for extensionists and beneficiaries were met in quantitative terms8, the project's objective in
terms of extension quality was strongly thwarted by the participants' limited capacity to
understand and deal with business innovation and management issues.
- Rural Communications System
17.   The implementation of a rural communication system was seen in the SAR as a key
tool to enhance efficiency in service delivery. Additionally, the system would be utilized to
disseminate information about productive schemes and availability of social services in
rural areas.
18.   The system achieved little in improving service efficiency, as INDAP was unable to
organize production of didactic audio-visual programs at an effective, program-wide scale.
INDAP had no prior experience in utilizing audio-visual techniques to support extension,
and faced serious difficulties in teaming up in-house skills to generate the programs' basic
pre-production inputs. On the other hand, production of didactic material by local film and
video program producers was limited by their complete lack of experience in developing
material for extension purposes.
7 The low quality of the technology supply was considered an important restriction to the extension
program's effectiveness in the project's Mid-Term Review.
s Over 1,000 extensionists and 1,000 small farmers were trained each year between 1993 and 1996. Under
INDAP's new extension strategy since 1997, INDAP considered it had no role in extensionist training.



81
19.  INDAP's changing messages to farmers upon implementation of the new extension
schemes made the production of more permanent communication material even more
difficult. The effort was finally discontinued, and the system reduced to a nation-wide TV
distance communication program focused on management training for small farmers.
20.   More successful (though indirect) results were obtained by the project in conveying
information about new productive schemes, the availability of social services and markets
to small farmers. INDAP's program was instrumental to the production of Tierra Adentro,
a successful national television broadcast. Tierra Adentro was financed by the Ministry of
Agriculture, before quickly gaining financial and institutional autonomy.
- Strengthened Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
21.   An enhanced M&E system was supposed to be established in INDAP under the
project, to overcome what was perceived as a major deficiency under Loan 248 1-CH.
INDAP could hardly make any progress in introducing the project-designed indicators to its
existing system. The extension objectives for most farmers were changed repeatedly as the
project's extension model changed, and it became impossible for an overburdened INDAP
to keep track of the progress made by farmers. An properly functioning M&E system
throughout project execution would have been a key tool to assess the effect of INDAP's
changing extension strategies on farmers and to introduce needed modifications. The
complete lack of a record on extension performance left INDAP with no elements to judge
the project's main activity or to design new, more effective strategies on that basis.
-     Specific Support to Women's Productive Activities
22.   As envisaged in the project, a team of female extensionists (CAF) was to train and
coordinate the efforts of the regular extensionists in reorienting extension to accommodate
practices to rural women's needs and to develop their economic potential. Though this
special effort proved satisfactory under the original extension model, the role of the CAFs
was not considered in the project's modified schemes. CAFs were eliminated in 1996 as
INDAP assumed that women were eligible for assistance as an integral part of the family
group.
Achievement of Objectives: Indirect Evidence
23.   Indirect evidence of the effects of the project on small-farm family production,
productivity and income is provided by an evaluation study of INDAP's Technology
Transfer Program (PTT) contracted by the Ministry of Economy in 19979. The study
included a survey of nearly 3,000 small-farm families (60% of whom were participating or
had participated in PTT) and a number of complementary surveys, interviews and case
studies. The analysis was performed on a cross-sectional basis, as no base-line data
establishing the farm-families original condition was available.
- Increased Productivity and Income
9 Universidad Cat6lica de Chile et al Evaluaci6n de los Instrumentos de Fomento Productivo: El Programa
de Transferencia Tecnol6gica del Instituto de Desarrollo Agropecuario (Santiago, Chile, 1997).



82
24.    Small-Farm Production  Small farms under PTT consistently generate a higher
gross value of production and obtain significantly higher net margins than those not under
PTT. The higher fixed asset endowment of farms under PTT is only partially responsible
for this difference. PTT participation correlated positively with the net margin, as PTT-
farmers crop a higher proportion of their landholdings, have crops with a higher market
value, and obtain better prices in the market than do farmers without PTT.
25.   Land Productivity  Contrary to expectations, no significant differences in yields
from most traditional crops were observed between PTT and non-PTT farmers'. A
plausible explanation is that most available technology had already been adopted by PTT-
farmers during the 1980s. Non-PTT farmers were late-adopters, thus yields ended up being
similar in the long run.
26.   Labor Productivity  Overall family labor productivity1l and on-farm productivity
were significantly higher for PTT-farmers, whereas no significant differences were found in
off-farm productivity between PTT and non-PTT families. The higher opportunity cost of
working off-farm makes PTT-family members allocate a greater proportion of their time to
on-farm activities than non-PTT families.
Table 1. Labor Productivity
(Ch$000)
INDICATOR                          With PTT   Without PTT      Diff.        Factor
Gross labor productivity             149           112          37           1.33
Gross on-farm labor productivity     158           113          45           1.40
Gross off-farm labor productivity     89            93          -4           0.96
27.   Small-Farm Family Income  In the aggregate analysis, both total and per capita
yearly gross income of PTT-families was significantly higher than those of non-PTT
families. Additionally, a significantly positive correlation was found between family
income and years of participation in the PTT.
10 Crops where no yield differences were found include: rice, barley, peas, chickpeas, potatoes, beans, sugar
beet, lettuce, maize and tomato. PTT farmers achieved higher yields in wheat, wine grapes and diary
production.
' Productivity was computed as the quotient between the gross value of production and the number of days
worked by the family.



83
Table 2. Rural Family Income Indicators
(Ch$000)
INDICATOR                      With PTT   Without PTT    Diff.       Factor
Yearly gross income              1,830       1,454        376         1.26
Yearlyper capita income            542        445          97         1.22
Off-farm income                    365        464         -99        0.79
Farm income to total (%/6)          80          68         -
28.  However, a deeper analysis of the determinants of small-farm family income shows
that the income effects of PTT are negligible in areas with adverse agro-climatic conditions,
such as the coastal and Andean dry-lands, and that the effects become negative in the least-
endowed farmer strata'2. Most minifundista families - the project's target population - live
under the latter conditions. Early indications on these results, such as those that could have
been provided by an effective monitoring system, would have been extremely valuable as a
basis to refocus extension on the more promising farmers during project execution.
- Foster Small-Farmer Access to Commercial Markets and to Publicly-Sponsored
Development Programs
29.   According to the project design, INDAP's extension program was additionally to
address small-farmers' access to markets and to foster increased farmer participation in
community organizations and programs.
30.  Access to Commercial Markets. According to the survey, 30% of the gross
production value of PTT-families is sold in formal markets compared to 20% by non-PTT
farm families. About 12% of the PTT-families had production contracts with
agroindustries, compared to 9% of non-PTT families. Given the increased focus of
INDAP's extension programs on business-oriented projects during 1995-1997, a much
stronger impact on farmers' linkages to formal markets than the observed proportions
would have been expected.
31.   Small-Farmer Participation in Organizations  About 78% of PTT-families
participate in some type of project or organization pursuing economic or commercial
objectives, compared to 54% of non-PTT families. The relatively high PTT-family
participation rate in commercially-oriented endeavors contrasts with the low proportion of
PTT-farm production channeled through formal markets. INDAP's extension and credit
programs seem to have succeeded in promoting farmer organization for business; however,
organized-farmer production has so far not been significant or instrumental in achieving a
greater small-farmer participation in the formal markets.
12 The impact of PTT on farm-family income becomes negative on farms under 4 ha.



84
32.  Access to Publicly-Sponsored Development Programs  As the single
government institution distributing services in the rural areas, INDAP's role under the
project also included the provision of information and contacts for farmers to gain access to
other, non-INDAP, public services and development programs. Though a rather reduced
proportion (4% to 6%) of PTT-families participate in other publicly-sponsored programs,
the participation of non-PTT families reaches only 2%. INDAP's major achievement in
this area has been to link its extension and credit program with the government-subsidized
irrigation program.



85
APPENDIX 3
INDAP: CREDIT
Project Objectives and Targets
1.   In the design of the project, credit was considered a complement to technology
transfer in achieving the objectives of increased productivity and net incomes among small
farmers. Credit was focused on the smallest farmers (minifundistas) and expanded to cover
100,000 farm families under the project. Linkages between INDAP credit and INDAP
extension were increased, to enhance the project's effects and its impact. INDAP's loans to
farmers were mainly for short-term working capital; term credit was limited to on-farm and
simple agro-industrial investments. The project's lending strategy was to follow a similar
approach to that of extension, addressing a better use of the farmer's existing resources and
seeking to minimize farmer risk.
2.    Within the project's design, it was intended that an effort would be made to prepare
small farmers for "graduation" into the commercial banking sector, although farmer
graduation itself was not a project goal. INDAP would carry out an independent study
assessing small farmer credit eligibility in the commercial banks. Options to stimulate
greater banking sector participation would be explored and pilot-tested during project
execution.
3.    Major steps would be taken by INDAP to improve its sub-loan portfolio
performance, to ensure INDAP's financial resource availability to farmers under the
project's expanded coverage. Sub-loan terms and conditions to farmers would be made
similar to those of the commercial banking sector as a way to prepare farmers for a
transition to commercial financial markets.
Achievement of Objectives
4.    Specific reforms to INDAP's credit portfolio management system (including
stringent portfolio performance targets) and criteria to set sub-loan size, interest rate and
type of beneficiary had been adequately established in the SAR to ensure efficient system
performance. However, under significantly changed extension strategies after 1995, the
project adopted a lending policy which involved major departures from the original design
parameters. Project objectives and targets regarding credit were satisfactorily achieved in
the area of designing and implementing a number of management instruments; however,
objectives were only partially achieved in terms of the credit system's performance, as
reflected in progressively increasing rates of sub-loan arrears.
- Expanded Coverage
5.   INDAP achieved an overall expansion of credit to almost 120,000 beneficiaries in
year 4 of the project. However, the coverage to the smallest farmers of short-term lending
for working capital actually decreased during execution. Term-credit for investment to



86
small and medium-sized producers' and short- and long-term credit to organizations almost
doubled in terms of their proportion in INDAP's sub-loan portfolio.
6.    The resulting portfolio composition proved to be highly risky, as judged by the
subsequent high rates of sub-loan arrears. The sub-loan default risk was exacerbated by a
system-wide lack of business criteria for project formulation, selection and implementation,
and by adverse economic conditions affecting agriculture.
- Small Farmer Graduation
7.    A project-designed study2 of the potential for INDAP' s credit beneficiaries for
graduation into the commercial banking system was contracted with external consultants in
1994. The study concluded that 70% of INDAP's medium-sized credit clients (about
12,000 farmers) would meet conditions for graduation within a two- to three-year period.
8.    A pilot program establishing a subsidy to credit transactions was implemented in
1996. Vouchers (bonos) subsidizing the bank transaction costs were offered on an open-bid
basis to commercial banks, and a subsidy covering incremental transaction costs to farmers
willing to borrow from commercial banks was offered to farmers. Farmer credit records
were made available to the bidding banks.
9.     Even though the mechanism was given ample diffusion among banks and farmers,
only 1,418 subsidies were adjudicated to three commercial banks in two bidding processes
that took place in 1996 and 1997. At the end of 1997, only 579 subsidies had been utilized.
10.    The poor performance of the system can be attributed to two major factors:
(a) commercial banks drastically reduced direct net lending to the agricultural sector in
general, as a result of poor sector and loan performance during the 1990s; and (b) farmers
continued to prefer borrowing from INDAP, as INDAP has traditionally been more lenient
in demanding loan repayment from clients in arrears.
- Linkages between INDAP Credit and INDAP Extension
11.   Credit was to be linked to extension in order to enhance the effect and impact of
extension, from pre-project levels of about 20% to 74% by year 5 of the project. Although
no direct evidence is available in INDAP on this regard, the findings of a survey contracted
by the Ministry of Economy to evaluate the performance of INDAP's instruments3 indicate
that credit operations linked to extension had reached 44% in 1993 and 80% in 1997.
l This includes the capitalization grants to acquire basic implements and tools, which minifundistas were
entitled to in the project.
2DiseAfo de una Estrategia para Facilitar la Migraci6n de Agricultores Campesinos a la Banca Comercial:
Informe de Resultados (Santiago, 1996)
3Universidad Cat6lica de Chile et al, Evaluaci6n de los Instrumentos de Fomento Productivo: El Programa
de Transferencia Tecnol6gica del Instituto de Desarrollo Agropecuario (Santiago, Chile, 1997).



87
- Sub-loan Portfolio Performance
12.    At the end of 1991, INDAP's credit system had a level of arrears of some 31% in
terms of the value of loans outstanding, a situation deemed unacceptable by both the
government and the Bank because of its future financial implications. A 90% collection
rate was established as a target for fiscal year 1995.
13.    Collection rates for short-term working capital loans achieved the 90% mark as
early as 1993. However, during the following years, loan arrears increased and collection
rates dropped to approximately 70%. Short-term loan collection from organizations,
having shown an impressive improvement during 1993 and 1994, fell progressively to an
unacceptable level of 43% in 1997.
14.    A similar pattern developed in long-term loans, where records were available for
the first and subsequent installment. Collection rates for individual loans in the first
installment were in the range of 79-87% during 1993-1994 and dropped to a range of
66-76% during the forthcoming years. Second and subsequent installments presented
significantly lower collection rates. Long-term loans to organizations had a much poorer
performance, and loan collections declined abruptly from 90% + levels to 38% and 36% in
1995 and 1996, respectively. The meager results from long-term loan collection are even
less acceptable when considering that: (a) a project-designed capitalization grant was
increasingly disbursed to farmers in connection with long-term loans5; and (b) 7.7% of
INDAP's loaned amounts were forgiven during the period of project execution.
15.   The general decline in collection rates was attributed to the adverse business
conditions of agriculture faced by small farmers during project execution. A severe three-
year drought ending in 1996 had posed additional stress. However, the poor performance
of INDAP's long-term loan portfolio, particularly in the case of organizations, was a result
that hinged more heavily on INDAP's own lending policy and capabilities rather than on
factors external to INDAP. In supporting farmer innovation, INDAP's lending had focused
on operations bearing a much higher risk, and INDAP was unable to develop adequate
business criteria to analyze and to make appropriate decisions in connection with the
farmers' proposed operations.
16.    As a consequence of INDAP's heavy term-lending, the share of long-term loans in
INDAP's overall portfolio increased from 25% in 1992 to 48% in 1997, and the share of
term loans to organizations increased from 8% to 28%. Returning INDAP's loan portfolio
to more manageable financial standards would thus be practically impossible. Most debt
will necessarily have to be written off by INIDAP and, thus, converted into a government
subsidy. Contrary to original expectations, INDAP's credit system completely failed to
perform as envisaged in the project's design. INDAP's financial condition deteriorated to a
limit where only political will can assure its viability.
4 Individual farmers would have access to a one-time capitalization grant, not exceeding 20% of the farm
investment project cost (FIPC), with a maximum of 6UF. The grant available to farmer organizations was not
to exceed 10% of FIPC, with a maximum of 6OUF. Grants were to be disbursed to farmers in connection
with both short- and long-term loans.
5 As a proportion of overall operations, grants to farmers were raised from 4% in 1993 to 16% in 1996.



88
APPENDIX 4
RURAL LAND TITLING
Background
1.    Land titling of small farmers has been carried out by the Ministry of National
Property (MBN) for some thirty years at modest levels. An estimated 200,000 rural
families and between 80-100,000 urban families did not have title to the land they were
occupying in 1975. Between 1979 and 1990, MBN regularized the titles of some 65,000
urban and 108,000 rural families. INDAP, which is responsible for land titling in
indigenous areas, regularized an additional 72,000 titles during that period.
2.    At project appraisal, it was estimated that 110,000 non-indigenous and 6,300
indigenous rural families still lacked a land title. An additional titling effort was needed to
regularize the situation of some 20,000 farmers occupying fiscal (state-owned) lands.
Project Objectives and Targets
3.    Secure, regularized land tenure was considered to be a key factor in facilitating the
access of rural families to publicly-sponsored development programs, including INDAP's
credit. MBN was to expand its regular titling program to cover an estimated 43,000 rural
families in need of a land title.
Achievement of Objectives
4.     The achievement of project objectives was substantial, in terms both of meeting the
project's targets and of generating the expected benefits to families whose titles were
regularized. Beneficiaries saw the values of their properties increase, they started new
investment in productive activities or infrastructure, and slowly began to gain access to
government services and subsidies.
5.    MBN's performance of the program was evaluated positively by the great majority
of its beneficiaries, and its titling program was also evaluated positively by a review panel
at the Ministry of Finance late in the project's implementation period'. The panel
recommended the program's extension to regularize the titles of the remaining families
lacking secure land tenure. The program's continuation will be financed from the fiscal
budget.
6.    MBN's land titling capacities were adequately strengthened by the project. Upon
project completion, the division of MBN responsible for land titling is well prepared to
sustain titling activities without the project's support. The division is staffed with a team of
well-trained professionals, operates a significantly improved computerized client
Ministerio de Hacienda, Direcci6n de Presupuestos, Panel Programa Saneamiento de Titulos del Banco
Mundial, Informe Final, Santiago de Chile, 1997.



89
information and monitoring system, and has established a transparent contracting system
with private consultants for title regularization.
7.     The main results of MBN' s titling activities are presented in an independent study2
contracted by MBN to evaluate the performance and impact of its titling program. The
study was based on a nation-wide survey of 1,500 beneficiaries of the program.
8.     Regularized Property Profile. About 55% of the regularized cases corresponded
to agricultural parcels averaging 5.2 ha in size. The remainder included small rural land
plots occupied by rural families, with an average area of 1.2 ha. Though the latter cases
would not exactly fit the project's implicit eligibility criteria, title regularization of small
plots was important as it contributes to providing more stable conditions for rural dwellers
who supply temporary services to agriculture.
9.     Beneficiaries' Profile. Beneficiary selection criteria favored families living in
poverty and those households headed by women, and discriminated positively in favor of
certain ethnic groups. Over 75% of beneficiary families had an income below the poverty
line, and 45% of all beneficiaries was indigent. About 40% of the regularized titles
benefited female heads of household. No data is available for the ethnic groups.
Ranjinee Rudran
\\SteetTalk\Projects@Fies@LAC\PROJECTS\!CL\PROJECTS\ESSD\SMALL\APPEN4.DOC
02125/99 11:01 AM
2 Ministerio de Bienes Nacionales, Consultorias Profesionales Agraria S.A., Evaluaci6n de la Gesti6n y
Medici6n de Inpacto del Programa de Saneamiento y Regularizaci6n de Titulos de la Pequefia Propiedad
Rural; Santiago de Chile, 1996.






C H I L E
CITIES OVER 50,000 INHIA31TATS                                                 _  __ENTRAL_                   _    _ _  _  _  _
*5 5000 . 100.000                                                POIDRTS"   Il
A 0000 0  300000                                                 AD2MINISTRATI.E REGION 000UNDARIES
*  300,000C                                                --    NTERNATIONAL BOUI4DARIES
Agricultural          Zone           Totol      Crops nod       rgted                                    Rion          M-, A70..1  M-eno Ann on
Production                                       Poo000       oAeoCpgi tolIs 
kn,~ (000  . (000'~)   000'S)                                                Ien`ON0           rncpoo
Irrigated oases             I           178           13           11
and river volleys        Desert                                                      2                    IQUIQUE
IqoliqeN
1ANTOFAGASTA
A tg l  I              i  -T- -               * 
Artofag-si4; A    ||      ,          
Irrigated river             11          120           195          13
valleys and oases,        Arid
itinerant sheep and                                              /APO
goats                                                                                               (
La Ser.,                            _    14.4              100
LA SERENA
Fruits, vegetables,        []I           93          2160         1050V1prAL RIS
grapes, wheat,           Mediter-                                                 VaIcis                                      13A9P             367
maize, milk,             ranean                                                           '13
sunflower, beef,                                                                  sonRM  SA NIAntGoO-
cattle, sheep,                                                                         R
sugar, pulses,                                                                      So- F.M  SANTIAG
forestry
)Tninn  4 ^)\   TALCA
T.I1,h0W4    ViI
Concepc6n  0Chili o                              1300             1319
I CNCEPCiON
Cattle, nilk,               IV          102          2990          170
sheep, forestry,       Temperate                                                                             UCO
bar[ey, oats,                                                                     TW
potatoes, fruits,                                                              5.dv4                                           101            2507
sugarbeets,
pulses, wheat
<      'O P erSto MolsT  PUERTO
Ifp       MONTT
Sheep, cattle,              V           248           185           1.
forestry                 Humid                                                         0
0,,   ,7    I
_                            _ SOLIVIA  -                                               coy  4oe                                  8.0t           2865
BOLIVIA               s                                                       TCOYHAIQUE
\    -K  RrAGuA'. BRsz                                                           vXIAZIL
-20 |  j    XARGNTINA f                                                            v\    X 
> l t7.! DX   S(40   _                                              > u    I        \PUNTA
<   t  g   tS  ATANTC  _   0   200                       <               X       ts 1~600  80  ARENAS
- C                                                     0010 11~
50    |, ,0 ,0                    00,00,00,00 'J |  o    500  IROE  In8rmw9EdssmfomVlwl/"MMmt5m*'o' /mmmw  Areos  62'  2754
~~~~I.                                                                                                  00~~~~~-.0IP
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~66 - - '1r
17- - -70>                                                                                                                 



