A_      7c/7I (C//
Documient of
The World Bank
IOR OFFICiAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE  COPY                                                 Report No. 10133-CH
Report No. 10133-CUI Type: (SAR)
GOSWAMI, S/ X38600  / I6066/ LA4AC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHILE
SMALL FARNER SERVICES PROJECT
APRIIL 14, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients ordy in the perfonmance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-~~~~ U inUUl  A                                 -    -       -
CUIWRENCY UNIT
Peso (Ch$)
EXCHANGE RATE
(as of September 30, 1991)
US$2.00 = Ch$360.0
Ch$1.00   US$0.0028
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system has been used throughout the report.



FOR OFFICIAL, USE ONLY
AMBREVIATIONS
ARD          Agriculture and Rural Development
BIB          Basic Irrigated Hectare
CATT         Center of Technological Change and Transfer (Centro do                        sfhustr y Tran eferencia de
TecnloloR(a)
CONAMA       National Environmental Cormission (Comisi_n Nacional del Hedio Ambiente)
CREDAP       INDAP Credit Information System (Sistems de Crddito de INDAP)
DEP          Department of Studies and Budget (Departamento de Estudios y Presupuesto)
FIPC         Farm Investment Project Cost
FNDR         National Regional Development Fund (Fondo Nacional de Doearollo Regional)
FOSIS        Solidarity and Social Investment Fund (Fondo de Solidaridad e Inversion Social)
FUCOA        Agricultural Conmunication Foundation (Fundaci6n de Comunicacione)_del   ro)
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
IDB          Inter-American Development Bank
IICA         Inter-American lnstitute for Cooperation in agriculture (Instituto Interamericano de
CooReraci6n para La Agricultura)
INDAP        Agricultural Development Institute (Instituto de Desarrollo Agropecuario)
INIA         Agricultural Research Institute (Instituto de Investigaciones Agropecuarias)
LCB          Local Competitive Bidding
MAG          Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (Ministerio de Aericultura v Ganaderfa)
MBN          Ministry of National Property (Hinisterio do Bienes Nacionales)
M&E          Monitoriug and Evaluation
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
PCMU         Project Coordination and Management Unit
PCR          Project Completion Report
PPAR         Project Performance Audit Report
PT    T      Technology Transfer Program (Proarama de Transferencia Tecnol6gica)
PTTB         Basic Technology Transfer Program (Programa do Transferencie TecnoL6&icaBAsica)
PTTI         Integrated Technology Transfer Program (Progra  de Transforencin Teenol6tica Interal)
SERNAM       NationaJl Women'a Service (Servicio Nacional de la        r)
SOE          Statement of Expenditure
UP           Monetary Unit Adjusted for inflation (Unidad de Fomento)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipicnts only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CHILE
3TAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SMALL FARMRR SERVICES PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   LOAN AND PROJECT SUMHARY  . . . . . . . .  . . . .            1
II.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           3
Agriculture in the Economy  . . . . . . . . .          3
Recenit Policy Environment . . . . . . . . .         3
The Small Fam Sector . . . . . . . . . . . .           3
An  Overview  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  3
Constraints to Growth . . . . . . . . . . .          4
Public Sector Assistance Programs . . . . . .          5
The Agricultural Development Institute   .           5
Technology Transfer   . . . . . e . .                5
Credit  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  7
Interest Rates  . ..@... .  .  ....8
INDAP's Financial Condition . . . . . . . .          9
Rural Women and Youth . . . . . . . . . . .          9
Land Titling  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          10
Private Assistance Programs. . . . . . . . . .         12
Government's Strategy  . . . . . . . . . . . .         12
III.  BANK INVOLVEMENT AND LESSONS LEARNED  . . . . . . .         12
Bank Involvement in the Sector  . . . . . . .          12
Technical Assistance  .   * . .    . . . . .         13
Agricultural Credit  .    .  .   .   .  .  .         13
Land Titling  . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . .         14
Rural Communications   .    .   .  .     .  .        14
Institutional Strengthening . .. . . . .             14
Issues and Lessons Learned in ARD Lending
in  Chile  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  $  .  .  .  .  .  .  14
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Chile
in September/October, 1991, comprising Messrs./tlhes. S. Goswami, M. McGarry,
A. Tobelem, M. Wilson (Bank) and A. Roumani (Consultant). Mr. W. Nickel also
made a significant contribution to the report prior to his transfer to AS4AG.
Peer reviewers were Messrs. G. Russell (AS4AG) and M. McMahon (LATAG).
Messrs. Ping-Cheung Loh, M. Wil,on, and S. Goswami are the Department Director,
Division Chief, and Task Manager, respectively, for the operatic>.



Table of Contents (continued)
Pp_ No.
IV.   THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       15
A.    Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement .                   iS
B.    Project Objectives and Description  . . . . .                 16
Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . .                17
C.    Detailed Project Features   . . . . . .   . .                 17
INDAP Executed Components   . . . . . . .                  1.7
Technology Transfer (PTT)   . . . . . . .                17
Credit  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .   .   .  .   .  .  .  20
Rural Women   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                23
Rural Communications  . . . . .   . . . .                24
Institutional Development of INDAP  . . .                25
MBN Executed Components   . . . . . . . . .                26
Land Titling   . . . . . . . . . . .    .                26
Institutional Development of MBN  . . . .                26
D.    Project Costs; and Financing . . . . . . . . .                27
co8ts           . . . . . . .             .                27
Financing . .   . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .               27
E.    Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 27
F.    Pro;urement . . . . . . .  . . . . .. . .  .                  28
Prior Bank Review . . . . . . . . . . . . .                29
G.    Cost Recovery   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 30
Technology Transfer . . . . . . . . . . . .                30
Land Titling  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                30
V.    PROJECT ORGANIZATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  30
Project Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . .                30
PCGU Organization . .       .        . .   . .             30
PCNU Functions  .   . ..  .      . . . . . . . .           31
Mid-Term Review    . . . . . . . . ..         .            31
Accounts and Audits ..  . . . . . . . .  . . .                32
Reporting . . .  .  . . .  . . . . . . . . . .               32
VI.   PROJECT BENEFITS, RISKS, AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ,                  32
Benefits   .  .  .  .  .  .  . ,   . .  .  .  .     . .      32
Developing Rural Credlt Markets and
Strengthening the Private Sector Role   . . .                33
Project Risks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                34
Environmental Impact  . . . . . . . . . . . .                 34
VII. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND
RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 34



Tuble of Contents (continuad)
ANNEXES
1. Ministry of Agriculture Program Matrix
2. INDAP's Strategic Plan (Annex 2.1)
NBN's Strategic Plan (Annex 2.2)
3.  Technology Transfer
4. Land Titling Services
5. Cost Tables
6. Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
7. Performance Indicators
8. Organization Charts
9.  List of Documents in Project File
10. List of Documents in Technical File
HAP: IBRD 23006



CHELE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SMALL FARMER SERVICES PROJECT
I. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Republic of Chile
Executina Agencies:   Ministry of Agriculture (MAG), Agricultural Development
Institute (INDAP) and Ministry of National Property (MBN)
Beneficiaries:         About 84,000 small farm families
Loan Amount:           US$95 million equivalent
Terms:                 Seventeen years, including five years of grace, with level
payments of principal, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
Proiect Obiectives:   The project would: (a) overcome constraints to increased
small-farmer productivity and incomes and improved
well-being; (b) enhance the institutional capacity and
effectiveness of INDAP and MBN; and (c) foster small-farmer
access to commercial markets for their products and factors
of production, and to publicly-sponsored agricultural
development programs.
Project Description:  The project would include: (a) technology transfer, invclving
both farm-oriented extension and home-centered assistance
(family kitchen gardens, water treatment, improved diets and
cooking methods, awareness of education and health services);
(b) complementary credit for working capital (e.g., seed,
fertilizers) and investment (e.g., fencing, reproductive and
draft animals, orchard establishment, implements, on-farm
storage), consistent with technology transfer initiatives;
(c) land titling; (d) a rural communication system to improve
the dissemination of information related to small farmer
production and social services; and (e) institutional
strengthening.
Benefits:              The main project benefits would include: (a) increased on-
farm productivity and family incomes and improved welfare;
(b) improved and more cost-effective agricultural services;
(c) improvement in the credit-worthiness of subsistence
farmers; and (d) better targeting of public services
including improvement of services to women farmers.



-2-
Risks:                The principaL project risks would be: (a) the potential
for political over-eagerness to expand programs to
address rural povsrty, threatening INDAP's .operational
capability; and (b) reluctance of commercial credit
market to extend credit to graduates of INDAP program.
Riolk (a) is already being minimized by a generalized
fiscal austerity, acting as a break on imprudent
expansion of INDAP programs. As regards risk (b), the
project would attempt to change commercial credit
market attitudes by (i) pilot testing various options
proposed by the study on improving incentives for
private intermediaries; and (ii) hy improving subloan
portfolio management to clarify each client's payment
record.
Estimated Costs'/:
Local          Foreign      Total
------------US$ million  -      --
Technology Transfer                    72.0           12.0         84.0
Complementary Credit                   98.1           18.1        116.2
Rural Communications                    2.2             -           2.2
Land Titling                            7.7            0.5          8.2
Inst. Development (INDAP)              13.5            1.2         14.7
Inst. Development (MBN)                 1.2            0.6          1.8
Total Baseline Costs b/               194.7           32.4        227.1
Contingencies                           L77            1.2          8.9
Total Project Costs                   202.4           33.6        236.0
Financina Plan:
IBRD                                   61.4           33.6         95.0
Government of Chile                    90.0            --          90.0
INDAP                                  14.1            -           14.1
Beneficiaries and
Intermediaries                       36.9            _           36.9
Total                              202.4           33.6        236.0
Estimated IBRD Disbursements:
IBRD FY     1992 c'  1993       1994      1995       1996      1997      1998
--US$ million 
Annual      9.7        6.3       14.4      21.6      25.1       14.4       3,5
Cumulative  9.7      16.0        30.4      52.0      77.1       91.5      95.0
Economic Rate of Return:    N.A.
MHP: IBRD 23006
./ V.1u.o Rounded
bl Includes lots! taxes amounting to US$1.9 miil:on
Sl Includes initial deposit in the special account of US$7.0 mi:lion equivelont



It.  TII AGRICI,LTURA. SECTOR
Agricu1ture in the Ec_ono y
2.01        Since the mid-1960s, t'a agricultural sector of Chile has
experi.enced an extended period of growth, onily briefly interrupted by the
turmoil of the early 19708 and macroeconomic imbalances in the early 1980s.
Since 1985, agriculture has become a dynamic and increasingly vital sector of
the economy, growing at a rate of about 52 per annum. The cector-includI:ng
forestry and fisheries--currently generates about 9% of GDP, employs 18% of
the labor force and accounts for over one-third of imerchandise exports.
2.02        Recent PI2i,L En _ ronment.  Macroeconomic and trade policy have a
major influence on the performance of the sector, which produces predominantly
tradable commodities, and recent growth can be attributed largely to sustained
trade liberalization policies and economic stability since 1985. Trade reform
has been complemented by the deregulation of factor markets and a series of
innovative sectoral measures which have promoted the efficient allocation of
resources to and within agriculture. With a relatively small domestic markret,
exports have accounted for most of the growth. Led by fresh fruit, forest and
fish products, the value of exports relative to agricultural value-added in-
creaced from less than 5% in 1965 to 20% in 1982 and over 80% during
1988/1990. The sector's current 35% share of foreign exchange earnings
rerrcsents a major increase from 8% in 1985 and 6% in 1973. Import-competing
crops also responded and the country is now self-sufficient in wheat and
sugar. Food imports as a share of total imports have declined from 20% in
1965 to 4% in 1988/1990.
2.03        Recent achievements need to be consolidated into the 1990s and
their sustainability ensured. Heavy investments in fruit orchards need
reliable water supplies and sanitary protection. Unsustainable production
practices in the forest and fisherlies subsectors that threaten the resource
endowments on which they depend require a significant tightening of the
regulation and management of natural resources. Also, the potential of the
small farm sector has not been tapped fully, and rural poverty persists.
Attaining these objectives will require few significant changes in policy.
The fundamental requirements remain: (a) sustained relative openness in goods
markets effected through liberalized trade policies and fiscal stringency to
support a favorable real exchange rate; (b) a stable and favorable investment
climate with consistent "rules of the game"; (c) continuing efforts to develop
and deregulate capital, land, and labor markets; and (d) development and
dissemination of small-farmer technology, complemented by credit, to enable
small farm development.
The Small Farm Sector
2.04        An Overview.  The rural population accounts for about 17% of
Chile's 12.8 million inhabitants. Current estimates by the Agricultural. De-
velopment Institute (INDAP) divids the farm population into three major cat-
egories:
(a)   an estimated 33,000 farmers who own and operate modern, medium-
size and larger farm enterprises, accounting for about 53% of the
agricultural area and generating 70% of marketed output;



~~ --  l        ..R      -  ..      U  MI  ui in   U   W    -  I    U
4
(b)   about 148,000 farm familins with 5-12. BIHN/, coTmprising mostly
agrariarn reform becucfLciarieo and small traditional proprietors,
who contro). 452 of thio agrIcultural aroa nnd produce most of the
remaining tuntrkotrd oultpUt; and
(a)   245,000 fauilleta  ineluding 105,000 smaLl holders (;xxinifundic;ltn)
with le.ees than 5 BIIl and 1-22 of the aratb.te area and 140,000 other
rural familieo whoso rmain sources of income are oharecropping and
wage income from rural labor.
2.05        Stooll fiamere (those in grotips (b) and (c) above)23  play art
important role in the national and regional oconomi:Le of Chliloe. They account
for somO 53% of the total area allocatecl to vegetablec aso well as one-third of
the area under cereals, wine grapes and natural pasture.  A limited national
agricultural and livestock survey of 1986/87 demonstrated that some 962 of
small farmers are located between the Rio Elqui and Chilo6, with a marked
concentration between Ruble and Chilo6, i.e., between Regions VIII and X (see
Map IBRD 22694). Thi.s same study revoaled th&: while the majority of small
farmers are situated in marginal, dry coastal areas and Andean foothills, over
one-third are located in the fertile, irrigated lands of the Central Valley.
These small Central Valley producers generally have better resources and
greater commercial potential than those in the coastal. areas and foothills
and, therefore, comprise the bulk of families in category (b) above.
2.06        Dependence on family labor distinguishes shurply the smaller from
the larger producer. While all family members work, women and younger family
members are generally unpaid, but adult male members receive some form of
payment either in-kind or in-cash. This dependence on family labor explains
partially the ability of small farmers to withstand economic adversity and has
also proved invaluable in sustaining production during seasonal periods when
male family members migrate either within Chile or to other parts of the
Southern Cone to find seasonal work, eog., fruit-picking, fish-farming and
logging within Chile, and sheep-sheAring in Argentina.
2.07        Conatraints to Growth.  Apart from the small farmers living in the
fertile Central Valley, the soil and climatic conditions in areas of small
farmer concentration are poor. Novertheless, the higher yields of larger
farmers in these more marginal areas indicate a potential for higher
productivity among small farmers. While medium- and large-scale agricultural
entrepreneurs have been able to invest in new plant varietles, pesticides,
fertilizers and modern machinery generally associated with modern technology,
small producers often have lacked such access owing to: (a) the almost
complete absence in Chile of research end development of techmology
appropriate to their special conditions (e.g., area-specific, robust crop
varieties, crop/livestock/for'stry farming systems, appropriate tools,
environmentally sound tillage methods, simple preservation techniques);
(b) lack resources at the farm leve'l to pay for available technology (e.g.,
certified seed, fertilizers); and (c) resource constraints on public technical
J     B"lo Irrigated Hectwro (Blh), a measure of the potentlal productivity of land relative to that of one heotare of Irrigated land
In the istule Rio Malpo Valley near Santago. Unirrniuteo lands are usually 0.14Q2 Bi1-physlcal ha.
2/    The BIH meaure represents a fixed ratto which has r.ot been changod for many yews and Is becoming outdated. While
the targetd beneficlarl  of the project are all small farmers In the 0-12 BIH range (those In (b) and (c) above), they are
divided for the purpose of the technology transfer end credit program. under the project Into two groups based on
additional oritrIa (primarily Income) and are reftrred to In the SAR tx as non-minlfundistas and minifundistes. Small
farmter In the first gioup would, Inter jfl, have an annual Income of more thinn two minimum salaries; the second group
would, ntr !1j, have two or los minimum ealeaie annually.



-5-
assistance programs. Access to credit it frequently blocked by collateral
roiquirements which many small farmers cannot fulfill duo to, inter_aL:tA, luck
ox secure land titles.  Further complieatitg this, smaller producers generally
are avoroo to borrowing and commercial banks to lenWing to such cliento sinco
thoy represent special risks and higher transaction costs.
2.08        In addition, small producers lack basic servico infrastructureo
including collection, storages processing and marketing facilities. 'The
situation is further exacerbated by poor secondary roads, especially from
Rs3gion VIII southwards, and inadequate transport facilities.  For small
farmiers with marketable surplus, this often results in d hoc marketing
efforts and vulnerability to middlemen and price pressures.  Such fanners lack
community organizations which could act as conduits to off-farm contacts, of..
for exposure to productive inputs, product sales information and outleta, a
woll an aervicen.  Inadequato development and distribution of basic social.
aorvicen, including sanitation, education and eloctrification continue to  
d,3prcso the quality of life for the poorest segments of the rural populnt:ion
dospite special programs and increased social expenditures in recent yoaro.
Public Sector Assistance Pr   ms
2.09        The A_riulj turalDove elen t Insttute (INDAP) was created in 1962
to provide credit and free technical assistance to small producers.  It is an
agency within the Ministry of Agriculture (MAG) mandated to increase small
farmer productivity, bring them into the national economic mainstream whero
possible and improve thelr general living standards (see Annexes 2.1 and 8).
I1DAP is headed by a National Director operating through a National D:lr-.
e,:torate, 12 Regional Directorates and 74 Area agencies. Its main responsi-
billties are: (a) technical assistance (technology trnsfer); (b) com-
plementary investment and working capital financing; and (c) incorporation of
smnall farmers into the National Plan for Rural Development (para. 2.10).
I.IDAP beneficiaries oust satisfy the following qualifications: (i) farm lees
than 12 BIH; (ii) have total assets les than 3,500 UF (US$73,500);
(iii) obtain income principally from agricultural pursuits whatever the land
tenancy arrangements; and (iv) exhibit potential to improve agricultural
performance. INDAP currently hae a staff of 970 made up of 70 manag-
efs/directors, 245 professionals, 290 tech:nicians and 365 support staff,
2.10        In 1986, an Inter-Ministerial Cocmisoion for Rural Developmont wan
e3tablished to formulate and unify public policy for improving the quality of
life for the Chilean rural sector. The Commission recommended the
iuiplementatioa of a National Plan for Rural Development (Plan), representing a
multi-faceted attack on rural poverty and on the wide divergence of social
indicators between rural and urban areas. With its Plan, the Commission
sought: (a) to boost income-generating capacity by modernizing agriculture
through more effective technology transfer, by upgrading the entrepreneurial
capability of producers, by improving marketing potential, and by issuing land
titles; and (b) to enhance the quality of life in rural areas by expanding and
making more efficient social programs in the areas of education, health and
housing. Launched in early 1987, the Plan is administered at the national,
regional and provincial levels by participant-agencies, but actual
implementation, and partial but limited financing, are the responsibility of
local communities.
2.11        Technolov Transfer.  After a aerious curtailment of its acti-
vities in the 1970s, INDAP introduced a pilot technical assistance program in
1982, using subsidized private consulting services in an area south of
S.antiago.  In 1983/84, its program was oxpanded to cover 13,140 beneficiarine



nationwide. Until 1967/88, INDAt"s program of technology transfer grew
modestly, principally reflecting renource limitations and the multi.-year
nature of benafi.::iary participav.ioun  INOAP's program was llmited initially to
emall farmers of 5-12 BIH.-s group deomed to have potential. for sclf-
sufficiency and commercial viability, to bo receptive to improveO  technology,
but to bes unible to nifcid p? :l.vr.t*h vdA. 1d GtJStnZCe withcatt goenrilinllt
subsidy.
2.12        Once the Plan was latnched, INDAP's program of technology transfer
was enlarged and broadenecl.  The prog,ram for better-endowed small producers
(nonm fundistan) was enlarged by one-third in 198i/88, servicing about
18,600 farmers (Proglemoa Transferencia Tocnol          i v _t__aLPT_ L)_
Furthermore, in 1987/88 INDAP began a special program of technical assistance
geared to the formerly neglected, smaller and poorer segment of tho farming
population (Ergramade Trannferoncla Tecnol6pg!c    ica__ PTTBP)   PTTI
beneficiaries are small, marginal producers (mjnifundista.) considered to have
inadequate resources to achieve self-sufficiency from on-farm purnuito, in
many cases ever after PTTB participation. Modelled on PTTI, PTTB baoically
sought to improve the quality of life of participating families through
medium-term technical assistance orressing improved use of available on-farm
resources and siuple methods to upgrade family healthi (i.e.* diet, hygiene,
water treatment, awarenoss of social sorvicess). In 1Q87/88, 6,900 familias
participated in PTTB, a number which increased slightly to 7,000 in 1988/89.
PTTB has generally been considered as having a aclial emphasis and as being a
link with other social interventions under the Plat. thoughl INDAP's current
administration is attempting to strengthen the program's productive side. In
contrast, 1'TTI focused traditionally on the productive/commercial development
of participants, with socia". developmeut ari.sing ao a secondary benefit.
2.13        In 1989/90, the number of PTTI participants was cut to about
16,000, or by about 14%, to provide greater resources for PTTB which was
increased to about 11,000 femilies in the same year.  Farmers eliminated from
PTTI were offered tec-hnical assistance in the form of technical meetings and
field days; however, only about 875 such producers opted to participate !n
these less intensive activities. During 199P'91, the number of PTTI
beneficiaries remaine, stable at 16,000, but PTTB increased to about 17,900.
2.14        Under its PTTI and PTTB programs, INDAP has developed a fairly
efficient model of agricultural extension which minimizes public bureaucracy
and which includes effective controls to ensure quality. Its staff appear
capabla and conversant with field-related matters. Private firms contracted
to work in PTTI and PTTB appear well-qualified, enthusiastic and dedicated.
The use of local firms, with staff from the same areas in which they work,
increases understanding of local conditions and chances for acceptance, which
is particularly important for PTTB. INDAP's system of decentralization
fosters decision-making at the local level, which is conducive to interaction
with other agencies participating in the Plan--especially important in view of
the social goals of PTTB. Quantitative results confirm the success of the
INDAP model of technical assistance, complemented with on-farm credit
(Annex 3 ?.
2.15        The Institute of Agricultural Research (INIA) is the primary
public agency charged with agricultural and livestock research and its
application to the Chilean agricultural sector. Until recently, INIA
concentrated on the needs of medium and large producers, reflecting the
inability of small farmers to pay for INIA services and a lack of acceptance
in INIA that specialized, small-producer technology was needed. INIA,



7 -
howevor, is required under an ongoing ID-fin.anced Technology Generation and
Transfer Project (Ln. 171-EC-CH) to estab3ioh special units for the
demonstration of appropriate technology to groups of INDAP beneficiaries
(Centers of Technological Change and Technology Transfer (CATTe)). Results
suggest that technology exhibited at these centore has lacked sm813 farmer
focus and generally has been beyond the finaciiial capacity of small farmers to
adopt. The situation is improving rapidly, however, as the new Government hae
modified INIA's mandate to include explicitly small farmer technology require-
ments. Additionally, INIA, INDAP and firms implementing INDAP's technology
transfer programs are now collaborating to formulate regional strategies for
technology development and transfer. A new IDB loan, signed on
Marchl 13, 1992, is is expected to finance the generation of amall-farmnr
technology by INIA. At neaotiations, the Government agreed to support such
research services.
2.16        As regards PTTB, extension workers invest considerable time and
effort to win the trust of farmers who can ill-afford to risk scarce resources
on innovation. For that reason, PTTB is built chiefly on better use of exist-
ing resources and seeks to minimize risks. Its relatively simple
technological improvements--e.g., organic kitchen gardens, raised garden beds,
diet diversification, confined poultry raising, crop rotations--appear to be
improving the quality of life for beneficiaries. In addition, PTTB extension
workers are able to raise awareness of other available social programs--e.g.,
health services, housing subsidies, and education programs. INDAP's
administration is exploring group activities/small-scale enterprises for
smaller farmers as a way of omircoming their limited "individual" production
and marketing capabilities.
2.17        Credit.  In addition to technical assistance, INDAP provides its
clientele with credit to finance working capital and productive investments.
Table 2.1 below sets out the evolution of INDAP's credit program over the past
decade:
Table 2.1: t  MP_Leu=HgZI2&M
(Expressed iu Constant endC-Y90 Ch$ millioc)
Year   Working Capital   Investments   Soft Loans    Total
1980         5,314.1              4,005.8          62.7        9,382.6
1981         4,577.9              3,888.0          35.8        8,501.7
1982         4,730.9              2,347.4          20.4        7,098.7
1983          ,860.1              1,160.9          20-.6       7,226.6
1984         7,155.4                897.9          89.7        8,143.0
1985         6,486.3                901.4           70.2       7,457.9
1986         6,412.5                719.8          73.0        7,205.3
1987         6,173.0                596.0          57.0        6,826.0
1988         6,513.1              1,191.2          66.6        7,770.9
1989         5,399.2              1,227.8          400.0       7,027.0
1990         6,009.1              1,090.8          610.9       7,710.8
Sources INDAP
In 1990, INDAP made loans totalling Ch$7,711 million (US$26.1 million) to
about 59,400 clients (including those getting soft loans)--the highest number
of farmers serviced by INDAP since 1980. Short-term loan size averaged about
US$650 in 1990 compared with US$435 in 1980; long-term loan size, in contrast,
decreased on average from US$2,275 in 1980 to US$1,360 in 1990. Short-term
individual borrowers (chiefly for annual crop production) constituted about
50% of INDAP's total clientele on average over the 1988-1990 period and 80X of
the total amount lent in constasnt pesos. As demonstrated above, in the three-



-8-
year period there was renewed interest in term borrowing from INDAP. INDAP
also maintains a fund for soft loans/grants ( utentacion so"ial)51 for its
poorest clients; these are financed from a special revolving fund of
ChS186.0 million (in constant 6nd-1990 Ch$) establilshed in 1983 and would not
be financed under the project. Loans to these clients averaged about US$60 ia
1990 and represented about 8% of loans made in that year. Over the 1984-1990
period, an annual average of 39,500 farmers obtained financial assistance from
INDAP, with a low of about 31,200 recorded in 1987. INDAP officials indicate
that farmers regularly turn to suppliers' credit, when available, for short-
term ne'eds since it is generally considered to be easier to obtaini but usually
involves stiffer terms.
2.18          Tuterest Rates.  'through end-1986, interest rates for INDAP credit
were significantly higher than those offered by other banks in Chile. From
1987 onwards, INDAP interest rates were competitive with those elsewhere in
the market, partially explaining the increased uptake of INDAP credit by 1988.
Interest rates on INDAP loans have remained unchanged since May 1987.
Positive in real terms, these rates have been at 7.5% and 7.0% for short-term
and long-term loans, respectively.'/ The difference between these INDAP
rates and market rates widened, and then diminished, as demonstrated in
Table 2.2:
Table 2.2:  Real Interest Rates--Financial Harket and INDAP
(Annual Rates Chrged on Outstanding Balances in U.)
Average          IntCrest
Interest           Rate"'
Rate, Indcxed     Central Bank   (2) Plus 2     INDAP
YEAR/             Financial        Promissory     Perccnt      Interest    (1)-(4)      (2)-(4)
MONTH             Operations           Notes        Points        Rate
(1)              (2)          (3)          (4)          (5)         (6)
6/89               8.83              6.40         8.40         7.50        1.33         0.90)
9/89               9.94              7.55         9.55         7.50        2.44         2.05
12/89              11.70              8.75        10.75         7.50        4.20         3.25
3/90              16.50              9.20        11.20         7.50        9.00         3.70
6/90              13.96              9.20        11.20         7.50        6.46         3.70
9/90              13.05              9.20        11.20         7.50        5.55         3.71)
1290                9.18              7.80         9.80         7.50        1.68         2.30
3/91               8.77              5.06         8.06         7.50         1.27        0.56
6/91               8.79              5.88         7.88         7.50         1.29        0.33
9/91               8.07              5.90         7.90         7.50         0.57        0.40
pi interest rate 360 day promissory notes of tie Central Bank (when unavailible, interest rate on 90 oday promissory notes of the
Central Bank plus one percentage point).
SOURCES: INDAP and Banco Central.
Credit under thlb speclal llne up to 1990/91 bore an Interest rate of 5% p.& Partially reflecting the poor collection ratee,
this assitance line was converted fully to grant money.
There exist In addition, specill ratoe for both short- and long-term loans In Reglons e, I. Xl Jand XII of 5% for Individuals
and 7.5% for organIzatons; as well as 2% on Eater Island.



The gap botwoen lNDAP and marlcet ratt3B beg&nll to develop at the end of 1989
when the Ctentral Bankl puroAed a tight money policy to cool an overheated
economy. The Central Bank h.a  been able to lower market rates steadily since
August 1990.  The annualized average deposiLt rate in UPs during the t:hird
quarter of 1991 on deposits of 90-365 days  was 5.3%.  Under the currenut
project, it is proposed that. INDAP woultd follow a no initerest rate subsidy
policy, which would require it to have its interest rat:es equal to market
rates for indexed finfncial. operations, for all oubloans disbursed utnder the
project (para. 4.20).
2.19        INDAP's Financial Condition.  The main financial issue rea,Arding
IND"A is iIts level of oubloan arrears. At ond-1990, INDAP quotod P cu-zrellt
level of arrears of 312.  A consultant study9 completed in August 1991,
confirmed this level of arrearo.  Both the Government (t:hrough the. 4inistry of
Finance) and INDAP's new management have acknowledged t]lo severity of the
problem and consider the situation to be unacceptable.  They have discussed
the budgetary implication of INDAP9s operations under the project in great
detail and have arrived at a tight plan of financing which requires a subloan
collection rate of 90% by fiscal year 1995. Aty subloan collection rate lowCer
than this would imply a smaller INDAP lending operation and would reiflect:
adversely on its management.  In order to comply with the Government's target,
and improve the collection rate, INDAP has decided to limit all the growth in
its credit programs to minifundistao.  Tnese clients have a better record of
repaying loans than INDAY's traditional clients (non-minifundiatas) since
(a) they borrow amall amounts (less than 30 UFs or around US$600 for short-
term loans and less than 100 UFa for :Long-term loans); (b) they usually
augment their income with non-farm activities, thereby reducing fluctuations
in their income; anid (c) they are more inclined to establish a credit record
to gain access to commercial credit. During appralsal, it was determined that
the subloan collection rate on a representative sample of short-term loans,
made in 1989 (payments received in 1989 and 2990) was above 81%.  However, the
collection rate on loans below 30 UPs from the same sampled areas was over
872. Thus it pays for INDAP to focus on minifundiptas, (Similar data on
loans made during and after 1990 and on long-term loans, are not yet available
because payments are still being made.) Further improvement in the collection
rate is expected to coxme from: (a) the introduction of monitorable indicators;
(b) annual and mid-ter-m reviews; (a) adoption of an improved system of arrears
accounting to identify more clearly subloans at risk and signal more rapidly
the need for remedial action by INDAP; and (d) adoption of a new credit
approval system which would include a credit ratir'Z system to help prevent
lending to clients with poor credit histories. Safeguards for the Bank
regarding portfolio management are discussed in paragraph 4.19.
2.20        Rural Women and Youth.  'he socio-economic impact of rural women
in Chile in recent year3 has had only sporadic study and is not
well-understood.  Women's participation in the economically active rural
population increased dramatically in the 1980s, and there is a strong
association between rural poverty alleviation and women's work in agricultural
production and processing. Evidence suggests that women are earning en
increasing proportion of the family income and in a growing number of cases
are now the principal breadwiniers.  It is estimated conservatively that some
15% of poor rural households in Chile are hestded by womens However, until now,
economic planners, legislators and rural development agencies haye tended tc
reinforce women's domestic role rather than their economic potential. For
oxample, many assistance programs have had a "head of household" criterion
which has in practice excluded women; a narrow definition, of what constitute
"productive activities" has caused womenls work to be discourted; and cultural
bias has caueed technical training to be directed almost exclusively to men.



- 10
In INDAP, the consequence of such policies has been:  (a) an exten ion system
which focussed narrowly on women's traditional role as food-growcrs,
carepgivers and maintainers of basic family living standardas, in marked
contrast to the more complex, productive reality of rural women's lives; and
(b) credit programs whiich have tended to give uriority to male borrowers, on
the basis of the "head of household" and "productive activities" criteria, as
.:cll ac collateral requircmenta that largely exclud' women.
2.21        Howover, working with the newly-entablished National Women's
Service (SERNAM), whose mandate is to ensure the incorporation of gender
perspectives into ministerial planning, and co:tllborating with the major NGOs,
wbO.rh hlrtw  conv:iderable experience working with rural women, INDAP is
attempting to address a range of issues affecting rural women through a
gradual. re-orientation of both its extension and credit programs. New
programs are still in their infancy, but merit full support to devel2e
momentum and sustainability.  The program for women under the propoi ed project
is discussed in detail in paras. 4.22 and 4.23,
2.22        The average age of INDAP beneficiary heads of household is 53.5
years. Poor rural youth are estimated to number 603,000 persons, the majority
of whom are considerably better-educated than their parents, but who
navertheless face an uncertain future. The dilemma for planners is whether to
encourage youth to remain on the land or provide incentives for a fUtulre
elsewhere (training, job creation strategies). Many small farms cam._t
support more than one family and migration to urban areas is inevitable. In
response to a growing perception that better-educated rural youth are not only
promising subjects for more complex technical training, but can be a central
element in the rural development strategy, INDAP is already implementing a
pilot program for the 18-30 year age cohort called PTT Fomento (PTTF)v
focussed initially in the Metropolitan Region. INDAP contracts local
agronomists to provide a high-intensity technology transfer of 30 visits per
year to groups averaging five members, who cultivate selected strains of
tomatoes under "hothouse" conditions (i.e., under plastic), for sale in
Regional centers in the off season. The PTT includes marketing, accounting
and decision making. INDAP is working with 30 groups and hopes to expand this
to 200 by the end of 1992, moving into carefully-selected micro-regions and
other forms of activities, including milk processing and flowers. Groups
would be fully-kraduated after two years' participrtion.
2.23        There is at present no special budget for this important program.
Its survival depends largely on the goodwill of Regional Directoro of INDAP.
There is also a need to find a mechanism to connect this program into the
mainstream of IIDAP credit, since youth rarely have the traditional forms of
collateral needed to go beyond INDAP's Cr6dito Bisico. Further, there are as
yet no women in PTTF, due, in part, to cultural perceptions about appropriate
group activities for unmarried females. INDAP is, accordingly, now targeting
young married couples. (For further details on rural women and youth, see the
Appendix to Annex 3).
2.24        Land Titliog.  Possession of a secure land title carries important
benefits for rural families in Chile including: (a) an immediate and
substantial increase in property values; (b) access to credit through
possession of legal collate.a_7 (an important factor for the project objective
of graduating INDAI' clients into the commercial credit market) and to INDAP's



technology transfer programs;' (c) eligibility for eubsidi%ccd housing
construction under Hinintry of Housing p3rograms;J (fl) nessno to forvct_y
stbsoidice (D.L. 701); antd (e) eligibil.ity for irrigatio  water r:ights .nd
subsbidio  for emanll irrigation works,  Theo Minn:trty of iationln. P)roperty (hM3N)
has carried out land titling for over 75 years, starting  with ita pirogn'U to
colonizo stato-'ov>rcd land in Southern Chileo  An assoosment in 1973-1975
determinod that approximately 200,000 rural familieis arnd 80-100;0O0 utrban
families were occupying land for which they lacked ti.tle,  in 1978/7C legal.
changes were enactod and rourtOSceo appropriatod to comaplcte land
regularization nationwide by 1985. These legal changes inclulded transOfOrring
responsibility for titlinlg holdings in Indigcnous nreas of RogLontc VIXI,, IU
anid X to INDAPo  By the end of 19909 around 1105000  en-4ndigouand a.bou1t
6,300  indz'gonous r-ural fasmil:es still awaited tiltle ouit of tho
or±1ginally- identfied number.
2.25        The basic standardo governing eligibility to Apply for A title
under the MBN program are:  (a) continuous, exclusive occupst±o.ou for at least
five years; (b) a f-scal value not exceeding 800 territorial tax units (arouxnd
US$16,800); (c) no pending claim or lawsuit in dispute; (d) defInable I)oreders;
and (e) the documentatLon substantiating a claim of poeees3son.  A svU-iplo
evaluation of the prospective applicant'a ability to pay determineo whether
MBN will subsidize either in full or in part the required survey and legal
work.  The current cost of processing a title ranges fro-i P5100-200 depending
on the terrain, degree of isolation and/or existence of a third-party
challenge, ancd processing takes from 12-24) monthts to couaplete.  An objective
of the proposed project would be to target the wore difficulC t, neOedIest andI
i;hus, higher cost, cases,  This effort would include the targeti.ng of femvlo
heads of household, which is already underway through a formal agreemnent
between IBtN and SERNAM.
2.26        Operational responsibility for direct titling activities rests
with the private sector, and only fiame on k1BN's Register of Pri.vate
Contractores, which is reviewed annually, are eligible to tender for its
titling contracto.  The system operatets vt fWo leveJls,  (a) rcubsid-.ized.
contracted mass titling under the  National Regional Developreent PFund (Pondo
Nacional de Desarrollo Regional (FNDR))t tho Solidarity and Social Investment
Fund (Fondo de Solidaridad e Inversi6n Social (FOSXS))  anXd using- fUntdd from
5% of the revenue raised from MBN's annal sales of3 governmlont prprt ny XId
(b) direct contract with costs bornie by tho applicantt ercepi: for. the coots of
-BN supervision, wlich is required by law in bothi (a) anad (b) to bh  financed
by MBNO  This bipartite shGieme ensures that 14Ni suibsidies go 1:ou the monDst nleedy
while not excluding better-off families f£rom the benefits of an organiecd.
supervised process.
2.27        Thle MBN programi has worked very well and could p)rovide a model for
other parts of Latin America.  Trhe program is simple, cost-nfsctivc. end
politically non-contentious.  MBN titlec are lega.lly,  ound9, and sma'll fa.rmers.n
desire and have confidence in them.  Regulatione and admlintrative procedtures
are tranisparent and reasonably efficient while titling etaff lovc-l  az'r
admirably lean.  Ownership interests are identified with carne, and dilpitere
are resolved responsibly.  Property boundaries arc meonasured and Ttmrk'da 8and
of Whilc INDAP    nod v roguletionsr hak chenled r(cbmt to pZFrs  the tiec ur  ether forw^De CO pIo!mcia c"; .^^hrn. G.C-
salneic, there le substntial floUd evicionoSthat properttl?e remiss th?e prclcrrcd eclliortrl Icn nrrP;cdl, ri1^ ic flclonei andl( r5C^.
levels. It oppsea to be pr6terred tGr toohraology tranD.5or (') O.. well, Linac (e) It 115lmIc:Z preeCCr xslIInesnct^ Oil tho pG 5t Of til
small farmer to aesop Innov.tonlrlk: ende (b) INDAP favors gdnD i irend acrB?i ren r, w.a!I:c.e.



-12-
titles are issued and recorded properly and convey full ownership to landl
occupants.
2.28        However, shortage of resources in recent years has reduced
markedly the number of subaidized titlen belng processed as the health,
education and housing sectors have received increasing shares of regional
budgets. Further, MBN is short of staff, vehicleo (and gasoline) and basic
survey equipment, and completely lacks computer capability both centrally and
in the Regions. This causes delays in the processing of applications because
supervision of the firms' legal and technical work, which is mandated by las,
continually lags behind the initial processing work carried out by the firmc.
Further details of titling programs are provided in Annex 4.
Pr ivate Assistance Trograms
2.29        Numerous private agencies are engaged in rural development
activities in Chile.  These non-governmental organizations (NG0s), numbering
about 610 arose to fill a vacuum created with the demise in the mid- and late-
1970s of public programs to assist small farmers. Many NGOs receive financial
assistance from external sources, some channelled through religious
organizations. The principal target group of NGOs has been and remains the
smallest farmers and poorest of the rural population (including indigenous
people and beneficiaries of Chile's agrarian reform program). As public
programs were broadened in the 1980s to include not only small farmers with
commercial potential (PTTI) but also the poorest of the small farmer
population (PTTB), NGOs have diversified, incorporating small producers with
commercial potential into their scope of activity. NGO projects generally
encompass both productive and social aspects, with individual emphasis
depending on the philosophical orientation and the staffing of each NGO.
Beneficiaries of NGO programs of direct assistance are estimated at about
15,000 families (for details see Annex 3).
Government's Strateav
2.30        The Government's program for agriculture is outlined in Annex 1.
Inter alia, this gives priority to raising the productive performance, incomes
and living standards of the rural poor. In this context, INDAP's role is
fundamental, as outlined in its strategic plan in Annex 2.1. MBN's strategic
plan, as outlined in Annex 2.2, also plays a vital part in furthering the
Government's socio-economic agenda.
III.  BANK INVOLVEMENT AND LESSONS LEARNED
Bank Involvement in the Sector
3.01        The Bank's experience with agricultural and rural development
(ARD) lending, worldwide and in Chile, has spurred debate on the role and
appropriate direction of such lending into the 19909. While there have been
significant variations in performance betwaen Regions and subsectors, only
some 602 of completed ARD projects have been evaluated as satisfactory.V'
Among the most successful have been agricultural research and extension
projects, infrastructure projects and perennial crops. Area development
projects, on the other hand, especially inte3rated ARD operations, have fallen
far short of their earlier promise chiefly because expectations were too high,i
Z/ The most favorable impaot of investments In ARD projects hue been In Asila Those judged unsatfactory were reported chiefly
In two Regions. ArlIo and to a leser extent, Ltin America and the Calbbean.



- 13 -
not because the concept was inherently wrong. In general, they were ovorly
ambitious in scope and ncale, required exceptional leadership and coiuW>:111tewnt,
and were difficult to suotainO. More specifically, inadequate attnnttlon uiao
paid to appropriate analysis of the existing agricultural situation,
institutional chortcomings  beneficiary involvement, realistic coordInating
arrangements and implementation schedules, and monitoring and evaluation0
Unsatisfactory performance was by no means always design-related. Inadequate
macroeconomic and trade policies eJere probably the main causes for the poor
performance of maniy agricultural projects in the LAC Region in the 1980s0.R
In addition, limited infrastructure construction and maintenance, nnd
inadequate technical services have caused the demise of otherwise well-
designed projects.1'
3.02        The Bank's extensive ARV lending experience has thus producod
important, specific lessons which have been instructional in designing the new7
project in Chile. Prominent among the lessons of thiu lending is that the
Bank should move away from the generalized global strategy of ARD projects
which are too comprehensive to a more phased, structured and selective
approach, focussing on a limited number of subsectors considered essential  for
small farmer development. As described in para. 4.04, the proposed project in
Chile is, in essence, a modified RD operation with a tighter focus on four
critical areas--technical assistance, credit, land titling and rural
communications (an innovation which sector work demonstrates could have broaa
benefits, but which has few precedents in Bank ARD lending)--supported by
institutional strengthening designed to promote efficiency and sustainability.
3.03        Technical Assistance.  Agricultural extension has comprised a
fairly low proportion of ARD lending but has a vital role in increasing the
effectiveness of other interventions, including irrigation and new
technologies. Analysis shows that achieving the right balance between
established norms and flexibility enhances the chances for its successful
introduction and implementation, while it is essential that a realistic
assessment be made of the time-frame needed to aiter the scale and methodology
of existing extension systems or to establish new ones. The lessons of
effective extension demonstrate the need for: (a) a favorable policy
environment offering adequate incentives to producers; (b) appropriate
technology and its well-designed liakage to extension; (c) well-trained middle
management and subject matter specialists; (d) firm official commitment to
extension in principle, since the observable relationship between the large
investment and farmer productivity is not always obvious; and (e) a minimum of
non-extension tasks burdening technicians. Lastly, efforts to address
directly the needs of women through extension are having impact in some areaf,
but the LAC Region lags and needs special attention..'
3.04        Agricultural Credit.  The Bank's agricultural credit lending
between 1982-1989 mostly fell short of its objectives because it was a supply-
led approach, failing to correct major defects in the institutional
agricultural credit systems of borrowing countries. Because of inadequate
rigor in subloan administration, low and frequently negative interest rates
§/ Agriculure Divslon, Technical Department LAC, RevIew of LAC Arcte  April 12, 1991.
Q/  For a more complete discusslon of agricultural seeor lending see: IBRD, Lndin  for the Agilcuiture Sector: Fopoii of ihs
Wordng  ,rou  onLendina orth.AgricultureSector.August 31.1989. For turther elaboration ot gencral lesione learned refer
to: IBRD, Annual fyview of Evaluation Results for IM, 1991 (draflQ.
/ IBRD, Agriculture and Rural Development Department. FY88 Annual Sector Review. Arctulture, Oc.tobar 109.



14
and poor collectioins, official agricultural credit progrcnns hovo bcon costly
and hnd. leso dievolopmental impact than originally oxpncted.  lTo potential
viability of exisot:ing specialized aggricultural creodit institutitono i:n a
norrma). competitive environment ohould be tho bonchlmark fot their
part :Lcipation ill Banllk-rponrso od ruvral c ecdiis opoviet ion.s   x Thin slay cx:xv .l
overhauling ctauir policies,  ntructture andl nodo of operations9 including
interest rates, accotunting and auditing, loan eollection and its proper
rmeasurement, staff training, and informeation systems to establish
tranoparencyeLkit
3.05         antT litn       The Bank's ovaluation of ARD lending has not
addressed the complex issuo  of land tenure in any detail, but it appears th.at
its significance as a key element in access to credit, social
benefits/subsidien and as a catalyst to risk acceptance varies considerably by
region.  In tho LAC and specific Chilean context, project experience
demonstrates the continued  uiportance of secure land tonure.  rhilo A@D
londing cannot solve the problem of land distribution9 ouch projects can and
should attempt to tackle and resolve laud tenurte problems (e.g., titling,
registration of titles), especially when projects include sulbstantial
financing for credit and extension (fatmer acceptance of new t echmnology can
increase greatly if tenure is secture).'.21
3.06         Rural Coiinunicetions,  Rural communications in a relatively
untried activity for Bank financing.  Its inclusioni in the nonY project in
based on field observations and expert analysis concerning its value as an
adjunct in reinforcing agrlcultural extension messages and in keeping small
farmers and their families abreast of marketing, sooial service, legal and
community information designed to incorpornte them  more fully into national
life.  An important lesson from noniBank rural communleations programes i  that
they shouldJ not he nublic relations vehicles for governrment institutionse
rather, an appropiiately-designed ruta.l co=.inications systemi should focus on
its real task--rural development free from political Intervention.
3.07         Institutional Strengjhninp,.  The Annual Review of Evaluation
Results for 1989 by the BankCt8s Operations Evalruation0 Department (OED)I'/
examined six comparatively successful agricuzltural proojects and coneluded that
a consistent theme was their good inst:Itutionral arrangements, including the
preparation of management and staff to continiue pursuing the goals of the
project beyond the closing date.a    n general,  hoeve-, whIle many >13xdz ARD
projects successfully achieved their physical. targets, they had neglitgi7ble
impact on institutional strengthening of lino agencies.  'Tliso haos conmonly
occurred when reliance on separato project managtement unite ha8 oubstitutod
for those agencies instead of strengthenIng them.
Is stes and Lessona Leaned in ARD_ Lc6ilR_t Chilo
3.08         The Banlk has madG eighlt agricultural loanIs to Chile in I'the pent
four decadoe, totallinig somo US$165.0 miJ.l1Ikon. All. of thcm wuerc prImanrily
credit operationns, focussing initially on motlernizing and expandint'
agricultural infrastriicture with th-e objectivn nf inereasing food production,
and evolving from the mAid-1970o Into more,P specifIc prograwas o£ support for
SJ   113Jni, AticuiiurcI voIicDcs fJ'IlIosi, AoricilidronJ Crcrfi: Fx Inrkri-ocic (ic; I.Gnllwcntoncv Fnr Pliirc, ProluAt,.. Movcmbo r  "Itf?3C.
73t Rlvhrsd l . J. [.Rt,l jqfjicAoci Rurd Ozv.'lopicw In Lailn_Auntile, Woild 1f37lm Stric WorMnE 1 Itr No. fi, Jeny 1985.
13   OED, Ann,teiyRyi nriq- of ryoun,Sf'ilooy9yI Ap tO,lafor 7n9,1 Aupuzl PC, 1°)



sMall farmOr devlopmonllt and povorty alleviation.  Ovfer the total period the
Bank haso finnced.  (a) agriccuiltural imochanization (Ln. U006--CH); (1)) water
resource ovaluation (Ln. 0049-CU); (a) extonsivo pasture imnprovement with
complewentary oY- far'm construction, elachinury anid liveutock proviston
(Ln. 0366-CH); (d) moden:ilat-ion  and expansion of the meat and milk processiug
indhuatry thrIouagh Constirust ion idttl equipng of i  laUghtOthouc cilcld deirict 
(Ln. 0367-0C)   (o) credit for agricu:lturnal. rehabilitation and on--far,
investITIOnt in the post agrarian ro£m period (LU, 1119 -O9 I.  1350- Ci   nild
L.n. 1902-Cl); aind (f) agricultural extension (Ln. 248l--CN).  'Tle successful
Agriculturnl Rlehabilitation Plrojeet (Li-. 1119-CU) io notevor,-thy for haviLng
prompted a dialogue w-ith the Government which contributed to the
liberalization of agricultural pricee, to the crentlon of an economic and
institutional environment conducive to sector recovery9 and to an inereasing
orientation towards smcll farmers, through forfal inistitutional arrangemenits
incltiding9 ±n the 1980a, a mnjor expansion of INDAP's role and mandate.
3.09         A comparatively  lhort list of imsportant lessonas/lssuee emergeo
from the Ba.nk9s agricultural lending to Chile9 increasingly associated with
INDAP, and thlee are discussed below:
(a)      A recuirring theme in evaluations is the urgency of intxoducing
di.scipline into the management and accounting of INDAP's credit
operationo.  Issues such as tho reliability of its subloan arrears
data, the absence of a suitable intenial control and auditing
systerm, and a mechanism for the transparentl formulation of
subsidies, have been cause for Bank concern since the early 1980s.
F1urther, INDAP's poor systemi of portfolio accounting acts as a
deterrent to the acceptance of INDAP clientele by the commercial
banking system, hindering their graduation from, and perpetuating
the need for, the subsidized systetm;
(b)      INDAP needs to design e imechanism for graduating extene.on
clientele out of its program, especially since its cost recovery
objectives remain modest, eveni for the better-off small farmers,
and threateni INDAP's longer-termy ability to expand the program;
and
(c)      Successful agricultural credit lending requires a favorable
scatoral environment, an}1d ouch projects/components should be
sufficiently flexible in design to be reeponsive to changes in
credit demand, which may result from shifting  economic
cilrcumtcAnces alid policies.
XV.  THEf  ROZC O T
A.  OrgjdPZ=     ionae_fo  DankInvlen
4.01         The proposed project was prepared by INDAP end MBN with aseistance
from short-tens--  consultants financed under Loan 2481-CH.  Three  preparation
miissions visited Chile in October 1990, anid in Wxarch and July 1991. The
project was appraisAed in September/October 1991.  Negotietione took place in
Washinigton,; D.C. from Mareh 16 to 20, 1992.  TIhe Chilean delegation was headed
by t,.. Jovge 'lodrAguc(,sz Grocsi, U-nderaecretarny of Vi.nnco, Winistry of Finlance,
4.02         The proposed psoj ect xwouild be consistent with the Bani e counitry
stra.tgy foxr Chile wYhich in the n eear tosuv focunses onL five wmin cxaeats
(8)  xpandta  i0n1) cvovrages end enhanlcing thea qutelitiy of ealuct 1oei.lA pr'ogramrls



- 16
and services to improve overall welfare; (b) alleviating povertyl
(c) strengthening the institutional capacity of public sector agencies to
carry out their respective roles more effectively; (d) improving the natiorn's
capacity to protect its natural resource-based economy against enviroLnmental
degradation; and (e) developing infrastructure to foster and sustain private
soctor inivestmont. Thte project would also be consistent -yith the
recommendations made in the 1990 Agricultural Sector Review which advocat:ed,
inter alis, selective, but fiscally prudent growth in small farmer
initiatives, as well as complementary programs to generate small producer
technology and reactivate land titling, particularly in rural areas. The
principal Bank role would be: (i) to sapport a manageable expansion of INDAP's
technical assistance and credit operations, and to do so in an efficient and
cost-effective manner; (ii) to encourage INDAP to see its credit operations as
a temporary association with individual farmers, during which the principal
objective would be to equip each farmer to meet the requirements of, and
graduate to, the private banking system as soon as possible; (iii) to
encourage INDAP to manage its subloan portfolio based on sound business
principles, including, in particular, debt collections; and (iv) to help
nccelerate land titling.
B.  Project Obiectives and Descliption
4.03        The proposed project would: (a) overcome constraints to increased
small-farmer productivity and incomes and improved well-being; (b) enhance the
institutional capacity and effectiveness of INDAP and MBN; and (c) foster
small-farmer access to commercial markets for their products and factors of
production, and to publicly,sponsored agricultural development programs.
4.04        To accomplish t'hese objectives the project would primarily focus
on the poorest small farmers (minifundistas, para. 2.04) and would include:
(a) teclnology transfer, involving both farm-oriented extension and home-
centered assistance (family kitchen gardens, water treatment, improved diets
and cooking methods, awareness of education and health services); (b) credit
for working capital (e.g., seed, fertilizers) and investment (e.g., fencing,
reproductive and draft animals, orchard establishment, implements, on-farm
storage), consistent with technology transfer initiatives; (c) a rural
communication system to enable better diseemination of information related to
small farmer production and rural social services; (d) land titling in rural
areas; and (e) institutional strengthening. The project would be implemented
over a five-year period and would be nationwide in scope. To ensure that the
project is consistent with Government and Banik objectives, prior to
negotiations MAG, INDAP and MBN submitted acceptable statements of
policy/3trategic plans (as per drafts in Document 1 of Techniical File, and
Annexes 2.1 and 2.2).
4.05        INDAP's well-designed system of technology transfer would be the
core component of the new operation. The project would incorporate the
following innovations: (a) greater targeting of appropriate technology toward
the poorest small farmers; (b) emphasis on graduation from both technology
transfer and credit programs; (c) sound subloan portfolio accounting and
remedial measures to improve subloan collections; (d) more use of NGOs and
exioting farmer organizations in the technology transfer process; (e) enhanced
monitoring and evaluation; (f) more use of advanced audio-visual techniques in
oxtcno4.on; (g) specialized environmental traininlg for extension workers; (h) a
iiex fogcs on wamen as targets of farm-oriented technical aus,stance; and
(j) gOvotov  a.nticipation by fatmer orgaui2atiowl  vu benefiGianou.



- 17
LVRJLqcqt 2itlz_mentation
4.06        The technology transfer and complemeYltary credit components of the
project would be implemented by INDAP (paras. 4.08 to 4.24) for which an
institutional development program would bo carried out to enhance administra-
tion and subloan portfolio management (par&. 4.25). In addition, institutional
improvements would include enhancements to INDAP's information systems and a
better monitoring and evaluation capability. The rural communication system
would be carried out under INDAP guidance by the Agricultural Communications
Foundation (FUCOA) located within HAG.
4.07        MBN would implement tho land titling component (para. 4.26),
following its proven syotem of contracting private firms for cadastral and
legal work. HBN's administrative and supervisory capacity would be enhanced
through a larger motor pool to enable better supervision, selective technical
assistance and a computerized information system to speed up overall
processing at the central and regional levels, including title record-keeping
and accounting (para. 4.27).
C. Detailed Prolect Features
INDAP Exected Coumonents
4.08        TechnoloAvt Transfer  P1T) (Annex 3) (US$ 84.0 million, 37.0% of
base costs). The overall objective of the technology transfer component would
be to increase the on-farm productivity, income and well-being of about 84,000
small farmers throughout Chile. The project would build on the lessons
learned from Loan 2481-CH by:
(a)      placing greater emphasis on minifundistas--the numbo. of program
beneficiaries who are minifundistas would grow four-fold to
68,000--and gradually phasing out subsidized extension support to
non-minifundista families (ex-PTTI);
(b)      improving the quality of extension through better training of
personnel, providing increased incentives to good performers,
greater relevance and evaluation of technical packages generated
by INIA research, and increasing the involvement of NGO and
agroindustry in planning, training and marketing;
(c)      enhancing efficiencies in service delivery through the adoption of
an integrated rural communication system, including audio-visual
techniques in group sessions;
(d)      rewarding excellence in the performance of field extension;
(e)      strengthening monitoring and evaluation to ensure effective
planning and efficient delivery systems;
(£)      increasing the involvement of existing rural community
organizations as catalysts for change; and
(g)      focussing greater efforts on the untapped potential of rural women
and rural youth.



18 -
4.09        'xhu tiehno10l0gy tralnlfer comuponent Would injCudo filnancinig otr tile
incremoUental opovnt:ing,, coot of fi3ltl extension whi.c.hI woutldt continuo to bt3
provi.ded by plr:L.vete techiccaul orvico conitractoro ouporvisodl by INDAP
(Annoe 3)0  Cr:1.t(rian for ouch f-inrm' qualification aD woll) ano contractutal
ariralgewmento ywlth )hDAP liavo been reviewed antd are conosldored acceptable to
tho lankt. The stan,s of ouppor  o- rev outl'nThod .n Table 4.1, andicl tlhe buCid T-p
rantc  of lwt:I ry  tiamilieo aire givoin in I'able 4.2.  Parnewra wou.ld openid 3->6
year:o in tho :lntcnsive Phace X. whiehl begino witlh individunal vits:tt  aid w1ould
gradually prepare them for thze group-aipproach of Phane 1I wlhich wouldl last
three yonvara   Phont :0J. XXX ould be wholly fLarmurxinncodg  independent: extonsiYon
support.  Tieo 169000                     frntrtnifntno from thio former PTrT  program'--likoly to
fOrm  n :IATsrtnt fOrco wi0th:in tho comnmercial family farming sector-would
quickly moveo to Pha-eoX  , half Jin yoar 2, and hlalf in year 3 of tiho project.
4.10         Technology transfer in Plhase I would focus on improving the
goneral quaYl.ity of .l:tfc.  bao:sic technical andt farrt management okillo andl
awareness of other local services.  It would be a mixture of group  and
individual conteea,r complemented by demonstration plots, andt would be free to
the farnro.  Tehliology tranffer in PlhLoe II would be for a fixed three-year
period and would focus cxcluoively on group contact and on improving entrepre-
neurinal sklels  building markoting oxpertise, ootablishinqg linko to
agroindustry anil improving on activities begun in Phase I,
4.11        Evaluation critorin for graduation from Phase I and II would be
based on a oystem of wonitorable indicators which would include:  (a) income,
production and productivity; (b) farm management skills; (e) thie level of
adoptior of technological palckagoos (d) level of off-farm sales;
(e) partflipat:lon in organized groups; (f) progress in activities oriented
towards womien (i.e., farm yroduction as well ao household schemes); and
(g) preparedness for group nctivities in phase IX. Factors (a), (b) and
(c) would be established by Area Commissiono based on feedback from the
monitoring andl ovaluntion prograw with results being compared to regional
baseline data changoo. A decision concerning the appropriate proceen and
criteria for gratduatIon from phase IX to phase XIX would be made in year-3 of
the project.  Hosever, the proeoss and Ikinds of criteria are expectedl to be
similar to thoso uscd for graduation fruin Phase I, but the level of
advancemlent would, of course9 be greater, and there would bG a sharper focus
on marketing skills.
4.12        The quality of extension support would be improved through
intensive training of all extension staff in technical, rural development,
gender9 environmental9 com-munications and group dynamics issues.  Greater
coordinationL would be promoted among INIA, NG0s and farmer asosociations
through emonthly mieetings of the recontly4ormed Area Cosnissions,  An attempt
would be made to link technology transfer programs and credit with agroindus-
try, wyhereby INDAP wyoild provide extension and credit and agroindustry would
provide warketing expertise9 outleto for products and also possibly credit.
4.13        Tho projoct would also support the establishment of an incentive
systemq for good fleld performanee by extension staff. This incentive scheme
would comp-riee three scales: A - 25% over base salary; B - 15% over base
salany; and C aquivalent to base salary.  Maximum limits would be sot on the
proportion of staff eligible for A and B scales based on budgetary constraints
in any paVrtIcu.la yar.



Table 4.1: Tachnology Transfe.: Stages of Support
RATIO               QUALIFICATIONI              INTENSITY
STAGE                     of                       of                        of                        TECHI!CAL                  COST               FARE2
'E~npa)           FARMERS:MXTENSIONIST      EXTENSI1O  AGENT          SUPPORT (Visits)                    FOcUS                  USS/farner)       C;Rc>T'CI4
Ln. 2481-Co  PTTS e               66              76cnice (1tOc1?)                                     Fanlly-Oricnted Y                   3SO                  0
PTT! '"              72              Ing. Agr6ncono             11 (individuat) V         Producer-Orientcd *                 3'9                 15
72                  TUcnico                 10 individuat           Awareness of services
Agropecuario                and group            Generat quality o1 life             240
erhancenent, technkcal
90                Ing. Agr6nomo               6 (group)             Technical and                       140                 '5
EntreprenurHat Skills
I              ~~~~Gradutation        Ing. Agr6noiao              Individual            Specific Probters                    410               100Z
3I     "Progremna de Transferencia de Tecnotogfa BEsical (tlow-income farmers).
bI     "Programa de Transferencia de Tecnologla integrail (mid-income farmers).
ci     PTIS also received six technical grcup meetings, four field days, six kitchen garden demonstration plots, and six crcp ecnconstrst.cn plotz.
dI     Zravrov5ng the quality of life (well being) of lcw income form families and an increased awareress of cvailable services.
e/      !aproving technical skills and entrepeneurial ability.
Table 4.2: Technolcqv Trarsfer- Beneficiary Buh1du_
l'OOO farm fami esI
P R O J E C T Y E. A R
0               1               2               3               4                5
Phase I:   Ex-°TTF           16             16               a               -                              -
Ex-PTYB          18             18              18              18              1S              4
New Bbsico        -              9              19              34              44             58
Subtotal         34             43              4S              52                             c2
Phase IT:  Ex-PTTI                           -               8              16              16              8
Ex-PTTB                                          -               -               -             14
Subtotat                                         8              16              16             22
Total            34             43              53              6S



4.14        Improved cost affic:ivncioo expucted under thu project are ohown in
Toble 4.1.  The number of farm fi¼v.lTloo contactod per extvnaion agelnt would
increase from 66 pre-projoet to /2 in Phase 1. and 90 in Phase U1. As a
rooult, the unit cost of providing theuo s.oivNicns would declone oubsotantially
from US$240 per fami:ly to US$140.
4.15        Bly July 1, 1994, an indepondent mid-term review of the project
would be completed. Thin wouldt (a) evalunte overall progreso; (b) determine
tho suutability of graduating some farmers from Phase I; and (c) set targets
for coverage for tho socond half of the project implementation period.  On the
Itint poinit, r,ince the project would focus heavily on improving the quality of
oxtension, INDAP would have to resist the temptation of embarking upon a
strategy of maximizing coverage before qualitative gai:nu have been
consolidated.  This focus on quality would improve tho prospects of long-term
sustainability of INDAP's extension program and would enoure that its services
produce maximum impact at the level of each farm family. Too rapid a build-up
in coverage would risk overextending field exteaoion personnel.  Such a
strategy would lead to a focus on attracting new farmers into the program
rather than building a working relationship which would help farmers better
exploit their available resources, thereby permitting graduation to higher
levels of self reliance. The proposed project atrategy would control
unsustainable administrative cost increases associated with a rapid build-up
in field staff required to service large numbers of farm families early in the
implementation period. As farmers graduate from the program, this will permit
new farners to join without requiring aniy further build up of IXDAP staff.
4.16        The project would strengthen INDAP management's capr-bility to
develop long-term development strategies for the small fa-mer sector, with
targets and monitorable indicators. In addition to the mid-term review, there
would be an annual system of "physical audito" carried out by independent
agencies (universities or conoultants) to asoist INDAP mianagement further in
strategic planning. To carry out the extension program, INDAP would establish
17 new area offices, bringing the total to 91 in 13 regions. In addition,
65 temporary offices ("oficinas de atenci6n") wousld be set up in isolated
areas where extension staff would operate on a limited basis on a pre-
established schedule.  Th; complement of field staff would increase by about
395 (about 40%), of which 89 would be secretaries for area offices, since only
two area offices currently have secretaries.  This 1nerease is consistent with
an efficient program. The estimated base cost of the teclnology transfer
component is about US$84.0 million equivalent, of which US$81.4 million Would
be for field activities and US$2.6 million for training ancl technical support.
4.17       Credit (US$116.2 million, 51.2% of base coots).  A key service to
complement technology transfer would be short-term credit for worlking capital
and term credit for on-farm and simple agroindustrial investments. About
100,000 farm families (more than 80% minifundistas) would receive credit under
the project, including INDAP'. teclmo10gy transfer beneficiaries and client.
obtaining technical assistance from NGOs, agroinduotries, farmer groups and
INDAP on a less formal basis. This linkage between INDAP credit and INDAP
technical assistance would increase from pre-project lovels of about 20%, to
about 74% by year 5 of the project.  INDAP would also encourage credit to
qualified farmer organizations for simplo storage and Agri   ropoceo ng; a
notable success in this regard under Loan 2481-CH ha& been subloana for milk
collection and chill1ing facilities,
4,18      In the modiumn  to long-tzX, the numbcr ol financial inatitutions,
the range of finanicial product,e nad the range of ftianc:Lel vb viceoO available



- 21 
to small farmers must increase. Helping small farmers meet the requirements
of the commercial banking sector for credit has become the guiding prirciplo
of INDAP's involvement in credit. Thus, INDAP's role would be that of
facilitator, preparing small farmers for graduation into the commercial
banking sector.  However, incentives will have to be developed to stimulate
the commercial banking sector to accept such small farmer clients whom they
currently classify as high risk. In this context, an independent otudy would
be completed in 1994 by INDAP, under the supervision of the Ministry of
Finance, with input from the banking sector, INDAP, universities, NGOs, and
private consultants, to study such incentives. However, subsidi.s through
interest rates and subloan guarantees would not be acceptable. The goal would
be to develop a series of options to stimulate greater banking sector
involvement which would then be pilot-tested under the direction of the
Ministry of Finance in 1993-94. During neaotiation , assurances were obtained
that INDAP, under the supervision of the Ministry of Finance, would complete
six months after the date of effectiveness, a study on improving the
incentives for private intermediaries to lend to farmers graduating fromi the
INDAP credit program. By December 31, 1994, INDAP would complete
implementation of pilot schemes to test the viability of the variouu optiono
proposed. The terms of reference (TOR) for the study were given to the Bank
for review and approval during negotiations.
4.19      INDAP vould make subloans under terms and conditions included in
General Credit Regulations (Reglamento de Cr6dito), Agreements were obtained
prior to nezotiations on such regulations and supporting administrative
directives (as per draft in Document 2 of Technical File). Ratification by
INDAP/MAG of agreed Credit Regulations would be a condition of effectiveness.
Moreover, to improve INDAP's subloan portfolio performance (see paras. 2,19),
agreement was reached at neaotiations that INDAP's collection rate (the
amount, principal and interest, due and collected in each fiscal year over the
amount due in the same period) for all subloans disbursed after January 1,
1992 would be no lower than 85% in Fiscal Year 1992, and would rise to 88% in
Fiscal Year 1994, and to 90% in Fiscal Year 1995, except subloans for
officially-declared national emergency relief which would be limited, in the
case of INDAP, to a maximum of 10% of subloans disbursed in that Fiscal Year.
In order to improve its track record in portfolio management and reach these
targets, IIDAP would implement the following reforms:
(a) Credit Information Hanaeement. The computerized Credit Information
System (CREDAP) developed under Ln. 2481-Ch enables better credit
administration and better monitoring and evaluation of the end-uses
of credit. While the CREDAP system is already operational, the
Bank will evaluate its capabilities and readiness prior to
effectiveness. The accounting information system would indicate:
(i) the collection rates of subloans disbursed in any particular
period; (iiJ the (ex-post) subsidy due to losses from recovery or,
these subloans; and (iii) the aging of arrears of the portfolio.
The above data would be sub-divided by different subloan
characteristics such as point of origin, type of loan, gender of
recipient etc., to the point that INDAP management and the Govern-
ment will monitor continuously the health of INDAP'. lending opera-
tions and will identify quickly individual subloans at risk for
follow-up action. Moreover, to improve the use of personnel, the
new system would also generate every month a list of accounte for
which amounts would fali due in that month. A proposed system for
generating this list, developed by consultants financed under Ln,
2481-CH, has been reviewed and found acceptable to the Bank.



22
(b)  Iisk ClassificaOtio  of  Jlionvnt'y3   LWDI  io now linked to tlhe
netional netw-73rk on doenalt o (DICOe)       i ' wa11 nG ian imWlp(ortan1t s3tep3
±n llnking the rural cliento of XtY1,)DA  to thoe rst of thle fixnancia.l
oystem.  TINDAP has alrcnady ;ittato  lasify i'ts credtlit O .cl1nts
according to a regime of w:ightod risk woreasuro'e (bas-edl oXI
indobtedlness, ropayment rooerdv partiSC pat ioni.n PTT nxd meomberosh.p
in farrmer orgpnizations!).  There arer f-our catcgories (A;  B, C, and
B). >Only 53.7% of the exisLting borr. owers fiall into tlhe top two
categorioc snd to achievc collectiJ.ont targets, NAPA hXn  docl.dcd to
limit lend-ring to only these.  Tlis systcm wyould enable IlNDAP to
ovaluAnte the poybnck potent:al:n: of each clienit, prioritizo
supervision rcsources for risokier clionts, nand limit the volume of
lending to riskier clients.  oew cliento would automatically
receive a higher riok classification (J-c. A) tun-tl goodl loani
ropayment hb.a beern demonnt'catadt
(c)  Portfolito>£ 1-na 1e,e1E4etivo0s da Cent -).  INDAP proposes to
crente in oeah area. office t' the p-ost of portfolio matniager who, based
on personal conetact Twi1'th anld traelking, of cli.ents, w7ould be better
able to detcrvrt.ne appropri.ate debt tolvnxic'-ec for ench rec:ipient;
(d)  creUAft     tiLaitrati     r ng           imporutAt espect of
institutional development suppoirtod by the3 pvroject would be
training of INDAP field and ceontral persoinnel in credLt
administratio0n, incltuding, the ulre of CRE.DA,
(e)  Greater PTT--Ck:reet _OZ¶%_0.  IYNDAP would otrengthen the bondl
between ito technology transafer an(3d credit prograMs in a nuomber of
waysS  (i) PTR participation xyould iraprove a clionts  risek rating;
(ii) fims actually transferring technology would assist their
clients' to completo npplicetIons  for IlMAP v.reditq (iii) credit
w0ould be orIented preferentially to on-f aram development initietiveo
recovmended by PTT; nnd (iv) entreproneuria l askIllu developed in
PTY (eSpecinlly Phaso  If) would i.nclude debt, management; ndl
(f)  Late-'Wotica Distibsti.on and Debt  Yol.letot,    ):NDAP prosposes to
contract with private  9 Si ls to distrtibutew  notitco of overdue
payments and to pulretic collectIons fromi sevriou  offenderos
including legal action.
4.20       INDAP?)  subloans woould be fiUxed rate loansa.  Tihe interest ratev on
suclh loans would be iLn li.ne with com     cial markeot rates andl highly positive
in real terms.  During  wgoj.atio;s  assurances were obtailled that INQDA
would: (i) make fined rate subloans; (ii) have Its interest rates ait leant
equal to the average market rate, paid by the :Central Bank on its promiosory
notes issued in the tlhird and second months prior to the month in which the
average Xs>ket rate iS detcr  inedm wsth n waturity of around 360 days for
indexed financial operatione, published in the "Sintveis l4onetaria y
Financierall, plus two percentago points.  'i siuch a rate is unavailable, it
would be the average market rate on Ce?ntral Bank& promiesory notos issued in
the third and second montho prior to the imiontlh in which the average market
rate is determlIand, u       edith a matu%ri:ty of arouncld tVO dayc for indcxend finranc:Ial
operations, announced in the pene pvt3Ieat          plus three pereantege poipnts.
(eoo Tablc 2.2 foe ao b-ist3or  of title: va'tcs in the lt   e .y ars)  (iiic)  at(;
adjusting its ratcs annutally frfiw 1y .  1, 'V3 evoy ei:Q  months ki.'r
May 1, 1994 and every quater:c  fromq 1-j`ry 1,$ -1Q951 endc (iv.) limnit eubloan amounts
to 400 UlI forov yto1n.tItnd         n'.d 050 W? . for miifundists,:  Working



23
capital otub:loans  wou. d be limitod to 15O 1lT.D for nonrndnatunditjtan and 50 UP
for minifntidistn.  Per   rowrooz,9 organ:rtntonoa,    caiJAng of 10 peorent of the
amount of INDAtef) cublouna and oYrkin.g; coptal  ubloana  as ectablilohaed
INDAP expects to have the. dincretion, through a chonx go i        .n ts Lanly prcbently
under conciderovati:aon In Cousg).coos to deniowi:nate Ltis oubloano lin crurrncico
other than UP.  Any octelh chango xyoule iniply  orreponding changoe in intorest
rates, ande ouchl changes would be 1ipllementod r.t.er ageoemont with theo Bank,
4.21       Undler teiO projoct, Otnall -iW tnurr wYith borrowyings of 150 UP or less
would be eligible for a one-t.ire capitnliantioxn gerant to oncourage acquioition
of a baick complement of tools rad iiplcxmeinte9 w4hich  o7uld facilitate tho use
of modern inputo anrd technology.  In pirrip.l9 q{uSalif:t.nd farmyersn (c'114 gc':'
this grant jtust by participating in the teclhnology transfer progra,m without
borrowsing fronm XIDAP,  hEowevoer9 nl,nce s,uch farmore aro unlikely to be ablo to
borrow fromi the commwercia. bankas rt least I.nitially, avdl rince self financing
is limited, in pranctico therefore, moat grants Yould be disbursed in
connection with an IM)AP loan,  Dutring na<wt.ito,0    a seurancesf  vere obtainedl
that INDAP wou:ld restrict its one-timec ealtel3izattion granlt to: 20% of the
farm  investment project cont (PIPO) for sblonenen of 30 UP' or lecss  6% of FIPC
for subloans above 30 UP butt not: exceeding 100 UP,9 and 3% of FIPC for sub:loans
abovo 100 U1  buti not exceeding 150 UP.  'Tho grant weuld be limited to a
maximum of 6 UP per individual farmonr,  GCanta on w.rking capital subloans
would be limited to. 3% for 30 1W or lcts;j ndl 1.5% ifor 30 Ur, to 50 UPc
Finally, farmer organizations could obtain a one -time grant: of up to 10% of
the FIPC, to a mawlunnm of 60 UP per grant; end on working capital subloans,
thie grant wyould bet up to 3%.
4.22       Itural %WonIten (Anamei  39, Appendtc)io.  XWAP hasi demonstrated promising
interaet in re'or:lconting its technology tre.nsfer amd credit program  to incltude
specific formsw  of3 s8upport for woYoDen's productive ctttivitioes   in collaboration
with SERNAR2 and  OGOse   W I-Jorden arc acti.:-Lve par ticipavnts in agricultural,
post-harvest and mliarketIng activit5rto in additIon to their-v traditional family
w-elfare role,  Specific actions in the Y projoct would support ancd litensify
INDAP' o work wyi4th rural woiacn to esnGure that it achhieves momentum, adequate
coverage and sustainability.  These actieno would enable the project to reach
directly9  a lar ger popiulatI.on, inereneg. the scopo of the IMAP program, And
enhance the inecomes of poor rual faollic,  especially fmnalo-headed
households.
4.23      Trhe projeit would financ  and/or actively prttomote tho following
actions,.
(a)  A tneam- of pr.4ivnte fewale consultanto (agronomists, sociologisto
etc.) called "Consultor,ac de- Apoyo Familiar" (CAV), working at the
regional level wItht:11 INDMA1s Rengional and Are&oa chiefs to train,
evalutate and coordIn'ate ) MPIo P'Ao T technical teams, with the
objectivoe of  ro-orleitlng methodology and practice to accommodate
rural womanxl  needte and dev  oIpO) thleir Oeonomic potential;
(b)  A baselne s;tu7dy on.  xral w^oman to dIeecrlbe thielr activities, needs
and constvaints w'uith the objOecti.v  of desIgLLning appropriaste
polici.es and1 progrp08 "ams to address-n  thlmI Isnsueo r,eload.  Thie study
would be implementoed in threen etae,e  ntd becoordoinated by SERIi
(a)  'trainins programs to IGnene:I t5c pr t    toni,oonist  aud XNDAP
staff rt tho ecntral andl rtgnal leveli to ictoues affoeting rural
we-men;p



- 24 -
(d)  Feasibility assesoments of women's proposals for credit assistance,
covering activities such as small animal husbandry, fruit drying
and packaging, high value fzuit and vegetable production
(strawberries, asparagus), with a special focus on pilot group
vontures. Following credit approval, specialized technical
assistance would be financed, including short, basic teclhnology and
marketing courses, to support successful implementation. The
project wonld also finance a 24 month specialist liaison between
SERNAM/INDAP to guide INDAP's formulation and implementation of a
coherent methodology for rural women;
c) ~Efforts already underway in INDAP to liberalize women's accesos to
INDAP credit, both through the design of mechanisms which surmount
the collateral and hsad of household conatraints (e.g., passbook
savings accounts, family borrowing with designated recipients), and
flexible criteria for eligible productive activities. During
naoetiations, INDAP agreed to present six months after the date of
effectiveness, a plan of action to improve womens' access to its
credit, and thereafter carry out such a plan. The targeting of
specific amounts of credit to women would be avoided iD favor of
keeping women's borrowing in the mainstream of INDAP's credit
activities. In addition, the CREDAP system would disaggregate data
on female borrowers, including uses of credit, repayment record
etc.; and
(f) An assessment of the progress achieved by women beneficiaries using
the M&E system to be introduced in INDAP. The system would
incorporate a set of specific monitorable indicators for women
(including qualitative credit indicators not contained in CREDAP),
which will prove valuable for the proposed mid-term review of the
INDAP program, 1-n addition to longer term planning.
4,24      Rural Co5mmnications (US$2.2 million, 1.02 of base costs).  To
increase the effectiveness of INDAP's technology transfer program and to
disseminate information about productive schemes and social services available
in rural areas, the project would include an integrated communication system.
Television and radio programs would be used to: (a) educate the general
public about the rural sector's problems and the importance of its
development; (b) provide farmers with appropriate information as a basis for
decision-making; and (c) mobilize the rural populace for development action
and innovation. Although INDAP would initially finance rural TV and radio
programs, the objective would be to stimulate greater private sector
responsibility for these productions. The largest subcomponent of the rural
communications strategy involves audio-visual and print media, which would be
used to: (i) enhance the capability of extension activities; and (ii) collect
and share information between farmers, farm families and technicians about
development problems and options, and technologies for resolving them. The
production of videos would be carried out by the private sector and extension
consultants would be expected to own their own projection equipment.
Communication activities would be implemented by a small team of professionals
located in FUCOA (which is in MAG). Most of the production and research work
would be contracted out to private firms, NGOs and "peasant correspondents".
Given the lack of experience in FUCOA and INDAP in the systematic application
of communiication to rural development, about 51 man-months of technical
assistance would be provided to launch the component. Project-specific
administration etaff would include a rural communications specialist and an
instructional materials specialist. (For further details see Document 3 of
Technical File).



Z5v
4.25      Xnstitattiena1 Dl al2pment of IsdAP (US$14.7 mi:Llion, 6.5% of base
Costs).  Under thi pro.ject   the focus of thiis iioti:tutional development
componont for IN1DAP vould be au followas:
(a)  iX11for-It:ton Sys'nis.  Undor tlhe project9 IRDAP would progress fromE
ito curiorent syston of partial computerizationt to one of full
integration and intornal compLatibility.  It would acquiire computrs3r
for its regionatl and area offices. 'This system would allow INDAP
to use more fully the programs it already owns for credit reporting
(CREDAP) and financial accounting (GESFIN). It would also permnit
the lmplementation of proper systems for monitoring and evaluating
INDAP'a P2'1 and for managn.ng Ito eublonn aranr&. An regarde HIiPfl
see para 4.27(a) and Document 4 of Technical File.
(b) Technical A-esistnnce. An international organization specialist
(18 person-months) would help set lap the institutional development
function in the Office of the Undersecretary of Agriculture, more
specifically in tho Project Coordination and Management Unit
(PCMU), details of which are set out in paras 5.01 to 5.05 below.
The specialist would be hired after negotiations (using retroactive
financing) and would help create the PCHU and prepare management
processes and tools for coordination, work organization,
supervision and evaluation, and other key functions.
An additional four person-months of organizational assistance would
be located in INDAP to help solve internal organizational issues.
Eighteen person-months of rural communication support would be
provided to PUCOA. Lastly, two major contracts would be signed
with consulting fir-ms: one for extension program evaluation at two
different dates (July 1, 1994 and ex-post), and the other to help
XIDAP recover credit from small farmers in arrears on their loans.
(c)  Training.  A skills gap analysis carried out during the appraisal
mission as part of the institutional development analysis revealed
various training needs at INDAP. The project incorporates those
needs in the design of the techlnology transfer and credit
components and would finance the required training activities under
those components.
(d)   _ ito  l_n_ad.valtion. A rigorous program of monitoring and
evaluation would be establiched to overcome what was perceived as a
major deficienicy under Ln. 2481-CHL A detailed system of
monitorable indicators has been developed (Annex 7) and an
independent mid-term revieu of the project would be completed by
JTuly 1, 1994. As part of this process, INDAP would implement a
rigorous "plhysical audit" of the project each year to ensure that
the M&E system is used effectively by management in its planning
process. This "physical audit" wouild be carried out by an
independent agency (university or consultant). Full implementation
of CREDAP and overhaul of INDAP s arrears accounting will permit
much better portfolio management, credit-related M&E, and planninig.
(e)  Office Rehabil.atioa and AcGuisitha of Vehicles and Eauipment.
INDAP would acquire 90 field vehicles, and office, audio-visual and
computing equipment, in order to support the increased activity
under the project. All works would be financed by INDAPo



° 26
Ministrv of National ProRartv (MN) E u
4.26      Land Titling, (Anxiex 4) (US$8.2 million, 3.6% of baee costo)0  MBIN
would expanid its normal land titling activities under the project.  An
estimated 43,500 new titles would be regularized during implonentntion at all
average cost of about US$170 per title. These titles would represent about
35% of the group of rural families currently in need of title.  MN's
qualification system for private firms, includ:tng forcigni firms, to Oxecute
the titling program and associated contractual arranigenments have been reviewed
by the Bank and are satisfactory.
4..7            l.nItionl. Dgleant ofW3t  (TJS$1.5 million, 0.7Y, of brse
costs).  Complementary to this stepped up pace of titling work, 1fN'e
efficiency and effectiveness would be enhanced through the following
institution strengthening initiatives:
(a)  Information  gaement   MBN would acquire and install a
computerized information management system at its Santiago
headquarters and in each of its 13 regional offices. A systems
consulting firm would be retained to identify hardware and software
needs. A separate firm would be retained at the appropriate stage
to assist in the bidding and award processes for acquicition of the
required system. The main application of this system would be for
cadastral activities, title inventory maintenance, accounting
functions, supervision of the private consultants responsible for
preparing titles, and monitoring and evaluation.
(b)  Technical Assistance.  Project-financed techlnical asesitance would
upgrade MBN's planning and management capabilities. An
organization specialist (4 person-months) would provide analytical
and design support to help MBN reorganize its distribution of
functions and its relationships with other associated agencies, as
necessary.
(c)  Lraitling.  The project would finance the training needs identified
by the skills gap analysis carried out during appraisal. Under this
component, financing would be available for six training activities
to help upgrade the skills of 12 mauagerse 18 lawyers and 30
technical staff to carry out titling-related work.  Coursen wyould
be organized in titling-related legialation, norma, use of
technical equipment (cadastral/topographical) and compuxting.
(d)  K  ontoring& Evaluation.  Like INDAP, I-MN would establish a
monitoring and evaluation system. It has developed a sot of cost-
effective, monitorable indicators to track project implementation
and permit the institutiotnalization of their use, longer-term.
Moreover, under the project a retroactive study of the impact of
land titling would be carried out in the second year of
implementation, using the services of P university or reosearch
body. Determining precisely what has happened to the recipients of
title in past years would providc guidance in the formulation and
review of policies and programs which call for title aS a
prerequisite.
(e)  Qffice Rehabilitation and ActW  I                     vld 2quiRMent.
Some investments in office rehabilitation.) and cl'ip1iont WouLld ba
required due to the inereascd activrity during. tho projceat.  MBE
would acquiro 10 field vehinlec. offier. aind tcehnienl oquiipment,



27
and computing equlpmeent and softwaro. 1innncing woil:ul nlso bo
included for the rehabilitation and upgrading of SomC kJN off:lc
accommodation.  All works would be ftnancod by R U       !oM further
details see Document 4 of the Thwllcal. Pilo).
D.  Prolect Costa anld vinac:inf
Costs
4.28      Project coSts, including taxes and dutiesg are sstitated at
US$236.0 million equivalent, of whlch about 14D3% representn foreIgn exhcllnge
costs.  Duties and taxes amount to US$1.9 million.  Phys:tcal anc pIce
contingencies are estimated to be US$8.9 million. Details of project costsa
along with the annual phasing of investments, are surmarized in Annex 5.
Financing
4.29      A Bank loan of US$95.0 million equivalent is p-,oposed to finance
40.6% of project costs net of taxes and duties.  Bank financing9 oui a net of
taxes and duties basis, would cover 100% of foreign exchange exDenditures and
48Z of local costs. Project beneficiaries would finance about US$26.3 millioin
of on-farm investments and working capital (11.2% of project costs net of
taxes).  Private intermediaries would finance about US$10.6 million of on-farm
investment and working capital (4.5% of project costo net of taxes). The
balance would be financed by the Government (37.7%) and INDAP (6,0%)o Table
4.3 shaws the project financing plan with a breakdown for project categories.
Table 4.3:  Financing Plan
(including contingencies, US$/million)
BEN!EFICIARIES ArWD
PRIVATE
COMUPONENTS         TOTAL  IBRD   GOV.  II\DAP   INTERMEDIAHIES
Technology Transfer "  90.3   86.8   3.5
Credit              120.0          69.0   14.1         36.9
Lend TitLing          8.4    6.7    1.7
Inst. Dev. - INDAP   15.5.   0.8   14.7
Inst. Dev. - MBN      1.8    0.7   1.1
Total Project Costs  236.0   95.0   90.0   14.1        36.9
SJ Including RuraL Cowmunication
E. Disbursements
4.30      The allocation of tlhe loan omotUnt end tOWe dlobu.eowc'nt pcnrentages
are summarized in Table 4.4. Loan proceeds are expected to be fully disbursed
by June 30, 1998, i.e. over a period of about neven years  bhichl is tlle
standard disbursement profile for Bank-financed projects in Chile.



- 28 -
Up to US$7 million equivalent in eligible project expenditures would be
financed retroactively to January 1, 1992.  An estimated schedule of Bank loan
disbursements is given in Annex 6.
4.31       In order to facilitate project execution, the Governmnont would open
a Special Account in the Central Bank or in a commercial bank, in US dollars,
with an initial deposit of US$7.0 million representing estimated loan
disbursements over four months for eligible expenditures under the project.
Disbursements would be made on the basis of SOEs for all expenses except those
contracts that require prior review. Disbursements for contracts requiring
prior review by the Bank will be fully documented.   Relevant documentation in
support of SOEs would not be submitted to the Banik, but would be retained by
the PCMU and made available to Bank supervision missions and to independent
auditors. The special account would be replenished through normal
reimbursement of project eligible expenditures.
Table 4,4: Allocation and Disbursement of IBRD Loan
Amount of Loan Allocated     Percentage of
(US$ million            Expenditures
CATEGORY                        equivalent)           to be Financed j/
(1) Goods
(a) for INDAP                                   0.6           100% of foreign
(b) for YMN                                     0.7           expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 77% of
local expenditures for
other items procured
locally.
(2) Consultant Services
(a) for INDAP's Technology Transfer             73.4            1002
Program
(b) for INDAP's other activities                13.6            100%
(including those in the technol-
ogy trausfer component but outside
the technology transfer program,
such as training of extensionists)
(c) for HMN' Land Titling Component              6.7           1002
95.0
_/ Up to the amount of loan allocated.
F. Procurement
4.32       Procurement for all eligible Bank-financed items would be as
follows:
(a,)  E=Dovment of Consultants under T1chnolozv Transfer Program & Land
Titling CWMp1nent, Consultants for technology transfer through the
field extension program of INDAP and land titling component of MBN
would be selected and hired following Bank guidelines for
consultants (August 1981) (US$73.4 million for INDAP and US$7.1
million for MBN). Procedures planned to be used by INDAP and MBN



- 29
were examined by the Bank and found to be generally aatisfactory0
These procedures include hiring on the basis of standard terms of
reference, standard selection proceduree and standard contracts.
Although INDAP's qualification proceduros are generally acceptable$
the Bank would convey additional refinements for prior and post
review during the first supervision mission.
(b)  Procurement of Consultants under other activities of INDAP.
Consultants for all activities of INDAP other than the technology
transfer program such as services for monitoring and evaluation
studies, and rural communications, would be selected and hired
following BHnk guidelines (August 1981) for consultants (US$13.6
million). For certain activities, such as staff training for
technology transfer and for institutional development, INDAP would
follow their own procedures in hiring consultants and staff; these
activities would not be Bank financed.
(c)  Procurement of Epuinment (including Computers).  Specialized
equipment, including computers and accessories, would be procured
in accordance with Bank guidelines (May 1985) as follows:
(i) contracts valued below US$50,000 equivalent are not expected to
be Bank financed; (ii) contracts valued at US$500,000 equivalent
(not to exceed an aggregate amount of US$0.8 million for MBN and
nil for INDAP) would be procured through Local Competitive Bidding
(LCB) procedures satisfactory to the Bank; and (iii) contracts
valued above US$500,000 equivalent would be procured under ICB
procedures.
4.33      Prior Baek Review. All ICB contracts, and those LCB contracts
above US$50,000, would require prior Bank review.
Procurement Arranasoments
(US$mIUon)
lCB    LCB    Othw    NBF-'   Total
Sub-Loan Ffnanced                                             117.3   117.3
Goods & Worksg/
Consultants under:
(1) TechnoLogy Transfer Program (INDAP)              73.4            73.4
(73.4)         (73.4)
(ii) Other Activities (INDAP)                        14.5    5.2    19.7
(13.6)         (13.6)
(iii) Land Titling Component (IBN)                    7e1     1.3    8.4
(6.7)          (6.7)
Goods and Works' - INDAP                0.9                    14.5    15.4
(0.6)                          (0.6)
Goods and WorksV - HBN                          0.8             1.0    1.8
(0.7)                  (0.7)
TOTAL                 0.9     0.8   95.0   139.3   236.0
(0.6)   (0.7)  (93.7)         (95.0)
Values in parentheses show amounts to be financed by the Bank.
i/   Not Bank financed; Includes items such as personnel expenses, recurrent expenses, loans to farmors
and some studies.
£1  No works are being Bank financed.



30
6.  Cost hA ecoLvnvv
40.34      Toecolovtt kvrnfrx,  :ahAP zrad:i.tionally ban f:!.nanMcn  05% of ''.(CTX
and 100% of T'lI'T P'4/ Sutch chergoc havo boon unchanged f:or tho dnrvt:ton of
parti: Iciption1.01 1  rtn much 13rcg o  7. hilc tl;he omoallt.). u 5n: to ta:t xeoIul(ll n1o01t bo
expectodt to pay ra significant amount for IMi)AV  assistance on nocl-.:ic nned
financi.al groundo, HIMDP propocco under the project to hanve al benoe':lcar*en
bear a h-igher percentage of cost- sharing after several. yearn itn tho Prog>ram
arnd renation of name bnnefitso  It is planuned that IhNDAP wyo.uld retcover the
costs of techno10gy transfeCr as follo7Ws:  () in Phano I, tlhce noc).e  woutld be
free; (ii) in Plhase CX, farmero wyould pay 30% of the cost, and (i:U.) :1n Phsen
II9, fn.-Alors Y70woldt pay the flull cost of ony c-tonsion soivice  thoy receive
from INDAPo  Assurancas were obtainedl during  eg9gQtit,   that' )ThJ)AX'. wvould
recover at least 30% of the cost of any extension service the pno-
minifundlistas voecivo from INDAP, starting latest from June 1o 19049911  By
June 1, 1994, INTDAP xwould also furnish to the Bank the specifics of the
criterla for selection of (i) minifundistse for graduation to Phene HX and
(ii) pion-mintfundistas for graduationi to Phase 1110  It iso envisaged that, at
the latest by June 19 1996: (i) 1.49000 miniftuirdistas will gradutate to Phase 1I
and pay at least 30% of the cost; and (ii) 8,000 non-minifundistas wJlAl.
graduato to Phase III and pay the full cost.
4035       Land T,i:tling.  Landholders in need of title are traditionally
evaluated by municipal authorities, usually social workers, to ascot:tn  thicrl
capacity to bear all or a portion of costs associated with titling0   For- those
with minimal resources, MBN typically covers the full titling coot0 Under the3
project, MBN proposes to focus on only the smallest and poorest; thereforo,
the-ir titles would be fully subsidized.
If.   PROJECT ORGAN5IZATION
Pr oject Mauaageu   -
5001       The inter-Thnotittional natture of the project supports thle need for
a well-conceived nvrangewent for ensuring proper intearageney coord.inati!on and
integration of project componients.  Towards this end, a Project Coordination
and Management Unit (POMIl), with powers and responsibilitieo satisfactory to
the Bank, would be created in the office of the Undersecretary of Agric:u;lture
as a condition of effectiveness,  Descriptions of the PCMU's organizvation and
functionns are offered below:
5.02       fCl1fl Jgs _ Lzatiou.  The PC01U xwould include:
(a)  thuegement Boiad.  Chaired by the Undersecretary of ASgicutiiure,,
the Board would determine policy and exercise general auporvinion
over annual. work programs and imViplement-at:ion of nosocinted
activities.  It would review annual operating program   and
semi-anntual reports and would make proposale for modificationn, an
necessary.  In addition, the Board would arbitrate isaues of an
inter-institutional nature or which may not be tho responoibl-.tty
1M/   PT1I beneficlarlet con receiKo INDAP credit for their shcrE of tcchnology trtntfer corte.
MI   >!OI: NoniiMlnifndl$es (18,01,O) wol6 mO'!e lSito Phrf-sr Il itingl w-lih 8,00 on Jone 1, ikis eld t;nVioicr biCt)9 olr'It'ir i, IC%
(seee page 19, Table 4-2). IND.3AP would sart on June 1 1C93 to chergo the.m a tea covering at least 201 of 1hz sect of Phcczo
11 toohnology trestfer osMose, oad by .lune 1, 1994 any toohrzology tfFiser setrvlcs provlde:i to 1onisnilundeo u:ouio
be subject to that fe.



^3 1
of nny pairticular execatJ.1ng agency.  It wouldrl meoet wilenevuevt
naconsary btut at lnant fouiir timeso per ynar,  A41. pnrt:tc:L.pat:nip anud
Ancillary agenicIes wyoutld be ropresentod on the3 foa-rd (eao3  XNJ )A
VittUv H4, I:Lnistry of Finneu, XN114 DMJDWPL1\AU%, FOCOA) ; andx(
(b)  ?totS!tJt Spncep4tyr  'AloTe h2ocltjt:.vn Secrot:ary of' tihm  )'i(10 'xan3.d 1)0
a lipih- Jevol profeoclonal. olith oepe?rienco fin manag.ing
.nterrintionally-financed projocti.  In addltioin to bolng
raoponnible for the PCOU an a w7hole, the Frxcuti::.o 9Secrtnary would
ect as tecluiicaJ. necretary to thlo Managemnit Board, preping
agendis for moetingo, draft:tng agreements and doclao:Lonfo ansd taktimng
necessary actionn; the rExccttti.ve Secretary wyotuld bo  naslotod by n
bi.lIngu.l secretary.
5.03       1'CHU Functions. PCMU ftunctione would includo:
(a)  lnatitutional Development.  The PCMU would bo reopon:?Lble for
project monitoring and evaluat:ion and production of cemi-annual.
consolidated reports for tho Govorunment andl th lflnnk; anud
(U)  Acc.fvount,ing.  'flue PCMP1 would ensure financial manngnie  t and control
of project accounts, in comipliance w.ith the forkat, contont andtl
deadllno requirements of Auditor-General's Office2 thle Central Bank
andl the BDank.  This fuinctiont would also include responsLbility for
enswuring that the f inancial f lows of the anmual opn eratioxln program)s
nattually occur in a timely manner.
5.04       Mid-Term Review.  A "mid-term" revie  womuld be completedl by July 1,
1994, to asness implementation progress and to idenitify probleDms and needed
adjustiments to the project's design.  Key areas of study xwoul:d be:
(a) improvements in collectlon rates in credit; (b) small farmer demand for
IiDAP's techlnology transfer and credlit services; (c) supply nnd quality
aspecte of technoology transfer services; (d) the ability of private extensIon
firms to e)xpand servLce; and (d) the PCHI4's performance.  Asoceoment of JUDfAX
credit arrears wiould be facilitated by the new system of arrear.-s nacounting
implemented under the project (para. 4.19).  Prior to tlhlc rvewx)s, a detailed9
independent assessment would be caxried out, by an internatIonally recruited
consultant aeoptable tc the Bankc, on demanLd, sutpply and qual:ty aspecto of
the tec-hnology transfer program.  Agreemenlt wJas reached at n,yotitine  that
the imidl-te?.isi review would malke recommendations Onl the ap3pro0priate groawth, f:E
any, Isn project credit and technology tattnsfer for thie rLcmalindsc  of the
iuiplementatli.on perlIod.
5.05       At completion of the project, the PCMU would coaou Itc acti.vIties
and Ito ILnstittuktioLnFl development funiction woutldt be intograted inatro tho off:ice
of the Undersecretary of AgrIcultiure to ensure prop3er 0ectora.l project
Implementation.
5.06       Tlle Mlnistry of Finance, es the Borroweo rlproaantaeivc cwould
enter into a subsidisry agreemenst, acceptable to the BankT, wi-4th INDAP, for
implementation of the components for which it is reoponuil.    LJOreOver, th,e
Ministry of Finance would transfer to 1ID0AP: (i) amounte sistburoed by ThDAPl as
capitalization grantst as gra7nts to IllKP; and (iI) amotunto lcnit by IND4P for
sutbloains and w-yorkinpg ca.pital cublou n renquir  by the project(.  XliDBV xw?ould
be ob)li.gatod to repay the CCuvrx-wl~Vt thec, c'1.1un'ntc '.n ( 01) i; tl-y f0ll, dIu l fro
their borrooers, after dnducitJ.o o1f targetd looses (pr0. 193) . A cep6i>_tikol
of loana  ff a.sti4'teiees woul.ec the $tnahi2cA;i   of, ti  agrmcint :t1n a fom'A
aaet:Lufcrox'3'y tof tim  flank./A



- 32
Accounts and Audits
5.07      The PCNU would have overall responsibility for project
coordination. Executing agencioo would maintain separate accotnts to record
their expenditures under the project. All such agencies would maintain
ceparate project accountn and records for each project compoxnent, consolidato
them into the project accounts and prepare Statements of Expenditures (SOEs).
These SORs would be presented to the Treasury for reimbursement out of the
project'o special account (para. 4.31). Supporting documentation provided by
implementing agencies would be maintained by the respective agencies and be
made available to vioiting Bank misaions and independent auditors, who at
thoir discretion would make direct vioits to executing agencieo for the
purpose of the overall audit.
5.08      The Government would require INDAP and MBN to use a standard set of
operating, administrative and accounting procedures. Moreover, project
accounts, including the special account, SOEs and the financial statements of
INDAP and MBN would be audited annually in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles conointently applied by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank according to terms-of-reference approved by the Bank. During
negotiations, the Government agreed to the above accounting and auditing
conditions.
Ret -nig
5.09      Monitoring of progress on implementation would be carried out by
the respective implementing agency (INDAP, MBN or FUCOA); however, mid-term
and ex- post evaluation of the impact of the project would be carried out by
consultants contracted by the PCMU. A preliminary, agency-led evaluation
would be carried out at the end of year 1 to identify areas in need of
immediate adjustment.  During  gotiations, the Government provided assurances
that it would: (a) send semi-annual progress reports to the Bank not later
than two montlhs after the end of each reporting period; (b) furnish yearly
plans of action of INDAP and MBN to the Bank by October 31st of the previous
year, starting October 31, 1992; and (c) employ consultanto by April 1, 1994
and April 1, 1996 to carry out an indepth review of the progress made in the
implementation of the project, with reports sent to the Bank not later than
June 15, 1994 and June 30, 1996, respectively.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS, RISKS, AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
Benefits
6.01      An economic rate of return has not been calculated due to the
service and institutional development nature of the non-credit components.
However, the project would have a major impact on the quality of life, income
and legal security (titling) of a significant proportion of the low income,
small farmer population of Chile. Further details on the target population
are gi'yen in Annex 3, Table 1.
6.02      While it is difficult to be precise, broad-based and substantial
increases in family well-being are expected as a result of the proposed
project.  The technology transfer program would benefit about 84,000
smallholder families at full.development, and INDAP's credit program would
benefit about 100,000 farm families (about 33Z and 402, respectively, of the
small farmers in Chile). The project would have an added benefit of targeting
rural women in these farm families, reinforcing Government's new initiative to
recognize the important role of woraen in the Chilean economy. The land



_ 33 -
titling component would benefit about 43,500 families thereby praviding
security of land holding and improved access to a range of public services and
agricultural credit.
6.03      Devlopint Rural Credit Harkets and Strnxtgh EdSng te  kvvats
Sector Role,. There are about 253,000 small farmer families in Chile, and they
fall into two distinct groups: (a) 148,000 families who farm about 45% of tlhe
agricultural area and produce about 30% of the marketed output (non
minifundistaa): and (b) 105,000 families who farm about 22 of the agricultural
area mostly for home consumption. The latter group supplements ito
suboiltonce Income with wage income from off-farm employment.
6.04      Tle strategy being pursued in this project ic to use a public
sector agency (INDAP) to give Chile's small farmers the opportunity to prepare
themselves for graduation from reliance on public sector credit to reliance on
the commercial banking system for credit, eithor directly or indirectly.
Whether or not farmers uSe the opportunity offered by INDAP to prepare
themselves to meet the requirements of the commercial banks, they will be
dropped as INDAP clients in order to make room for others. During this
transitional phase, they will be participants in the proposed project which
pursues five interrelated avenues to make these farmers more creditworthly from
the perspective of the commercial banking system:
(a)  tItling: where necessary, full title to the farm is given.  This
clearly improves the individual farmer's ability to post
collateral, making him/her a more attractive prospect to a
commercial bank;
(b)  inroving income: particularly through the technology transfer
program a major effort is being made to boost income. Again, this
directly enhances the credit-worthiness of farmers in the eyes of
the commercial banking system;
(c)  Rarticipation in a credit rating system  one of the barriers to
commercial bank lending to small farmers is the cost of collecting
information on such a dispersed group. INDAP will feed credit
information on its clients into a national credit rating system,
called DICOM. Since commercial banks will be able to access this
information easily, it will go a long way toward lowering the cost
of information gathering, and thus make it easier for commercial
banks to meet the credit needs of small farmers with good credit
histories;
(d)  lending at market   tereat rates: for the credit histories of small
farmers to be most relevant as predictors of future behavior, it is
imperative that the smallholders pay market interest rates during
the transition phase to graduation. This is a central feature of
the proposed project; and
(e) study of incentives to encouraae private bank Iending: it is
necessary to understand all the obstacles that must be overcome by
commercial banks before they will expand their coverage to include
the smalJholder sector. For this reason, the Ministry of Financo
will complete a study from this perspective, focussing in
particular on incentives, other than interest rate subsidies or
subloan guarantees, that may be offered to umko smallholdera more
attractive clients to co mercial banks, either as direct clients or
indirectly through agroindustries or other intermediaries.



34
Project ,Rikok
6.05       The principal pi)roject risks would bet (a) the potential for
political over-eAgerienes to oxpand programt, 'o Address rural poverty,
threatening XNDAP'a oporational capability; and (b) roluctance of tho
eom-norcial. crice3llt markeat to extend credit to graduates of INDAP progrum.  Risk
(a) io nlrvedy boing  lnimived by a generalized fiscal Auoterity, ecting aS a
bronk on impruTent expanfnLoa of INDAP programs. As regardo ri:sk (b), the
project wotuld  tt:empt to change commercial credit maiket attitudes bys
(I) pilot tenting vari.oun options proposed by the otudy on  rimproving
incontivoo for privato mntottdodrieo; and (ii) by :tmproving e ubloaii portfolio
ranagoment to clarrify oach clilnt's payment record.
nivironmsntal Imvact
6.06     'Theo project i:  expected to have a positive environmental impact
through the folloidng initiative3: (a) INDAP's technology transfer programo
would incorporateo new INIA'developed tachnlcal packages specifically for tho
omall produtcer including better farming systems (mixed perennial and annual
Crops, livestoctc and forestry activities) as well as environmentally sound
tillage iaetlhochi; (b) exttensioniStG and INDAP personnel would receive special
environmental training undor the project to e:ahance their sensitivity and
performance as regards environmontal issues; (c) INIA experts will participate
In the monthlly meetings At the area level of INDAP to discuss, among other
thinrg s, environmental issues of the technology transfer and credit programs at
the eren level; and (d) the rural communications component would incltude the
specanl production and distribution of videos to farmer groups and of
televicion and radio programs to schools and the general public, focussing on
environmentally sound practices ard the need for environmental protection.
INDAP provided assturances at gneotiations that prospective subloans would be
revioexed and analyzed to ensure their consistency with environmental
safoguardso. Commitmenit to environmental protection is reflected in the
statotant of policy and the strategic plans of HAG, INDAP and MBN (Document 1
of 'I'echatnva. File, Annexes 2.1 and 2^2).  The Minister of MBN now presides
over the Hational Rnvironmantnl Commission (CONAMA).
VX SUi4NARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND_RECOMMENDATION
7.01      The f6llouting agM _ements were ob  ined  rnor to9nDot£aions:
(a)  acceptAble statevient of policy of MAG snd strategic plans of IfLDAP
and i00 (porn. 4.04); anid
(b)  npproprie.to crodit: regulations and supporting administrative
directiven (pnra. 4.19)
7.02      L,;AK ug ns    {9 1     -assLurances wereo obtained that:
(n)  the Gove7rumoient xould support agricultural research services
orieuted towardo the needs of small farmers (para. 2.15);
(b)  Y)A1Dt9 uudo. the G3upOrvision of the Ministry of Finance, would
cui8.7pleteu oe.c months  after effectivenesa, a study on improving
for prVisate ii tolmediaries that would increase their
%YjXAiq,Iti tvo  lto  nd i:o fairver  grAdueting fron the INDAP credit
'       n1n( .y Du1c11d  31, 19934 coI)plete 4iplementastionl of pilot
1h.A, 8UI:o vont thc. vinbil.ty of thco va:totv' optione propocedo The



35
terms of reference (TOR) for the atudy were given to the Banik for
review and approval during negotie,tions (pars. 4.18);
(c)  INDAP's collection rate for all subloans disbursed after Januaty 1,
1992 would be no lower than 85% in Picrel Yeor 1992; 88% in Fiocal
Year 1994; anid 90% in Fisca). Yeav 1995, oxcopt oubloano  for
officially-declared national emergency relief which would be
limited in the case of INDAP, to a mpximum of 10% of subloanc
disbursed in that Fiscal Year (pars. 4.19);
(d)  INDAP would: (i) make fixed rate subloans; (ii) have its interect
rates at least equal to the average market rate'61 paid by the
Central Bank on ito promissory notes withi a maturity of around 360
days for indexed financial operations, published in the Central
Bank's monthly "Sintesis Monotaria y Financlera", plus two
percentage points. If such a rate is unavailable, it would be the
average marlket rate on Central Bank promissory notes with a
maturity of around 90 days for indexed financial operations,
announced in the same publication, plus three percentage points;
(iii) start adjusting its rates annually from May 1, 1993, every
six months from May 1, 1994 and every quarter from May 1, 1995; &nd
(iv) limit subloan amounts to 400 UL for non-minifundistas and
150 UP for minifundistas. Working capital subloans would be
limited to 150 UP for non-minifundistas and 50 UP for
minifundistas. For farmers' organizations, a ceiling of 10% of the
total amount of IIDAP's subloans and worki:ag capital subloana i11
any given year, was established (para. 4.20);
(e)  INDAP would restrict its one-time capitalization grant to; 20Z of
the farm investment project cost (FIPC) for subloans of 30 UF or
less; 6% of FIPC for subloans above 30 UP but not exceeding 100 UP;
and 3% of FIPC for subloans above 100 UF but not: exceeding 150 UP.
The grant woould be limited to a maximum of 6 UP per farmer. Grants
on working capital subloans would be limited to: 3% for 30 UP or
least and 1.5% for 30 U1 to 50 UP.  Farmer organizations could
obtain a one-time grant of up to 10% of FIPC, to a maximum of 60 UP
per grant; and on working capital subloans, the grant would be up
to 32 (para. 4.21);
(f)  INDAP would present, six montihe after the date of effectivenese, a
plan of action with schedule, to improve rural womens' access to
its credit, and thereafter, carry out such a plan accordinig to the
schedule specified (para. 4.23(e));
(g) INDAP would charge a fee, starting on June 1, 1993, to all non-,
miRnifundistaq receiving Phase I.I technology transfer services,
covering at least 30% of INDAP's cost of providing thoee services;
and by June 1, 1994, any technology transfer service delivered to
non-minifundistas would be subject to such fee. By June 1, 1994,
INDAP would also furnish to the Bank the specifics of the criteria
for selection of minifundistas for graduation to Phase II, and non-
minifundistas for graduation to Phase III. (It is envisaged that,
at the latest by June 1, 1996: (i) 14,000 minifundistas will
graduate to Phase II and pay at least 30% of the cost; and
j~/  The average mrskn.1 ret,e rfnear the everege of the rtdes In the third end second inotiieo p10or to tio mnoin In vihnoh the
average markot rate Is detei,..inld.



(ii) 8,000 _nonminifundList :     will graduate to Phase III and pay the
full cost) (para. 4.34 and Table 4.2, page 19);
(h)  the mid-term review would be completed by July 1, 1994 and would
plan appropriat:e grmwth, if any, in project credit and technology
transfOr for tho remaindor of thlo iimpletontation period (para.
5.04);
(i)  the Government would transfer to TNDAP the amsounto required for
IkIDAP to make subloans and working capital subloans au required by
the project.  INDAP would be obligated to repay the Government
these amounts as they fall due from their borrowers, after the
deduction of the targeted loesen and capitalization grants (para.
5.06);
(j) INDAP and MBN would use a stmndard set of operating, administrative
and accounting procedures. Project accounts, including the special
account, SOEs and the firsancial statements of IlIDAP and MBN would
be audited annually in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank, according to terms-of-reference approved by the Bank
(para. 5.08);
(k) the Government would: (i) send semi-annual progress reports to the
Bank not later than two months after the end of each reporting
period; (ii) send yearly plans of actioni of INDAP and MBN by
October 31st of the previous year; and (iii) employ consultants by
April 1, 1994 and April 1, 1996, to carry out an in-depth review of
the progress made in the implementation of the project, with
reports sent to the Bank not later than June 15, 1994 and
June 30, 1996, respectively (para. 5.09); and
(1) INDAP would review and analyze proopectivo subloans to ensure their
consistency with agreed environmental safeguards (para. 6.06).
7.03      Conditions of loan effectiveness would be:
(a)  that INDAP/MAG ratify the agreed credit regulations (para. 4.19);
(b)  that the CREDAP system is fully operational (para. 4e19 (a));
(c)  establishment of the PCMU, with powers and responnibilities
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.01); and
(d) signing of the subsidiary agreement between the Borrower and INDAP in
a form acceptable to the Bank (para. 5,06).
7.04      With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable for
a Bank loan of US$95.00 million equivalent, on standard terms for Chile.



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 7
CHILE
SMALL FARMER SERVICES PROJECT
Ministry of Ariculture Program Matrix



Thvgz-rs 3: }innrove-rent ofr Coordination and Access to Mnrkets (199193)
CIdectuve: F2ciiHate 1.:e Incorporation of Small Farmers to Producer Markets
ACTIVfTIES AND INSTRUTENTS              INWTTUTIONS                 EXPECTED RESULTS                   REOU.TRPEMENTS
Faciiitating in regions the       EiAG; INDAP               - A more active conrnercial           - Methodologycand
a-rangement of production contracts   Private Enterprises.   relationship between agmrindustrial    standard contracts.
between small farmer groups and                               enterprises and smaii producer      - Training of personnei.
local agroind'istries, and providing                          groups.                             - F!exibility of existing
incentives through credit and                               - Increased security in relation ta     regulations.
technology transfer, where necessry.                          prices, markets, and changes in
productivity.
- Incorporation of approximately 5 lo                          '
6,C3O ha. per vear to nroduction
contracts.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~c
- Expanding COTRISA coverage ai -a      COTRISA; MAG;         -mprovement in prices and access to   - 3udgetary -esources.
peat urchasing agent in smal.       Darkets for srmaIl wheat producers.    - Operative agreements.
producer areas, extending                                   - Regularization of an imperfect
J  institutionai agreements, if       'muaket affecting 25% of the wheat   ,
necessary. (COTRISAJINDAP)                                    of,ered by snall farmers.
-Providing a preinvesment tecrhn;     MAG; MIDEPLAN;   - Generate annmiually between 60 to 70    - Preinvctsment resources.
-~~~~~~~~~~~~NCN ProvidiSgialedeineumnienretources.
service for groups and organizations  MINECON,                bankable smaii projects.            - Skilled human resources.
of smnall farmers, wilt the support   INDAP; FOSIS.         - Structure a 'bank of projects for   - Credit for projects.
of MAG, MIDEPLAN, MINECON                                     storage, maTketing and              - Gnerative agreemnents.
and executed by INDAP, oriented                               transformation of the small-scale      -
towards generating projects for the   I                       agriculture production.
storage, marketing and                                      - Chamnel financial and technical
industrialization of products.                            I  resources to assist such rojects.
- Expanding coverage of FUCOA           MAG-DEP; FUCOA   - Udated information on prices and    B- udgetary resources.
.  information serices in relation to                             r-arkets operating in slmall farmer
prices and markets for small-scale                            axeas.
agricultural producers.                                     __3_i__ _
._                                                                                                     s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



Progam 2: Development eF Product;ve Resources (1991/93)
Objec'ive: Pron-o1i,;g tSe De eipr-icsn of 7-d'^z8   Resources Gcveroing SnzualH-Scale Agrec(':Ure
I ACTVTfV    S AND INSTRUMENTS   INSTITUTiON '                          EXPECTED RSIFL7S                      R 'EQT REEM 3P'S
- To put into operation a technical      MAG; INDAP;           - Construction and start-up in 199192   -  asiEc technic-a equinpmes8.
teamn under the protection of Law  I  FOSIS; National          of 50 small irrigation projects.     - Budgetary resources.
18450 and special agreements           irrigation              subsidized by law 18450.             - Increase o0 agreement
(INDAP-FOSIS & MAG-CNIR) to            Commission;           - Study and incorporation under these    operation.
incorporate irrigation snd its         Producer                subsidies of 150 small irrigation
imnrovement in small-scale             Organizations;          projects between 1991 and 1993.
agriculture located mainly in dry      NGOs.                a - incornoration of 5000 snall
land areas.                                                    producers into middle and ia-ge
irrgation nrojects under eaecution.
Establisbing, with smnall farmers,     MAG; CONAF;           - Start-un, amnnally, of 40 srmaI      - Adjustments !o L.D. 7Ci.
forest n,lantations for multiple uses,  FOSIS; Producer        forestry projects in crinical areas.  - 7rovision o 'echnicaE
particularly in eroded and dry areas,  Organizations;        - Protection of critical areas an,    i  resotrcns.
znd using for this purpose subsidies   NG3s.                   expansion of small-farrners' fores'r ,
of Decree-law 701, Forest-y Action                             capacity.
Pian (FAP) and other resources of
CONAF and FOSIS.
Design and apply an intensive !iffinq  MAG; INDAP;           - 6000 small produccrs with            - oradve sgeements.
- and land holding regulaization         W M3N.                  regularized land titling.            - Allocation cg resourc.s.
program for small farmers, applying
existing legal orovisions and credit   ?
resousces IBRD-INDAP.
- improvement and construction of    b  Mmin. interior; MAG;  - 60 rural communities with better      - Financial resources.
rural roads and expansion of the       MOP; Min. T.C.,         access to markets and imnprove-d     - Agreements
rural telephone service in less        Municipalities.         telephone services.
developed communities with hign
omucentration of small producers,                                                                  I
vtith resources from FNDR and
Odihers.
- Dcs,gn a legislative psoposal to       MAC                   - To develop a mechanism of            - Technical s!' .ies.
Facilitaie land regularization of the                          incentives lo advznce land           - Legislative cnalysis.                 P
Sr-tlrurn.l property.                                          regularization oF smali-scale                                                  >
agriculture.                       I                                        W_ _
bt-  .  .                                   .                _ _                                            o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



Program 3: Technological Development (1991193)
Objective: To Make Available to Small Rural Producers t&e Technical Knowledge Consistent with their Modernization a.nd Development Needs
ACTlVITIES AND INSTRUMENTS             INSTITUTIONS               EXPECTED RESULTS               REOU1REMENTS
- Reinforcing the institutional and    MAG; INIA;           - 50 functioning cevters for         - Finalize IDB
operational capability of INIA for   INDAP.                 technoo;gy transfer.                 negotiations.
tha reneration and transfer of                            - National operation of the          - Assign adequate
technologv adequate for small scale                         INIAJINDAP agreement for t!he        budgetary
agriculture with emphasis on:                               development auid transfer of         resources.                          0
irrigation, post harvest handling,                          technology.                        - Training in new
environmental conservation and                            - Greater amount of technology for     fields.
enterprise management, using a loan                         small scale agriculture.
'from IDB, still being processed.
- Increasing the institutional and     INDAP; Technology      To reach in 1993 a portfolio of    - Modify INDAP
operational capability of INDAP as  transfer firms;         75,000 technology transfer clients in    constituted law.
the principal entity of a national   NGOs; Producer         groups or individuals.             - Finalize IBRD
technology transfer system for small    organizations     - Between 600 and 650 organizations    negotiations.
scale agriculture; with emphasis on                         of small farmers assisted with     - International
service diversification, the use of                         technology transfer.                 cooperation.
massive media, group attention, and                       - Greater availability of irrigation  - Human resource
the control of processes through                            technology; enterprise management;   training
increased beneficiary participation                         post-harvest handling and
with resources from a IBRD-INDAP                            environmental conservation.
loan still being processed.
c1'
.
0



Program 4: Financing Expansion and Improvement of Access to Credit (1991193)
Objective: Improve Substantially the Access of Small Farners to Institutional Credit
ACTIVlTIES AND INSTRUMENTS  INSTITUTIONS                          EXPECTED RESULTS                 REOUIREMENTS
- Reinforce iNDfAPinstitutional        INDAP; Producer       - Adequate control of credit        - Reinforcement of the
capability in the financelcredit area    organizations.      portfolio, increase in debt         agricultural teams'
to be able to improve: computer                              recovery.                           technical capacity.
registry and credit monitoring,                            - Managing a financial portfolio for  - External arid
handling of portfolio through                                60,000 consuimers.                  budgetary financiai
portfolio managers, collection, and                        - Grading of credits and subsidies.   resources.
credit extension services, using                           - Graduation of beneficiaries.      - Adjustment of the
IBRD/lNDAP credit, still being                                                                   institutional
processed.                                                                                       framework.
- Generate agreements and working      MAG; Banco del        - Amplifying available financial    - Political ratification.
lines to provide small-scale         Estado; CORFO.          resources.                        - Agreements.
agricullure with FOSIS credit lines                        - To structure a portfolio of 40,000   - Financial resources.
from Banco del Estado. FOSIS and                             small producers assisted by Banco
other financial anents, giving special                       del Estado and others.
attention to: incentives tn                                - Belier use of niral housing
incorporate more users, insurance                            subsidies.
and guarantees, transferning client
portfolios, coexecution of financial
lines, official subsidy operations;
gradual structuring of a Rural
Finanlcial System.
Generate and incorporate new         MAG; MINECON;   - Availability of new financial           - Technical studies.
products and financial services for  CORFO; INDAP;           products for small producers.     - Consolild&.tion of
small-scale agriculture by           Banco del Estado;     - Modernization of the financial      resources.
strcturing: credit extension         FOSIS.                  system.                           - Training of
services, savings related credits,                         - Better access of producers to       personnel.
guarantees on production contracts,                          financial services.                                                      C J:>
credits related to projects and other                                                                                                m i
potentially interesting activities.                                                                                                  t  >4
0



Program 5: Promote Enterprise and Participative Structure of Producers (19911i93)
Objective: increase the Parlicipation of Smail Producers in Management of Projects and Productive and Service Enterprises anc 'her Actions Peta-nig to !hi.&r
Development.
|_A___VITI      __ AND INIENT           INSTITUTIONS                EXPECTED RESULTS               REQOMENEN7S
IMae available to small producer         INDAP; Producer        - Capability of small producer        - modify
|groups and associations, an           organ izations;         organizations to mianage              regu;at ions.     Z
economic and social service,          NGOs; FUCOA.            socio-economic projects.            - Assign technicZi
oriented to transfer technology in:                         - No-risk socio-economic projects.     equipment.
organization, administrtion,                                - Better communication and          VAssign resources.
direction and managing of associated                         interchange between small producers   - Stucture
ranl enterprises with productive and                          and public and private               agrwwments.
socist objectives. Structure                                  organizations.   .                  - lnformationat    16
agreements with NGOs and channel                                                                    materiasL
transference bonds to implemsnt this
iine of wosrk.i
- Promote, aftpreparing the             MAQ  INDAP; Mir.    Nomial irtittitional framcwor,           -iraact sr=iCic
necassary technical studies,          Econorr adfunctioning to benefit pramucers.    Istudes.
adjusc rentsto the  egulator   d                             Producer organizations with better   t- Legisativo
legal framework which goverms                                 function and expanded                 pronosals.
existing producer orgaiizations,                              communications.
assisting in their integration and
functioning.                      j                       [
>4
os



Program 6: Improve Quality of Rural Life (1991193)
Objective: Improve Habitability of Rural Areas, Facilitating Greater Pernanence of Private Economic Agen!s and Rural Inhabitants.
ACTIVITIES AND INSTRUMENTS              INSTITUTIONS            EXPECTED RESULTS              REOLTIREMENTS
- Generate within the Rural             Rural Dev. Internuin.  - Enhance the quality of life in   !  Active
Development Interniinisterial         Comm.; Ministries;     75 less developed rural         intermninisterial
Commission, an action program for     Public institutions;   communities.                    coordination.
less developed rural communities, re-  Muricipalities.     - Reduce rural-urban migration.   - Monitoring technical
evaluating and developing rural towns                      - Improve development of areas.    teams.             I
and villages through coordinated                                                            - Political decisions.                   W
actions in: roads, communications;
energy, potable water, sanitation
systems, edrcation, housing and
health.
- Prepare agreements between MAG        MAG; CIDR;           - Better access of producers to  - Framework of
and Rural Mnnicipalities to create    Municipalities.        existing public sector services  agreements and
agrocenters to assist rural producers,                       to agriculture.                 methodologies.
and generate nral development                              - Network of agreements with     - Operative capacity    I
community programs with the                                  municipalities for the          of the SiREM I nir   I
participatien of producer groups.                            functioring of community        the regions.
agroceniers.                | - Financial resources.
0
e ';



- 44 -
ANNEX 2.31
Page 1 of 3
CHILE
SMALL FARMER SERVICES PROJECT
INDAP's Strategj, Plan
I.   General Framework
1.        The Government of Chile assumes growth with equity to be a basic
tenet of development, opting for sustainable strategies which make growith and
modernization compatible with the access of all sectors, particularly the
poorest ones, to the benefits of development.
2.        During the past dechde, the accelerated modernization and
development of agriculture has been focussed on the subsector of medium and
large-scale enterprises located in the irrigated Central Valley which,
according to recent studies, generated 90% of the growth experienced by the
sector between 1977 and 1987. During the same period, the technology gap and
conditions of poverty increased in areas containing around 240,000 small
farmers who are basically dependent on agricultural production and who,
together with their families, represent 102 of the national population.
Within this population, indices of rural p'overty reach 55%.
3.        Small-scale agriculture occupies one-third of tots. soil resources,
and represents over one-half of the agricultural production of certain items.
However, many small farmers could reach much greater production levels than
those they have today, if they used more intensively the resources and family
labor they possess, thus substantially increasing their levels of income and
consumption.
4.        INDAP's action is directed towards intensifying small farm
production by makinS possible its integration into the agricultural
modernization process by means of an increased participation in markets,
investment, technology and financing.
5.        The fundamental objective of INDAP's programs for small farmers is
a sustained increase in production and income, giving them the necessary
educational, technological and financial support to assure their participation
in the prevailing opportunities offered by the formal markets for products,
financing and technology. At the same time, INDAP's programs are directed
towards promoting the enlargement of such markets in a manner appropriate to
the specific requirements of small farmers, improving the availability of
services and the demand for goods both needed or offered by them.
6.        INDAP must take three basic goals into consideration to achieve its
objectives:
(a)  Assign top priority to improving the living conditions of the
poorest groups of the population. In this respect, INDAP has
established in its programs a growth strategy which gives preference
to the incorporation of small farmers with the greatest comparative
poverty, but whose main activity and source of income is family-
based agricultural production.
(b) Increase quantitatively INDAP's technical and credit services. It
will be necessary to incorporate a substantial number of farmers



- 45 -
ANNFX 2.1
Page 2 of 3
into these programs in order to effectively modify the exclusivity
characteristic of sector development in past years. In the past,
INDAP's programs did not incorporate more than 14Z of small farmers,
and therefore it is necessary to secure a substantial increase in
order to achieve a level of attention capable of affecting a greater
number of small farmers.
(c) Support processes for the conservation and recovery of natural
resources. There is a high coincidence betweern poverty and the
overexploitation of natural resources. The adequate technification
and capitalization of small farms is, therefore, a necessary
condition for reversing these types of processes.
II. Specific Programs
7.        Technoloev Transfer.  The INDAP technology transfer program
emphasizes educational actions which contribute to small farmers acquiring the
technical and management knowledge necessary to significantly increase the
productivity of their resources and independent capabilities, enabling them to
become part of a self-sustaining process of technological development.
Special consideration is merited for incre.asing the incorporation of peasant
women, with whom the program carries out activities supporting an increased
productive role and facilitating family access to basic services such as
health, education and social subsidies.
8.        The educational attention received by those groups of farmers
joining the program will decrease in time as they go through different phases
until they have achieved the capacity to independently continue the
technological development process through the direct contracting of extension
services in the market. The graduation process will begin immediately for the
larger producers previously attended by INDAP's support program.
9.        A complementary effort will be to improve the technology offered,
extending it in accordance with the specific demands of small farmers. In
this regard, the Agricultural Research Institute (INIA) will begin immediately
to emphasize the generation and transfer of technology oriented to the small
farm sector.
10.       A consequence of this policy is the INIA-INDAP Agreement, which
brings together INIA researchers and INDAP extension workers on a monthly
basis, to work jointly. To carry out this collaborative work, INIA has
established 20 centers of Technological Change and Transfer, which will be
increased to 50 in the coming years in order to cover all agroecological areas
which are important to small-scale agriculture.
11.     : Credit Assistance.  The objective of INDAP's credit program is to
enable small farmers to have access to financial resources, thus facilitating
the incorporation of capital and technology in small farms,
12.       A fundamental criterion in credit policy is to differentiate credit
from subsidies, since in the past INDAP's credit was confused with assistance
granted by the state for different reasons. Thus INDAP is interested in
devising a system of explicit subsidies for the purpose of meeting losses due
to force majeure causes such as droughts, floods and other unforeseen factors
which prevent the sound functioning of credit programs. Small farmers have
great difficulty facing such losses.



46
ANNEX 2..1
Pago 3 of 3
13.       A second important critevion is the close coordination of technology
transfor w.lth crudit provlion.  Inh thlis regards market coordinat:-.on
technology level and productive potential are seen as dotermining criteria for
a more professional handling of credit.
1.4.      The incorporation of small producoro into formal marlcets of bank
credit is another important objectivo of INDAP's programs. In thic respect9
through agreenments with commercial Banks, the largest producers capable of
becominig coumercial banlk customers will be graduated. A study will. also be
carried out of other alternatives to promote the expansion of financial
markets for smaller producers, for example, by increasing the number of
financing institutions, the types of financial producto, and the kinds of
services accessible to the small farmer.
15.       Finally, the existe"nce of complementary financing programs carried
out by INDAP through agreements with other institutions should be mentioned.
An example of such a program is the Agreement with FOSIS (Social Solidarity
and Investment Fund) directed towards facilitating the access of small farmers
to subsidies for small irrigation works; and, the Agreement with the Houslng
Ministry which finances the construction of subsidized rural dwellings.
16.       Market Incorporation.  Special effort needs to be directed to
facilitating the access of small farmers to input and output markets.  Access
to markets under reasonable pricing conditions is one of the most serious
constraints on the productive development of small farmers. In this regard9
three types of actions will be carried out:
(a) The coordination of production originating from small farmer groups
with agroindustrial enterprises. Agreements will be made with such
enterprises for the contracting of small farmers' production, backed
by INDAP's technology transfer and credit services.
(b) .The promotion of direct marketing programs for small farmers through
agreements with state institutions which regulate specific markets.
An example is the INDAP-COTRISA wheat marketing agreement.
(c)  The development of associations of producer enterprises oriented
towards solving product storage, processing and marketing problems.
To this effect, credit lines will be developed to finance investment
projects of farm organizations. Similarly, technical services for
pre-investment support will be implemented, as well as the teclnical
support needed to start projects which have been determined to be
commercially feasible.



- 47 -
A NNX,2 .,2,
Pago . of 5
ChItLE
SMAL._FARMER SERVICES PROJECT
MB4N'A Strati c Plan
MBN'S Land T_ itlig_Role and Actions Since 1981
1.        hackRround.    The Ministry of National Property (MBN) is
responsible for regularizing land titles for smallholders in rural and urban
areas. Possession of legal title is vital for the access of rural
smallholders to important Government programs, which include INDAP teclnology
trans;er and credit, subsidies for rural housing and small. irrigation works,
and CONAF? forestry subsidies. Proper title is also necesoary for their access
to cotmcrcial banking services.
2.        The Miristry addressed the irregular land tenure situation of
smallho:lders in rural and urban areas by executing an important annual volume
of land title regularizations between the years 1981 and 1988. Financing of
these activities is normally secured through sectoral resources, the National
Fund for Regional Development (FNDR) and the Social Fund (FS), all of which
have decreased since 1989, resulting in a reduced number of cases handled
under land title regularization programs. This situation will be reversed
,with the implementation of the nationwide titling project directed to people
pqith limited resources. The following table shows titles regularized between
1986 and 1989:
Years      Urban     Area SQ.Mt.       Rural      Area Has.      Total
1986      9,307       6,276,284        6,245      73,270         15,552
1987      5,850       3,838,408        5,654      60,680         11,504
1988      7,311       4,705,774        7,738      62,410         15,049
1989      6,097       4,714,059        6,787      70,570         12,884
1990      4,542       3,723,020        5,065      67,892          9,607
Since the budget does not presently include sufficient financial resources to
pursue the Ministry's titling objectives, the land title regularization
process has been continued based on financing provided by private parties who
are able to afford the contracting of firms to regularize their titles.



- 48 -
ANNEX 2 . 2
Page 2 of 5
3.         The problem of land title irregularity in the country is estimated
to be as follows:
No. of Prop.       Area     No. of Prop.        Area
Or:iin of, Resources     Rural Sector       Has.      Urban Sector       Sq.Mt.
Financed by the
beneficiaries             20,000(*)       100,000       25,000(*)      5,600,000
Without financing by
the beneficiaries
(FNDR, FS, Sect. Fin.)  100,000           450Q000       42.000(*)      10.500.000
Total                    120,000          550,000       67,000         16,100,000
(*)  Estimate according to available records.  No studies on the subject
4.        Based on the preceding table, MIBN's priority objective and social
function in the rural sector centers on regularizing land titles for the
100,000 small farmers with scarce resources, who cannot afford to privately
contract this service. Titling for these smallholders is fully-subsidized and
supervised by the Ministry, and carried out by private consultants under a
system of competitive bidding on group tit l.ing contracts. With regard to the
42,000 urban cases with insufficient resources to contract titling services
privately, they will be handled through programs managed by the regional
municipalities, with financing from the FNDR and the Sectoral Fund. Lastly,
rural and urban properties corresponding to persons with the economic means to
solve their land title irregularities, will continue to be handled by
authorized consulting firms supervised by the Regional Secretariats and
Provincial Offices of the Ministry.
5.        Acguisition, Management and Disposal of Government Property. In this
area of responsibility, MBN's Regional Secretariats and Provincial Departments
acquire property on behalf of the Government, administer its use through
assignments and concessions, carry out appropriations of national property for
public use, and lease government property. Part of the Ministry's duties also
includes disposing of such property through sales and, in certain cases, free
transfers.
6.        The Ministry also disposes of Government properties, which
constitute a high proportion of the national territory, for purposes of public
interest or for social benefit. However, the Ministry also has the legal
obligation to generate income for the public treasury, and to this end the
Ministry has to sell or rent its properties. The basic concern when disposing
of government property is to proceed efficiently. Much of the Government's
patrimony must remain with the Government to fulfill the functions of public
interest. However, when it is necessary to dispose of such property, the
Ministry:seeks the highest return, administering the sale in the most
efficient manner, and with the objective of securing benefits for the society
as a whole.
7.        Disposing of property as a social action comes tnder the Program to
Grant Free Land Titles for low-income occupants of Government property in
different regions, in accordance with studies prepared by the Ministry's
Regional Secretariats. In this same context, free transfets of Government
property are also made to entities which, after being duly checked, develop
non-profit activities with a high social objective.



- 49 -
Page 3 of 5
8.        Property acquisition and administration has been implemented
according to the Ministry's historical administrative capacity which,
fundamentally, has involved property appropriation. Mechanisms will be
shortly implemented to emphasize a technically more efficient control system,
together with a greater supervisory capacity, to enable collaboration with
other government entities in carrying out the social programs of the
government. The intention is to increase the emphasis on government property
administration in order to support the variety of functions performed by
government institutions. The process of property acquisition must be given
special importance and be streamlined since incorporation of these propertiea
into the government patrimony tends to enhance its social and economic
administration.
9.        National Cadaster of Government Property.  Inventory preservation
and updating of property undeir government administration is a basic objective
of the Ministry. A specific cadastral project was implemented in the Santiago
municipality in coordination with the Municipal Government and the
Architecture Directorate of the Ministry of Public Works, as a pilot venture
which will serve as a model for a complete national cadaster. This cadaster
will be greatly expanded with the incorporation of the regularized private
property contemplated under the mass titling project.
10.       Environment.  MBN ascribes great importance to the environmental
analysis being carried out by the National Environmental Commission, which
will result in the submission of principles for a new National Environmental
Policy. A legislative proposal for the sustainable development and management
of the envirormental patrimony will be prepared and submitted.  The Minister
of National Property presides over this Commission, with the Technical
Secretariat being located in the Ministry.
II.       Settleme-t Policy.  Another function of MBN consists of coordinating
with a variety of other government entities, the preparation of policies aimed
at the utilization and incorporation of government land in the development of
areas of low population density, taking the necessary actions to achieve its
implementation. It also submits and implements policies, plans and programs
aimed at settling such areas.
MBN's Role in Fulfilling its Mandate
12.       In order to consolidate the important objectives outlined in the
preceding paragraphs, necessary changes, both legal and administrative, will
be made in the regulations relating to human and material resources. MBN's
decentralized technical and professional capacity throughout the country,
enables it to carry out its mandate. However, certain adjustments are
required to facilitate more efficient performance and these are already being
undertaken through modernization and rationalization actions.
MBN's Stratezy for the Coming Years
13.       The Ministry of National Property has two priority social
development programs: (a) the regularization of land titles for smallholders;
and (b) the acquisition, adminiistration and disposal of Government property.
MBN's strategy in each case is set out in the following paragraphs.
14.       Land Title Regularization.  The central objective in the
regularization of small holdings, both urban and rural, is to incorporate low-
income persons into the country's developmental mainstream by increasing the



50 -
ANNEX 2 . 2
Page 4 of 5
number of properties with legalized land titles, especially in the rural
sector. Large areas of essentially productive agricultural and forest lands
will ultimately be covered by proper title. These lands total at present some
450,000 hectares, 175,000 ha of which will be titled under the project as a
first stage.
15.       The Government and MBN attach great significance to achieving this
titling objective, which will provide access for smallholders to a range of
benefits under the National Rural Development Plan. The purpose is to raise
the standard of living of the rural population by removing the limitations on
their development due to the deficient organization of land tit]ing, which has
prevented smallholders from enjoying the benefits of showing they are the
owners of the land they occupy.
16.       The project will also benefit women who are rural heads of
household, needing to regularize the title to the lands they are occupying,
through a coordination agreement with the National Women's Service (SERNAM).
SERNAM will analyze this situation and provide MBN with lists of such women in
need of titling attention under the project.
17.       Administration and Disposition of Government Property.  In the
matter of property administration and disposition, MBN's basic objective is to
reconcile the present regulations with an efficient real estate operation that
will give adequate protection to government interests, granting priority to
the direct social benefit of low-income persons and government institutions as
well. The strategy is based on improving the information on properties under
its administrative control and supervision, as well as e%pediting the
procedure of acquisitions by the government, with the purpose of securing an
efficient administration of the goverrment patrimony. The basic objective of
the Ministry's property disposal actions involves a sound knowledge of the
real estate market, and an efficient sales strategy, which aims to bene'it
society as a whole.
18.       The Ministry's social priority with regard to Government lands is to
grant land titles on a fully-subsidized basis to low income persons occupying
those lands, thereby incorporating those lands into the country's productive
development.
A Summary Description of the Ministry's Programs
19.       To reiterate, the Ministry's responsibilities include the xollowing:
(a)  The appropriation, disposition and administration of Government
property,
(b) Fully-subsidized titling of Government lands suitable for
agriculture, forestry and mining, in several regions;
(c)  Subsidized program for the regularization of rural land titles to
benefit private individuals with insecure title; and
(d)  Program for the regillarization of urban land titles to benefit
private individuals with insecure title.
(e)  Modifications to Decree Laws 1939 of 1977 and 2605 of 1979, which
constitute the legal codes with permanent application to the
V1inistry, uilll be proposed in the near future. To this end,



- 51 -
Page 5 of 5
opinions and experiences regarding these laws are being gathered ait
both the central and regional levols with the active participation
of the Ministerial units engaged in their application.



52 
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 14
CHILE
SHALL FARMER SERVICES PROJECT
Technolov Transfer
A. THE SMALL FARM SECTOR!'
1.           An Overview.  The rural population accounts for about 17% of Chile's
12.8 million inhabitants.  Current estimates by the Agricultural Development
Institute (INDAP) divide the fairm population into three ma4or categories:
(a)   an estimated 33,000 farmers who own and operate modern, medium-size and
larger farm enterprises, accounting for about 53% of the agricultural
area and generating 70% of marketed output;
(b)   about 148,000 farm families with 5-12 BIH21, comprising mostly agrarian
reform beneficiaries and small traditional proprietors, who control 45%
of the agricultural area and produce most of the remaining marketed
output; and
(c)   245,000 families, including 105,000 smallholders (minifundistas) with
less than 5 BIH and 1-2% of the arable area and 140,000.other rursl
families, whose main sources of income are sharecropping and wage income
from rural labor.
2.           Small farmers (those in groups (b) and (c) above) play an important role
in the national and regional economies of Chile. They account for some 53% of total
area allocated to vegetables as well as around one-thi, d to cereals, wine grapes and
natural pasture. A limited national agricultural and livestock-survey of 1986/87
demonstrated that some 96% of small farmers are located between the Rio Elqui and
Chilo6 with a marked concentration between fhuble and Chiloe, i.e., between Regions
VIII and X (see Map IBRD 23006). This same study revealed that while the majority
of small farmers are situated in marginal, dry coastal areas and Andean foothills,
over one-third are located in the fertile, irrigated lands of the Central Valley.
These small Central Valley producers generally have better resources and greater
commercial potential than those in the coastal areas and foothills and, therefore,
comprise the bulk of families in category (b) above.
3.           Dependence on family labor distinguishes sharply the smaller from the
larger producer. While all family members work, women and younger family members
are generally unpaid, but adult male member-s receive some form of payment either in-
kind or in-cash. This dependence on family labor explains partially the ability of
small farmers to withstand economic adversity and has also proved invaluable in
sustaining production during seasonal periods when male family members migrate
eitther within Chile or to other parts of the Southern Cone to find seasonal work,
For a moro detailed reviow of the agricutural sector In general and the small tarm subsector in particular, see
Sustainin Growth: An Agricultural Sector Review, IBRID Report.
No. 8759-CH. dated Juno 29, 1990 (Green Cover).
2/    Basic Irrigated Hectare (BIH), a measure of the potential productivity of land relative to that of one hectare of irrigated
land in the fertile Rio Maipo Valley near Santiago. Unirrigated lands are usually 0.14.2 BIH/physical ha.



- 53
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 14
e.g., fruit-picking, fish-farming and logging within Chile, and sheep-shearing in
Argentina.
4.          Constraints to Growth.  Apart from the small farmers living in the
fertile Central Valley, the soil and climatic conditions in areas of small farmer
concentration are poor. Nevertheless, the higher yields of larger farmers in these
more marginal areas indicate a potential for higher productivity among small
farmers. While medium- and large-scale agricultural entrepreneurs have been able to
invest in new plant varieties, pesticides, fertilizers and modern machinery
generally associated with modern technology, small producers often have lacked such
access owing to: (a) the almost complete absence in Chile of research and
development of technology appropriate to their special conditions (e.g.$ area-
specific, robust crop varieties, crop/livestock/forestry farming systems,
appropriate tools, environmentally sound tillage methods, simple preservation
techniques); (b) lack of resources at the farm-level to pay for available technology
(e.g., certified seed, fertilizers); and (c) resource constraints on public
technical assistance programs. Access to credit is frequently blocked by collateral
requirements which many small farmers cannot fulfill due to, inter alia, lack of -
secure land titles. Further complicating this, smaller producers generally are
averse to borrowing and commercial banks to lending to such clients since they
represent special risks and higher transaction costs.
5.          In addition, small producers lack basic service infrastructure, ir-
cluding collection, storage, processing and marketing facilities. The situation is
further exacerbated by poor secondary roads, especially from Region VIII southwards,
and inadequate transport facilities. For small farmers with marketable surplus,
this often results in ad hoc marketing efforts and vulnerability to middlemen and
price pressures. Such farmers lack community organizations which could act as
conduits to off-farm contacts, offer exposure to productive inputs, product sales
information and outlets, as well as services. Inadequate development and
distribution of basic social services, including sanitation, education and
electrification continue to depress the quality of life for the poorest segments of
the rural population despite special programs and increased social expenditures in
recent years. Further data on the smallholder population are given in Table 1
below.
Table 1. Social Indicators for SmalIhotder Population
Average age (head of household)                          53.4
Basic education (8 years), persons over 15 (X)           73.0
Illiteracy (X of heads of household)1/                  60.0
Sub-standard housing (X)                                35.0
Water suppLies - X with piped                            17.7
- X with wells                               48.0
- X with other                               34.3
Potable water coverage (% in 1987)                       34.6
.Sanitation - X with septic tank/wC                      12.4
- % with Latrines                               87.6
Families in food subsidy programs CX)                   44.0
Beneficiaries of housing subsidies (X)                   17.5
Percent attended births (1985, surveyed group 0-6 years)  13.3
3/ Principally due to disuse (isolation etc.); rate is 31% in group 30-50. Rate
drops to 16.0X for entire cohort 15 years and over.
Source: GIA/INDAP, Dece,*er 1990; and CASEN 1985 and 1987, (Caracterizaci6n Econ6.mica
Nacional).



*54 
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 14
B.  Historical Overview of Public Sector  groe__3'
6.       The 1962 Agrarian Reform TJax restructured the public agencies
charged with extension and general assistance to the agricultural sector,  The
Agrarian Reform Corporation (Corporaci6n de Reforma Aeraria_(CORA ) was
established in 1962, and in 1965 wyas assigned the task of administering the
agrarian reform program, including land transfers, technical assistance, and
credit. The Agricultural Development Institute (Instituto de Desarrollo
Agropecuariop _INDAP) was created irI 1962 to provide credit and free technical
assistance to small producers; in 1965 its role was expanded to include such
assistance under CORA-related activities and promotion of small farmer
organizations. In 1967, the Agricultural and Livestock Service (Servicio
Aaricola v Ganadero (SAG ,) was estsblilshed as a semi-autonomous institution
under the Ministry of Agriculture, inter alia, to disseminate technical
information, and to provide technical and administrative assistance to
beneficiaries of the Agrarian Reform Program and small producer-cooperatives.
7.       Consistent with its policy reorientation to reduce public sector
intervention and services, the government in 1973 began a gradual reduction in
resource allocations to the public extension services offered through SAG.
Also, with the termination of the Agrarian Reform Program in 197 , CORA ceased
involvement in agricultural extension in 1974, and eventually was disbanded in
1978. The quality of technical assistance to farmers in the }970s was
generally acknowledged to be substandard.  This, and the government's
deliberate policy oi disengaging from general extension efforts, forced
larger, more commercial producers to acquire technology from domestic and
foreign research and commercial agencies. In 1979, as the SAG extension
program was stopped, farmers were expected to rely fully on these research and
commercial sources for such assistance. To fill the vacuum for small
producers and to encourage the development of private sector services, the
government initiated the Entrepreneurial Technical Assistance Program (ATE) in
1979. Under this program, private consulting firms provided technical
assistance services to farmers, with financing from the M.'nistry of
Agriculture. The quality of services under the ATE program was generally
unsatisfactory, but it did demonstrate that farmers were willing to pay for
technical assistance and that careful selection and supervision of consulting
firms enhanced chances of stuccess. The ATE programu was terminated in 1982.
8.       INDAP continued to provide technical assistance for its small farmer
clientele, albeit with reduced budgetary resources and staffing. Starting in
1979, it made some use of the ATE program to supply such assistance associated
with its own lending operations, and in 1982 introduced a pilot technical
assistance program using subsidized private consulting services in an
agricultural area south of Santiago. In 1983/84 INDAP's program was expanded
to cover 13,140 beneficiaries nationwide. Until 1987/88, the INDAP program of
technology transfer saw only modest growth, principally reflecting resource
limitations and the multi-year nature of beneficiary participation. INDAP's
program was limited initially to small farmers of eight to 12 BIH (Basic
Irrigated Hectares)--a group deemed to have agricultural potential and
viability, to be receptive to improved tec)nology, but to be unable to afford
private technical assistance witlhout governument subsidy.
'Chil!e - Sustelning Grow4th: An Agriculture Sector Review, Volume II', Report 8759.CH, dated June 29, 1990.



55 
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 14
9.       In 1986, an Inter 15inistcrial Gotu iSiiou for Rxural Development ewas
establishled to formulate and unify public policy to improve the quality of
life for the Chilean rural sector.  The Conmicion recotmended the
implementation of a National Plan for Ruiral Devolopment (Plan), representing a
multi-faceted attack on rural poverty and on the x'ide divergence of social
indicators for rural and urban life.  With lts proposal the Commission sought:
(a) to boost income-generating capacity by modernizing agriculture through
more effective technology transfer, by upgrading the entrepreneurial
capability of producers, by improving the marketing system, and by issuinig
land-titles; and (b) to enhance the quality of life in rural areas by
expanding and making more efficient social programs in the areas of education,
health and housing. Launched in early 1987, the Plan is administered at the
national, regional, and provincial levels, thus ensuring consistency with
policy and budget, but actual implementation, and partial financing, are the
responsibility of local communities.
10.      By law, INDAP beneficiaries must satisfy the following
qualifications: (a) farm less than 12 BIH; (b) have total wealth less than
3,500 UF; (c) obtain income principally from agricultural pursuits, whatever
the land tenancy arrangements; and (d) exhibit distinct potential to improve
agricultural performance. Because of this mandate and its experience in
small-farmer assistance, INDAP has been a Icey participant in executing the
National Plan for Rural Development. Its program of technology transfer has
been expanded and broadened. The program for better endowed small producers
was enlarged by one-third in 1987/88 to service about 18,600 farmers (Program
de Transferencia Tecnol6gica InteRral (PTTI)) (para. 15). Furthermore, in
1987/88 INDAP initiated a special program of technical assistance geared to
the formerly neglected, smaller and poorer segment of the farming population
(Programa de Transferencia Tecnol6gica Bgsica (PTTB)) (para. 16). PTTB
beneficiaries are small, marginal producers considered to have inadequate
resources to achieve self-sufficiency from on-farm activities, in many cases
even after PTTB participation. PTTB, modelled on PTTI, seeks to improve the
quality of life of participating families through medium-term technical
assistance stressing improved use of available on-farm resources and simple
methods to upgrade family health (i.e., diet, hygiene, water treatment, and
improved awareness of social services). In 1987/88, 6,900 families
participated in PTTB, a number which increased slightly to 7,000 in 1988/89.
INDAP considers PTTB as having primarily a social emphasis. In contrast, PTTI
focuses on the productive/commercial development of participants, with social
development arising as a secondary benefit.
The  Mechanics of PTTI and PTTB
II.      The geographical unit on which INDAP's extension programs are based
is a homogeneous agroclimatic zone or area. INDAP prepares an agricultural
development program for each such area ( Pan de Desarrollo A rcola del Area),
based on a detailed assessment of the area's agricultural potential and
constraints, including a determination of the number of potential
beneficiaries for each of INDAP's activities. Private consulting firms are
selected by public tender to deliver extensioni services to INDAP
beneficiaries, from a register of professionally qualified firms maintained by
INDAP. However, non-registered firms meeting INDAP'a qualifications may also
participate in the tenders. A selected firm is required to prepare an annual
work plan, consistent with INDAP norms, proposing a technical program to meet
goals established in the area program (Plan de Trabalo Annual del



- 56 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 14
Extensionista).  This action program is organized around both group activities
(training and demonstration) as well as individual assistance to reinforce
techniques learned in groups and to address farm/family-specific problems.
Farm families are grouped for homogeneity to the extent possible. The number
of individual visits and group activities required of extension workers is
determined annually by INDAP.
12.       uinteagral Program (PTTI).  The PTTI represents a package of extension
activities geared to raising the productive performance and incomes of the
subgroup of small farmers considered to have sufficient resources to not only
achieve self-sufficiency, but to generate a marketable surplus. It endeavors
to upgrade technical skills, to encourage use of new techniques, to improve
the entrepreneurial capability of participants, and to achieve permanent
improvements in both family fiarm income and well-being. Each extension
worker, supported by in-house technical staff, works with three groups of 22
beneficiaries each. The annual extension program consists of eight individual
farm visits, four technical group meetings, three field days, and two
demonstration plots. The annual cost per beneficiary-family is US$250. In
1989/90, 75 private consulting firms participated in PTTI.
13.       Basic Program (PTTB).  The PTTB strives to assist the poorest
segment of the farm population which lacks sufficient resources to reach
self-sufficiency and financial security from on-farm pursuits. The program
attempts to help beneficiaries make better use of available on-farm resources,
to change dietary and hygiene practices in order to enhance family well-being,
and to promote a greater awareness of other available public services.
Technical messages are simple and practical--e.g., use of organic wastes,
better crop rotations, more productive kitchen gardens, more nutritious meal
preparation. Beneficiaries, even after participation, would have little or no
prospect of financial security from farm enterprises, but such participation
sets out to improve their quality of life though better utilization of
resources available. PTTB is much more family-oriented, as opposed to the
producer orientation of PTTI. In PTTB, extension is carried out by teams of
one male worker to assist farmers and one female worker to assist wives.
Teams generally are responsible for four groups of 18 families each.!' The
annual extension program consists of eight on-farm visits, six technical group
meetings, four field days, six kitchen garden demonstrations, and six crop
demonstrations. A recent innovation, in keeping with the now greater emphasis
of PTTB on the family and especially women, has been the introduction of the
Consultora de Apoyo Familiar (CAF) system, made up of female, contracted
professionals (agronomists, veterinarians, etc.) whose role is to train,
evaluate, and coordinate INDAP technicians and the extension firms at the
regional and area levels, in family and women-related issues. The annual cost
per beneficiary-family of PTTB is US$300. INDAP subsidizes the total cost of
PTTB. In 1989/90, 34 extension firms participated in PTTB.
14.       Oualitv Control. INDAP endeavors to maintain high standards in its
extension program. As mentioned above, consulttng firms must meet technical
staffing and professional criteria to gain entry to INDAP's national registry
~/   In areas with better accessibility, each team has more cilents-five groups of 18 families each.



- 57 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 14
for tender participation.5' In addition, training is provided by INDAP both
for its in-house personnel as well as for staff of contracted extension firms.
Most importantly, INDAP strives to ensure quality service to final
beneficiaries. The consulting firm's technical chief (Jefe Tecnico), who
supervises and assists three PTTI extension workers,6' is required to visit
each beneficiary at least once per year. Special consultants (Consultor de
Apoyo T6cnqo (CATI) are stationed in INDAP's area offices to monitor the
quality of work of the private extension firms. Each CAT in paid by INDAP,
but is not an INDAP employee. He or she usually is a native of the area.
Prior to initiating implementation, firms are required to submit to the CAT
for clearance detailed work plans for each extension activity . The CAT or an
INDAP staff-member usually attends each PTTI or PTTB group meeting as an
observer. The CAT reports any major problem to INDAP's Area Chief (Jefe del
Area) for remedial action or for referral to INDAP's regional director, if
warranted. INDAP also requires record-keeping for selected participants, and
monitoring of progress to enable evaluation of results.
15.      Aericultural Research.  INDAP's technical assistance program
benefits from a linkage to agricultural research. The Institute of
Agricultural Research (Instituto de Investipaciones Agropecuarias (INIA)) is
the principal public agency charged with agricultural and livestock research
and its application to the Chilean agricultural sector. While it is a public
corporation, it is expected to function as a private entity (Corporacifn de
derecho privado); it currently derives about 33% of its income from the sale
of products and services. INIA's mandate is to provide research services to
all producers, regardless of size.
16.      In mid-1990, INIA signed an agreement with INDAP to focus its
research on small farmer needs. The aim is to establish a total of about 55
Technology Validation and Transfer Centers (CATTs) throughout Chile to
evaluate packages for small farmers. Formal contacts will be maintained
through the recently created area, regional, and national commissions, which
comprise representatives of INIA, INDAP, consulting firms, and producers. In
addition to INIA, several universities and NGOs are engaged in developing
technology appropriate for small farmers. The Austral University, for
example, has produced a fine variety of potato particularly suited to San Juan
de la Costa in Region X, a difficult agroclimatic area with a large population
of poor farmers.
Results of PTTI and PTTB
17.      Under its PTTI and PTTB program, INDAP has developed a fairly
efficient model of agricultural extension which minimizes public bureaucracy.
INDAP's staff appear capable and conversant with field-related matters.
Consulting firms participating in the PTTI and PTTB appear well-qualified,
enthusiastic and dedicated. The use of local firms, with staff from the same
areas in which they work, increases understanding of local conditions and
:/  It shouild be noted that tho registry 1s open not only to qualified private firms offering extenslon cervices, but also to
qualified NGO's.
pj  in the case of PTTB, two technical chiefs generally suporvise three teams of extension workers and are required to visit
each beneficiary at least once par month.



- 58 
ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 14
chanceo for acceptance, which i.s particularly important for PTTB. INDAP's
system of decentralization fosters decision-making at the local level, which
is conducive to interaction with other agencies participating in the Plan--
especially important in view of the social goals of PTTB.
18.      Although only prelimtinary, the available quantitative results
confirm the success of the INDAP model of technical assistance which is
clomplemented with on-farm credit.  Available data are derived only from the
PTTI, reflecting the relatively recent start of PTTB and the fact that INDAP's
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of PTTB is still in an early stage of
development. Nevertheless, the yield data given below in Table 2 suggest
considerable success in PTTI's effort to improve productivity.
Table 2. Yield Profiles Under PTTI
1988/89
1983       1988/89     Increase     Nat. Avg.
Commodity    Unit  Daselone(Ala    ffwLk  a /  flIQLq__                   IB.. /(Cl
Wheat       ton/ha      2.12         3.63       71            3.20         1.31
Rlce       ton/ha       3.42         4.80       40            3.77         1.27
Maize      ton/ha       4.96         6.70       35            5.30        1.26
Potatoes   ton/ha      16.05        18.87       18           14.81        1.27
Beans       ton/ha      1.12         1.57       40            1.15        1.37
Onions     ton/ha      24.66        34.66       41           33.19        1.04
Tomatoes    ton/ha     26.64        49.58       86            n.a.
Milk       '000 i/
lactation   1.73        2.02        17           1.90         1.06
N Source: INDAP
P1 Source: Direccl6n de Estudios y Presupuestos de Ministerio Agricufura (DEP)
Yield levels of produc-   participating in PTTI rose dramatically, and in all
these documented cases exceeded national averages.
19.         As regards PTTB, considerable investment of time and patience is
required to win the trust of potential PTTB beneficiaries who can ill afford
to risk sparse resources on innovation. For that reason and others, PTTB
emphasizes better utilization of existing resources and seeks to minimize
risks to PTTB families. Its relatively simple technological improvements--
e.g., organic kitchen gardens, raised garden beds, diet diversification,
confined poultry raising, crop rotations--appear to be improving the quality
of life for beneficiaries. In addition, PTTB extension workers are able to
raise awareness of other available social programs--e.g., health services,
housing subsidies, and education programs.
20.         In 1989/90, the number of PTTI participants was cut to about
16,000, or by about 15%, to enable greater resources for PTTB, which was
increased to about 11,000 families in the same year, up from 6,900 in 1987/88,
the year PTTB was started. Farmers dropped from PTTI were offered technical
assistance in the form of technical meetings and field days; however, only
about 875 such producers (25%) opted to participate in these less intensive
activities. During 1990/91, the uumber of PTTI beneficiaries has remained
stable, whMle the number in PTTB has grown to about 17,900. Because of
constrained resources, PTTI and PTTB reach only small fractions of their



- 59 -
ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 14
target groups. PTTI currently assists about 25% of its potential
beneficiaries, while PTTB currently reaches only 12% of its target
minifundista population. While INDAP has as an objective the graduation of
participants from its programs once the benefits of participation have been
realized, small producers with potential for self-sufficiency and commercial
viability (i.e., PTTI-types) have been important clients of INDAP as well as
essential agents in the development of Chilean agriculture. Therefore, their
graduation from PTTI needs to be carried out based on sotnd criteria. For
different reasons, this applies equally well to PTTB beneficiaries and INDAP's
overall credit program.  To date, such criteria do not exist in practice.  The
1990 Agriculture Sector Review noted that in view of resource limitations, a
complementary measure might be to reassess the appropriateness of current
INDAP assistance criteria (less than 12 BIH and assets of less than 3,500 UF).
Better-off producers could either be phased out, or subjected to considerably
higher cost-recovery. INDAP could also explore ways to make its programs more
cost-effective, and ancillary agencies should improve service delivery.
Recommendations for INDAP and Small Farmer-Related Activities.
21.         Small Farmer Technology.  The 1990 Agricultural Sector Report
identified the following as areas requiring more R&D:
(a)   for crops currently grown (e.g., wheat, beans, potatoes), more
appropriate varieties, which offer more area-specific adaptability
and better performance without heavy use of purchased inputs;
(b)   for small-scale commercialized crop and livestock producers
(i.e., PTTI participants), more and better options for
diversification;
(c)   for production of higher value fruits and vegetables (e.g.,
raspberries, asparagus), a package of practices amenable to
small-scale, labor-intensive production;
(d)   for risk reduction, farming systems research to study options.
including the use of mixed perennials, annuals, livestock, and
forestry activities;
(e)   for easing hardship and increasing productivity, better tools,
including animal-drawn implements;
(f)   for environmental protection, more appropriate tillage methods;
and
(g)   for reducing post-harvest losses and increasing value added,
simple preservation techniques for farm produce.
22.         INIA and INDAP have signed an agreement covering these issues.
Also crop-specific agencies such as Industria Azucarera Nacional Sociedad
An6nima (IANSA), which have considerable technical expericnce wo:king with
small farmers, could assist INIA in the development of farming systems with a
small producer focus. INDAP and IANSA have signed such an agreement, covering
very small producers in Region IX.  Universities which have done selected work
in small farmer technology R&D, as well as NGOs gith relevant experience,
could provide valuable direction for this new priority for INIA. R&D with a



- 60 -
ANNEX 3
Page 9 of 14
small producer focus should be carried out, to the extent possible, on
existing INIA experimental stations in the regions, giving strong emphasis to
on-farm research and demonstrations.  This R&D effort should be accompanied by
a standardized system of feedback to INIA from users of its technology.
Non-Gover_nental Or nizations and Rural Deveglopment
23.         In addition to INDAP's programs of small farmer assistance,
numerous private agencies are engaged in rural development activities in
Chile. These non-governmental organizations (NGOs), numbering about 61 in
1988, arose to fill a vacuum created by the withdrawal of public programs and
personnel in the mid- and late-1970s. Three-quarters of the NGCs currently
operating in Chile were established after 1976. About 70% of NGOs operate in
one or two provinces, and onlv about 30% function in more than three regions.
Many receive financial assistance from external sources.
24.         The principal target group of NGOs are the smallest farmers and
the poorest of the rural population (including indigenous people and
beneficiarieo of the agrarian reform program). As governmental programs were
broadened in the 1980s to include not only small farmers with commercial
potential (PTTI), but also the poorest of the small farmer population (PTTB),
NGOs have diversified in the opposite direction, incorporating small producers
with commercial potential within their scope of activity. NGO projects
generally encompass both productive and social aspects; the relative emphasis
in any particular project depends on the philosophical orientation and the
staffing of the NGO involved. NGOs also engage in a wide range of ancillary
programs, including small farmer technology R&D, and studies on credit and
rural development. Beneficiaries of NGO programs of direct assistance are
estimated at about 15,000 families, approximately 60% of the number of INDAP's
PTTI and PTTB beneficiaries combined, and over double the number of PTTB
beneficiaries alone. The activities of four NGOs working in Chile are
described below. This list is not intended to be comprehensive or
representative, but rather indicative of some of the activities in which these
organizations engage.
25.         "Centre uara el Desarrollo Campesino y Alimentario" (AGRARIA),
which started in 1983, is currently implementing rural development projects in
eight regions of Chile, assisting about 2,800 families with some 200 families
per project. Each project is staffed with four technicians who live in the
project area.  In collaboration with regional agencies and potential
beneficiaries, AGRARIA strives to select project areas and participant-groups
on the bases of representativeness and replicability.  A prospective project
is begun with a detailed study of the project area and its environs, covering
socioeconomic as well as physical/ecological aspects.  Based on this analysis,
an action plan is developed in consultation with small farmer groups in the
area, to.address the technical problems identified. A tailored program of
technical assistance and credit is then implemented. Its projects emphasize a
strict group approach to problem solving, including group meetings of
farmer-participants and demonstrations to learn new techniques. Exchange of
ideas and experiences is encouraged. Credit is provided through a revolving
fund mechanism, and generally for working capital requireme.ats only. It is
supplied in-kind, with the terms and conditions established by each
farmer-group. Loans are settled either in-cash or in-kind, with defaults
handled by group action. AGRARIA's lending in 1986/87 totaled Ch$10.8 million
(US$53,500) with a recovery rate of 93%. Progress is followed throughout
project implementation through detailed M&E. AGRARIA reports that producers



61 -
ANNEX 3
Page 10 of 14
in their projects are obtaining 2.5 tons/ha of wheat, representing an increase
with participation of about 66%. AGRARIA also produces publications on
Chilean agriculture with emphasis on the small farm sector.
26.          "Grupo de  nvestigacionesAR_ag  ias"  CGIA), which was established
in 1978 as a separate group within the University of Christian Hlumanism, has
evolved as an academic unit of development research, communication, and
extension. The principal objective of GIA is the study of the agricultural
sector, with special emphasis on socioeconomic and socio--political aspecto of
small farmer developrnent. Toward this end, GIA conducts regional as well as
nationwide studies on three general themes: (a) agricultur,al modernization;
(b) changes to rural society; and (c) agricultural development
(micro-regional), with emphasis on small farmer production and technology
options. Between 1984 and 1988, CIA designed three development projects in
the provinces of Ruble, Bio-Bio, and Cautin. Among its diverse activities,
GIA began a study in two Mapuche communities of Region IX in 1985, focusing on
the development of a wheat-centered production system (SPAT) capable of
permitting family self-sufficiency. In 1988, GIA undertook to define
methodologies for designing micro-regional development efforts in credit,
technical assistance, training, and organization, using the province of Ruble
as a model (240 families). In a related activity, GIA is carrying out a
three-year study of the agro-ecosystems of' Ruble (Region VIII).
27.          "Instet deromoci6n" (INPROA) was established in 1983 by the
Catholic Church as a private non-profit agency to implement agrarian reform on
Church-owned rural properties. It has since been made independent of the
Church, and now receives grants from Europe and the US for about two-thirds of
its funding. Headquartered in Santiago, it operates seven field offices in
four regions. About two-thirds of its 120-person staff are engaged in field
work. INPROA establishes production and social organizations. Technical and
financial support are then provided to carry out integrated development
activities, including agricultural production, health, housing, and training
of women and youth. It participates in productive ventures with seed capital,
as well as technical and managerial assistance until the people are
self-supporting. Thereafter, it continues to provide accounting, managerial,
and legal assistance. An estimated 4,200 families (including 3,000 Mapuche
families) are benefiting from INPROA-sponsored integrated rural development
projects. About 3,600 families are participating in INPROA's rural housing
scheme, and about 1,900 in its rural health activities.
28.          "El Canela de Nos" is an NCO involved in the development of
improved tools and implements for small farmers. This NGO receives support
from Europeans and holds an annual exhibition where improved tools and
implements are displayed.
29.         Conclusions.  NGOs have played a valuable role in Chile's rural
sector, subst_tuting in part during the 1970s and 1980s for withdrawn public
services to the poor. NGOs continue to be important even as INDAP has
expanded its programs, incltuding those for the poorest within the farm
population. As mentioned above, working with constrained resources, INDAP is
currently reaching but a fraction of its target group. Confronted with this
reality, NGOs and the Government (INDAP) have begun to recognize one another
as partners in the task of assisting the poorer segments of the rural
population. In the past, NGOs did not have a particularly good track record
in coordination, even among themselves, nor in seeking accommodation among



62
ANNEX 3
Page 11 of 14
their OwXI dtverso progrvmac/goalo.  This resulted irt inefficicncies and,
ultimately, m.issed opportunities. In addition, NGOs espoused political causes
which thwarted communication with the government. T'his also reportedly
impeded their participation as constulting firms in PTTI and PTTB, and robbed
both key public agencies and NGOs of constructive dialogue aboot their common
goal of rurnl aosistance. Given the present Govarnment's agenda, the proposed
expansion of the NGO role ans 1empresas" in the technical transfer program, and
the proposed project, the needad cooperation between NGOs, INDAP and INIA
should be significantly improved.
C. The Proecet
Technoloey Transfer CoMponent
30.          Under the proposed project, technology transfer would no longer be
organized along the lines of PTTI and PTTB. Instead, participants would be
grouped depending on the phase of their participation. All participants would
be either in Phase I (where participants would stay a minimum of three and a
maximum of six years), Phase II (where participants would stay up to three
years), or Phase III (where participants would pay the full cost of the
service provided, and could stay depending on INDAP's capacity to serve them).
In addition, under the proposed project much greater attention and effort
would be devoted to addressing the needs of women. This will include study
and actions to ensure that men and women have equal access to all technology
transfer services provided by INDAP, and that any informal barriers that may
exist limiting wom.n's equal access are identified and overcome.
31.          Organization of Field Extension.  The basic unit would be the
producer group, which would have 18 farmers. In Phase I, each extensionist
would be responsible for a module, which would consist of four producer
groups, for a total of 72 farmers. Modules, in turn, would be grouped in
threes to form multimodules, which would be headed by a Technical Chief,
supported by a female extensionist. In Phase II, the organization of field
extension would be similar to Phase I, except that each module would consist
of five producer groups, for a total of 90 farmers. In Phase I, the training
of extensionists with responsibility for modules would generally be at
technician level, whereas in Phase II the individuals with this responsibility
would be agronomists. INDAP has considerable experience with this method of
organizing its field extension staff and the results to date have been
satisfactory.
32.          The build-up of participants in the proposed project is given
below in Table 3.



63 
ANNEX 3
Page 12 of 14
Table 3. Build up Ratos for PArticipants in Technology Transfer
Proiect Year
0     .1               345
'000
Phase I:
ExPTTI                  16       16       a       -        -        -
ExPTTB or lNew          18      27       37       52      62       62
Phase I!
ExPTTI                   -       -        8       16      16        8
ExPTTB                           -        -       -        -       14
Total (j_t_II)           34       43a/    53       68       78      84
Pbase III
ExPTTI                   -       -        -       -        -        8
ExPTTB                   _                                          -
a/  A part of this number (18,000) will be financed from Loan CH-2481 in 1991/92.
33.         Obiectives of Phase I of Tecbnology Ttansfer.  During Phase I, in
which participants would stay a minimum of-three and a maximum cf six years,
the focus would be on the following:
(a)   Social elements, including iinproved nutrition, food preparation,
sanitation and hygiene, increasing awareness concerning the
availability of social services, and knowledge about organic
gardening;
(b)   Basic concepts of farm manaPement, including farm planning, basic
book keeping, use and costs of inputs;
(c)   Basic agronomic practices, including analysis of potential land
uses based on its capability, soil analysis, fertilization, soil
conservation, nutrient loss, irrigation, seedbed preparation,
improved seeds, phytosanitary controls, and animal health;
(d)   Credit including timing and use of short-term production credit,
longer-term investment credit, costs and management of debt
service payments, and advantages and disadvantages of formal
versus informal credit sources;
(e)   Marketing, including analysis of the advantages and disadvantages
of individual farmar versus producer-group bulk sales to
intermediaries, rural warehouses, and industry,
(f)   M!anagetnent of personnel;
(g)   Producer organizations which would be reinforced and group
activities which would be developed in order to promote econiowic
units for input purchasing and marketing of outputs; and
(h)   RoJle of rural  _ovements and_yquth in develcpwent activities.
34.          Objectives _f PhaseII o Tehoo v TranstfCr,  DMr rihg l'hrao XI
in which participants would stay up to three years, the focus would be



- 64 -
ANNEX 3
Page 13 of 14
principally on groups. The technology transfer program in this phase would
focus on:
(a)   further strengthening the social dimension, and consolidating the
involvement of rural women in farm planning and income generating
activities;
(b)   further improving producers' farm planning, management, and record
keeping skills;
(c)   deepening and broadening producers' knowledge of how to respond to
production problems;
(d)   complementarity and sources of short- and long-term credit;
(e)   marketing, including procurement of inputs, sale of different
kinds of output, analysis of proposed marketing investments,
linkages to agroindustries, and group investments off-farm;
(f)   strengthening of producer organizations; and
(g)    preparation for graduation out of the program.
35.         Role of National (TNIA-INDAP-Farmers), Regional and Area
Commissions (INIA-INDAP-Consultinz Firms). These would ensure feedback to
INDAP and INIA concerning progress in implementing their respective
strategies. In so doing, it would also ensure more coherence in strategy.
Furthermore, these commissions would provide a nucleus of farms for
participation in the area-level annual development plans (Plan Dsarrollo
Agricola del Area (PDAA)) and the extension agent annual work plans (PATE).
Graduation Criteria
36.         At the end of year-3 of the project, an independent evaluation of
the project's technology and credit components would be carried out to
determine appropriate levels of build-up for the second part of the project
implementation period. The goal would be to begin graduating some
beneficiaries from Phase ; to Phase II of the technology transfer program in
year-2 of the proposed project, and for all beneficiaries to be graduated or
dropped from Phase I after six years of participation. Participation in Phase
II would be limited to three years, after which participants would have the
option of participating in Phase III. There would be zero cost recovery in
Phase I, between 20% and 30% in Phase II, and 100% in Phase III.
37.         Criteria for Graduatine from Phase I to Phase II.  The strategy
for graduation would be to graduate individual multimodules, with each having
216 farmers (i.e., 3 modules of 4 groups each, and each group having 18
producers). The focus would not be on graduating individual producers from
within groups. The Area Commission would establish target levels for key
criteria. The indicators/criteria would be:
(a)   Productivit  and Income - Levels higher than the level established
by the Area Commission;



- 65 -
ANNEX 3
Page 14 of 14
(b)   Farm Management Skills - Annual Plans preparad and minimum levels
of accounts maintained;
(c)   Adontion of Technol oq   - Levels higher than the minimum standards
set by the Area Commission;
(d)   Level of Off-Farm Sales and Involvement - Local marketing;
(e)   Level of Involvement in Grou  Activities;
(f)   Extent of Involvement in Women,_Youth and Social ProZrams;
(g)   Prenaredness for Groun Activities in Phase II.
38.         Graduation from Phase II to III.  A decision concerning the
appropriate process and criteria would be made in year-3 of the project.
However, the process and kinds of criteria are expected to be similar to those
used for graduation from Phase I, but the level of advancement would, of
course, be greater, and there would be a sharper focus on marketing skills.
Evaluation
39.           There would be a formal evaluation of the project carried out in
year-3, including an evaluation of the technology transfer component. This
evaluation would be carried out by independent consultants under contract to
INDAP. It would be based on representative samples of producers selected at
that time. Having continuous record keeping on a randomly selected group was
considered and rejected, because the names on the producers in the sample
would inevitably become known to the extensionists and lead to their receiving
particularly good service, which would, in turn, seriously bias the sample.



- 66 -
ANNEX 3
APPENDIX
Page 1 of 8
CHILE
SMALL FARMER SERVICES PROJECT
Rural Women and Youth
Background
1.        The socio-economic impact of rural women in Chile in recent years
has had only sporadic study and is not well-understood. Recent studies have
tended to concentrate on the commercial fruit-growing areas, producing data
manifestly inadequate as a basis for Government policy and program formulation
on behalf of rural women nationwide. Women's participation in the
economically active rural population has increased dramatically in the 1980s,
and there is a strong association between rural poverty alleviation and
women's work in agricultural production and processing. Evidence suggests
that women are earning an increasing proportion of the fami-, income, (up to
45% in some regions), and in a growing number of cases are now the principal
breadwinners--making a critical difference to family living standards and
expectations, and the overall effort to overcome poverty.
2.        In the past, economic planners, legislators and rural development
agencies have tended to reinforce women's domestic role rather than their
economic potential. Many assistance programs have had (and still have) a
"head of household" criterion based on the legal and, importantly, cultural
definiticn of the man as sole provider, which in practice has excluded women.
It is conservatively estimated that some 15% of Door rural households in Chile
are headed by wornen, with striking regional variations ranging from a low of
6% in Region 6 to 28% in Regions 11 and 12. Male migration for seasonal and
longer-term employment is an important factor in this phenomenon. Current
law, however, formally recognizes only widows and the unmarried as legitimate
heads of household, with important implications fcr the access of other
categories of rural women, to government services in their own right. A major
attempt is under-way, spearheaded by the National Women's Service (SERNAM), to
amend law-ys wuhich constrain women, including, importantly, the right to apply
and signi for credit in their orm name.
3.        General Characteristics of Rural Women.  Rural women exhibit great
diversity based on the nature of land tenancy, distinct p-.:oductive systems and
sources of income, regional differences, ethnic origin, and civil status.
Their important role in agricultural production, especially as the principal
food growers, has traditionally been under-reported and under-valued. For
example, women of the communities in the far north ("norte chico") assume full
control of domestic and agricultural activities (livestock husbandry, chiefly
of goats) when the men migrate inter-regionally during years of drought or to
work periodically in the small mines in these areas. Similarly, women of the
Chiloe Archipelago (Region X) take over all agricultural and marketing tasks
during prolonged periods of migration of the men to Argentina, and the far
south of Chile, for livestock management.  Mapuche women have the primary role
in livestock raising and a key role in crop-related act4vities.  In Central
Chile, women are responisible for food production on the "huerta" or kitchen
garden, reise small animuls for sale and consumption, and in substantial areas
of Reglous V and VI grow high value crops such as strawberries on segments of
fmily .1-ai.ds set aside for this purpose. They also perform specific tasks in



67 -
ANNEX 3
APPENDIX
Page 2 of 8
the larger field5, such as sowing/planting, etal.ing, weceding, watering, and
harvesting.  In the Altiplano of Region I, Aymara women perform most of the
agricultural tasks and are essentially supporting the family, for reasons
which are partly economic and partly cultural.!' Lastly, many rural women
increasingly work as salaried employees in fruit, vegetable and grape
harvesting, fruit packaging and agro-industry, for up to six moIlths of the
year.
4.        Total numbers of peasant farm women are estimated at 200,000, and
salaried (temporary or permanent) rural women, about 110,000, with
considerable overlap between the two although precise data is not available.
The former group is generally older (50 years or more), and located
predominantly on minifundios,-which in Chile tend to be concentrated in areas
far from or marginal to, centers of labor demand (fruit-growing and packing
etc), including southern regions and dry coastal areas. Temporary migrant
workers (and off-farm, daily workers) from these areas tend to be male,
leaving a much higher incidence of de facto female heads of household in such
regions. In general, the size and type of small farm correlates directly with
the type and volume of work required of rural women. The smaller the farm,
the more likely is the need for off-farm employment. The family farm is an
integrated production unit, in which labor is divided by sex and age. The
intensity of agricultural work is influenced strongly by the pattern of
cultivation and whether the land is irrigated or dry. Women perform many more
agricultural otctivities in irrigated areas than dry, where agriculture and
livestock husbandry are more extensive.  On the family farm, women's
agricultural tasks run the gamut of those necessarv to operate the farm, with
the exception of zasks involving the use of plows, tractors, pesticide
equipment etc. Women's labor is primarily manual or using small implements.
5.        There are no studies on the number of hours rural women spend on
agricultural tasks, they are not classified as being among the "economically
active" rural population, and their work is not quantified in the census or in
agricultural statistics.- Rural women themselves rarely describe their
agricultural activities as "work", even within the larger farm area, This is
because (a) they do not receive a salary for these activities; and (b) they
are performed essentially in and around the house, in a fluid system of time
allocation and task combinations, which do not generally involve their leaving
the conf'nes of the farm.
6.        In contrast, salaried rural women tend to be younger, more commonly
actual (i.e. legal) heads of household (estimated at 20%), come daily to work
from outlying areas, work less months of the year than temporary males and
have fewer opportunities to supplement this work - some 28% only, have any
regular work in the winter months. Few indigenous womexi work as salaried
labor, partly through tradition, larger family size and frequent involvement
in the home-based production of artisanal items as a source of income. Most
salaried rural women perform little agricultural work on the family farm, and,
like peasant rural women, define themselves essentially as housewives. There
y/   Ayrnare men spend extonded periods away os migrant labor; also. In Aymara cultuto mcn commonly hcndle trading
activitioe Involving the llema and alpaca herds, as wall as spending cons derablo time In group socialization.
2/  INDAP, SERhAM. and other public agencies, os well as NGOs have collaborated on thn design of a seot of questions
portaining to rural women for inclusion in the upcoming 1992 Census.



X 68 -
ANNEX 3
APPENDIX
Page 3 of 8
is a strong demand among this group for assistance in establishing home-based
income-earning activities for at least six months of the year when oalaried
opportunities are virtually non-existent.
_nivedmentato Strateav Formulation
5.        INDAP has long-held as a goal the participation of women in the
rural economy, but until very recently, none of its programs specifically
encouraged female economic independence. The INDAP program of technology
transfer focussed on women's traditional role as growers of food for family
consumption, as care-giveis and maintainers of basic family living standards.
While the very substantial benefits which have been derived by poor rural
families from this approach a're clear, the reality of rural women's lives on
and off the farm, and their income-earning potential, require a much more
broadly-based strategy and specific attention to gender issues in agricultural
extension and credit. Research suggests that the incorporation of technology
and organizational requirements in development programs has tended to exclude
women's participation.  Further, experience has shown that if rural
development policies and programs do not include specific actions for women,
only marginal benefits accrue to them; conversely, special programs for women
must be carefully linked to the mainstream of general rural development
actions.
6.        Impediments to the development of a strategy for rural women
include the following:
(a)  Technical training in Chile has, traditionally, been directed to
men in tne belief that they are the valid subject for such
training. Howevear, research in diverse parts of Chile has shown
that rural women have a good knowledge of and interest in, the
technical aspects of farm production, and commonly exercise
considerable influence in decisions about planting, inputs and
marketing. Further, female literacy (among young women 30 years
and under), tends to be higher than in males of similar age in
rural areas suggesting potential for more complex technical
education, including, in the field, the INDAP PTTI-type messages
which go well beyond the social sphere.
(b)  A narrow perception and definition of the term "productive"
emphasizes men's agricultural tasks, and discounts or excludes
women's activities, with direct implications for their ability to
obtain INDAP credit, and other than home-based (i.e. social)
technology transfer.A' It is important that extension reach women
in proportion to their participation in the division of labor.
There is a need to detirmirte what that proportion is, and train
extension workers to deliver it.
(c)  The "head of household" criterion (para.2) is a powerful and
pervasive constraint on women's ability to obtain services in their
own right.
yI   The INDAP PTT has three main categories of activities, namely, TechnicaVProductive Development; Development of the
Family and Women; and Peasant Participation. SERNAM asserts that this categorization ImplicHly oeperates women from
t,chnicaVproductive actvities, differentiating between men and women as producers.



- 69 -
ANNEX 3
APPENDIX
Page 4 of 8
(d) INDAP's own charter defines an agricultural producer as inter alia,
one who owns or rents land and has legal title or contract,
qualifications related directly to INDAP's credit activities. Few
women can claim either status, impeding their access to INDAP
credit for income-earning ventures.
(e) There is no current, comprehensive database on rural women. Women
began to be studied by the NGOs in the early 1980s but shortage of
funds inevitably limited such studies to micro-regions. Much of
the data is considered out of date and not an appropriate basis for
national policies for the 1990s. Recent studies have focussed on
fruit-growing areas but most peasant farm women are not working in
fruit and similar problems of apprbpriateness apply.
(f) While the situation is clearly improving, especially at the central
level, there remains a general lack of awareness among INDAP
managers and extension contractors, about gender issues in rural
development.  This is accompanied and exacerbated by the emphasis
in extension training curricula, on technology rather than
methodology.
(g) A comprehensive, proven methodology is needed for opening up
income-earning opportunities for peasant women which takes into
account their diversity, multiple roles and acute constraints of
time and place.!' The elements of such a methodology undoubtedly
exist already in the experiences of the NGOs, but INDAP lacks the
internal and field staff resources and expertise necessary to
collate, rationalize and test it in the short-term.
(h) The institutional orientation towards rural women is still very
new. Professionals in INDAP working full-time on establishing the
gender issue in the rural development mainstream, are few, and
their current position in the bureaucratic heirarchy is marginal
and somewhat tenuous. SERNAM can be helpful in keeping the gender
issue on the front burner, but the so-called "women's unit" in
INDAP needs to develop greater weight and political support within
the institution.
7.         There are encouraging signs of change, however.  INDAP now has a
formal agreement w1th SERNAM, and contractual relationships with major
NGOs,!' and is making an important effort to address many of the above issues
and incorporate the gender perspective into its technology transfer and credit
programs. Progress has been slow, chiefly due to a combination of patchy
commitment, especially at the Regional level, and shortage of resources. New
programs are still in their infancy and merit full support, to achieve
momentum, critical mass and sustainability. The following paras set out the
gI   Such a methodology requires the active participation and support of women long-term to avoid their perception that
training etc. Is not just more work.
y/   INDAP Is Increasingly delegating responsibility to the NGOs, specifically for training programs for extension!sts,
contractng of NGOs for extension work, and methodology development.



-70
ANNEX 3
APPENDIX
Page 5 of 8
elemento of the evolving INDAP programns for women, and include comments on
issues requiring special attention,
8.       Tichnolozv Transfor.  INDAP is trying to broaden and tailor its
extenssion program through the following:
(a)  A simple diagnostic questionnaire (diagnostico elemental) is being
applied to a target of 9,000 women including heads of household,
entering the INDAP program for the first time.!' The questionnaire
asks basic questions about the:r needs, production, purchases and
consumption, intended to provide enough information to "Jump-start"
women's programs in the absence of national, baseline data. INDAP
will be ready to pirocess responses in August 1992, but will require
technical assistance.
(b)  A new team of private, female professionals (agronomists,
sociologists etc.) called "Consultoras de Apoyo Familiar" (CAF) has
been introduced to train, evaluate and coordinate INDAP's PTT
technical teams. Some 26 CAFs are now in place, with plans to
reach a total of 62 by year 5 of the project. An important
responsibility of the CAF is to work with INDAP's Social
Extensionists (extensionistas familiares) in raising the skills and
confidence level of rural women to a point where they can
participate comfortably in more technical extension delivered by
male or female extensionists.2' Further, CAFs will coordinate
closely with the Regional and Area chiefs of INDAP, and the CATs
(Consultoras de Apoyo Tecnico) to review progress and deficits in
PTT, especially as it relates to productive, family and community
objectives.
(c)  Training programs to sensitize male extensionists to gender issues
have already started on a modest scale and more are planned. GIA,
a major NGO, recently completed under contract to INDAP, an
intensive _ourse for 75 extensionists. The cost appears to have
been prohibitive and future courses will probably be less intensive
and have greater coverage. INDAP has an important role in pressing
for change in the way extensionists are trained--that is, shifting
the emphasis from technology to extension communication
methodology, which is expected to have important implications for
the way women's on-farm activities are viewed.Y
(d) In collaboration with SERNAM, female heads of household will be
targeted by INDAP for TT and credit. This hes required a more
§1   INDAP now views the small farmer fami:y as an integrated production unit, with specific requiremonts for the ultimate
'graduation' of the woman as well as tho mon.
Z/   This techniquo hars proved effectivo In bringing womcn Into mainstroam ogricultural extension worldwido, and boon
termed 'positive discrimination'. Woren aro receptivo to tochnical messages and have been shown to have higher
adoption rat3s than men, including In Chile, but are hampered by cultural impediments to their free participation.
Both AGRARIA and the GIA-related Univorsity of Christian Humenistn have already run courses for 1,000 participants
each, in the technical instrtutes reponsible for training extensionists, The emphasis has, again, been on communications
methodology.



- 71 -
ANNEX 3
APPENDIX
Page 6 of 8
flexible and realistic interpretation of what constitutes such
status (para.10).
(e) A monitoring and evaluation system is to be installed, which will
include data disaggregation by gender. The system is still in
draft form but already incorporates comprehensive sets of
indicators on women's participation l.n Rey elements of the PTT.
9.        Credit.  INDAP acknowledges that men have traditionally been given
priority under its credit program (tied closely to the already-mentioned head
of household, productive activities, and agricultural producer criteria).
Further, it has been, and still is, difficult for a woman to obtain INDAP
credit if her partner already~ has a loan, no matter how sound the proposal.
(In a system where credit demand exceeds availability, rationing credit on the
basis of gender and perceived relative importance will need to be monitored).
There is no data on how many women have received INDAP credit in the past,
although there is broad agreement that women tend to have a superior repayment
record. Efforts have been made to ensure that CREDAP tracking of INDAP credit
disaggregates data by gender.
10.       Important changes have already been made in INDAP's credit
regulations, to acknowledge the reality of women who are head of household and
managing the entire enterprise, through the absence of their partner. This
situation affects a high proportion of poor rural women in Regions 11 and 12,
where they can now apply for INDAP credit in their own name, without the
signature of their partner. Collateral requirements have also been changed
(affecting men as well) to permit guarantees in the form of animals and
machinery, co-signature of relatives and neighbours etc. No collateral is
required for loans of up to 15 UF (working capital) and 30 UF (investment
credit) respectively. It appearss however, that the application of these new
rules varies greatly between Regions -- Avmara women in Region 1 have been
repeatedly denied credit by INDAP despite their status qualifying them for the
same tre.tment as the women described above. A special effort is needed to
ensure that the Regions understand the changes and that they are applied
consistently.
I1.       Women's Micro-Enterprise Development.  A special problem exists
with women applying for credit for on-farm micro-enterprises, even on a group
basis (now favored by INDAP) due to restrictions on eligible activitl'-.
Women frequently need credit for activities which are prcdu;Live/income
generating but not specifically agricultural, including artesanal items,
blankets, fruit drying and packaging, and baking. Rather, value is added to
raw and semi-processed agricultural materials, and the credit is needed to
acquire basic equipment (ovens for baking, looms for blankets) and/or to
purchase-materials. Many rural women are confined to the farm, especially to
care for children, and have no option but to try and generate income in situ.
Other women pick and pack fruit for several months a year but are virtually
immobilized for the remainder of the year due to the lack of opportunities in
their areas. IN@DAP is looking at broadening the list of eligible activities
but, again, ambivalence is evident. Pilot micro-enterprises (mostly in
groups) are under consideration, using consultants to detirmine project
feasibility in preparation for credit applications, and subsequently carry out
training of successful credit applicants in simple bookkeeping, marketing and
skills related to the nature of the project.



- 72 -
ANNEX 3
APPENDIX
Page 7 of 8
Rural Youth
12.       Backerotud.  The need to incorporate rural youth into INDAP's plan
of action for poor rural families is increasingly vital and needs to be
reflected in special policies. Rural youth has a demonstrably high potential
to leave the land and migrate to the cities. The dilemma for planr.ers is
whether- to erncourage young men and women to remain on the land or provide
incentives for a future elsewhere (training, job creation strategies etc.)
Research reveals that elements such as the lack of modernity in rural life,
and the observed hardships of their parents, are sufficient incentive to
propel young people to the cities where they find their rural skills largely
unusable, and their prospects poor. A small, but increasing number is going
on to tertiary education incl'uding university. There has been in the 1980's
an observed tendency among rural families to free children from farm-related
daily obligations in favor of staying in school, studying at home etc. as a
means of ultimately escaping rural life. In any case. man7 small farms cannot
support more than one family and youth is compelled to leave.
13.       The average age of heads of household participating in INDAP PTT is
53.4 years. While this clearly signals the need for special TT and credit
programs for youth, programs already tried by NGOs indicate that such training
can have the reverse effect. INFROA trained 400 youth leaders over 4 years to
work with their peers in developing modern approaches to rural life. Of those
trained, some 350 migrated to urban centers. The solutions to these issues
are thus not simple. Poor rural youth are estimated to number some 600,000
persons, the majority of which are considerably better-educated than their
parents.
14.       INDAP's Response - PTT Fomento.  In response to e growing
perception that better-educated rural youth are not only promising subjects
for more complex technical training, but can be a central element in the rural
development strategy, INDAP is already implementing a pilot program for the
18-30 year age cohort calle3 PTT Fomento (PTTF), focusscd initially on the
Metropolitan Region. The new title distinguishes it from the regular PTT
since most rural youth, like women, do not qualify technically or legally as
"agricultural producers" under the land title or rental contract criteria.
15.       INDAP has contracted local agronomists to provide a high-intensity
TT of 30 visits per year to work with groups averaging 5 members. The groups
cultivate carefully-selected strains of tomatoes under "hothouse" conditions
(i.e., under plastic) for sale in regional centers in the off season when
tomatoes are normally unavailable.   The technology requires only small
amounts of land--each member of the group cultivates one "nave" (6x30 meters)
and each hothouse can be made up of several naves--which the participants rent
from their parents!' for a token amount per annum, since most youth do not
own land. The program actively encourages the participation of persons whose
parents do not have land, but who are willing to learn the technology and
provide labor. The training provided these grouDs also includes market:ng,
accounting and decisionmaking. The technology permits a second, comple.icnetary
crop each year. usually of corn. One full-season crop of tomatoes frow one
nave has been estimated at around 2,000 kg, which would net CH$450.000 at
QI   Partiolpants' parents do not have to be INDAP PiT beneficlaries.



-73-
ANNEX 3
APPENDIX
Page 8 of 8
current prices..L/ INDAP is working with 30 groups and hopes to expand this
to 200 by the end of 1992. Groups would be fullv-graduated from PTTF after
two years.
15.       There is at present no special budget for this program and
resources are extremely tight. Its survival depends largely on the goodwill of
Regional Directors of INDAP. There is a need to find a meclianism to connect
this program into the mainstream of INDAP credit, (which could be effected
through a liet of eligible activities in project loan documents). Each nave
costs about USS850-1,000 to set up and credit is obtained individually, not on
a group basis, since the cohesiveness of each group relies on family
connections and mutual trust, not legal commitments. The current philosophy
is to keep pilot projects sma"11, importantly because no collateral is required
for INDAP's Credito Basico (see para. 10), and INDAP wants to avoid youth
being burdened with unsustainable debt. INDAP is working with the Catholic
University to develop three models, based on the early experiences of these
groups, and to develop a list of activities appropriate to different agro-
climatic zones, which could become pilot projects in the future (e.g.,
flowers, seeds etc.). It is planned to expand the program next to southern
regions, focussing on milk processing ventures.
16.       The current crop of PTTF groups contains no female participants.
The reasons for this are still unclear, although families' traditional view of
appropriate activities for young, unmarried rural women may inhibit their
involvement. INDAP intends to focus on young married couples in future
expansion of PTTF. In general, the emphasis for young rural women must be on
technical training, removing long-standing biases which preclude their
eligibility, and viewing them as agents of rural change by educating them to
use modern tools, machinery and techniques.
1o/  Not Including labor costs: labor required Is part-time.



- 74 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 9
CHILE
SMALLA FARMER SERVICES PROJECT
Land Titling Services
I;ackgound
1.          Land titling of small farmers has been carried out by the Ministry
of National Property (Ministerio de Bienes Nacionales (M3N), for some thirty
years under the authority of varicus laws and until the early 1980s, at modest
levels.  An assessment in 1973-1975 determined that approximately 200,000
rural families and 80-100O,00Ourban families were occupying land for which
they lacked title.  In 1978/79 legal changes were enacted and resources
appropriated to complete land regularization nationwide by 1985. These legal
changes included transferring responsibility for titling holdings in
indigenous areas of Regions VIII, IX and X to INDAP. While the process of
titling was not completed by the date anticipated, around 108,000 rural titles
and 64,000 urban titles were regularized by MBN (Table attached), and about
72,100 by INDAP on indigenous lands, by the end of 1990. It is estimated that
around 110,000 non-indigenous and about 6,300 indigenous rural families still
await title out of the originally-identified number.1' Recent analysis,
however, has updated these estimates to include some 20,000 additional titles
needed for farmers occupying fiscal (i.e., government-owned) lands.
2.          Possession of a secure land title carries important benefits for
rural families including: (a) an immediate and substantial increase in
property value; (b) access to INDAP credit (i.e., collateral) and agricultural
extension; 1 (c) eligibility for subsida.zed housing construction under
Ministry of Housiag programs; (d) access to forestry subsidies under D.L. 701;
and (e) eligibility for irrigation water rights and subsidies for small
irrigation worles. In general terms, possession of title brings small farmers
a genuine and rapid degree of economic stability and security and can
significantly enhance a family's access to development opportunities.
Further, properly titled land provides a demonstrated incentive for increasing
small farmer use of credit and extension services.
The   N  TitAlin  ProErm
3.          The underlying legislation and internal M3N administrative
procedures were examined extensively, including by a consultant with expertise
in Latin American land titling programs. Procedures reviewed included the
following: (a) the preliminary identification of eligible properties and
V/    Of the 110,000 non-4ndigenous tit:s remaining from the originaliiy-dontified number, 14,700 are in trad'itonal commun'ties
with colonial roots, wheore land is held In common and farmed cooperatively (see para. 3). rntl;.ng fcr tho Indigenous has
concentrated almost exclusively on the Mapuches. the most numerous croup. nt is Impcrtant to bear in minid that factors
such as inherhanc-related subdivision o' land and spontaneous colonization contsnuously add potentiaily new titling clients
to tho pool.
2/    While INDAP credit regulations have changod recently to permit the uso of other forms of collateral, such as machinery
and animals, there is substant'al fiteld evidence that proper title remains the preforred collateral in practice, at the
Regional and area 16vels. h appears often to be preferred for technology transfer es well since It (c) implios greater
willingness onr the part of the small farmGr to accept innovation/ris.; and (b) INDAP prefers to give T and credit as h
package.



- 75 --
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 9
potential clients; (b) the selection and registrati-on of the private  .lrms
responsible for carrying out titling activities; (c) property claims and title
histories; (d) property 6urveys and boundary demarcation; (c) preparation and
publication of formal claims; and (f) dispute resolution. Further, the
practical applications of Ministry procedures were reviewed with MBN
executives and specialists in Santiago, with Regional offices of MBN, and with
registered firms dutring their normal daily activities in the office and the
field. The results of this analysis follow.
4.          Legal Basis.  IBN's titling activities are governed by several
laws the principal of which being: (a) D.L. No. 2.695 of May 1979 which sets
out the basic norms of eligibility to apply for title;!' and (b) D.S. No.210
of March 1983 which establishes the organizational requirements and standards
governing the register of priVate contracting firms which handle the surveying
and legal activities of titling for MBN. A third law, D.F.L. No. 5 of 1967
and its subsequent amendments pertain to titling activities among traditional
agricultural communities (non-indigenous), chiefly in Region IV and to a
lesser extent in Regions I and V, which are regarded as having special
characteristics requiring separate procedures. Virtually no titling has
occurred yet in these communities owing to philosophical and economic debate
about whether and how communal lands should be divided. The first two laws
are being studied to overcome impediments 'to their interpretation and
application, while the law relating to traditional communities is likely to be
modified, although in what form remains unclear.
5.          Eligibility Recuirements.  The following basic standards govern
eligibility for application for a title urder the MBN program: (a) continuous
and exclusive occupation of the plot for at least five years; (b) the plot
should have a fiscal. value not exceeding 800 territorial tax units (around
US$16,800)3'/ (c) no pending claim or lawsuit disputing the applicant's
rights to possess the plot; (d) definable borders in the form. of fences,
natural barriers, etc; and (e) the applicant should be able to produce
specific forms of documentation substantiating the claim of possession.
6.          Register of Private Contractors.  Only firms on MBN's Register of
Private Contractors are eligible to tender for its titling contracts.
Requirements for inclusion in this register are as follows: (a) the firm must
have already performed legal or topographical work under the ti.tling laws, or
similar work; (b) legal and technical staff must have the necessar y
professional qualifications including a university degree and at least two
years of practical professional experience; and (c) the firm must possess the
technical instruments and vehicles necessary to perform the work and be in
verifiabl.e sound financial condition.!' The Register is reviewed annually
and firms a^:e dropped if performance is deemed inadequate. MBN cut the
Register back from 66 to 33 firms in early 1991 on the grounds of inefficiency
and insufficient financial and technical capability, but has since built the
P/    DL 2.695 also applies to egricutural end urban land titing In general, I.e., to much larger e3tates, but of course the
tWiling of these Is not subsid;zed.
41    The fiscal value of land Is measured In monthly terrItorial tax unrt (Unidades Tributarias Monsuales (ITM). On
November 1, 1990, ono UTM equallud approximately USS42.
5/    The law governing the rogiMer of contractors. D.S.210 of 1983, doos not precludo forelgn firmrs from applying for
Inclusion, but would r6quire amendment to explicitly provide such firms the opportunhy to be Included, I they wished,
In order to comply with Bank consuhant procurement guidelines.



- 76
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 9
register back up to 65 firms in anticipation of additional resourcea and
workload under the proposed project.
7.          The system of using private contractors operates at two levels:
(a) through fully subsidized and contracted mass titling programs using
resources of the National Regional Development Eund (Fontdo Nacional de
Desarrollo Regional (PNDR), the Solidarity and Soel Investment Fund (Fondo
do Solidaridad e Inversi6n Social (FOSIS) and 5% of the revenue raised from
kBN'a annual sales of government property;6' and (b) through direct contract
between the applicant anid the private firm, with costs borne by the applicant
except for the costs of MBN supervision, which is required by law in both
(a) and (b). The bipartite scheme ensures that MBN subsidies go to the most
needy while not excluding better-off families from the benefits of an
organized, supervised process.
8.          The Process.  In general, individuals in need of title are
identified through the collaborative actions of the Regional offices of MBN
and the municipalities. It appears, however, that in a substantial number of
cases, the individual initiates contact with local authorities after
discovering that proper title is a prerequisite to qualify for a
government-subsidized service, most commonly, housing. A simple evaluation of
the prospective applicant's ability to pay (usually vouchsafed by a social
worker familiar with the family) determines whether MBN will subsidize either
in full or in part the survey and legal work.2' The private firms submit
proposals to MBN including cost and a timetable of activities. Fees for some
activities, especially legal, are set by law. The awarding of a contract sets
a chain of actions in motion which can take anywhere from nine months (an
ideal case without complications) to two years to complete. Around 2Z of
title applications fail en route because problems overwhelm the process.
9.          The major steps to obtaining title are:
(a)   The applicant's documentation is checked for legal validity, to
which he/she makes a sworn declaration. A draft legal report is
issued authorizing (or not) further processing of the application;
(b)   The plot is surveyed and mapped, and a detailed written
description is prepared. The topographical work is reviewed,
including in situ inspections by HEN technical supervisory
staff;!'/
(c)   These two documents (i.e., draft legal report and physical
description) are submitted with a technical report for legal
review by the firm's legal staff, who prepare a final report which
is then scrutinized by MBN legal supervisors. If satisfactory, a
By law, use of the 5% ftom sales of government property Is restrilcted to MBN's own thling activitXes, or to the costs of
supervising the contractors. It cannot be used to pay contractors' fees.
D/    Applicants sometimes pay for the Initial survey, for example, and more commonly pay for publication of the notice of intent
to grant title and registration of the newly-granted tte In the property roll. Under the proposed loan, the poorest families
would be targeted, and all tiees would be fully-subsidized.
There appears to be en Inverse relationship between the numbers of tities processed and the numbers supervised. In
general, the higher the numbers being processed, the lower the numbers supervised. In some Reglons, the nurnbers
of titles being processed at any one time are dellbertlety kept low In order that supervIsilon reach 100%.



- 77 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 9
notice of intent to grant a title is published twice in a 30-day
period in local and national newspapers, as well as being posted
in municipal centers;
(d)   Third parties opposed to the proposed action due to competing
claims must submit their protests in writing to the regional
office of MBN within 30 days of its second publication. Such
claims are heard in a civil court within the relevant
jurisdiction. In a very small number of complex cases, the
involvement of tne Ministry in Santiago is required;
(e)   If no challenge is received, the property is registered in the
Conservador de Bienes Raices (property roll). Such property
cannot be divided or sold for one year except to pay creditors or
for public purposes. After one year of uninterrupted possession,
full property rights ure granted to the applicant; and
(f)   In some cases opposition surfaces after property registration.  If
the appropriate Regional Tribunal vindicates the claim, the new
title may be overturned or financial compensation paid by the
title-holder to the successful claimant.
10.         A Critique of the HEN Proaram.  The review concluded that the
program has worked very well, and that legislation analogous to D.L. Z.695
could provide a model for similar undertakings in other parts of the Region.
The program is simple, cost-effective and politically non-contentious, MEN
titles are legally sound, and small farmers desire and have confidence in
them. MBN regulations and administrative procedures are both transparent and
reasonably efficient, while its titling staff levels, at the centre and in the
regions, are admirably lean. Ownership interests are identified with care and
disputes are resolved responsibly.9' Property boundaries are measured and
marked, titles are issued and recorded properly, and convey full ownership to
land occupants.
11.         However, shortage of resources in recent years has reduced the
numbers of subsidized cases being processed annually to low levels, with the
prospect of making the current backlog permanent. Regional allocation of FNDR
funds (para. 6) to titling has declined sharply as health, education and
housing have assumed top priority. MBN regional offices have been attLmpting
to carry out titling activities using their own personnel arLd resources as a
means of keeping the program moving, in the absence of adequate funds to pay
private firms. Progress has been slow. In Region V, where processing of some
3,000 out of 6,000 titles underway had to be stopped for lack of funds, the
Regional Secretariat of MBN initiated a pilot program with the Municipality of
Valparaiso to pool available resources and complete titling of the poorest
applicants among the group stalled.
12..        MBN is short of staff, vehicles (and gasoline) and survey
equipment, causing delays in the processing of applications, especially in
R/    There to room for improvement however. For example, the contractor has an Interest In resolving a challenge to the
advange of his client, ince he Is paid by the number of cas.. regularized. Normally, the contractor gives lcgal
sletance to his cilent I the  altter Is challenged. The challenger, In moot cases unable to atford formal legal help, can
cce" community legal eorvic", but these are llmIted and slowmoving. However, In general, the numbers of
challengos requrirng egal follow-up 6e very small and I 's quite common for disputer to be setted privately between
tho Involved partlie betore I comes to this.



78 --
ANWEX t
Page 5 of 9
Regions x:yth greater ntabers o£ f tiling clientr_  Delays a;ro also ca,usedr liy
MBN'S somewhat archaic central office reviewy and records management
requiremrents, and the lace of computerization, at both the central and
regional levelse. All data are processed tmanually. The private firm.oa appear
to be generally better-equipped than the Ministry.  All firms are computerizec
for administrative functions and have up-to-date surveying instrv=ents Jn
sufficient quantity0 .It would appear, however, that only the larger firmts are
using computerized mapping technology and this situation would require careful
study in the design of a compatible computerized information management systera
for the Ministry, under the proposed projcct.-L¢  The result in many -.:egionsq
is that the Ministry's supervision of the contractors' work, which is required
by law, is contixnually trying to catch up to initial processing by the :irrs.
Careful supervision of the survey work, in particular, is important for
reducing the potential for thlird-party challenges. The incidence of
challenges is quite Ihigh in some regions (as it is with INDAP's indigenous
titling), although it is apparent many disputes are settled between the
parties without need for formal legal intervention. Delays could be expected
to worser., in the absence of adequate resources, since, as stated earlier, a
high proportion of the remaining backlog of titles involves individual
families with social and geographical difficulties, as opposed to the
communities in more accessible areas which have been the earlier focus of the
IBN program.
13.         Title Cost.  The current cost of processing a title averages from
UJS$100-200.-7 ~The cost is lower for individuals located in ccmmunities
where the terrain is easily handled and applicants live in close prox'rmity
permitting mass or group titling. For more isolated families in difficult
terrain or where a third party challenge requirt.s follow-up legal and survey
Work, the cost rises.  MBN's cost estimates compare fairly closely with those
of INDAP (para. 23). Cost estimates for titling under t.;e proposed project
show an average of US$171 per title. An objective of the project is to ensure
that a high proportion of the more difficult, and thus higher cost, cases are
completed.
14.         Title Insura_ce or Gua-antees.  The cost of MEN titling programs
w7as reviewed in the context of the potential benefits of providing title
insurance or government guarantees to MBN clients.  The anticipated project
rationale for proposing such guarantees was: (a) that the cost of MBN
supervision--essentially the pre-screening of clients, the verification of
property boundaries, and the detailed review of documentation--would be founud
to exceed the probable cost/risk of claims for erroneous title approvals; anid
(b) that the time required for close MBN supervision would lead to significant
delays in project implementation.
15.         It was concluded that the MEBN program is already managed in a
cost-effective manner, and that MEN staff levels are already so lean that no
meaningful unit cost reductions could be achieved through title insurance
economies.  While the MBN does supervise, on averaget over 70Z of title
iQj The acqulsit!on of hlghly-sophisticeted mapping and surveying to-hnology by tho Ministry could utllmate7y prevcnUho
continued participation of the smaller, local tit;ng firms due to the Frohibitivo cost of becoming cornpatible.
12.1   This range covers only the contract to the private firm processing tho titee. The preparatln report prepered by Prico
Waterhouse breaks down a-n average cost of US$171, but this does not In.clude any of MBN's costs, e.g., lor
supervision. Further, the US$171 Includes a 1 0% tax, which the 13ank would not be financing.



- 79
AXNEX 4
Page 6 of 9
applications, its o.n-site boundary review.s are quick and simple, and its
clerical tunit costs are calculated simply by dividing the nu-hber of
applications into its almost entirely fixed overlhead budget. Xn fact, the
root cause of lagged supervision to date has been the lack of .omputer
capabilities at all levels (see para. 13) and somewhat archaic .entral office
revieew and records management requirements (to be addressed through
project-financed institutional and computer systems provisions).  Further, it
is evident that the high cost of litigatiLon to settle a boundary dispute over
a small farm or subsistence property means, in practice, that most
complainants elther settle privately or accept the dispute resolution
procedures provided by MBN.
16.          New legislation would be required to introduce private title
insurance or state guarantees,for tIBN titles. It was concluded that direct
project implementation benefits would not justify the legal and organizational
groundwork needed to achieve its passage early on.  However, such measures
clearly merit consideration by the Ministry for future titling programs. In
the context of the government's policy objectives and its budget expenditures
for MBN services, direct state guarantees appear particularly appropriate.  In
essence, claims for monetary compensation for erroneous titling actior.s should
be againist the Ministry, not the smallholder.d'
17.          MBN is currently reviewing a number of elements of the program to
ensure greater efficiency, as follows: (a) the titling laws and applicants'
responsibilities are not well understood outside official and professional
circles and MBN is looking at ways of clarifying these, e.g., through the tise
of short, topical statements on local radio; (b) I-MN is fully-aware of the
importance of maintaining tight scrutiny of the qualifications and financial
standing of firms applying for inclusion in, and already :listed in, its
register;13/ and (c) some efficiency improvements are possible in the titling
process to aveid duplicaticn of effort, especially between the private firms
and MBN supervisors.  1,W
18.          An important issue .,s the need to strengthen lines of
commurLsation, at both the central and regional levels, between INDAP and MEN
since (a) current relations at the policy level are not promis.ing; (b) it is
generally ac'.kncwledged that proper title brings greater receptivity to
agricultural innovation; (c) the ultimate goal of graduating INDAP clients
into the commercial credit market will, in all likelihood, encounter the
traditional requirement of commercial banks for proper title as collateral;
12/   it is Important to remember that project-finar.ced titling programs do not Involve state-owned land, (although soine
20,000 omall farmers etc currently occup"' Wg such lands and this poses MBN with a special ttling problern). Thus,
neither MBN's clients nor Injured parties nave diroct recourse against the Ministry In the event of an erroneouO transfor
uncor D.L 2.965. The proposed Insuranco or state guarantees would convert such third party actions Into monetary
- 1aims payablo either by a private Insurance company or by tho Ministry.
13/    Contractors must provide a performance guarantee. They have come und? soeono pressure recently from MBN to
avoid errors. Greater overall efficiency has come about through better training and newer, higher quality Instruments.
MBN has startod to contract firmns for sevoral years to do e specific number of eases, cnoblinq tho firim to plan more
effectively In terms of staff and equipment needs.
; t    rhe firms, who naturally would like to process mere opplications more ropidy, clelrn that teo muncl documontation Is
required of fipplicants and that much less paperwork Is required when MBN handles Its own titling (pora 9). IABN
inelntains. however, that close fuporvision especially of the topographical work, l Imporative to avold inll6takes end
reduce the potential for challonges.



- 80 
LAN1gEX 4
Page 7 of 9
and (d) INDAP can be very useful in systematically directing potential titling
clients to EBN.
19.         The Private Contractors.  D.L. 2.695 and D.S. 210 place
operational responsibility for direct titling activities with the private
sector. Firms registered with the MBN seek D.L. 2.695 titling cases as a
regular part of their wider business, irrespective of the availability of
MBN-subsidized work (para. 6). They depend directly on the relatively modest
income-eaniing potential of this work (profit margins rarely exceed 25%) for
only part of their income, but it is an important catalyst to the generation
of new business in their areas and thus acts as an incentive to quality
perfor=ance. In an important sense, the role of these firms is crucial to the
"institutionalization" of project accomplishments. They, even more than the
Ministry, have the incentives', local knowledge, and financial structures to
achieve short and longer-term titling goals.
20.         Local knowledge appears to be a critical consideration to an
effective titling program. While concentrations of potential clients can
indeed be identified through MBN field surveys, (easily in the case of
densely-populated areas), surveys are not good instruments for prioritizing
titling action. They tend to identify the easiest cases, the outcome of which
can be the progressive marginalization of potential clients who represent
social or geographical problems. In contrast, local firms, in addition to
handling the easier cases, are well-positioned to identify and shepherd
problem cases through because they are involved regularly with the business of
the ccm=unity.  Under the proposed project, the opportunity to process    I
comparatively larger numbers of clients, already identified by the MBN, along
with assurances of direct payment by the Ministry, is likely to attract the
interest of large firms with little or no knowledge of local conditions. The
Ministry and tne Bank should be aware that MBN contracts might endanger the
permanent, longer-term titling capacities that can only be provided
economically by smaller, local firms. This may devolve to a procurement
issue. Given the substantive importance of developing a sustained titling
capacity in rural areas, a requirement that firms bidding on MBN contracts
demonstrate a solid knowledge of local conditions, would appear to be a
legitimate requirement.
21.         Women and Titling.  Women can own land in their own name in Chile,
if they derived it through inheritance or purchased it independently as legal
head of household. Land acquired by a married couple is registered in both
names.  A concerted effort is underway, through a formal agreement between MEN
and the National Women's Service (SERNAM), to focus land titling efforts,
inter alia, on female heads of household, who are believed conservatively to
number some 15% of rural families nationwide, and generally fall into the
lowest echelon of income in rural Chile with the greatest need for access to
the kinds of subsidized government services for which title is either required
or advantageous.  There is no disaggregated data on how many title recipients
in past years were women, but the project has set annual targets for titling
of women heads of household based on data provided by SERNAM (see Annex 7).
The proposed retroactive study will try to reveal the former, while monitoring
and evaluation follow implementation of the latter.
INDAP's Titlinl2 for the Indigenous
22.         Legal Basis.  INDAP is responsible for titling indigenous lands
under D.L. No. 2.568 of March 22, 1979. This modified the pre-existing Law



81 -
ANNEX 4
Page 8 of 9
No. 17.729 of September 1972 which had established the Institute for
Indigenous Development, an agency with comprehensive responsibilities
including the disposition of indigenous lands. Its titling functions were
handed over to INDAP under the new law of 1979 and its remaining functions
dispersed among various other agencies. A critical aspect of the 1979 law was
the requirement that indigenous lands be divided and titles be granted
individually, in contrast to the indigenous tradition of communal holdings and
farming arrangements.
23.         INDAP's titling activities are concentrated in the Mapuche
communities in Regions VIII, IX and X. As of September 1990, 77,110 titles
had been given, with an estimated 6,250 still to be done. In contrast to the
system of private contractors operated by MBN, INDAP regional personnel
handles all legal and survey work itself. While the average cost of a title
compares closely with MBN at just over US$100, the process takes much longer,
averaging from 2.5 to 3.0 years, three-quarters of which is the legal portion.
(INDAP admits that these figures for time taken indicate an ideal case, which
is uncommon, and the process generally takes even longer). This reflects the
complex task of establishing a fiscal value for a communal holding, dividing
it rationally among families and compensating family members who are not given
title but who would, under indigenous custom, have equal rights to its use.
Only seven INDAP legal staff are assigned 'to the indigenous titling program.
The process is hampered by frequent challenges, errors, lack of vehicles and
paucity of resources to compensate community members who do not get title--
such compensation required by law.
24.         Pendine Chang s.  The Government set up the Special Commission for
Indigenous Peoples (Comisi6n Especial de Pueblos Indfgenas (CEPI) in April
1990 to review all laws pertaining to the indigenous, seeking to move away
from the concept of assimilation into the general society, towards greater
recognition of their cultural diversity and potential. While INDAP is
continuing to process indigenous titles at low levels, responsibility for this
work may ultimately be transferred to another agency, possibly MBN. A new law
on the indigenous is in draft and under discussion. It is anticipated that
the matter of indigenous lands will have priority and cover all indigenous
groups in Chile, not just the Mapuche. The fairly numerous Aymara people in
the Altiplano region of the Northeast border, for example, present thorny
problems of land tenure and incorporation into the Chilean political and
economic system. The draft legislation provides for the establishment of a
National Corporation for Indigenous Development (Corporaci6n Nacional de
Desarrollo Indigena (CONADI), repc-ting directly to the President. Because
indigenous-related policy is currently under review and changes to public
programs are likely, no indigenous titling has been included in the project.



- 82 
Page 9 of 9
SH(ALL FARMHR SMRVCES PROJECT
Land Ttlina In Urban and Rural Areas, 1979-2990
URBAN  '                                RURAL
No.      Total Area (m2)                No.    Total Area (ha)
1979       1,177          977,675.00                 289           13,431.65
1980       2,381        1,68f,733.40               5,299           61,241.45
1981       4,526        2,714,496.20              10,010           68,290.33
1982       3,264        3,300,420.00              29,368          201,772.01
1983       5,958        4,365,411.00              19,320          194,774.79
1984       7,060        5,288,908.00               6,251           65,179.50
1985       6,987        5,334,930.00               6,330           78,164.11
1986       9,307        6,276,284.00               6,245           73,277.52
1987       5,850        3,838,408.00               5,654           60,680.90
1988       7,311        5,387,277.00               7,738           62,410.24
.1989      6,097        4,714,059.00               6,787           70,579.93
1990       4,542           2 73.0L20 .00           5,065           67,892.00
TOTAL     64,460       47,607,621.60             108,356        1,014,694.43
Source: Ministry of National Property



-83 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 14
CHILE
SMALL  PIER SERVICES PROJECT
Cost Tables
1.       Project Components by Year and Project Cost Summary.
2.       Summary Accounts by Year (Base C06ts).
3.       Summary Accounts by Year (Totals including Contingencies).
4.       Summary Accounts Cost Summary.  .
S.       Table 101 - Componente de Transferencia de Tecnologia.
6.       Table 201 - Componente de Credito.
7.       Table 301 - Componente de Transferencia de Tecnologia.
8.       Table 401 - Costos de Titulaci6n.
9-12.    Tables 501-504 - Componente de Desarrollo Institucional, INDAP.
13.      Table 505 - Componente de Desarrollo Institucional, MBN.



- 84 -
ANN2X S
Page 2 of 14
REPUBLICA DE CHILE
PROGRAMA DE APOYO A PEaUENOS PRODUCTORES
TRANSF. TECNOLOGICA Y CREDITO
miLes USS
Project Conponents by Year
Base Costs
... .. .... ...... ...... .......... .............. ....................... . .......... ...... o.  ..
01          02          :03           04           05  milesUSS
A. Technology Transfer                        7040.8    14384.6    18295.0    21359.8    22949.8    84029.9
B. Credit                                    24295.2    28891.5    21981.5    24155.4    16915.6   116239.2
C. Rural Cowmvnication                            0.0        671.0       582.3        527.5        428.6       2209.4
D. Land TitLing                                 763.6      2571.4       2900.9       1923.7           0.0      8159.6
E. Institutional  Dev.-INDAP                    745.9      3151.6       3923.7       3386.3      3483.4    14690.8
F.  Insttutfonal Dev.- MBN                     811.3        528.2        236.1        219.9           0.0      1795.5
......... ................ .. ............. ............................... ..........
Total BASELINE COSTS                         33656.8    50198.3    47919.4    51572.7    43777.4   227124.6
Physical  Contingencies                      20.3        105.0         59.8          0.1          0.0       185.3
Price Contingencies                           0.0        452.7      1327.6       2862.1       4046.7       8689.1
........................... ............................................ .. .... ..............
Total PROJECT COSTS                          33677.1    50756.1    49306.9    54434.9    47824.1   235999.0
Taxes                                       208.9        713.7       603.0        318.9        143.2       1987.7
Foreign Exchange                          5980.2       8039.0       6709.7       7166.1       5734.8    33629.9
, . .  ....... ..................... ... .... ............... ........................... ........ ... .................
Totals inctuding Contingencies
miles USS
..... ...... ..... ..... .. ..  ...... ......... .. ........
01          02           03           04           05       Total
A. Technology Transfer                          7040.8    14514.0    18801.2    22545.2    25071.2    87972.4
B. Credit                                     24295.2    29151.5    22589.8    25495.9    18479.2   120011.7
C. Rural Conmunication                             0.0        677.1       598.4        556.8        468.2       2300.5
D. Land Titling                                  763.6      2594.6       2981.1       2030.5           0.0      8369.8
E.  Institutional Dev.-INDAP                     762.5      3284.3       4C93.6       3574.2       3805.4    15520.1
F. Insttutional Dev.- MBN                        8iS.0        534.5       242.8        232.2           0.0      1824.5
............ ...................... ........... .................. ................. ....  .. .......
Total PROJECTS COSTS                          33677.1    50756.1    49306.9    54434.9    47824.1   235999.0
.... .......... .......... ............ .......... .. .... ... .. .. ........................................................... ......... ............. ...
miles USS                                   X Total
........ I.....................              X Foreign          Base
Local    Foreign         Total          Exchange         Costs
.......--         --  -- -  --  --  -        ...........  ............................. ....... ................
A. Technology Transfer                       71975.9    12054.0    84029.9                   14.3         37.0
B. Credit                                    98073.0    18166.2   116239.2                   15.6         51.2
C, Rural Communication                        2177.1          32.3      2209.4:                1.5          1.0
D4 Land Titling                               7686.5        473.2       8159.6                 5.8          3.6
E. institutional Dev.-INDAP                  13558.4       1132.4    14690.8                  7.7           6.5
F. Insttutional Dev.- MBN                      1197.3       598.2       1795.5               33.3           0.8
..............................               ....................................................
Total BASELINE COSTS                        194668.2    32456.3  227124.6                    14.3        1C0.0
Physical Contingencies                      126.2         59.1        185.3              31.9           0.1
Price Contingencies                        7574.7      1114.4       8689.1                12.8          3.8
.... .... ......................             ... ..............
Total PROJECTS COSTS                        202369.1    33629.9  235999.0                     14.3       103.9
-   - -    - -------------s .
....................................................=====                              ......................



85 -
Page 3 of 14
REPUBLICA DE CHILE
PROGRAMA DE APOYO A PEOUEhOS PRCOUCTORES
TRANSF. TECNOLOGICA Y CRED170
mites USS
Sunaary Accounts by Year
Base Costs                                    Foreign Exchange
.......................... ............................................ ........................................  ....................
01        02         03         04        05      Total          X    Amourt
mflass=::r:..fr:tt-sca5.aflas-ts az-snnsatss::,a::zx=c=±u:=z *fltattCtt.X :t:ttfl
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
...................
A. ASISTENCIA FINANCIERA
1. C.prod.basica                  4577.0    5098.0    4893.0    3842.0    1063.0   19473.0             25.0    4868.2
2. C.oper.organizaciones           409.0      557.0      205.0       0.0        0.0    1171.0          25.0     292.7
3. C.op.individual               10903.0    4995.0   *1040.0    1096.0   -2170.0   13784.0             25.0    3446.0
4. C.Capitaliz.Basitca             386.0    4794.0    4794.0    4794.0    4794.0   19562.0             25.0    4890.5
5. C.Inv.Organizaciones              0.0    1223.0    1443.0    1443.0    1443.0    5552.0             25.0    1388.0
6. C.inv.Individual               1787.0    2219.0    1709.0    1460.0    1076.0    8331.0             25.0    2082.7
Sub-total                           18062.0   18886.0   12C84.0   12635.0    6206.0   67373.0             25.0   16968.2
8.  APORTES PRIVADOS                 6066.0    7565.0    6893.0    8078.0    6923.0   35525.0              0.0        0.0
C.  BOOS ODE TRANSFERENCIAS          6860.6   13824.7   17675.3   20740.0   22334.2   81434.8             14.8   12054.0
0.  SuBSlOIcS                          167.2    2440.5    3004.5    3442.4    3786.6   12841.2             9.3    1198.0
C. AOO.OFlCINAS                          0.0       14.6       6.6        6.6        6.6      34.4          0.0        0.0
F. EOUIPAMIENIO
1. Vehiculos                       169.0      448.3      635.9       3.6        3.4    1260.3          31.2     393.0
2. Software                        139.4       22.1        0.0       0.0        0.0      161.5          0.0        0.0
3. Eardware                        277.6      947.5        0.0        0.0       0.0    1225.2          47.6     582.7
4. de mnedicion                    144.9       72.6        0.0.      0.0        0.0      217.5         30.0      65.3
5. De Oficina                      134.6       69.5      113.8       0.0        0.0      317.9         30.5      97.1
6. Audiovisuat                       0.0       49.6        0.0        0.0       0.0       49.6         80.0       39.7
7. Eq.varios                         0.0       i1.2        3.6       3.6        3.6       22.1          0.0        0.0
Sub-total                             865.6    1620.7       753.3        7.3        7.0    3254.0         36.2    1177.7
G.  EVALUACION EXTERNA                   0.0      44.4        0.3       61.1      116.7     222.2          0.0 -      0.0
M.  CAPACITACION                      228.6      731.8      780.6      736.2     70T.6    3178.7           0.9       27.5
I.  Publicaciones                      13.3        4.4        0.0        0.0       0.0       17.8          0.0        0.0
J. Asesoria                             17.0       4.9        0.0        0.0        0.0      21.9          0.0        0.0
K.  Conservador D.Raices                62.5     250.2      285.9      178.7        0.0     777.3          0.0        0.0
1.  Adninistracion                    118.6      474.3      542.1      338.8       0.0    1473.8           0.0        0.0
M.  Personal                           174.1     696.2      795.7      497.3        0.0    2163.3          0.r        0.0
N.  Avisos                             36.4      145.7      166.6      104.1        0.0     452.8          0.0        0.0
0. Utilioad e irnpuestos               15Z.3     6C9.1      696.2      435.1        0.0    1892.7         25.0      473.2
P.  Irp,dist,dif bases                  23.4      35.3       45.6       29.3        0.0     133.4          0.0        0.0
.........  ..................................................................   .................  ....................  ...................
Total I4VESTMEUT COCSS              32847.6   47347.9   43729.3   47290.0   40381.6  211296.4             15.1   31898.6
11. RECURRERT COSTS
...................
0. PERSONAL INCREMENTAL
1. Profesioral                     319.5      760.0    1073.3    1073.3       972.7    4198.8           u.0        0.0
2. Tecnicos                        141.9      324.1      521.3     521.3      416.3    1924.8           0.0        0.0
3. AdcirIstrativo                   84.6      280.9      593.8     593.9      527.7    2C81.0           0.0        0.0
4. Coordinadores                     0.0       30.0       30.0       15.0       0.0       75.0          0.0        0.0
5. Consuttores                       0.0       25.0       25.0      25.0       25.0      100.0          0.0        0.0
Sub-totat                             546.0    1420.0    2243.4    2228.5    1941.6    8379.6              0.0        0.0
R. SERVICIOS DE COCRANZAS                0.0     270.5      409.8      602.0     674.1    1956.4           0.0        0.0
S. COSTOS OPER. & MANT.
1. Operacion de Vehlculos           60.9      172.3      327.3     317.5      275.4    1153.3          30.0     346.0
2. Arrenda.miento de oficina        20.9       47.1       91.1      91.1       91.1      341.1          0.0        0.0
3. Pasajes ' viaticos               73.6      178.7      265.9     237.5      168.8      924.5          0.0        0.0
4. Oper. de Lticina                 61.8      135.5      219.3     212.9      189.0      818.6          0.0        0.0
5. Mant. de Coaprtadores            37.6      201.5      246.5     246.5      115.0      847.2         25.0     211.8
Sub-total                             254.8      735.1    1150.1    1105.5       839.2    4084.7          13.7      557.8
7. COATUNICACION
1. Prog.TV Nacionat                  0.0      101.7      101.7      70.1       42.4      315.8          0.0        0.0
2. Cocunicaciones M8S                8.4       22.3       22.3      22.3        0.0       75.4          C.0        0.0
3. Prog.Tv Regionales                0.0       59.3       42.4      33.9       16.9      152.5          0.0        0.0
4. Prog. Radiates                    0.0       38.2       29.7      29.7       29.7      127.5          0.0        0.0
5. Videos                            0.0      135.6      135.6      135.6     127.1      533.9          0.0        0.0
6. Diapor.,i.mpresos,repr.           0.0       47.5       34.7      34.7       24.6      141.5          0.0        0.0
7. Estudios y exposic.               0.0       20.3       20.3      20.3        0.0       60.8          0.0        0.0
Sub-totat                               8.4      424.9      386.7      346.7     240.8    1407.5           0.0        0.0
................................................... ..................................................................  ....................
Total RECURRENT COSTS                 809.2    2850.4    4190.1    4282.7    3695.7   15828.2              3.5      557.8
........................................ .............................................................................  ....................
Total BASELINE COSTS                33656.8   50198.3   47919.4   51572.7   43777.4  227124.6             14.3   32456.3
Physical Contingencies              20.3      105.0       59.8       0.1        0.0      185.3         31.9       59.1
Price Contingencies                  0.0      452.7    1327.6    2862.1    4046.7    8689.1            12.8    1114.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                 33677.1   50756.1   49306.9   54434.9   47824.1  .135999.0            14.3   33629.9
asaaa.a..g...........         .ssrs,aS. ............... t........ Z a-......u.....&dS *--
Taxes                              208.9      713.7      603.0     318.9      143.2    1987.7           0.0        0.0
Foreign Exchange                  5980.2    8039.0    6709.7    7166.1    5734.8   33629.9            100.0   33629.9
...........   .................................... ............................................. @



-86 - 
Page 4 of 14
REPUBLICA DE CHILE
PROGRA)4A DE APOYO A PEo'JENOS PRCOUCTORES
TRANSF. TECROLCGICA r CRE0170
Suixnry ACCOuntS by Year
Totats Inctuding Contingerules
C.AIes US$
.................... ..................................O  . . o.  .  .     .............. *
01         02          03         04          05      Total
fl.aws,nflqaaflt=rfl±n:r:ss.=nra,:sa.frtflznfl.s=szn.5
1. INYESTMENT COSTS
....................
.. ASIST1NCIA FINANCIERA
1. C.prod.basics                      4577.0      5143.9    5028.4    4C55.2    1161.3   19965.8
2. C.oe9er.organizactones              409.0       562.0       210.7         0.0        0.0     1181.7
3. C.op.individual                   10903.0    5040.0   -1C68.8    1156.8   *237C.6   13660.4
4. C.CapItatiz.aasics                  386.0    4837.1        4926.7    5060.0    5237.1   20447.0
5. C.1nv.Organizaciones                   0.0     1234.0    1482.9    1523.1    1576.4    5816.4
6. C.iny.Individsal,                  1787.0      2239.0    1838.5    1541.0    1175.5          8581.3
....................... ;................................... 9
Sub-Totat                                18C62.0   19056.0   12418.4   13336.2    6i79.7   69652.2
B. APCRTES PR:VADOS                       6066.0     7633.1      7083 7    8526.3    7562.9   36872.1
C. SO6OS DE TRANSFERENCIAS                6860.6   13949.1    18164.4   21891.0   24398.7   85263.8
D. SUBSIDIOS                               167.2      2462.5     3087.7    3633.5    4136.6   13487.4
E. ADQ.OFICINAS                              0.0        14.7         6.8        7.0         7.2       35.7
F. EOUIPANIENTO
1. VehicuLos                           178.1       484.0       705.5        3.8         3.7    1375.2
2. softwore                             140.2       22.3         0.0         0.0        0.0      162.6
3. Hard.Are                            279.3      1021.2         0.0         0.0        0.0    13G0.5
4. de redlelon                          145.8       73.7         0.0         0.0        0.0      219.5
5. De Oficina                          142.4        75.5       126.3         0.0        0.0      344.2
6. Audlovisual                            0.0       53.2         0.0         0.0        0.0        53.2
7. Eq.vsrios                              0.0       11.3         3.7        3.8         4.0       22.9
......... ....................................................
Sub-Total                                  885.9     1741.1       835.5;        7.7        7.7    3478.0
G. EVALUACION EXTERNA                        0.0        44.8         0.0       64.5      127.5       236.8
M. CAPACITACICN                            228.6       738.3      802.2       777.1      766.4    3312.6
1. Pub:lcaicor.es                           13.3         4.5        0.0         0.0        0.0        17.8
J. Asesorts                                 17.0         4.9         0.0        0.0        0.0        21.9
K. Conservador B.Ralces                     62.5       252.4      293.8       188.6        0.0       797.4
L. Ad'ninistra8con                         118.6      478.6       557.1       357.6        0.0    1511.9
M1. Personal                               174.1       702.5      817.7       524.9         0.0    2219.1
*1. Avisos                                  36.4       147.1       171.2      109.9         0.0      464.5
0. Utilidad e  mripvestos                  152.3       614.6      715.4       459.2         0.0    1941.6
P. Irp,distdift Saes5                       23.4        35.6       46.8        30.9         0.0      136.7
-............................................................
TotaL INVESTMENT COSTS                  32867.8   47879.8   45000.7   49914.4   43786.7  219449.4
11  RECURREIT COSTS
A. PERSONAL INCREMIENTAL"
1. Profeslonat                         319.5       766.9      1103.0    1132.9    1C62.6    4384.8
2. Tecn!eos                            141.9  .   327.0        535.7      550.2       454.8    2009.6
3. Admitistratfvo                        84.6      283.4       610.3      626.9       576.4    2181.7
4. Coordiradores                          0.0       3C.3        30.8        15.8        0.0       76.9
5. ConsuLtores                            0.0       25.2        25.7       26.4        27.3      104.6
...... .......... .............................................
Sub-Totat                                  546.0     1432.8    2305.5    2352.2    2121.1    8757.6
B. SERVICIOS DE CC8RANZAS                    0.0       272.9      421.1       635.5      736.4    2065.9
C. COSTOS OPER. 9 KANT.
1. Opercilon de Vehlcutos               60.9       173.8       336.3      335.1      300.9       2C06.9
2. Arr.ndamiento de oticins             20.9        47.5        93.6       96.1        99.5      357.6
3. Pasajes y Visticos                    73.6      180.3       273.3       250.7      184.4      962.3
4. Oatr. de OftIcI      r               61.8       136.7       225.4       224.7      206.4      855.1
5. Kant. de Cc.pu-tadoeee               37.6       203.3       253.4       260.2      125.6      880.1
.............................................................
Sub-Total                                  254.8       741.7     1182.0    1166.8        916.8    4262.1
0. COIUNICACION
1. Prog.TV lalionat                      0.0       102.6       1C4.5       74.0        46.3      327.4
2. Cormnlscaclones mail                   8.5       22.7        23.1       23.7         0.0       77.9
3. Prog.TV ReglonaLes                     0.0       59.9        43.5        35.8       18.5      157.7
4. Pros. Radiates                         0.0       38.6        30.6       31.4        32.5      133.0
S. VIdeos                                0.0       136.8       139.3      143.1       138.9      558.1
6. Dlrpor. ,Irpresoe repr.                0.0       47 9        35.7       36.7        26.8      147.1
7. Estudios y exposlc.                   0.0        20.4        20.8       21.4         0.0       62.6
.............................................................
Sub-Total                                    8.5      428.8       397.6       366.0      263.0      1463.9
..... ........... ...................................................
TotaL RECURRENT COSTS                     809.3      2876.2    4306.2    4520.5    4037.4   16549.5
tSff3ZbtuSut**..caams.a...            * .n...=..S S2.....la....... ...SSS ..
Total PROJECT COSTS                     336?7.1   50756.1    49306.9   54434.9   47824.1  235999.0
.f-    .oa*tnass.a.s...........as     .......aS   b.................a ..a
..............................................................................................



87
ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 14
REPUBLICA DE ChlLE
PRCG0.ArIA DE APOYO A PEOUEhOS PROOUCTORES
TRAhSF. TECEOLOGICA Y CREDITO
Suwpsrry Accounts Cost s5uIary
m les USS                        X Total
..................-.-...........   Forelgn         Base
Local   Foreign       Total   Exchenge       Costs
1. INVESTMENT COStS
...................
A. ASISTENCIA FINANCIERA
1. C.prod.b&sIca                   14604.8    4868.2   19473.0          25.0        8.6
2. C.oper.organizaciones             878.3      292.7    1171.0         25.0        0.5
3. C.op.individual                 10338.0    3446.0   13784.0          25.0        6.1
4. C.Capitaolz.Basica              14671.5    4890.5   19562.0          25.0        8.6
5. C.Inv.Organizaciones         t  4164.0    1388.0    5552.0           25.0        2.4
6. C.fnv.1ndividual                 6248.3    2082.7    8331.0          25.0        3.7
Sub-Yotal                             50904.8   16968.2   67873.0          25.0       29.9
B. APORTES PRIVADCS                   35525.0         0.0   35525.0         0.0        15.6
C. BCNOS DE TRANSfERENCIAS            69380.8   12054.0   81'.34.8         14.8       35.9
D. SUBSIDIOS                          11643.2    1198.0   12841.2           9.3         5.7
E. AQO.OFICINAS                          34.4         0.0       34.4        0.0         0.0
F. EOUIPAMIENTo
1. Vehiculos                         867.3      393.0    1260.3         31.2        0.6
2. Software                          161.5        0.0      161.5         0.0        0.1
3. Hardware                          642.5      582.7    1225.2         47.6        0.5
4. Lie rmelclc.n                     152.3       65.3      217.5        30.0        0.1
5. De Oficina                        220.8       97.1  :317.9           30.5        0.1
6. AudlovlsuaL                         9.9       39.7       49.6        80.0        0.0
7. Eq.varios                          22.1        0.0       22.1         0.0        0.0
Sub-Total                              2076.4    1177.7    3254.0          36.2         1,4
G. EVALUACIOH EXTERYA                   222.2         0.0     222.2         0.0        0.1
M. CAPACITACION                        3151.2       27.5    3178.7          0.9         1.4
1. Publicacionts                         17.8        0.0        17.8        0.0        0.0
J. Asesoria                              21.9         0.n       21.9       OO.        0.0
K. Conservador 8.Ralces                 777.3         0.0      777.3        0.0         0.3
L. Aciministracion                     1473.8         0.0    1473.8         0.0         0.6
M. Personal                            2163.3         0.0    2163.3         0.0         1.0
N. AviSoS                               452.8         C.0      452.8        0.0         0.2
0. Utilidad e i.nuestos                1419.5       473.2    1892.7        25.0         0.8
P. tr:.dist,dif bases                   133.4         0.0      133.4        0.0         0.1
To:al INVESTHENT COSTS               179397.8   31898.6  211296.4          15.1       93.0
I. RECURRENT COSTS
................ .............. .
A. PERSONAL INCREMENTAL
1. Profesioral                      4198.8        0.0    4198.8          0.0        1.8
2. Tecnicos                         1924.8        0.0    1924.8          0.0        0.8
3. Ad.inistrativo                   2081.0        0.0    2081.0          0.0        0.9
4. Coordinadores                      75.0        0.0       71.0         0.0        0.0
5. Consultores                       100.8        0.0      108.0         0.0        0.0
Sub-totaL                              8379.6         0.0    8379.6         0.0         3.7
B. SERVICICS DE COBRANtAS              1956.4         0.0    1956.4         0.0         0.9
C. COSTOS OPER. L KANT.
1. Operaclon de Vehicutos            807.3      346.0    1153.3         30.0        0.5
2. Arrendaliento de Oficina          341.1        0.0      341.1         0.0        0.2
3. Pasajes y Viaticos                924.5        0.0      924.5         0.0        0.4
4. oper. de Oficina                  818.6        0.0      818.6         0.0        0.4
5. Mant. dle Compvtadores            635.4      211.8      847.2        25.0        0.4
Sub-Totat                              3526.9       557.8    4084.7        13.7         1.8
D. COMUNICACICN
1. Prog.TV Nacional                  315.8        0.0      315.8         0.0        0.1
2. Co  nincaclones KBN                75.4        0.0       75.4         0.0        0.0
3. Proq.TV Reglonales                152.5        0.0      152.5         0.0        0.1
4. Prog. Radiales                    127.5        0.0      127.5         0.0        0.1
5. Videos                            533.9        0.0      533.9         0.0        0.2
6. Dlapor.,imrresos repr.            141.5        0.0      141.5         0.0        0.1
7. Estudios y exposlc.                60.8        0.0       60.8         0.0        0.0
Sub-Total                              1407 5         0 0    1407 5         0 0         0.6
Total RECURRENT COSTS                 15270.4      557.8   15628.2          3.5         7.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                 194668.2   32456.3  227124.6          14.3      100.0
PhysicaL Contingencles               126.2       59.1      185.3        31.9        0.1
PrIce Contingencies                 7574.7    1114.4    8689.1          12.8        3.8
Total PROJECTS CuSTS                 202369.1   33629.9  235999.0          14.3      103.9
...................................................................................



- 88 -
ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 14
REPU8LICA DE CHILE
PROCRAKA DE APOY0  A PtCUE,OS P2O0UCTO2ES
TRAYS5. TECuOL40'r-A Y CRE2ITO
Table 101. CP0O0ENxDE DE TRASVERENCIA 0E TECIOLOGIA '6>
Progrta de trn3sf.rePnci y C1,pacitacion Siste.Tatliada
DOtailKd Cost TIbt.
mlteL USS
Quantity t                                         Unlit Cost
.......      ''.....* ........................   ....... . .....x............*   l
01       02        03        01.       CS    Totat          01     02      03      04     05
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
................
A. Progra0a transf.tecnot0g.                                 500       600       600 243                .3 OZ          ..      .5 02
Ithsa I 41ix                        25338    4300       300        20000      00 2136            02    0.14   0.24   0.24   0.25
Otaps i  t2336 0                               7924    15924    15924    22C00    61772          0.14   0.14   0.11    0.14   0.1.
Eta1   II3'0                                      0         0         0     7924      792'       0.04   0.04   0.04   0.01.   0.04
Eetpa  1t  03                                   111       3C3       530      659      1603       0.53   0.53   0.62   0.68   0.71
B. Capacitae.EspectC3OlZds .4,'00                                                                               .7 00          .7 OC
Tt,itlca                                0      2500      2500      2500     2S00    10000                0 0      .     0.0    0.07
Gas:lxn                                 0      1250      1250      12.50     1250     5000       0.1    0.11   0.11   0.1.1   0.11
C. CATS CS>                                 132       182      222       2S7    . 280       1073       8.17  10.61  10.81  10.98  11.16
0. Cap3cltaclen agefntes Ext.                                                                           .S      .;    O-S       ;    OG
E. Cpacltaclon CATS                         292      498       6C0       6;0       536      2514       0.05   0.05   0.05   0.05   0.05
Ease Costs                                         Totats Irclud!rg Contingencies
01        02        03      0O         0S    Totsl            01        02        03        04       0S    TotaL
-.......................................................................   ................................................................ O
1. INVESYmENT CCS1S
................ ............ 
A. Programrs transf.tecnolog.
ECsp. 3 .l>                        5782.1  107C5.S  12828.4  15295.4  15295.1  59906.8           5732.1  10801.8  13183.1.  16144.2  16709.3  62620.9
Etapa 11 e2>                          0.0   1123.6   2250.6   2259.6   3121.8   8764.7              0.0   1133.7   2322.1   2383.0   3410.4   9251.3
Ctap.  111 <3           ~             0.0       0.0       J.0       0.0    325.'   325.7            0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0    353.8    353.8
Incerctvos   ASgentes extt            0.0      38.9    187.5    361.9    466.5   1074.8             0.0      59.4    192.7    382.0    SC9.6   1143.7
Sub-Total                           57D2.1  1123d.0  15275.5  17916.9  192C9.4  70071.9           5702.1  11995;0  15698.2  18911.2  20985.1  73371.6
B. Capac!tac.EsCpclalzad* <1.,
Tematic.                              0.0    173.5    173.5    173.5    173.5    69'.0              0.0    175.1    178.3    183.1    189.5    726.0
GesOlon                               0.0    138.9    138.9    138.9    138.9    555.5               0.0   1L1.0    142.7    146.6    151.7    581.1
Sub-Total                              0.0    312.4    312.4    312.4    312.'   1249.5               0.0    313.2    321.0    329.7    341.3   1307.2
C. CATS .5'                             1078..   1936.7   2399.8   2823.1   3124.8  11362.9            1078.4   1954.1   2466.2   2979.8   31:3.6  11892.2
0. Capacitac3on agenles Ext.             164.7.   222.1    277.2    277.2    277.2   1218.4             164.7    224.1    284.9    292.6    3C2.8   1269.1
E. Cap4cItaclon CATS                      15.3      25.4      30 t      30.2      26.0    127.2          15.5      25.6     30.9      31.9      28.4    132.3
total INVESTMENT COSTS                      7040.8  14384.6  18295.0  21359.8  22949.8  8.4029.9          7043.8  14514.0  18801.2  22545.2  25071.2  87972.4
Totat                                   7040.8  14384.6  18295.0  21359.8  22949.8  84029.9            7040.8  14514.0  le831.2  22545.2  25071.2  67972.4
-reasc3o.n of Totats I=cL.Cont.
mites USS                                    Parmeeters
F.Exch    Local    Taxes    Totat    PRy. Cont. For. Exch.  Gross Tax Sv.. Acnt.
................ ............... ,, ..........   ............................................
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
................
A. Programe tra  f.tecnolog.
Etap. I <1>                        9393.1  53227.7        0.0  62620.9            0.00        0.15        0.50 80NGS
Etepa It 42x                       1387.7   7863.6        0.0   9251.3            0.00        0.15        0.00 BCtOS
Etopa III  3x3                       53.4    302.4        0.0    355.8            0.00        0.15        0.00 B0OS
Incontivot a Agentet ext.             0.0   1143.7        0.0   1143.7            0.00        0.00        0.00 OCKOS
Sub-Total                          10034.2  62537.4        0.0  73371.6
S. tapacitac.tiptc1atIzeds 44y
T.Cactaca                             0.0    726.0        0.0    726.0            0.00        0.00        0.00 CAPAC
Cestiorr                              0.0    581.1        0.0    So1.1            O.CO        0.00        0.00 CAPAC
Sub-Tetat                              0.0   1307.2        0.0   1307.2
C. GATt xSx                             1783.8  10G1O.4        0.0  11t92.2            0.00         0.15        0.00 SCOCS
0. Ccp.acitaelorc agentes Ext.              0.0   1269.1       0.0   1269.1            C.00         0.00        0.00 CAPAC
E. Capaclaclom CATs                         0.0    132.3       0.0    132.3            0.00         0.00       O.DC CAPAC
*Tottl INVESTMCNI COSTS                   12618.0  75354.4         0.0  877.4
Total                                  12618.0  75354.4        0.0  8'9'2.4
t**t........ ......... .tS.................................................. ......... .S........ . . .......................
xix S.rvicloa de tranif. tecnotogicas de rayor Inter.sidad enf.en tecnologico
x2, Serviclos de motor fntensldd onfaslo en sestion-sl 5 es et rian.d.L  4
43x Puesta er #ArehA do sorvielo di trt.rhrencle avtogestleonda
x4. consasto an cepcIttclo osetc(fiex a productores
5>s conmiste en ContrAtsefon de tervloios do Consult. de Apoyo Tonico
CO  taest   e calcuteso:.UP .7.400 Pasoo; USTS 360 P$sos



- 89 -
ANNEX 5
REPUBLICA DE CHI4Lt                                 Page   7  of  14
PRCG9AMA DE APOYO A PEC;EROS P20UCTORES
.TRANSF. TECMCLOG.CA Y CRgOITO
Yable 201. COMPOI;ENTE DE CREDITO (1)
Oetziled Cost TabLo
miltes USS
Quantity                 Unit Cost                                  case Costs
.a.S..S......S...2a.........   ...2           a.o.a..s..s...a s...           .....a.......2..S....l . ...S...aSOSS.#
01 0203    04    05 Total            1-05             01         02         03         04          05      To4la
. ................................................. ......... ...........   .................................. I.......................................... 8
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
................
A. CREDITOS
C.Prod.Issics                                     . *                                 4577.0    5098.0    4893.0    3842.0    1063.0   19473.0
C.Oper.Organizaciones               .      .     .                                      409.0      557.0      205.0         0.0        0.0    1171.0
C.Cper.Indlvidust t                                                                   10903.0    4995.0    104C.0    1C96.0   .2170.0   137;4.0
C.Capit.as*ica                                                                          386.0    4794.0    4794.0    4794.0    4794.0   19562.0
C.Inv.0rganizaciones                *                                                     0.0    1223.0    1443.0    1443.0    1443.0    5552.0
C.Inv.lndividual                              .            .                           1787.0    2219.0    1789.0    1460.0    1076.0    8331.0
Sub-TotaR                                                                              18062.0   18886.0   12C84.0   12635.0    6206.0   67873.0
8. APORTE AGRICULTCA                                                                        6066.0    6565.0    4893.0    5078.0    2923.3   2552S.0
C. APORTE SANCA .OMERCIAL                                                                       0.0    10CO.0    2CC00.       3000.0    4000.0   10000.0
D. SiBSiDtOS
Est1dios deo mortedo <2>             3      2      1     0      8        17.78           53.3       35.6       35.6        17.8        0.0      142.2
Prefactibitidsd de proy.            20    99    82       0   300          3.56           71.2      352.4      352.4      291.9         0.0    1068.0
Factibilidad proyocto                c,   32    43  t. 87   200           7.11           42.7      227.5      227.5      305.7      618.6    1422.0
S.rHozgo tecnltogico (3)            *        -                                            0.0      290.0      437.0      552.0       584.0    1863.0
Capitaizaclon*                                                                            0.0    1198.0    1198.0    1198.0    1198.0    4792.0
S.toss de Interes                   *                                                     0.0      337.0      754.0    1077.0    1386.0    3554.0
Sub-Total                                                                                167.2    2440.5    3CC4.5    3442.4    378.6   12841.2
.........lO.   ........ .........2 .........5.........1 ......... 
Totat INVESlTENT COSTS                                                                        24295.2   28891.5   21981.5   2415S.4   16915.6  116239.2
Totalt                                                                                     24295.    2i89'.    Zt98'.;   24tSS.;  t615.6'   1t6239.2
So* ........R.aS.......................................... a........................................ 2.............asflf----R------
Breakdown of Totals Inct.Cont.
Totals Inctuding Contingencles                                         miles US:
01         02         03         04          05     Total         f.Exchl     4ocal       Taxes      Total
................................................................................................................   .................. I......................... a
INVESTMENT COSTS
................
3. CR'0IT0S
C.Prod.Basica                       4577.0    5143.9    5028.4    4055.2    1161.3   19965.8               4991.4   14974.3         0.0   19965.8
C.Oper.Organlzaclones                409.0      562.0      210.7         0.0        0.0    1181.7           295.4      886.3        0.0    1181.7
C.Oper.Individuat                  10903.0    SC40.0   -1068.8    1156.8   .2370.6   13660.4              3415.1   10245.3          0.0   13660.4
C.Capit.sasica                       386.0    4837.1    4926.7    5060.0    5237.1   20447.0              5111.7   15335.2          0.0   20447.0
C.Inv.3rganIzaclones                   0.0    1234.0    1482.9    1523.1    1576.4    5816.4               1454.1    4362.3         0.0    5816.4
C.Inv.lrivituaL                     1787.0    2239.0    1838.5        1541.0    1175.5    858:.0           2145.2    6435.7         0.0    8581.0
Sub-Totat                           18062.0   19056.0   12418.4   13336.2    6779.7   69652.2              17413.1   52239.2          0.0   69652.2
S. APORTE AGRICULTOR                     6066.0    6624.1    5028.4    5359.8    3193.2   26271.5                   0.0   26271.5         0.0   26271.5
C. APORtE BANCA CGHERCIAL                    0.0    1009.0    2055.3    3166.5    4369.8   10600.6                  0.0   10600.6         0.0   10600.6
0. SUBSIDIOS
Estudios de s*rcado <27               53.3       35.9        36.5       18.8        0.0      144.5            0.0      144.5         0.0      164.5
Prefactibitidsd de proy.              71.2      355.6      362.2       3C8.1        0.0    1097.1             0.0    1097.1          0.0    1097.1
Factibitidad proyerto                 42.7      229.6      233.8       322.7      675.7    1504.5             0.0    1504.5         0.0    1504.5
S.rIvzgo teonoLogico *3>               0.0      292.6       449.1      582.6      638.0    1962.3             0.0    1962.3          0.0    19E2.3
CapItalizacion                         0.0    12088        1231.1    1264.5    1308.7    5013.2            1253.3    3759.9          0.0    5073.2
S.tasa de interes                      0.0      340.0       774.9     1:36.8    1514.1    3765.8              0.0    3765.8          0.0    3765.8
.........    ........... .........    ........... .........    ......... . .. .........    ........... .........    .................................... .
Sub-Total                             167.2    2462.5    3087.7    3633.5    4136.6   13487.4               1253.3   12234.1          0.0   13487.4
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                      24295.2   29151.5   22589.8   25495.9   18479.2  120011.7              18666.3  101345.3          0.0  120011.7
..... ....... I,,, .         ........ ......... .. ,, ....t..t..      . ...... ......... ..h.h .... . S,  I...--....S
Total                                   24295.2   29151.5   22589.8   25495.9   18479.2  12001t.7              18666.3  101345.3          0.0  120011.7
Poraneters
Phy. Cont. For. Exch. Gross Tax Sus . Acnt.
............................................
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
................
A. CREOITOS
C.Prod.llasic                          0.00         0.25        0.G0 PtAS
C.Oper.OrganizacloIns                  0.00         0.25        0.00 COO
C.Oper.Irdividual                      O.CO         0.25        0.00 COI
C.Capit.88slca                         0.00         0.25        0.00 C8AS
C.Iny.Organseiacioms                   0.00         0.25        0.00 CIO
C.Irw.lrdivi4ual                       0.00         0.25        0.C0 Cll
S. AP0MTT  AGRICULTOR                        0.00        0.00         0.00 APORTE
C. APORTE SAWCA COMERCIAL                    0.00        0.00         0.00 APCRTE
0. SUIS1oios
Es'udils d. marcado *2>                0.00        0.00         0.C0  "i85i
PrlaactibiLidad de proy.               OJ.00       0.C0         0.00 Su3S5
FactibiLidad proyecto                  0.00        0.00         0.00 SU351
S.rfezgo tecnologlco 43>               0.00         0.00        0.00 51;65i
CapitaLizaclon                         O.CO         0.25        0.00  SUI
dS,tae do Interco                      0.00         0.00        0.00 Sue8S
.a..fl'1..-.sf-----  l-n.--^- -s. .ae        -- aa-.sfls--..        sf.. ....S -. --.*. .... So.
74. Baa. d  caiclUttS# * 360 Peose
P2l FInanciame.nto de eatudios de idontificacton do Ltortl0tIvaS rhntables
43t Atteclon do c oasinos Mas pobras con pordidas do cosechesrnerc.,otc.
I                             . -



REPUBLICOA DE CHIltE
PROGRAMA DE APOYO A PEOUE1OS PRODUCTORES
TEANSF. IECUOLOGICA Y CREOITO
Tabte 301. CONPOVEIiIE rE IRAMSFERERICIA 7ECIOLOGICA
Programa de Coetmicaclcn Rural
Detailed Cost Table
mites USS
Ouantity      Unit Cost                         Base Costs                                Totats inciudirij Contingencies
01-05 Totat         1-05         01       02      03      04       05   Totat         01       02      03      0;       05   Total
. IVNESIMENT COSTS
A. Videos Reprod. V.7.S.               -      -           -          0.0    10.6     0.0      0.0     0.0    10.6         0.0    10.7     0.0      0.0     0.0    10.7
B. Camietas                                               -          0.0    19.4     3.4      3.6     3.4    29.8         0.0    19.5     3.5      3.8     3.7    30.6
C. oficinas y ,uebles                  -      -           -          0.0    14.6     6.6      6.6     6.6    34.4         0.0    14.7     6.8      7.0     7.2    35.7
D. Equipos varios                      -      -           -          0.0    11.2      3.6     3.6     3.6    22.1         0.0   17.3      3.7      3.8     4.0    22.9
E. software                            -      -           -          0.0     8.5      0.0     0.0     0.0     8.5         0.0     3.6     0.0      0.0     0.0      8.6
Total INVESTMENT CoSTS                                                  0.0    64.2    13.7    13.9    13.7   105.4          0.0    64.8    14.0    14.7    14.9   108.4
It. RECURRENT COSTS
. ._... ....  ....._
A. Prog. T.V.  3actonal <11>           -      -                      0.0   101.7   101.7    70.1    42.4  315.8           0.0  102.6   104.5    74.0    46.3   327.4
B. Prog. T.V. Regionlt 0-                                            0.0    59.3    42.4    33.9    16.9   152.5          0.0    59.9    43.5    35.8    18.5   157.7
C. Prog. Radiates                                                    0.0    38.2    29.7    29.7    29.7   127.5          0.0    38.6    30.6    31.4    32.5   133.0
D. Videos                                     -           -          0.0   135.6   135.6  135.6   127.1   533.9           0,0   136.8   139.3  143.1   135.9   558.1
E. Dinporae,fnpresos.reprod            -                             0.0    47.5    34.7    34.7    24.6   141.5          0.0    47.9    35.7    36.7    26.8   147.1
F. Estudios y exposiciones             -                             0.0    20.3    20.3    20.3      0.0    60.8         0.0    20.4    20.8    21.4      0.0    62.6
G. Profesionales                       -      -           -          0.0   114.0   114.0   114.0  114.0   456.0           0.0   115.0   117.2   120.3   124.5   477.0
R. Secretarias y Adcinistr.            -      -                      0.0    30.1    30.0    30.1    30.0   120.2          0.0    30.4    30.8    31.8    32.8   125.7
1. Coordinadores                       *      -                     0.0    30.0    30.0    15.0       0.0    75.0         0.0    30.3    30.8    15.8      0.0    76.9
J. Consultores                         -      -           -          0.0    25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0   100.0          0.0    25.2    25.7   26.4    27.3   104.6                           1
K. Viaticos                            -      *                      0.0     5.2      5.2     5.2     5.2    20.8         C.0     5.2      5.3     5.5     5.7    21.8
Total RECURREN  cosTs                                                  o0.0   606.5   568.6   513.6   415.0  2104.0          0.0   612.3   584.3   542.1   453.3  2192.1                         0
Total                                                                0.0   671.0   582.3   527.5  428.6  2209.4           0.0   677.1  598.4  556.8   46S.Z  2300.5                            1
Breakdown n4 Totals Incl.Cont.
e. USS                                Parameters
F.Exch   tocat   Taxes   Total    Phy. Cont. for. Exch. Gross Tax SUD. Acnt.
.. . . . . . . . . . . . .   .................................... . ..   ............................................
1. IVESTMEIIT COSTS
........ ..........._
A. Videos Reprod. V.i.S.                8.6      2.1     0.0    10.7           0.00        0.80       0.00 AUOIIO
B. Csuionetas                          24.5      6.1     0.0    30.6           0.00        0.80       0.00 VEFI
C. Oficinas y suebles                   0.0    35.7      0.0    35.7           0.00        0.00       0.00 OFT
D. Equipos varies                       0.0    22.9      0.0    22.9           0.00        0.00       0.00 VAR
E. Software                             0.0      8.6     0.0      8.6          0.00        0.00       0.00 SOFT
_   ..... ... ....  .......  ........  .......
lotat IVSXHIEIT COSTS                     33.0    75.4      0.0   108.4
11. RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                                                                                      03|
A. Prog.  .V. Yaciooa1 *t>              0.0   327.4      0.0   327.4           0.00        0.00       0.00  I V
B. Prog. T.V. Regional <1>              0.0   157.7      0.0   157.7           0.00        0.00       0.00 TVN                                                                        CO
C. Prog. Radiates                       0.0   133.0      0.0   133.0           0.00       0.00        0.t0 PMA
D. Videos                               0.0   558.1      0.0   558.1           0.00        0.30       0.00 VID                                                                        O
E. ODIporma Iwpresos reprod             0.0   147.1      0.0   147.1           0.00       0.00        0.00 DtAt
F. Estudlos y exposiciones              D.0    62.6      0.0    62.6           0.00       0.00        0.00 EST
G. ProFesionales                        0.0   477.0      0.0   477.0           0.00       0.00        0.00 PROF
M. Secretarits y AJbinistr.             0.0   125.7      0.0   125.7           0.00       0.00        0.00 ACMD
i. Coordlnadores                        0.0    76.9      0.0    76.9           0.00       0.00        0.00 COOR
J. Consultores                          0.0   104.6      0.0   104.6           0.00       0.00        0.00 CONS
K. Viaticos                             0.0    21.8      0.0    21.8           0.00        0.00       0.00 VIAT
.......    ........ .......     ............ ........
Total RECURRENT COSTS                      0.0  2192.1      0.0  2192.1
Total                                  33.0  2267.5      0.0  2300.5
-tI Los eportes anuales dismiruyen por sportes publicitarios



t
REPUB5LICA DE CHILE
PROGRAtA lE APOYO A fEOUENDS PROUCTORES
TRARSF. TECNDLOGICA Y CREDI2O
Table 401. COSIOS DE TITULACION
Empresas y Personal
Detailed Cost Table
miles USS
Quantity                          Unit Cost                          Base Costs
01      02       03       04.      05   Totat         1 0S          01       02       03      04       05   Total
..............  .. .... ............... .................... .... .... ......... ........... .   . ......................._. .......................
T. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. lnsc. C.B.Paices              3500   14000   16000   10000           0   43500         0.02        12.5   250.2   285.9   178.7        0.0   777.3
8. Adinlnstracion                3500   14000   16000   10300           0   41500         0.03       1.8.6   474.3   542.1   338.8        0.0  1473.8
C. Personal                      3500   14000   16000   10000           0   43500         0.05       174.1   696.2   795.7   497.3        0.0  2163.3
0. Avisos                        3500   14000   16000   10000           0   43500         0.01        36.4   145.7   166.6   104.1        0.0   452.8
E. (ttilidad e lqapestos         3500   14000   16000   10000           0   43500         0.04       152.3   609.1   696.2   435.1        0.0  1892.7
F. Irp, dist y dif baaes           -        -        -                -        -            -         23.4, 35.3    45.6    29.3          0.0   133.4
Total IIIVESTKENT COSTS                                                                                 567.3  2210.9  2532.0  1583.3        0.0  6893.3
It. RECURRENT COSTS
..... ..... _ .
A. Prefesionl                     -        -        -        -       -        -                      77.6   100.6   100.6   100.6        0.0   379.5
3. AcInistrativos                  -        -        -        -       -        -                      31.4    66.1    66.1    66.1        0.0   229.9
C. Teenicos                        -        -        -        -        -                    -         48.0   105.0   105.0   105.0        0.0   362.9                                              1
0. Viaticot                         -       -        -                 -                              39.3    88.8    97.'    68.7        0.0   29!.9
....... ........ ....... ..........    .......                          ... ...........  -----  vo
Total RECORRENT COSTS                                                                                   196.4   360.6   38.9   3S0.5         0.0  1266.3
Total                                                                                                763.6  2571.4  2900.9  1923.7        0.0  8159.6                                              1
Breakdown of Totals Inct.Cont.
Totals Including ContingencIes                            mites USS                                  Peraaeters
01      02       03       04       05   Totat      F.Exch   Local   Taxes   Totat    Phy. Cont. For. Edch.  G-os& Tax Sut. Acrt.
.... ....  _.... . _. ........ ................  .................  ... .. ....... ......... .. ..... .... .   . ..   ............. .................... .... .... . .... ...  . ............. 
I. 3IWWdSlTiE   COSTS
...... .. ...
A. irsc. t.B.2aices              62.5   252.4   293.8   188.6        0.0   797.4          0.0   797.4      0.0   797.4            0.00        O.t3        o.co CUR
9. Administraclon               118.6   478.6   557.1   357.6        0.0  1511.9          0.0  1511.9      0.0  1511.9            0.00        0.00        0.03 tnI
C. Personal                     174.1   702.5   817.7   524.9        0.0  2219.1          0.0  2219.i      0.0  2219.1            0.00        0.00        0.03 PERS
D. Avisos                        36.4   147.1   171.2   109.9        0.0   464.5          0.0   464.5      0.0   464.5            0.00        0.00        0.00 AVIS
E. Utilidad e Irpuestos         1S2.3   614.6   715.4   459.2        0.0  1941.6        485.4   912.5   543.6  1941.6             9.00        0.25        0.28 UTIL
F. Irp, dist y dif bases         23.4    35.6    46.8    30.9        0.0   136.7          0.0   112.1    24.6   136.7             0.00        0.00        0.18 OASES
Total INVESTMENT COSTS             567.3  2230.8  2602.0  1671.1        0.0  7071.2        485.4  6017.5   568.2  7071.2                                                                    2)
71. ECURRENlT COSTS
A. Profeslonal                   77.6   101.6   103.4   106.2        0.0   388.8          0.0   377.2    11.7   388.8             0.00        0.03        0.03 FTOF
v. Adslnlstretivos               31.4    66.7    68.0    69.8        0.0   236.0          0.0   236.0      0.0   236.0            0.00        0.C0        0.00 oA9K 
C. Temicc.                       48.0   705.9   107.9   110.8        0.0   372.6          0.0   372.6      0.0   372.6            0.00        0.00        0.00 7EC
0. tiaticos                      39.3    89.6    99.8    72.5        0.0   301.2          0.0   301.2      0.0   301.2            0.00        0.00        0.03 VIAT
....... ........ ......  .......  ...... ....... ....... ......... ....... ......... ....... .........  .......  .........  ......... .............. .......... @_
Total RECURRENT COSTS               196.4   363.8   379.1   359.4        0.0  1290.6         0.0  1287.0    11.7  1298.6                                                                    .
Total                           763.6  2594.6  2981.1  2^30.5        0.0  8369.8       '.85.4  7304.5   579.9  8369.8
":::wgsssB=":st~:r-=t:=:-Jzt.mz=====v   =  =: :::  :  ==::: ::  :::: :   :S:  r::-:  :ss=: -::cYrfl....:- . ==a  =-:::  z::=:--



REPUIJtCA DE CHILE
PROGRANA DE APOYO A PEOUE(9OS PROCCC70RS
iRASSF. TECQOLOGECA It CRt0070
Table 501. COKPOIIENTE DE DESARROLLO IUSTIT(CIOiAL - IStDIP
Equipuiento pars ISS0AP
Detalted Cost lab!,
01:es US
Ouantity               Unit Cost                    ast  Costs                      lotata Irciudlim Cetirgwnclas
, w ............... se ...................... .. *. *... -.... -  ...... . .......... _..........l
0:   02    03 04-05 Total         1-05         01      02      03   4-OS   Tota(          01      02      03    4-05   Totst
.  ,  ........................... ......... ............. ......................... .....................................................  ........................................
1. IEVEST1IT COSTS
................
A. Atdsiclon do Vahiculos (1l         9    31    50    0   90         12.65      113.8  392.1  632.5       0.0  1138.5      123.0  427.3  702.0        0.0 1l2.3
S. fEqipo do oftsemn C2,
iscritorio*                     70  t20   20       0  395         0.09        6.3    10.8   13.4    0.0   35.S           6.8    11.8   20.S       0.0    39.1
cw- 'ttadorts                   .           .                       -         0.0  795.0    0.0    0.0  795.0             .0  166.3    0.0        0.0   366.3
Noinac do eascrbir              19   22    37    0    75          0.29        5.5      6.4    10.7    0.0    22.6        6.0      7.0    11.9     0.0    24.8
tardax                         S'   66  1II       0   2'A        0.21       1Z.0    13.9   21.3    0.0   49.1           12.9   15.1   25.9       0.0    53.9
Caiculadtio                     70  1zo   205      0   395        0.15       10.5   18.0   30.r    0.0   59.2           11.3   19.6   34.1        0.0    65.1
sltiozn                         70  120   205      0   395        0.07        4.9     8.4    14.3    0.0   27.6          5.3    9.2    15.9      0.0   30.4
sIttls                          70   120  205      0   395        0.05        i.S     6.0   10.2    0.0    19.7           3.8    6.5    11.4      0.0    21.
Nas mqunirw                     19   22    37   0o    7           0.05        0.9      1.1     1.8    0.0      3.9        1.0    1.2     2.1     0.0      4.3
PFaesos                         70  120   205      0   395        0.02        1.4     2.4    4.1      0.0     7.9         1.5    2.6    4.6       0.0    a.7
Fotocopiadoras                  12    0      0     0    12        2.14       25.7     0.0     0.0    0.0    25.7        27.7    0.0      0.0     0.0   2737
AsollciOnedor          a               o20   0     0o    o        0.69       13.8    0.0      0.0     0.0    13.5       14.9     0.0     0.0      0.0    14.9
Otross                                -     -                                 9.7    0.0    0.0       0.0    9.7         1 5    .0.0    0.0       c a    'tO S
Sit-Totat                                                                     94.2  8k1.9   113.8    0.0  1070.0        10.b  939.3  126.3        0.0  1167.3
C. Equipo atwi sil Q2
Vidoratidaorcs                   0    33    0      0    38        0.32        0.0    12.Z     0.0    0.0    12.2          0.0    13.3    0.0      0.0    13.3
Proy.      it. tramp.            0    50     0     0    SO        0.21        0.0   10.5    0.0    0.0    10.5            0.0    11.4    0.0      0.0    11.4
(elaut                           0    38     0     0   3J         0.11        G.O    4.2      0.0    0.0      4.2        0.0     4.6     0.0     0.0      4.6
Trieviroas                       0    38     0    0    38         0.32        0.0    12.2     0.0     0.0    12.2        0.0    13.3    0.0       0.0    13.3                                               -
Sit-Total                                                                      0.0   39.0    0.0       0.0   39.0         0.0   42.5      0.0      0.0    42.5
.......,,  ..........................   ....... ............................                               sD
Total IWVESTNEIIT COSTS                                                             208.1  1293.1  746.3    0.0  2247.5        224.7  1409.t  828.3       0.0  2462.1                            N)
Tots?                                                                            20S.1  1293.1  '746.3    0.0  2247.5        224.7  1409.1  828.3      0.0  2462.1
reaskdows of Totaes Incl.Cont.
mites USS                               Parameters
F.Ex.ch  Locat   Taxes  lotat   Phy. Cent. ior.  xch. Gross Tax sn _Arnt.
1. T8WSThE(T COSTS
A. Adtuisician de Vehicutos <tIx    375.7  500.9   375.7  1252.3           0.08       0.30       0.30 VEhI
8. Equipos do cicias <21
Ewcritorios                      0.0    39.1     0.0   39.1           0.08       0.00       0.00 OFIC
Creputadores                   259.9  346.5  X59.9  866.3             0.08       0.30       0,30 tARD
Ra4uinss de excrlbir            19.S     5.0     0.0   24.8            0.0S      0.80        0.00 OFlt
tardex                           0.0    53.9    0.0    53.9           0.08       0.00       0.00 OFIC
Catculadoras,                   52.1    13.0    0.0   65.1            0.08       0.60       0.00 OFiC
Siltones                         0.0   30.4      0.0   30.4           0.08       0.00       0.00 OFIC ul
SSltat                           0.0    21.7     0.0    21.7          0.08       0.00       0.00 OFlC                                                                             U                        I
mes1s tlrws                      0.0    1.7      0.0    2.7           0.08       0.00       0.00 OFIC to
PNpeteres                        0.0    4.3      0.0    8.7           0.08       0.00       0.00 otIC
Fotocopisdoras                  22.2     0.6     5.0    27.7          0.08       0.80       0.18 OFIC                                                                                                      -
Awondicionrdores                11.9     0.3     2.7    14.9          0.08       0.80       0.18 OFIC                                                                              s
Otros                            0.0    10.5     0.0    10.5          0.08       0.00       0.00 OFC OFVlC
....... ........ ....... ........ .... ..... ...
Sub-Total                       365.9  533.8  267.6  1167.3                                                                                                                       0-i
C. Equlpo audlovitsuat <2>
Videogrsbadores                 10.6     0.3     2.4    13.3          0.08       O.0O       0.18 AUD1 O
Proy. diaposit.Z tramp.          9.2     0.2     2.1    11.4          0.08        I 80      0.18 AUDIO                                                                             I
Tetones                          3.6    0.1      0.8     4.6          0.08       0.80       0.18 AUDIO
Tztevisores                     10.6    0.3      2.4    13.3          0.08       0.80       0.181 A100
.......    .......    .......    ............ ........
Sub-Total                        34.0     0.8     7.6   42.5
.......    .......    .......    ............ ........
Totat 11VESTIEINT COSTS               775.6  1035.6  650.9  2462.1
Total                               775.6  105.6  650.9  2462.1
1o Uitilitario tipo Jeep Suzuki - Irrutuye lrpuestos
<2' SIlass de calculo en Anexo C



-93
ANNEX 5
Page 11 of 14
OEPIJBL1CA 0f COILE
P011MRA 09 APOTO A Of OuCOO flWVCTC*Es
T5AoSP. 6TOICHOOGLoCA Y CR00300
Table 502. CCN9Vo(olE 0   ESAOC to IIISTItUCIOstAL   Is3AP  Ilo
pt'smana  7 (0s105 09'scloneLnt fnre,etotsle  0.1 (5069
Detailed1 Cost table
QuanityUstit  otSs   ot
01    02    03    04    05 TOtAL  1.05  01   02        03       04       05    Totls
A. PEOSOAL o2o
ProfesIcrs II                      5            3     5      5    25        12.52        62.6      62.6     62.6      62.6     62.6    313.0
ProIesienal 2                     10    2..   26    26    26   122           9.96       179.3    259.0    259.0    239.0    259.0   1215.1
9t0f2l01onl 3                      0    30    72    72    72   246           7.&6         0.0    23.8    537.1    537.1    537.1   1033.2
Ietnicos                          30    TO   133   133   133   499          3.13         93.0    19.q     416.3    416.3    416.3   1561.9
AchInistr,tivos                   1?    39   159   159   1$0   553           3.13        53.2    1806.7    49?.?'   497.7    497.7   175Q.9
Sub-totat   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~8.0                      99.1   17.6   12.           17.6   656.0
3. 003100 OCEQACIO4AL!0
Vletl oos 53?                                                                            34.3      84.?    163.6    163.6    163.6    60.
0o. y scot.vilcults  Ao            9    40    90    90    90   319           3.06        27.5    122.4    275.4   ;/3.4    275.4    976.1
at'riffdo de ofiCinaS AA 'So       6     TI   117    7l   1?    68           1.03        11.0      20.      31.1      31.1     31.1    124.6
IrIlerdOt Ge OflCins AP -.5        7    10    44    'A    44   150          1.10          7.7     20.9      48.4     .0.4      48.4    173.8
Ar'Ige,4OS d ofI(elno A S,         4    11     21    21    21    7           0.5          2.2       6.0      11.3     11.5      11.5     43.0
NsntmnIe.ollelns AA y AP          13    30    61    61    61   226           1.10O       14.3      33.0     67.1      67.1     67.1    248.6
eRnie.'. oficln  65A               4    it    21    21    21    78           0.36         1.4       4.0       7.6      7.6       7.6      MI.
Pam.qjo   de (tlu          ....0.0                                                                 70.0    113.0    115.0    115.0    413.0
Cubs  slerlCI CtCVit~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                              0.~~0   35.0      55.3     55.0      5.5    200.0
Cow... lelo a      6'             53    30    41    61    61   26            0.1          9.       21.3     43.3      43.3     4.        6.
at,                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~16.0  16.0  16.0  16.0  16.0  80.0
S..irToti                                                                                In.?    434    83.0    034.0    834.0   3059.2
C. StSYICtoS DE 0064RARZ5 ~7'           0   112   169   %49   229   800           2.42          0.0    270.5    409.0    602.0    674.1   1956.4
To1ta  RECUOEaT COSTS                                                                           52.    1653.0   30165 3200.7   3200.8  11671.7
to 0~~..OO.S .....  ....-t   .....
TotaL                                                                                        5127    653.0   3016.5   3208.7   3200.0  11671.7
. ..  ... ft* .sOrnt*. .. .          .   .toton.         .     oe  .t..on.flSza. .. .fS.......l-
Ireakdog. Of Totas Zrol.Cont.
Totals Incit.41in  Coclnganiocibs                            slies ous
.O..OflOOtOSn . tot............   .. ;    ....                            .. ;t 
01  02  03       04       95    T~~~~~~~~~~otal  E.04  Loachos            bo
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. #IOSOsAL '2'
Pro fesat 1 1                      62.6,    63.2      66.       6.       60.      324.6          0.0    314.0       9.7    324.6
profealonai2                      179.3    26.        6.12      7,3    20.9 1229                 0.0   1225.0      37.9   1262.9
9'fo(flstI 3                        0.0   Z225.8    552.0    560.9    50.8   1931.5             0.0   18735.       57.9   1931.5
TttCfioos"                         93.9    21.1    427.       439.4    454 .8   1636.9         0.0   1636.9       0.0   1636.9
Adliniettatl,v02                   53.2    ¶06.3    511.4    525.3    543.7   1819.9             0.0   1763.3      54.6   1819.9
SqUv Total                         309.0    957.?   1021.?   1871.0   19335.3   6973.9            0.0   6015.7    160.2   4975.9
R. 00010 051E.ACIOILALES
viaglcos  3'                       34.3      65.5    160.1    172.7    170a.7    639.3          0.0    639.3        3.0    639.3
O9py own!. vaniIcotos 04,          27.3   1,23.5    283.0    29.7    303.9   1023.6           30?,?    455.2    307.?   1025.6
sriendo de oficIisas AA '5.        11.0      20.3     32.0      32.0     34.0    130.1           0.0    130.1       0.0    130.1
A'k-elon   dos 6.01Cna 69 -5,       7.7      21.1     49.?,    51.1      32.9    102.            0.0    182.5       0.0    182.5
An;et.cloa  4ofcI(el As 6  '5       2.2       64'     11.9      12.2     12.6      45.          5.0      43.0      0.0      45.0
fts'tensofelllAs AA y AP           14.       33.       90       720 8    73.3    260.            0.0    260.        0.0    260.7
Konto. ofcir's As                 I1.4     4.0       7.0       0.0      0.3      294          0.0      29.4      00       29.6
esn:ecuioa  s copjl.     0.0     70.6    11.2        21.     123.6    433.         1000       26.9      0.0    435.
Castos material cea'pa.             0.0      35.3     56.3      50.      60.      2iO.0         0.0    210.0        0.3    210.0
Con,utos Sasck" .60                 9.2      315,3     6.3      45.7    4,7.3    160.3           0.0    130.0     30.3    168.3
Ct'..                              16.       14.1     16.4      16.9     17.5      1.3.          0.0  .  83.0       0.0     8  3.
0,.4iTott123.    437.3    657.1    863.3    911.1   3209.4                                     £16.6   1.,S.0    330.0   3209.6
C. SkOvIC IOS 30 C00912A$ .7o            3.0    232.9    421.1    635.3    736.4   2065.9             0.3   205.9        0.0   2065.9
Toale                                    31AE  52.7   1667.9   3099.91  3345.8   3506.1  12251.4     416.6  11336.6    490.1  12251.4
Piw.. Cant. '......       'osTa.5.Art
A. PESSOSAL '2' ~ ~ ~     ~       ~     ~      ~      S~ Ant
Prsfes(on.et 1                       0.00        0.00        0.03 PR0?
Prcfes(cnaL 2                        0.00        0.00        0.03 PA01
pefsfelonat 3                        0.99        0.00        0.03 900F
Ta-omles                             0.00        0.00        0.00 TIC
AO.(ilStltr1t04                      0.00        0.00        0.03 A601
S. 008000 0?LLACIOKALIS
'fsletjos  3.5.oO   0.00                               0.00       'fIJ AT
Copy  wt0. vosilCalo  .44,           9.00        0.30        0.30 04.509
arrsondo ae sllelnas AA .5'          0.0. 00       00M       0.00 400l0s30
ArreMfed*o 6.  ficlms AP c5.         0.0.3       0.00        C.00 AutOFo
Arrle.do4 de alfcira AS 45'          0.00        0.00        9.90 m21n,Op
nsnsenlu.of (el AA 00  AP60 0.              0.20N       0.00 OFIMAx
Cools.. Of (clrA A8                  0.00        0.00       0W00 0? 005
Mont.eqalpoo.  Ca t05%t.             0.00        0.23        0.00 1040.
cast"s eeterlis  Cwp.t.              0.00        0.00        0.06 7P 506
Co'w's Sal"Iof  '60                  0.00        0.03        0.14. OlIr..
Otrce                                0.03        0.00        0.00 01(54*
C. SLOViCISj De CCCAAZ4U 4'               0.00        0.00        0.00 cCC
-~~~~~~  ...t. ......   ... .. so..f&onr.
41Wae  . at. O  *30Pesos
'2' Iooesda on Poorew/wlw    * Ccntwpple twoGats(0  co-otest   provluwa(os"
43o Baes de eatcuto sOn flso 9
4Av lase de raLcuts on Aouxe 9
s45 eoprn"do eOl niorn' suAI"
466 ctopteop tos sar'vfleloe 4 tot, sou y It
.7, costs Par Sites 65 asIdede.



REPUBLICA DE CHItE
PROGRAMA DE APOYO A PEOUEHOS PRODUCIORES
TRANSF. TECeOLOGICA Y CREDJITO
Table 503. COHPOJEITE DE DESARROLLO INSTIIUCIOJAL - INDAP  1>
Capacltacion del Personat y Beneficiarlos del INDAP
Detaitled Cost Tabte
mites USSI
Ouantity      Unit Cost                    Base Costs                          Totals tnctuding Conttn3encles                                                   !
01-05 Total        1-05        01     OZ     03     04     05  lotat         01     02    03      m      05  Totat
-- -    _- --  ........    ..... ... ..  __..  __.....____. _.... ...._. _...  __. ...... ....  ... .. .. . .... .. .. . . . .. . . .
1. INVESIME   COSIS
A. TRAWSFEREUC.DE TECNOLOCIA
Sisteras de Produccion       -     -           -        6.0   28.3  34.0   28.1   17.8  114.1         6.0  28.5  34 °   29.6  19.4  118.5
Planificacion Regional       -     -           -        3.8    3.8    0.0    0.0   0.0    -6          3.8   3.9   9.0    0.0    0.0    7.7
MIetodologia de Evatuacion    -    -           -        0.5    5.5    5.0    0.0    0.0  11.0         0.5   5.6   5.1    0.0    0.0   1l.2
Metodologia ee Extension     -     -                    5.6    5.6    6.1    5.6   5.0   27.9         5.6    5.7   6.3    5.9   5.4   28.9
Capacitacton Tecnica         -     -           -        0.0   27.4  44".    19.6    0.0  91.0.        0.0  27 6   45 3   20 6    0 0   93 6
Sub-Total                                               16.0   70.6  89.2  53.2  22.8  251.7          16.0  71.2  91.6  56.2  24.9  259.9
B. CREDITO
Planif. regionat             -     -                    2.6    2.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    5.2        2.6    2.6   0.0    0.0   0.0    5.2
Estudios de Mercados         -     -                    1.6   12.1    0.0    0.0    0.0  13.7         1.6  12.2   0.0    0.0    0.0   13.8
Metodologia de Evaluoaion    -     -                    0.2    2.3    2.1    0.0    0.0    4.7        0.2    2.3   2.2    0.0    0.0    4.7
Analisis Econwico            -     -                     1.2    2.8    2.5    2.2   2.2   10.8        1.2    2.8   2.6    2.3    2.4   11.3
Confeceion de Gerantlas      -     -                    0.0    4.5    0.0    0.0   0.0    4.5         0.0    4.6    0.0    0.0  .0.0    4.6                                                -
lniormatica                       -                    2.3    3.9    6.1    0.0   0.0   12.3         2.3    3.9   6.3    0.0    0.0   12.6
Formacion Organizaclon3l     -     -                    1.2    1.2    0.0    0.)   0.0   2.5          1.2    1.3   0.0    0.0    0.0    2.5
Sit-Total                                                9.1   29.4  10.7    2.2    2.2  53.7          9.1  29.7  11.0    2.3    2.4   54.6
C. BE9EFICIARIOS                  -     -                    0.0   61.0  61.0  61.0  61.0 244.0            0.0  61.5  62.7  64.4  66.6  Z55.3
Total INESTMENT COSTS                                          25.1  161.0  160.9  116.5  86.0  549.5        25.1  162.4  165.4  122.9  93.9  569.8                                                -
-===7=  := ==2=z== .===:=S  -===. -====   =====: ==U - ==z= -       ==..  - r -.=a.. ==
Totat                                                       25.1  161.0  160.9  116.5  86.0  549.5        25.1  ¶62.4  165.4  122.9  93.9  569.3                                                -
Breakdown of TotaIs Inc1.Cont.
miles USS                               Paraenters
F.Exch   Locat  Taxes   Total    Phy. Cent. For. Exch. Gross Tax Sun. Acnt.
.... ... .....  ..... ................... ........ ...... ...............  ...... ........ .. ....... ...... ...
1  INMSTMENT COSTS
A. IRAJSFERENC.DE TECNO.OGIA
Sisteims de Produccion        5.9   112.6    0.0   118.5            0.00       0.05       0.00 CAPAC
Planificacion Regional        0.4     7.3    0.0      7.7           0.00       0.05       0.00 CAPAC
Metodotogia de Evaluacion     0.6    10.6    0.0    11.2            0.00       0.05       0.00 CAPAC
Netodotogia d-e Extension     1.4    27.5    0.0    28.9            0.00       0.05       0.00 CAPAC                                                                                      N
Capacitacion Tecnica          4.7    88.9    0.0    93.6            0.00       0.05       0.00 CAPAC
Sub-Totat                     13.0  246.9      0.0  259.9                                                                                                               >
S. CREDITO                                                                                                                                                                  Z
Planif. regional              0.3     4.9     0.0     5.2           0.00       0.05       0.00 cAPAC                                                               OQ Z
Estudilos de Mercados         0.7   13.1      0.0    13.8           0.00       0.05       0.00 CAPAC                                                               ID M
Metodologia de Evaluacion     0.2     4.5     0.0     4.7           0.00       0.05       0.00 CAPAC                                                                  >4
Analisis Economico            0.6    10.7     0.0   11.3            0.00       0.05       0.00 CAPAC                                                               41
Confeccion dc Garantlas       0.2     4.3     0.0     4.6           0.00       0.05       0.00 CAPAC                                                                 n
informatics                   0.6    11.9     0.0    12.6          0.00        0.05       0.00 CAPAC
Formacion Organizacional      0.1     2.4     0.0     2.5           0.00       0.05       0.00 CAPAC                                                               I
Sub-Totat                      2.7    51.S     0.0   54.6
C. BEIEFICIAR?OS                  12.3  242.5      0.0  255.3            0.00       0.05       0.00 CAPAC
.......  ........  .  .... ... ...  ... .. P .
Totat INVESTHE)fT COSTS              28.5  541.3      0.0   569.8
Total                             28.5  541.3      0.0  569.8
c      rs de calculos en Anexo 9 - Ptan de capaciteclon



REPUBLICA DE CRtLE
PROGRAHA DE APOYO A PEQUENOS PRZODUCTORES
TRANSF. TECNIOLOGICA Y CREDITO
Table 504. CO4PONEJTE DE DESARROLLO INSSITUCIONAL - INDAP <1>
Seguirmiento y Evaluacion
Detalted Cost Table
nites US$
Quantity       Unit Cost                       Base Costs                            Totals Including Contingcfies
01-05 Total         1-05         01      02      03     04      05  Total         01      02     03      04      05  Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Evaluaciones externas          -     -            -         0.0   44.4    0.0   61.1  116.7  222.2           0.0   44.8    0.0   64.5  1'7.5  236.8
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                            0.0   44.4    0.0   61.1  116.7  222.2           0.0   ".8    0.0   64.5  127.5  236.8
Totat                                                          0.0   44.4    0.0   61.1  116.7  222.2-          0.0   44.8    0.0   64.5  127.5  236.8                                    %0
C===_===   ==-=: ======: ::=================C:=-X= == = -                            =  ==                                                                            tn
Breakdoun of Totals Inct.Cont.
nites USS                                  Parameters
F.Exch   Local   Taxes   lotal    Phy. Cont. For. Exch.  Gross TaX SUs. Acnt.
Z. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Evaluaciones externzs           0.0   236.3      0.0   236.8            0.00        0.00        0.tO ASISTEC
Totat INVESTMENT COSTS                0.0   236.8      0.0   236.8
Total                             0.0   236.8       0.0   236.8
SC. ......     sC.C.CSCCC.C.. CCC..D=      =   =                        *V         C                CCCC =C=: . . .  .
<1> Bases de calcubo en Anexo 9
TI>C
i-I
O6
a



E0UP3LICA DE CHiltE 
pROCa&A OE At   0   A>EOUEaOS PRODUCTORES
1060Sf. TECROLOCICA T CR10I1O
Table $0S. COMPOVEoIoE  E DESATRROLLO tUSIIIUCIJI. .9A.8.
Eqqitpie.to y gestoy   corrtntes
Deta led Cost Table
m.ies UV,
CosoDtity           liit Cost                         Bose Costs                                Totals tncii          I=ir'  Conttngencioa
01    02 0t-05 Totat         lO05         01       02      05      04       05   Total         01      0       03      04      05   totel
............,._....................  .........  ........... ..................................... ...... .....................................................................................
INVESIMENIT COSTS
A. Adqulslolt    de hard         -                  -           -       277.6   15Z.5      0.0     0.0      0.0   430.2      279.3  154.8       0.0     0.0      0.0   454.2
B.  ,esareolto de sottoare       -     -            *           *        139.4    11.6     0.0     0.0      0.0   153.0      140.2   13.5       0.0     0.0      0.0   154.0
C. Adq. equip.adllon             .     -     -      .           .        144.9    72.6     0.0     0.0      0.0   217.S      145.8    73.7      0.0     0.0      0.0   219.5
D. Adq. V equip. aicina                . *      .     .0 4.4.    2.5                       0.0     0.0      i.0   42.9       40.6     2.6      0.0     0.0      0.0    43.2                                                   3
e. Adq . i vrhIculor.
Cambostas                    3     2     0     5         8.54       25.6    17.1      0.0     0.0     0.0    42.7.       23.6    17.2      0.0     0.0     0.0    42.0
Jeep                         3     2     0     5         9.05       29 5    19.7      0.0     O.C     0.0    49.2        29.5    19.9      0.0     0.0     0 0    49.4
Sit- Total                                                           55.2    36.8      0.0     0.0     0.0    91.9        55.2    37.1      0.0     0.0     0.0    92.3
F. Psibloaie.ses                 -     *     .      .           .        13.3      4.4     0.0     0.0     0.0    17.8        13.1     4.5      0.0     0.0     0.0    17.8
G. Asesoria,                                 - .                *         1/.0     4.9     0.0     0.0      0.0    21.9       17.0     4.9      0.0     0.0      0.0    23.9
i. Capacilclan                   -     *         .        .              23.2    10.9      0.0     0.0      0.0    34.1       23.2    11.0      0.0     0.0      0.0    34.2
. .. ... .........   .......   .......  .   .        .......  .......  .. .....   ........   .......
Total I1M9S1M78T COSTS                                                      711.1   298.2     0.0      0.0     0.0  1009.3      714.8  302.3       0.0     0.0      0.0  1017.1                                                   1
1t. RteCiURXFT COSTS
A. C~ucictlorwsi 4lt                  *      *     *                      8.4    22.3    Z2.3    22.3      0.0    72.4        8.5    22.7    23.1    23.7       0.0    77.9
*. Hanteuclen equtpos    -         -      -                               37.6 731.5   132.5   131.5        0.0  432.2        37.6   137.    115.2   13l.8       0.0  444.3
C. Materal  do odtelf*ina             -      *     -                        3     12.9     14.9    0.9 .  0.0    49.1         l0.t,  13.1    11.4    11.5       0.0    50.3
0. Crteos baslcos                      *      *     *                       .     13.3    15.4     1.'0    0.0    32.3         10.     13.4    15.9    10.7      0.0   S3.6
E. manenrias vehiculss          -     -     -      *           *          5 3    11.8   11.8    11.8       0.0    40.6        5.3    11.9    12.1    12.4       0.0    41.6
F. operacito  vehtcutos          -     *     *                           28.0    38.1   40.' t       .3    0.0   136.6        28.0    38.5    41.2    32.0       0.0   139.7
Total tecuREttT COSTS                                                       100.2   210.0   236.1   219.9      0.0   786.2       100.2  2325.2  21Z.8  232.2        0.0   837.4                                                   I
Tolat                                                                   811.3   528.2  236.3  219.9         0.0  1795.5      815.0   534.5   242.8  232.2        0.0  1824.5
..... .......................................................... ....... .a.                                    a       ..    .. .. . .. . .a       .a............
2reaido*- of Totals tnct.Cont.                                                                                                                                                   0
.ntl. US-                                Pers,eeters
.  .... .... _.... . . .   ..      .. . .... ...... .........w ..  .................. ..".  
f.EocTh   Local  taxes   Total    Phy. Coot. For. FxCi.  Cross Ta..Scs. Awl.
................................        ...........    .   ................. .................................
t. IIVOSTEIT COSTS
A. AdquIifcln do hwrdare        347.3    86.8     0.0   434.2           0.01        0.80       0.00 HttD
a.  .esrroito Ido soitua-a        0.0   126.3    27.7   154.0           0.01        0.00       0.18 SOFT
C. Adq. equlp.uselicon           65.8   114.3    39.5   219.5           0.01        0.30       0.18 TOP(
0. Adq. y eqi p. oticna             0.0    40.6    2.6    43.2          0.01        0.00       0.06 OIC
C. Adq.vtl'ulto.
CMaanlteas                  12.9    17.1    12.9    42.9           0.00        0.30       0.30 vEHI
Jeep                        14.8    I.8    34.8    49.4            0.00      * 0.30       0.30 VEHt
.... ...... ..... ....... .... .... ...
ScrTotal                     27.7    36.9    27.7    92.3
F. Pubticactrs                    0.0    14.6      3.2    17.8          0.00        0.00           Alt5
C. AfOorisa                       0.0    19.7     2.2    21.9           0.00        0.C0       0.10 6325
v. Capacltacon                    0. 0    30.8    3.4   S4.2            0.00        0.00       0.10 CAPAC
,.......... ..... ....... ........ .......
Total iiIVESTJEiT COST5            440.9   469.9   106.3  1017.1
ti. iECtlR7ttT C0STS
A. Camnuicaclnee,  Ht9it          0.0    63.9    14.0    77.9           0.02        0.00       0.18 TRA rltD   i
a.   aotrenclon eoplpo          11t.1  253.3    80.0   444.3            0.00        0.25       0.18 1C01AM
C. KaterIal de oltoin             0.0    41.2      9.0    50.3          0.00        0.00       0.18 00f140
0. Crnsume basic..                0.0    53.6      0.0    53.6          0.00        0.00       0.00 OI34 011
E. Mhnlancton veticuios          12.5    21.7      7.5    43.6          O.OD        0.30       0.18 VE9i0O0
F. Operaclon vetuculos           41.9    55.9    41.9   139.7           0.00        0.30       O.SO t42llOP                                                                                           °
....... ....... ....... ....... i
Total tt REKtIET COSTS             165.5   489.5   152.5   807.4
Total                           e06.3   959.4   238.8  1824.1                                                                                                                                         C
.,..__......- .s.................. ....  =F ....... s.__a_o..................................oI



"   a           * *MI
- 97 -
CILE
SMAML FARMER SERVICES PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Elauk Disbursements
Disbursement         Cumulative        Balance of
FY/End of Semester      During Semester             unt,           jca
FY 1993
December 31, 1992              22.111'             22.11            72.89
June 30, 1993                   9.20               31.32            63.68
FY 1994
December 31, 1993              10.49               41.80            53.20
June 30, 1994                  10.72               52.53            42.47
FY 1995
December 31, 1994              12.33               64.85            30.15
June 30, 1995                  11.95               76.80            18.20
FY 1996
December 31, 1995              13.11               89.91             5.09
June 30, 1996                  12.09               95.00             0.00
FY 1997
December 31, 1996               0.00               95.00             0.00
Estimated IBRD Dinbursements (with slirn,aze):
IBRD FY     19921'      1993       1994       1995      1i96       1997       1998
-- US$ million -
Annual       9.7          6.3       14.4       21.6      25.1       14.4        3.5
Cumulative   9.7         16.0       30.4      52.0       77.1       91.5       95.0
Includes InRtlal deposi of US$7.0 million in the epecial account, and reftoactve  flnancing of US$7.0 million.
gt   Includes InRial deposlt In tho spoclJ account of USS7.0 million equivalent



*    Fd           h.                                                         r    n .i -..                                 m -     
98 -
ANNVX 7
Page 1 of 2
CHILE
SIIAI,L FARAER SERVICES PROJECT
Performance Indicators
P R 0 J E C T Y E A R S
C 0 M P O N E N T
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   1  ~~~~2 34                        5
I.   Technology Transfer
Number of Beneficiary Families
Phase 1                                       25,000    45,000    52,000    62,000    54,000
Phase II                                                  8,000    16,000      16,000    22,000
Phase III                                                                                   8,000
Total                         25,000    53,000    68,000    78,000    84,000
Number of Women Beneficiaries                 1 0   000             52  ,00    0 62 0      ..62,000
Number of Women's Groups                         880      2,860      2,900      3,440       3,440
Beneficiaries in Training
Thematic                                                  2,500      2,500      2,500       2,500
Specialized                                               1,250      1,250      1,250       1,250
Total                                     3 750      3,750      3 750      3,750
Extension Personnel
Phase I - Production                             352        625        722        861         861
Phase II - Production                                        88        177         177        243
Social (Women Extensionists)                      73        171        241        287         287
CATs                                             106        145        170         195        218
CAFs                                              26         37         52          62         62
Total                            557      1I066      1,362       1,582     1,671
Number of Extensionists in Training              430        885      1,140      1,325       1,390
Number of Commissions
Number of National Comnissions Working              1          1          1          1          i
Number of Regional Connissions Working              9         9          9           9          9
Number of Area Corrnissions Wtorking              41         51         61          66         66
Number of CATTo Working                           27         34         44          55         55
Farmers Receiving 'i and Credit as a
Percent of Farmers Receiving Credit               32         44         56         64          74
Study on Criteria for Graduotion from
Phase I to Phase II                                                      x
Baseline Study on Rural Women _                              60        100
II.  Number of Credit Beneficiaries
Short-term                                    43,900    74,000    94,000   105,500   100,000
Long-term                                      2,600    23,800    23,500    .3,300    23,100
Total                         46,500    972800   117,500   128,800   123,100
Amount of Credit
Short-term (US$'000)                          15,900    26,500    30,600    35,500    34,400
Long-term  (5S$'000)                           2,200      8,300      8,200      8,100      8,000
Total (US$'000)               18,100    34,800    38,800    43,600    42L400
Loan RBSEAMentsJ.                                            90         90          91         92
Interest Rates                                Market    Market    Market    Market    Market



* l i  -i  -                                                                      li
99 
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
P Ro J E C T Y E A R S
C O M P O N E N T                       1   _                              4          5
Study on How to St~imulate Coumnorcial
Bank Involvement
Study Completed                                                  x
Pilot Testing of Options                                                    x           x
II1. INDAP - Institutional DevelopMent
Recruitment
Number of Additional Staff PerpYear                 70         120        205
.u:nber of New Vehicles Per Year                     9          31         50
Additional Offices
Permarent New Offices Per Year                       6           5          6
Temporary Offices Per Year                          11          19         35
Total                           17          24         41
Traaini
Number of INDAP Staff                             :250         450        500         250        160
IV. Titling - Ministry of National Property
CMBN)
Number of Titles Issued                          3,500     14,000      16,000      10,000
Percentage to Women                                  6           7          8           8
Vehicles Acquired                                    6           4
Acquisition of Measuring Equipment t%J              70         100
Computer System Installed (2)                       65         100
Computer System Operational                         40         80         100
Training Courses (2)                                70         100
Recruitment t2)                                     65         100
Study on Impact of Titling (2)                                  80        100
Implementation of M&E System (2)                    10          60        100
V. Reporting and External Evaluation
Progress Report
Annual                                            x          x           x           x          x
Mid-term                                                                 x
Completion                                                                                      x
External Evaluation of Project Impact                                       x                      x



- 100 -
Chart 1
CIIILE
SHALL FARMER SERVYCES PROJECT
Hinistry of Agric ture Oreanization Chart
CABINET OF THE MINISTER
FUCor                    --                   DEPARTMENT
UNDERSECRETARY               OF STUDIES
AND BUDGET
INIA                INDAP                 :               CONj[
RE-GIONAL MINISTERIAL
SECRETARIES
INIA              INDAP                 SAG                CONAF
EXPERIMENTAL         REGIONAL            REGIONAL             REGIONAL
STATIONS        DIRECTORATES        DIRECTORATES          DIRECTORATES
FIA   -     Foundation for Agricultural and Livestock Research
(Fundaci6n de Investigaciones Agropecuarias)
INIA  -     Institute for Agricultural and Livestock Research
(Instituto de Xnvestigaciones Agropecuarias)
INDAP -     Institute for Agricultural Development
(Instituto de Desarrollo Agropecuario)
SAG   -     Agricultural and Livestock Service
(Servicio Agricola y Ganadero)
CONAF -     National Forestry Corporation
(Corporaci6n Nacional Forestal)
FVo0A -     Agricultural Communication Foundation
(Fundaci6n de Comunicaciones del Agro)



SHA. rADW  sIVY=TCES noncrJ
Ti 1 HlrlSYU       |ta.t-cr
F. E I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
DIV.OF TIIE orrjGDIV. Or rZAlTMO
slow                           or                             LAPD t          Of                                           DIVISION                     SIGNAVD BUDGET
WATIOR&L P     C&IIIIET                              NuGGET DE 'LXTIrE7T
I~ ~  ~ ~~1.1 =.111   I                    It.P         I In,t w TCI H                                                          IA    OuvrS                   :.
O"ICZ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
aJUIIIJSTUATIVt                         DIVI.!OJI                       DIY.OY TllE oM1lGAL                   DIV. FoT  rmM. LeGAL                           COLOIRG.  IDr. R
OID2V5O                             TO  01raTT                        WE II I OPAL rto  TT                ESTSALWT 5 AT                 T D IYl5t           D!V:sA  T  OY
PEIlSoWVYtL        SUrr?LT SsD      oDEPT. OF P AC511      PBO?EETT      OUT?. 0r $TIIC"tS  | CADSTEAL         frOGLAw.EG         0CTP                         OFArITI Fp| "ut           r                                I r
DE?LPIPT         0r !5oIDTE1          DtEAIW.CMT         ?ZDCCSS III                       1'LEAZUIEVT     DEPAETr                        LAD  sroDTnI    i  t7Unr  
Ft  nLtED uPON?                                              |__ __ __ _.__ __ __ __ _                                                         |
_711C1                          IDFIIE            ISL 0E
DI#Is(oU or Tor OTFIONAL lAND  IMSTff OF 101 E|TIOEAL                                       |5FlOFU      | 
SZPT ZR    t                                                                                  *                                                                                                 ;ii  
DLII, SESEDUKI | IED                            |   0- , l  t:8^   |                                                                      ; SEDI   l   l            1Pne                                     t
I                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



!
CHILE
SMALL FARMER SERVICES PROJECT
Agricultural Development Institute (INDAP)
Organization Chart                                                                                                            -
NATIOROL DlEC1OiRA?E |
CBIEY O' CAiNET           |
tsWDtEs AD PitOmrsO5F    D     YA      T    riiuzr
| AlORAL  IjNTEGRAiTED RURL
TITENEI    NAIOAA
SI S-DI! ECTOXA7T -  DVLPWT
F                                       |                   IGNA!EHTRECTORATE   DEPO? ACXICILT1JAD                      F-PT.OF ATE f 1TTON
OINHOATION ASST.I -                                                                                                                                 E--,  OF
O1DPABTDX         O DVF. OF                  |DEPT .OF          DEPR1T              DEFAXI    O EPAKTrT  r DEP. OFI
0*           I F PIoSOCAL
ILEAL      n OFFICE CNN ICAL OFFICEO 
Ar*FUFtSTzATt; W0                   IO OFFICE |
OFFICE OF              LEGUFORALI ASSI?.A
I   !   I n6#SFE A  F
0                                                                        :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
,! OtTlCES  ;                                                           c) |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
tT i>



-~~~m   U                           -  U   -   |h                -.              im l--  -
103 -
Page 1 of 1
CHILE
SMALL FAR19'R SERVXCES PROJECT
List of Documents in PLoject_F1e
1.   Proyecto de Transferencia Tecnol6gica
Asistencia Crediticia, Tomo I-V, INDAP, Enero 1991
2.   Bases para la Inscripci&n y/o Confirmaci6n en el Registro Nacional
de-Consultores de Transferencia Tecnol6gica BEsica, INDAP, Temporada
1991-1992.
3.   Desarrollo Institucional del Programa de Saneamiento de Titulos, Price
Waterhouse, Enero 1991.
4.   Inscripci6n de Registro Nacionel de Contratistas, MBN.
5.   La Situaci6n de la Mujer Chilena, en Cifras, SERNAM, Junio 1990.



- 104 -
ANNEX 1 0
CHILE
SMALL FARMER SERVICES PROJECT
Technical File
List v&' Documents
1.   Government's Statement of Agricultural Policy
2.   General Credit Regulations
3.   Rural Communications System
4.   Institutional Development Component
5.   Infor Ation Management Systems
6.   Cost Tables (Other than Summary Cost Table by Component)



[                                                                              C H I L E
CITIES OVEl 50.000 IN-VBITVNTS                                            CENIRAL VALL'R
So5000  10000 `                                                     I    EORES
A    00G000  300000                                                    -' AIMINISTROTIVE REGION  0OUNDVRIES
*  30000 0 o                                                            -o  INTERNVEIONMI BOUNODVOES
Ag icuitura:              Zone            Totol        Crops ond          rIgoted    |                                   Region       |Meo   Annuol   Meon Ancu
Proucto               ~Ardo                           POSTEUT          Areo                                                            tTTpEET            PecToIo
okmT (OOOs      ho (000        |h (0s(          ________                                                                 mm       m
Irrigated  ooses                 I            1 78            13             11                                    k          ~
and river valleys            Desert                                                             zoo      --z              r                     13                     2    .i
2 ,.A \U'--.i''- ...........                       .        ... ,- -- -  .  3.  2
~~~~~~, ~     ~             /
04           I            i   v      
Irrigated river                 11            120             195             13                 0                    .
volleys ond ooses,            Arid
itlnerant sheep and
goats
L. S-n: 
Lo Sereno   Tfi 1t r                            144°-                loo-,- -
____  _____            _ __ _ __                                                        ( !
Fruits, vegetobles,             III            93            2160          1O0 50
gropes, v,heot,             Mediter-                                                          VOIP°T!13
mor ze, milk,                roneon                                                              sA              Oofl                                                3
sunflower, beet,                                                                               on V*n.0 ,,   U
cottle, sheep,                                                                                      R             2
sugor, pulses,                                                                                      F.      T O
forestry                                                                                                        .
I.E..      Tolco     )
A  /
concepCon A    CIllon A                                  130°               1319
Cattle, milk,                   IV            102            2990            170
sheep, forestry,           Temperote                                                                T.,,cV o
barley, oats,                                                                                         A _
potatoes, fruits,                                                                                            ' ;    -                                                 07
sugarbeets,                                                                              40Tociji A -                   ----^                   11 0-              2507
pulses, -heot                                                                                           :
Sheep, cottle,                  V             248            185              1            0...
forestry                     HumLd
CoyToAq-e *                                    8 oV               2865 --
yT.TEE   I ROIICA   00           s.jC50!<i
7001                                200                                                                                   C C
i f eFARAGUA 0Q~~BAZIL ' 
i  /           <,/                                                                             .                 ,( 
!RGENTINA ,                                                                            . ! I
5V0'-t--                           -                                                                     ,,                    . -
S.v i   \        -l                                                           1U.                                            -  U'AAY/flt                                              f
| . | I -i | | o     os0  do n 600    80C |   |  " K                                            s
>',AS
TTSO \ R3 I O SOO IOBO 1 I ^^,,S,,p--< >e'w9wOv"'W/6 "R                                           *rtof | | 4 PVnVT  A-SVVV     6 20               2754
0, I                          I               I. I, I                                                                    ','V ."
, ~.._. _.                                                                             .  ........   a_0~



