                                        Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                                 Report No: 30962

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                               (TF-21274 SCL-41070 SCL-41071)

                                           ON A

                                   LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

                 IN THE AMOUNT OF US$60 MILLION AND DM15 MILLION

                                          TO THE

                                         UKRAINE

                                          FOR AN

                             EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                      December 15, 2004




Finance & Private Sector Development (ECSPF)
Europe & Central Asia Region (ECA)

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2004)

                           Currency Unit = Hryvnia (UAH)
                                  1 UAH = US$ 0.188
                                   US$ 1 = UAH 5.3207

                                 FISCAL YEAR

                            January 1    December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

EDAL   ­ Enterprise Development Adjustment Loan
EXIM   ­ State Export Import Bank of Ukraine
FSAL   ­ Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
FSU    ­ Former Soviet Union
Jexim  ­ EXIM of Japan
MOE    ­ Ministry of Economy and On the Issues of European    Integration
MOF    ­ Ministry of Finance
MOFER  ­ Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations
NBU    ­ National Bank of Ukraine
PAL    ­ Programmatic Adjustment Loan
SME    ­ Small and Medium Size Enterprises
SOE    ­ Statement of Expenditures
TA     ­ Technical Assistance




                          Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu
                        Country Director     Paul Bermingham
                          Sector Manager     Fernando Montes-Negret
        Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Angela Prigozhina

                                          UKRAINE
                                Export Development Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         3
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            32

Project ID: P044851                                                  Project Name: Export Development
Team Leader: Angela Prigozhina                                       TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 30, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Export Development                                       L/C/TF Number: TF-21274; SCL-41070;
                                                                                                     SCL-41071
   Country/Department: UKRAINE                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: General industry and trade sector (96%); Banking (4%)
                  Theme: Export development and competitiveness (P); Small and medium
                            enterprise support (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/16/1996                                     Effective: 08/13/1997                08/07/1997
     Appraisal: 06/07/1996                                         MTR: 10/15/1999                  10/01/2001
      Approval: 11/21/1996                                      Closing: 06/30/2002                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          STATE EXPORT/IMPORT BANK OF UKRAINE/STATE EXPORT/IMPORT
                                           BANK OF UKRAINE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes Linn
Country Director:               Paul G. Bermingham                             Basil G. Kavalsky
Sector Director:                Fernando Montes-Negret                         Paul J. Siegelbaum
Team Leader at ICR:             Angela Prigozhina                              Marie-Renee Bakker
ICR Primary Author:             Angela Prigozhina; Katalin
                                Forgacs


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

Introduction

Following Ukraine's independence in 1991 the first three years were characterized by poor economic
management and runaway inflation, rapidly increasing external debt, a massive across the board decline in
formal economic activity, and a virtual collapse of exports, particularly sales to the Former Soviet Union
(FSU). Largely as a result of energy needs (with Ukraine being a major importer of energy products), the
country suffered a considerable current account deficit and economic losses when Russia and other oil and
gas suppliers raised their prices to world market levels.

However, in October 1994, following the election of the new President, a major reform program was
introduced, designed to reduce inflation, improve living standards, and promote a sustainable recovery of
production. In the ensuing period, a tenuous stabilization took hold, with inflation falling sharply from
more than ten thousand percent in 1993 to double digit figure in 1996, trade having been liberalized, as did
most internal prices. A process of tax reform to introduce a modern revenue base for the State was also
undertaken along with reforms in other sectors. In a major departure from earlier years, the complicated
dual exchange rate system in operation from late 1993 and early 1994 was swept away and replaced by a
relatively open foreign exchange regime. This has also resulted in removing the export barriers for a
number of products.

As part of 1994 reforms, the Government of Ukraine began trade liberalization process. The weighted
average import tariff in 1995 was 6 percent, with less than 1 percent of all imports having tariffs greater
than 30 percent. There remained few quantitative restrictions on imports other than licensing of certain
pharmaceutical and chemical products, for health and environmental purposes, and convertibility of the
currency was set to most current account transactions, although exporters were required to sell 50 percent
of their foreign exchange earnings (after servicing of any foreign currency denominated debt) at the
interbank currency exchange (auction). With exchange rates at this auction being market determined, this
foreign currency surrender requirement no longer constituted a tax on exports.

Importers, however, faced problems in obtaining certification in compliance with Ukrainian standards.
However, the Government, as part of the conditionality for the World Bank's Enterprise Development Loan
(EDAL), agreed to eliminate such controls at the point of importation in favor of random checks at the
wholesale level. The extensive system of export taxes and quotas in operation in 1994 was abolished,
although about one half of Ukraine's exports remained subject to export control through the use of
minimum prices. A decree dated September 25, 1995, however, removed the Ministry of Foreign Economic
Relations (MOFER) discretionary power to impose controls. As part of EDAL conditionality, indicative
prices had to be limited only to commodities where anti-dumping problems apply or which are subject to
voluntary export restrictions or international contingent agreements. All other export controls had to be
rescinded. As a result, this paved the way for Ukrainian exporters' operation with minimal restrictions.
Thus, the policy regime under which exporters operate has been improved significantly in the period of
1994-1996 and was subject for further improvements.

Recognizing that exports would be the key engine of growth in Ukraine (as they have been in all successful
CEE countries), the Export Development Project (EDP) was developed. The strategy for economic reform
in Ukraine through expansion of exports was supported by the evidence from most CEE and other
transition economies that have achieved positive economic growth at the account of a strong and continuing
surge of exports, especially to Western markets. While other reforms were stagnating, largely due to low
consumption rates and increasing fears of unemployment, low private sector investment because of
regulatory, tax and general policy uncertainty and slow progress in privatization, export was often a driving


                                                     - 2 -

force for renovation of production and FDI and capital inflow into the country.

Experience in CEE and other transition economies confirmed that export growth was built predominantly
on efforts to more effectively and efficiently use existing capacity. Since there was substantial excess
capacity in all potential export sectors in Ukraine, there was a clear social gain (from a macro-economic)
perspective for a project that would lead to efficient export growth by resolving problems hampering such a
recovery. Moreover, further gains would be expected to emerge through multiplier effects in the rest of the
economy, due to the then-excess capacity in both capital and labor markets.

The export sector was viewed as the sector where the demand for financial services was most likely to pick
up first. Consumer credit was virtually non-existent at that time, and private investment was barely taking
place. Exports, on the other hand, could be greatly facilitated if the financial resources were available to
companies. The high demand for export finance presented the opportunity to develop a long-term financial
sector reform program built driven by the sector's growth.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The main objective of the EDP was to develop Ukraine's emerging private sector export potential by (i)
supporting the production and marketing of goods, works and services for export in all sectors of the
economy, (ii) providing an integrated package of information, technical assistance and finance services to
private and privatized exporters; and (iii) developing the capacity of EXIM (EXIM), through a
comprehensive institutional development program.

The Government and EXIM expressed the wish to transform EXIM into a dedicated and effective
export-import bank, capable of supporting the Government's key policy objective of rapid development of
Ukraine's export potential with a structured menu of information, technical assistance and financing
services for existing and prospective private sector exporters. For this purpose, the Government and EXIM
requested the World Bank to assist them in arranging and identifying financing for a comprehensive
institutional development program for EXIM.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The project objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

Originally, the EDP project comprised the following four categories with a total baseline cost of US$70
million:

   l Component 1: a cost sharing EDF grant to provide Technical Assistance to exporters ­ US$5
         million;
   l Component 2: technical assistance for the institutional development of EXIM in the amount of
         US$2.5 million;
   l Component 3: a credit line in the amount of US$50 million and DM15 million; and
   l An unallocated portion in the amount of US$2.5 million


Component 1 was built on the recognition by the Ukrainian Government, EXIM and the World Bank of



                                                      - 3 -

the need for the institutional development of EXIM, strengthening its financial performance and enhancing
its capacity for providing comprehensive export advice, information and marketing services to exporters on
a sustained basis. The initial capacity building strategy included the creation of a new Export Services
Department in EXIM, headed by a senior manager, consisting of (a) an Export Development Fund (EDF)
Division, and (b) an Export Information Division.

In response to this strategy, the export development technical assistance to exporters under the EDP was
designed to support two elements. First, the EDP would provide financing for setting up an EDF to provide
targeted technical assistance to specific private and privatized exporters; and second, the EDP would, in the
context of the institutional development program for EXIM, provide know-how and assistance to EXIM to
develop its Export Services Department, establish necessary database and skills to provide information to
exporters.

Component 2 focused on strengthening EXIM's capability in becoming a leading export support and
financing institution in Ukraine, and to assist EXIM in EDP implementation. The institutional development
component included a twinning arrangement with an experienced foreign EXIM bank (or a similarly
qualified institution specialized in trade finance and promotion).

This component focused on assisting EXIM in developing a strategic plan, new structure for its operations,
addressing corporate governance issues, strengthening its credit, asset & liability management, accounting,
and information technology functions, assisting in the establishment of new Export Services Department,
and reinforcing EXIM's EDP implementation capability. The specific elements of this institutional
development program covered fourteen key areas, categorized under the following groupings: Strategic
Development, Technical Capacity and EDP Implementation.

Strategic
The strategic cluster focused on:
    l Strategic and financial planning issues;
    l EXIM's charter and corporate governance arrangements; and
    l EXIM's Organizational structure.


Technical
The technical cluster focused on developing and implementing best practices in various EXIM operating
functions. These included:
    l Credit management ;
    l Asset and liability management;
    l Human resource development and training;
    l Internal audit;
    l Marketing;
    l Accounting and management reporting;
    l Information technology; and
    l Export support services.


EDP Implementation.
The institutional development program supported the implementation of the EDP by providing assistance to
EXIM's:
    l Credit Department;
    l Export Services Department; and
    l Project Management Unit (PMU)



                                                      - 4 -

Component 3 consisted of an export-oriented credit line which would finance both short-term imports of
inputs into production for export, as well as medium- to long-term investment projects of export-oriented
private and privatized firms.

3.4 Revised Components:

During the lifetime of the loan, Bank Management approved three significant reallocations of resources
among the major components:

The first significant change was approved and communicated by the Bank in February 1998. In the
framework of this amendment, the following reallocations were approved. A new sub-component was
introduced: "Goods for [Component 2] of the Project". This newly established category amounted to
US$4.95 million. As such, the following amounts were reallocated:
   l US$2.5 million from unallocated resources
   l US$2.45 million from Component 2 (the original activities under Component 2, were reduced to
        US$50,000, accordingly).

Following the first reallocation the EDP project comprised the following components:

   l Component 1: A cost sharing EDF grant to provide Technical Assistance to exporters (US$5
        million);
   l Component 2: Goods and equipment to be procured by EXIM under the institution building
        component of the project in the amount of US$4.95 million; and US$50,000 for consultants'
        services;
   l Component 3: A credit line in the amount of US$50 million and DM15 million.


The second major reallocation of resources among the various components was approved in 2002. This
reallocation was made along the following lines: US$2.5 million from the underutilized Component 1
(Export Development Fund component) was reallocated to Component 2 (the Institutional Development
component); The other portion of underutilized Component 1 in the amount of US$2 million was
reallocated to Component 3 of the Export Development Credit Facility.

The original version of the Loan Agreement envisaged a free limit in the amount of US$2.5 million. The
definition of the free limit was amended to mean "the combined exposure of EXIM to any single
borrower."

Following the second reallocation, communicated by the Bank April 2002, the EDP project comprised
components with the following financing allocations:
   l Component 1: A cost sharing EDF grant to exporters (US$0.5 million);
   l Component 2: Goods and equipment to be procured by EXIM under the institution building
        component of the project in the amount of US$7.45 million; and US$0.05 million for consultants'
        services under the same component of the project; and
   l Component 3: A credit line in the amount of US$52 million and DM15 million.


Finally, after the third reallocation communicated by the Bank in April 2003, the EDP project in its final
form comprised components with the following financing allocations:
   l Component 1: A cost sharing EDF grant to exporters (US$ 0.394 million);




                                                    - 5 -

   l Component 2: Goods and equipment to be procured by EXIM under the institution building
         component of the project in the amount of US$7.556 million and US$ 50,000 for consultants'
         services under the same component of the project; and
   l Component 3: A credit line in the amount of US$52 million and DM15 million.



3.5 Quality at Entry:

The quality at entry was rated satisfactory. The project design was in line with the Bank 's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS).

The EDP was designed to contribute directly to the strategy for the financial sector as outlined in the World
Bank's Financial Sector Review of June 1995.This strategy sought to speed up the differentiation between
strong, well capitalized and well managed banks, and banks which are financially and managerially weak
and may need to be closed and downsized. This goal was partly to be achieved both by bottom-up direct
institutional strengthening of individual banks or groups of banks, through projects like the EDP. On the
other hand, this strategy was envisaged to succeed also through top-down pressures towards improved bank
performance, strengthened bank regulation and supervision as well as better legal and accounting
environment. This top down approach was pursued through extensive technical assistance, especially in the
areas of NBU regulation and supervision of banks, accounting reform and the reform of collateral law. The
World Bank has played a critical role in directing and supporting these and other reforms through the
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL). The EDP was designed to fit into this strategy as an important
component of the bottom-up approach. It was envisaged that the EDP project would serve the objectives in
a bottom-up fashion while the FSAL project contained conditions that ensured a top down approach
bringing more transparency and stricter regulations into Ukraine's financial sector.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The overall rating of the project objectives is Satisfactory as 100% of the funds were disbursed and project
development objectively have been met. The project development objectives were:

   l At the macro-economic level, facilitate development of Ukraine's emerging private sector export
         potential by supporting the production and marketing of goods, works and services for export;
         promote exports by building up the capacity of the State Export-Import Bank of Ukraine (EXIM)
         to become an efficient provider of services to private and privatized exporters; and

   l At the financial sector level, support building a stronger financial intermediation by development of
         the institutional capacity of EXIM­one of the largest banks in Ukraine­as part of the World Bank's
         overall strategy for financial sector.

The achievement of the project's development objectives can be demonstrated by the following examples:

   l the export potential of Ukraine's economy has been steadily increasing: after the significant export
         reduction in 1998 as a result of financial crises, Ukraine's exports recovered and reached almost
         70% growth in the period of 1999-2003. During 1999-2003 export proceeds of EDP
         sub-borrowers tripled and reached UAH 1,415.3 million (or US$267 million) by 2003. Overall
         sales of EDP sub-borrowers doubled. During the lifetime of the project, EDP incremental proceeds



                                                      - 6 -

         reached US$321.5 million;
    l the institutional capacity of EXIM has been significantly strengthened as the result of extensive,
         well-targeted technical assistance and investments into bank's technologies, risks management and
         management information systems (MIS), development of new products and strengthening of bank's
         lending procedures and internal systems. The bank expanded the menu of its products and became
         one of the most efficient and profitable banks in the country, with modern risks management and
         MIS systems. EXIM is the best international clearing bank in Ukraine; and
    l in addition, the production quality, competitiveness, modern management of the production process
         and marketing of EXIM sub-borrowers under EDP has been enhanced. This is emphasized by the
         increased exports and receipt of ISO certificates by a number of project's borrowers. Moreover, a
         number of ­ EDP sub-borrowers increased their transparency as a result of IAS compliant external
         audit and strengthened their financial management and procurement skills.

Both summary ratings (achievement of PDO and Implementation progress) and project component ratings
have been satisfactory throughout the lifetime of the project. There were certain delays in project
implementation and in the disbursement of funds in 1998-1999 as a result of the financial sector crisis of
1998. However, cautious attitude of EXIM towards selection of sub-projects and credit scoring of
sub-borrowers proved to be justified since it led to no deterioration of EDP portfolio. Thus, the
disbursement lag was effectively cured by the proactive action plans designed together by successive
supervision missions and EXIM's staff.

The impact on export growth

Export potential of the 29 sub-borrowers funded under the Project expanded significantly during the life of
the Project. The export income of these enterprises increased more than three times from UAH 537.4
million in 1998 to almost UAH 1415.3 million in 2003. Moreover, their total sales grew from UAH 1.17
billion in 1998 to more than UAH 2.88 billion in 2003. During the period of project implementation the
                                                             1


total EDP incremental export reached US$321 million. The average EDP Credit Facility incremental
export multiplier is 2.32 which means that every dollar invested from EDP credit line generated on average
2.32 dollars of export proceeds. In some instances (e.g. Vozko, Nibulon, Zaporizhtransformator), this
multiplier equaled 4-5.

With 100 percent of the credit line's funds having been fully disbursed by the December 31, 2002, many
sub-borrowers have already fully repaid earlier granted loans or started their repayment, while several of
them have received second or third loans under the program. As of June 1, 2004 out of 36 sub-projects
funded from the EDP credit line facility only three loans were outstanding. During the life of the project,
EXIM has issued more than 70 loans from the re-flow of funds which allowed to generate additional export
proceeds in the amount exceeding UAH 1.5 billion, thus multiplying the project's impact.




_______________
1Ukraine's exports grew more than 70% during the period of 1999-2003.




                                                          - 7 -

The impact of the institutional development program

EXIM, as confirmed by its recent financial performance indicators, has clearly achieved excellent
performance in most of the areas which needed to be addressed. The financial performance of EXIM has
been significantly strengthened, and the bank became one of the best performing leading banking
institutions in the country; taking into account its operational efficiency, modern technological solutions,
high level of automation of banks' operations, advanced MIS and risks management systems and competent
management team. The bank meets all the NBU prudential requirements and Project's eligibility criteria. It
is ranked among the top 10 largest banks in Ukraine and is considered to be the best international clearing
bank in Ukraine; the excellent rating that was assigned to EXIM and published by Fitch on May 25 2004
reflects the results of the efforts aiming at the institutional development program.   2




The bank has recently achieved additional substantial success in raising its level of international
recognition. A syndicated loan in the amount of US$30 million has been organized by ING Bank, with a
maturity of 12 months and the option to extend the facility for another 6 months. Framework agreements
have recently been concluded with UBS and Credit Lyonnais. According to the bank's annual IFRS and
ISA compliant audit report for year end 2003, EXIM's capital adequacy equals 11.33%; which is
significantly higher than the 8% set in the EDP Loan agreement and higher than the 10% required by the
National Bank of Ukraine, according to the Ukrainian prudential standards. Moreover, in September 2004
EEXIM has placed US$150 million of Eurobond at the fixed yield rate of 7.75 which is the considered to
be the most competitive corporate bond in Ukraine after the sovereign Euro bonds.

The following issues highlight EXIM's continued compliance with the EDP eligibility criteria and NBU
prudential requirements:
    l On the need for acceptable auditing, the requirement for IAS/IFRS compliant audits was met, with
         EXIM having had an unqualified audit throughout the period of 1996-2003, with the latter report
         produced by Ernst & Young;
    l In regards to institutional development, EXIM has completed TA activities with JEXIM (Japan)
         and ABN-AMRO (Netherlands) as well as contracted external technical legal advise under EDP to
         revise EXIM's lending legal documents;
    l With the minimum capital adequacy ratio (according to BIS/IAS) requirement set at 8% starting in
         1998, EXIM achieved a CAR of 13.67% in 2002 and 11.63% in 2003;
    l Single Borrower Exposure (as a percentage of total equity) was set at 25%, EXIM achieved a rate
         of 23.8% in 2002 and 24.6% in 2003. The aggregate exposure to insiders (lending limit as % of
         equity) was set at 15%, with EXIM having reduced it to below 1% in 2002, and 2.9% in 2003.


4.2 Outputs by components:

Component 1: Export Facilitation through Cost-Sharing EDF

The Export Development Fund component of the project has been designed to provide cost-sharing grant
financing to potential sub-borrowers of EXIM aimed at strengthening their project planning and export
development potential, strengthening their marketing and sale techniques, enhancing their performance and
standards (including ISO compliance), improving their financial management and procurement skills etc.
_______________
2Ratings EXIM: Foreign Currency Long-Term "B+"; Short-Term "B"; Outlook for Long-Term rating is Stable; Individual
-Support "4"; Sovereign Risk; Foreign Long-Term "B+"; Local Long-Term "B+".




                                                         - 8 -

Although EXIM had received more than 20 applications from enterprises for co-financing of technical
assistance, EXIM has provided funding to 17 sub-projects for total amount of US$ 419 thousand. As
compared to the originally planned US$ 5 million, disbursements under this component significantly lagged
behind the agreed schedule and required reallocation of funds to other components. Despite the initial
delays in EDF disbursement, and the Bank's decision to reallocate $4.606 million from the EDF component
(Component 1) to other components under the Loan (Components 2 and 3), implementation of this
component has been rated satisfactory.

This was largely a demand driven component, dependent on the interest in and readiness of EXIM's
sub-borrowers to use technical assistance for development purposes. Thus, EXIM's ability to allocate
cost-sharing grant financing on a 50/50 basis during the period of 1997-2001 was seriously constrained by
a number of factors independent from EXIM's own capacity and commitment to the Project. Despite the
interest of many enterprises in grant financing in 1998-1999, their participation in this program was
constrained by the lack of counterpart financing. Moreover, many Ukrainian enterprises were hit by the
economic crises in Ukraine in 1998, that turned to be even more painful for Ukrainian exporters to Russia
and a number of East Asian Countries. In addition, domination of barter operations and use of tax evasion
schemes made enterprise finances opaque, accounting and reporting unreliable. Unpredictability of
Government policies and legislation, specifically in the area of foreign currency regulation, export quotas,
duties and taxation negatively impacted export sales and hindered the development and growth of new
export markets for many Ukrainian products and goods, with certain exception of metallurgy and row
materials. These developments suppressed the ability of EXIM to promptly utilize EDF in the first years
since the launch of the Project. This led to the reallocation of the Project funds as outlined above.

Another impediment on the way to successful implementation of this component of the Project was the
limited capacity of EXIM to serve fully as export promotion bank. Before the launch of the project in
1997, one of EXIM's main function was to act as an Agent on behalf of the Government (when obligations
and related risks belong to the Government) in facilitating bilateral export and import agreements and
provide administrative support to disbursement of funds in line with the agreed purpose for use of funds or
selected sub-projects. At this juncture, EXIM had limited institutional capacity in funding its own projects
and developing adequate skills and database for serving as export development institution. This resulted in
limited knowledge of newly established enterprises or potential exporters about the services and financial
products of EXIM. With limited branch network, EXIM had limited capacity to outreach new clients
without extensive marketing and advertising. Although the Government had ambitious plans for EXIM as
was outlined in its statutory documents, the strategy for transforming bank into the narrow, traditional
export import facilitation credit institution has been curtailed by the limited capital of the bank. According
to the Decree of the President #29, dated January 3, 1992, the Government envisaged that EXIM's
statutory capital would amount to US$200 million. EXIM, however, has never been provided with
sufficiently large equity and with an adequate funding structure. This led to EXIM's attempt to diversify its
resource base and began operating in the household deposits market. The current structure of liabilities,
consisting of household and company deposits, prevent EXIM from transforming into narrow
export-import development bank.

Although the Agency function remained to be one of the side activities of EXIM on the basis of the formal
Agency Agreement between the Ministry of Finance and EXIM signed in November 1996 as a
pre-condition of EDP implementation, EXIM has taken significant measures to develop its own export
promotion potential and build up an extensive clientele base. This correlated with the strategy envisioned
for EXIM in its statutory documents, i.e. development of EXIM as an export facilitation institution.




                                                      - 9 -

During the life of the project, EXIM played an important role in advising its sub-borrowers in business
planning (preparation of export development plans which was required under EDP), procurement,
compliance with standards and certification requirements, improved financial management, marketing and
advertising. As a result, the demand for EDF funds increased after 2001 that allowed EXIM to successfully
contract 100% of EDF budget during the period of 2001-2004.
A total 17 TA sub-projects for US$394,000 were disbursed from WB funds by EXIM's management under
the Export Development Fund component of the project during 1997-2003. Several supervision missions
helped EXIM to find a useful application of such funds. Finally, it was agreed that EXIM should make
efforts to convince some of its largest borrowers to undertake annual audits according to international
accounting standards IAS. As a result of these efforts, EXIM financed seven IAS annual audits for its
sub-borrowers.

Component 2: Institutional Development Impact

Both auditors and supervision missions have commended EXIM for the progress achieved in lending
policies and procedures. EXIM has evolved significantly in the area of institutional building under
Component 2 of the project. Given the extensive technical assistance received from JEXIM (Japan) and
ABN AMRO (Netherlands), EXIM has streamlined its credit decision-making process, risk management
procedures and modernized its internal operations and quality of banking products. The Japanese PHRD
Grant TF 021274 financed this activity (Amount: US$2.5 million). The TF financed a twinning agreement
between the Japanese EXIM (JEXIM) and the Ukrainian EXIM. Within the framework of this agreement,
JEXIM provided consultants and guidance to the EXIM in the area of its institution building and its MIS
creation process. The twinning agreement has been successfully completed. In addition, the Dutch Trust
Fund (TF036961) in the amount of US$173,500 (NLG347 000) helped finance consultants from ABN
AMRO Bank to develop EXIM's credit function.

With additional funding available from these trust funds, World Bank funds originally envisaged to finance
the TA component of the project could be released. As a result, under this component, EXIM fully
disbursed the available funds in the amount of US$7.556 million in contracts for IT procurement. Major
items under this procurement program have substantially contributed to the IT development of EXIM,
including Hewlett­Packard's e-banking platform, a structured cable system and the internal computer
network developed by Soft-Tronik (USA) etc. EXIM also purchased front office computer system for its
treasury & trading division from Reuters and Swift Alliance Access software.

With the help of the legal advisor contracted under Component 2 of the project (US$50,000), the loan
documentation of EXIM has been modified and adjusted to incorporate international best practices, with
special attention paid to the recent legislative changes in Ukraine (including passage of the Law on Secured
transactions, Law on Leasing, Law on Mortgage) and focusing on allowing EXIM to further increase its
assets without compromising the quality of the loan portfolio.

Component 3: Export-Oriented Credit Line

100 percent of the funds of the credit line in the amounts of US$52 million and DM15 million were
disbursed by December 31, 2004. Under the EDP credit line, 29 sub-borrowers and a total of 37 sub-loans
have been funded. A further US$122 million, EUR 12 million and DM 750,000 and 2.5 million UAH were
committed from the reflow of funds to finance 70 sub-loans up to June 2004.

In 1998, the total export income of companies financed under the EDP amounted to UAH 537 million. In
2003, this figure amounted to UAH 1415.3 million (or US$ 267 mln). If taking into consideration the use


                                                     - 10 -

of EDP original funds as well as re-flow of funds as of June 2004, the amount of export proceeds for all
the companies financed under the EDP (total 106 sub=projects) exceeded US$494 million.

Quality of EDP Sub-loan Portfolio

There have been no cases of default under the EDP credit line. In accordance with the revised April 2004
NBU Regulation on Loan Classification and Provisioning, EXIM undertakes a monthly review of the loan
classification and provisioning for bank's assets, including sub-loans financed under the EDP. As of June
l, 2004, 14 customers were classified as "standard", one customer was classified as "watch", one customer
was classified as "sub-standard" and one was classified as "doubtful". Monitoring reports reflect the
combined position of exposures from the initial funds and from the reflow of funds. These reports also
reflect both the financial situation of borrowers and their behavioral scoring with regard to repayment
discipline with EXIM.

EXIM has been very responsive to Bank's suggestions during supervision missions. Accordingly, EXIM
has started to prepare loan classifications according to NBU requirements as well as in compliance with
IAS. The latter classification of customers and assets is now regularly carried out for management
information purposes. This can be interpreted major progress in institutional capacity building, considering
that in October 2000 the WB mission stated the following: "A unified credit policy and procedures manual
is still pending, credit procedures are still fragmented and proper risks management procedures are not yet
in place". Based on the recommendations of the ABN AMRO consultants regarding the strengthening of
the credit function in EXIM, a decision was then reached to create a central Risk Management function
directly reporting to the Chairman.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable.


4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable.


4.5 Institutional development impact:

During the lifetime of the EDP, EXIM has significantly improved its performance and achieved substantial
progress in the area of institutional building under Component 2 of the project.

Implementation of twinning arrangement program financed by the Japanese grant in the amount of US$2.5
million contributed significantly into the process of bank's transformation into a viable commercial bank
that operates according to the best international standards. With extensive technical assistance from JEXIM
and ABN-AMRO (funded from the Bank-executed Dutch TF036961), EXIM streamlined its credit
decision making process, established sound MIS and risk management systems and procedures, modernized
its operations and upgraded the quality of banking products and services. Further technical assistance
provided to the bank by ABN-AMRO under the auspices of the project and with the support of the EU
TACIS program in 2000-2001 has complemented the institutional development work funded the Bank.




                                                      - 11 -

In the opinion of EXIM's management, timely implementation of the institutional development program for
EXIM funded under Component 2 of the Project and supported by the technical assistance grant financing
has proved to be one of the core factors of successful EDP project implementation, and prudent
disbursement of loan funds.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Project implementation began in an unfavorable political and economic environment. A spillover from the
Russian crisis in August 1998 first affected the deposit markets, especially the demand deposit segment
where the banks were obliged to allow prompt withdrawal. The resulting financial turbulence and
restructuring of government T-bills seriously undermined the already fragile liquidity of the market.
Although markets stabilized in 1999-2000, Ukraine's banking markets have remained shallow and
inherently unstable. Low confidence of the population in the banking sector has resulted in low saving
mobilization capacity of banks. Poor access to international money markets further reduced the capacity of
banks for intermediation of funds. In 2000, total household deposits in Ukraine amounted to UAH 4.4
billion, while total loans reached slightly more than UAH 23.6 billion or less than 16% of GDP. Banking
sector remained fragmented, uncompetitive, with high transaction costs and limited outreach.

During the period of 2001-2004, the National Bank of Ukraine has encouraged a number of changes in the
banking sector, supported by the legal and regulatory amendments and strengthened prudential
requirements. Moreover, liquidation of a number of small banks and one of the largest banks (namely Bank
Ukraina) has allowed to address immediate risks in the banking sector. Creation of a Deposit Insurance
fund in 1999 has allowed to rebuild the confidence of depositors. During the period of 2001-2003, total
deposits in the banking sector increased from UAH 30 billion in 2001 to UAH 83.8 billion as of January
2004 and reached 31.7% of GDP. Banking assets surged to UAH 101 billion in January 2004 which
represents 38% of GDP. Total loans grew more than three fold in 2001-2003 and amounted to more than
US$14 billion (or 27% of GDP) by the end of 2003. However, the transaction costs remain very high as
compared to other economies and interest rate spreads, despite the recent declining trends, are still
considered too high which results in high cost of borrowing and limited access to finance for SMEs and
enterprises which need restructuring.

Many Ukrainian enterprises were severely hit by the economic crisis in Ukraine in 1998, which turned to be
even more painful for Ukrainian exporters to Russia and to East Asian countries. The real sector in
Ukraine saw the first signs of recovery and growth only in the aftermath of the 1998 crisis. In line with
macro stabilization and significant growth in exports, the demand for new banking finance has revived
beginning from 2001. This demand significantly intensified in 2002-2003. Ukraine's exports grew more
than two-fold during the period of 2002-2004.

As a result of improving macroeconomic conditions, which is confirmed by the continued economic growth
and low inflation, the real economy is now showing increased appetite for export financing. In the light of
this development, EDP finance and export promotion services of EXIM became very important for the
country's development, in particular, export support. In the absence of appropriate trade finance
infrastructure in Ukraine, it will be very important to expand EXIM's role in export facilitation. Thus, the
role of EXIM as part of the Government's overall strategy for export promotion in Ukraine should be
clarified by defining more clearly the bank's mission and introducing amendments to the draft Law on State
Support to Export Insurance and Financing which was submitted to Parliament by the Cabinet of Ministers



                                                     - 12 -

in October 2002 (registration number #2349).


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The EDP benefited from improvements in the banking system brought about by a strengthening of the
supervisory capacity of the NBU. Specifically, NBU introduced tougher prudential requirements in the area
of banks' capital (including recalculation of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital and increase of capital adequacy ratio
from 8 to 10 percent), loan classification and provisioning, large exposures etc. However, there has been
little progress in strengthening banks corporate governance and reducing insider lending. State banks,
including EXIM and Savings Bank, were affected by the provisions of article 7 of the new Law on Banks
and Banking Activities. The major concerns in the governance of EXIM still relate to the composition and
powers of the bank's Supervisory Council.          3




There is a very high level of representation of political powers on the council. The absence of strict
provisions on the prevention of conflict of interest for the members of the supervisory board of a state bank
results in the representation of competing institutions and groups whose activities may infringe the market
position and longer-term viability of the state banks. The confidentiality of major credit decisions cannot be
ensured because several of the new members in the Supervisory Board of EXIM also have financial
holdings in and have similar positions on the Boards of other banks. The Bank has repeatedly advised the
management of EXIM, NBU and the Government of Ukraine to introduce adequate amendments to the
Article 7 of the Law on Banks and Banking and ensure that all the members of the Supervisory Council
meet the "fit and proper" criteria and do not have any conflicts of interest.

The strategic positioning of EXIM is another directly related to the project which depended on the
Government's position. The Bank repeatedly requested that the Government investigate the potential role
that EXIM may play in export facilitation in the future. However, despite various proposals, there has
been little progress with deciding on the future role of EXIM in the export support scheme as well as its
ownership transformation. Attempts of the Government to sell Government assets held by EXIM (under the
Agency agreement EXIM had approximately US$800 million in loans accounted off-balance sheet) failed
due to limited demand. EXIM's diversification into the retail deposits market has been a necessary step for
mobilizing more resources to expand EXIM's lending and retain its market niche. However, with more
commercial banks competing in the same line of businesses (and for the same clients), EXIM and the
Government need to endorse a more robust strategy for EXIM's future development which will envision
either the transformation of the bank into a narrowly specialized export-import bank (depending mainly on
non-retail, often Government and bilateral international funding) or expansion of its commercial lending
that will entail gradual privatization of the bank.

In 2002, the Ministry of Economy prepared a draft law on export support which envisioned establishment
of an Export Guarantee and Credit Agency and didn't mention the role of EXIM in this process. The draft
Law on State Support to Export Insurance and Financing was submitted to the Parliament of Ukraine in
2002, however, it was not discussed and will require serious reconsideration, including clarification of the
role of EXIM in this scheme and its future development strategy.

______________
3These changes are motivated by the text of Article 7 of the new Law on Banks and Banking that was enacted on January 17,
2001. The provisions of this article on corporate governance result in excessive politicization of the decision-making in state
banks. Representation of 14 people in the Board of a commercial institution makes this body cumbersome, inflexible and
unconstructive, which may impact the strategic development and even operational efficiency of the state banks.



                                                             - 13 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Prior to the Project launch, the Bank has indicated a number of areas of operational and financial
performance of EXIM requiring further improvements aimed at acceleration of project implementation as
well as transformation of the bank into a viable, modern and efficient financial institution. These included
(i) creation of an independent division within EXIM for project implementation, (ii) development and
implementation of a more efficient, uniform credit appraisal and monitoring procedures and systems; (iii)
creation of proper risks management practices and procedures, inter alia, for improved management of
assets and liabilities, treasury risk management and credit risks monitoring. Concerted efforts of the
management of EXIM, its committment to the efficient implementation of the Project and strong interest for
improving bank's performance have resulted in significant upgrading of bank's internal practices and
procedures in line with Bank's recommendations. Moreover, technical assistance engaged in the process of
project implementation (funded from both grant and loan proceeds) has helped eliminate defficiencies
existing in the performance of the Borrower in 1996-1997 and facilitate acheivement of the project's
objectives. EXIM has established an independent division for project implementation, namely Export
Development Department, which proved to be one of the most efficient structural divisions in the bank.

Throughout the life of the Project, EXIM has demonstrated proactive and constructive attitude towards
Bank's advise with regards to EXIM's operational performance as well as dialogue with the Government.
Thanks to the professionalizm of EXIM's management and core staff, the reasonable formula for
securitization and repayment of Government related debts was used. Although one loan remains to be fully
repaid (i.e. loan to Donkavamet), EXIM has used all existing legal instruments to recover the loss: several
auctions for the sale of the collateral were organized (although without any interest on the part of the
potential buyers), the bank has fully provided for this loan, trilateral discussions between the Government,
EXIM and the Bank were repeatedly organized to address the issue. The final project supervision mission
has recommended that Government of Ukraine and NBU allow EXIM to write off this loan. Although this
decision is beyond the scope of authorities of EXIM, this will be necessary for EXIM to further pursue this
solution.

Moreover, in the absence of Government's clear vision of the bank's future, EXIM has developed and
suggested for Government's review the mission statement and the business plan for bank's development for
2004.

To accelerate project implementation and streamline disbursement of project funds, specifically under the
Credit Line and Export Development Fund components, EXIM initiated several seminars and workshops
for the sub-borrowers to enhance their skills in the area of sub-projects, business plan and export
development plans preparation and implementation, expand their knowledge in the area of financial
management as well as procurement.

Although EXIM was committed to disburse credit line resources in the most expedient manner, it took the
most rationale and justified approach of slower disbursement during 1998-1999 which allowed EXIM to (i)
enhance its own credit scoring and risks management skills; (ii) minimize exposure and thus reduce the
risks in the afthermath of the Russian 1998 crisis which affected Ukrainian exporters; and (iii) reduce
adverse selection and thus allow more efficient and export potential enterprises to benefit from the use of
the Project funds during the period of 1998-2003 when economic situation in Ukraine began to stabilize
and real economy needed more investmetns, first of all credit resources such as EDP, to upgrade production
and expand exports.




                                                     - 14 -

5.4 Costs and financing:

No specific cost issues were determined. The sub-borrowers contributed significantly from their own funds
to the sub-projects financed from the credit line, thus increasing the leverage effect of the credit line
towards private sector investments and activity.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The project provided a noticeable contribution to the improvement of risks management and specifically
credit risk analysis and management skills and systems of EXIM. The quality of the sub-loan packages
provided for the Bank's review were significantly better in the second half of the project. This was
confirmed by the NBU due diligence of 1999 and on-site examinations of EXIM in 2001-2003. NBU and
EXIM management confirmed that the high quality of EXIM EDP portfolio and lately ­ EXIM overall loan
portfolio - was clearly the result of the technical assistance provided to EXIM under EDP. The Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) has now been assigned the task to review all investment type lending. Thus
there is substantiated expectation that the know-how accumulated in the PMU will spread to other
organizational units of EXIM and that the institutional development impact of the project will be sustained.

In addition, several sub-borrowers significantly improved their knowledge and skills and thus expanded
their business substantially. Moreover, they have also made a progress in their procurement and financial
management techniques. The World Bank has provided several training courses on the issues if risks
management and prudent procurement for EXIM staff and representatives of sub-borrowers.

Finally, the rationale for sustainability rating can be substantiated by the fact that the EDP credit line
targeted a very wide range of sectors of the Ukrainian economy, and would therefore not dependent on
industrial trends or performance in specific segments of the economy. Ukraine is an export dependent
economy, with heavy representation of metallurgical and chemical industries in total exports and high
dependency on world prices for these products. One of the major characteristics of EDP portfolio which
adds to its sustainability is the diversification by regions and sectors. EDP portfolio is represented by more
than 12 different industries and 30 countries of export. 85% of EDP credit line funds were invested in
manufacturing/industrial production, 13% was allocated to agriculture and fishery, and 2% of EDP credit
loan funds was granted to the transport industry. Majority of EDP clients were medium size enterprises,
many of which were entering new export markets or launching their first exports as a result of EDP
financing.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
NA

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Bank performance in the identification, preparation and appraisal of the project is rated as satisfactory. The
project was prepared and came into force in a relatively short time (total ­ less than 17 months) which is



                                                       - 15 -

still considered to be one of the best practices for project preparation in Ukraine. Preparation of the project
was closely linked to the Bank's strategy in reforming Ukraine's financial sector which envisioned
restructuring of individual banks, strengthening governance and financial performance of state banks. The
original structure of the project with three major components and its development objectives proved to be
successful.


7.2 Supervision:

Supervision of the project was in line with Bank procedures, and remained thorough throughout the lifetime
of the project in spite of the several changes in the Bank project team leadership. Continuity was preserved
throughout, supervision missions were highly proactive and responsive to the changing environment in
Ukraine which resulted in successful project implementation as well as achievement of additional positive
results in restructuring of EXIM and streamlining the dialogue between the bank and the Government of
Ukraine. EXIM's management has gratefully accepted the Bank's advice in various areas of bank's
performance and governance. These included, among other things, suggestions with regard to the uses of
EDF funds, revisions of EXIM's legal and loan documentation and credit scoring of the borrowers,
repayment of major Government related loans to EXIM etc. In addition, a number of changes were
implemented which strengthened the structure and implementation of the project.

In the course of project supervision, the Bank demonstrated strong understanding of the Ukraine's changing
economic and financial sector environment and responded proactively to the requests of EXIM aimed at
improving bank's performance and supporting export development in Ukraine. Amendments to Loan
agreement reflect Bank's diligent approach to supervision of the credit line disbursement as well as
institutional strengthening of EXIM. For example, the Bank amended the Loan agreement incorporating (i)
one obligor free limits, based on total combined exposure towards any sub borrower, (ii) debt to equity
ratio of 70/30 for EXIM sub-borrowers; (iii) permission to EXIM to finance lease contracts; (iv) increased
investments for upgrading EXIM's systems and technologies necessary for modern banking etc. In the aide
memoires of the supervision missions the Bank issued numerous technical suggestions and
recommendations aimed at enhancing project monitoring at PMU, expanding EXIM's positive EDP
experience to other areas of its activities, strengthening EXIM's governance and market position. New
implementation arrangements for more diligent monitoring of sub-borrowers and TA recipients were agreed
with the PMU. The Bank organized a number of seminars and conference aimed at deepening the
knowledge of EXIM staff and its borrowers, including such areas as assets and liabilities management,
risks management, assets based finance, secured lending, procurement etc.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Bank performance can be considered as satisfactory. The Bank team showed flexibility in its dialogue with
the Borrower and pro-activity in trying to promote adequate credit analysis standards, timely resolve
emerging or potential problems and support EXIM's strive for developing as a modern competitive and
sound financial institution.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The project was implemented in record time. The Borrower, i.e. EXIM bank of Ukraine, has been highly



                                                      - 16 -

committed to project preparation and implementation and thus made all the necessary institutional changes
to incorporate project needs. The Borrower's contribution to project preparation is thus rated satisfactory.


7.5 Government implementation performance:

The Government's implementation performance was satisfactory. The Government as the Guarantor
continued to support the project consistently and performed vast majority of its obligations. Although in the
middle of 2000 the Bank expressed its serious concerns about EXIM's potential complaince with the capital
adequacy requirements caused by the Government's delayed action in repaying its related debts to EXIM
(which led to mission's classification of Project implementation progress as unsatisfactory), the
Government issued respective resolutions resulting in corporatization of EXIM in 2000, repayment of its
major debts during 2000-2003 and replenishment of EXIM's capital in 2004.

Throughout the lifetime of the project, the Bank has emphasized the need for EXIM's                                     capital
replenishment to allow further growth and institutional development of the bank. The Bank has also
strongly supported EXIM's efforts aimed at the recognition and repayment of Government related loans on
the books of the bank. Three such loans (namely Cargyll, Yuzhmash (Pivdenmash) and Donkavamet) have
been recorded on the books of EXIM since early 90s and severely damaged EXIM's portfolio performance.
As a result of EDP preparation strategy, the Government and EXIM signed an Agency Agreement in
November 1996 where Government recognized its liabilities under these loans. In 1998, the largest of the
three loans (i.e. Cargill loan) was restructured and secured by the promissory notes (veksels) of the
Ministry of Finance in the amount of UAH 533 mln, and by October 2003 the loan has been fully repaid.
Another loan to a company called Pivdenmash was fully repaid in 2003. This resulted in a significant
decrease of loan loss provisioning for bad assets and positively impacted bank's capital position.
According to the Ukrainian statutory accounting requirements, EXIM had a total equity in the amount of
UAH 414 million by year-end 2002, and UAH 444 million by year-end 2003. These very same figures 4


amounted to UAH 271 million in 2002 and 322 million in 2003 using IFRS.

Moreover, taking into consideration that the Government didn't have resources to inject additional capital
into bank's equity during 1992-2003, the Government supported EXIM's requests for channeling its annual
retained earnings to replenish bank's capital. Thus, during the period of 1992-2003, EXIM's equity
substantially increased despite banking crises in 1998 and significant capital erosion in US Dollar terms.
In June 2004, the Parliament of Ukraine passed amendments to the Law on state 2004 budget of Ukraine
authorizing capital investment into EXIM in the amount of UAH 80 million (approximately US$15
million).

Although several issues remain outstanding, specifically, repayment of Pivdenmash loan on the books of
EXIM (this loan is fully provisioned and secured by the collateral) and finalization of EXIM's development
strategy, the Bank recognizes that the future political and economic environment would most likely be more
conducive for final successful resolution of these issues.

______________
4
 The Ukrainian economy was regarded as being hyperinflationary for the ten-year period ending 31 December 2000. As such,
the Bank has applied IAS 29 "Financial accounting in hyperinflationary economies". The effect of applying IAS 29 is that
non-monetary items were restated using the Consumer Price Index to measuring units current at 31 December 2000, and these
restated values were used as a basis for accounting in subsequent accounting periods. In the first half of 2002, the management
of EXIM decided to carry out a revaluation of its fixed assets. As a result, the balance sheet of the bank as of December 31,
2002 reflects a growth in fixed assets in the amount of UAH 132,4 million and a growth in the statutory capital of the bank in
the amount of UAH 118 million.



                                                            - 17 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The Export Development Department that was established as project's PMU in EXIM, has performed
satisfactorily throughout the project. Despite the extension of project closing date, the Bank believes that
the slow disbursement of project funds during the period of 1997-1999 proved to be fully justified and
rationale since EXIM and EDP portfolio could have been negatively affected by the 1998 banking and
economic crisis. This didn't happen and EDP portfolio, as confirmed by NBU, remained satisfactory as a
result of precautionary attitude of EXIM's management towards disbursement of project funds in the
unstable economic environment and rewarding the best performing enterprises, thus avoiding adverse
selection. Although project closing date was extended till June 30, 2004 EXIM has completed credit line
disbursement by December 31, 2002 almost in line with the earlier schedule.

Despite the EXIM's institutional weaknesses in the area of sub-project's appraisal at earlier stages of
project implementation, EXIM has significantly improved its performance and procedures, following the
extensive TA and training which was provided to its staff in the areas of credit risk assessment and
procurement. The PMU was particularly instrumental in accelerating disbursement and project
implementation through timely approval of free-limit sub-projects, and fast execution of disbursements. In
addition, to accelerate and enhance quality of procurement by sub-borrowers, PMU transferred knowledge
to sub- borrowers by organizing training and study tours for its clients. EXIM, jointly with representatives
of its sub-borrowers, attended the Bank's procurement seminar in Italy in summer of 2000, as well as
disbursement seminar in October 2000 in Kiev which was hosted by EXIM. Moreover, in 1998-2002,
EXIM hosted and organized a number of conferences on assets and liabilities management, risks
management, assets based finance, mortgage finance which were attended by EXIM's staff, representatives
of NBU commercial banks of Ukraine.

Although in April - June 2000 the Bank highlighted its dissatisfaction with the status of Goverment
obligations in repaying state guaranteed debts to EXIM that could lead to EXIM's non-compliance with the
capital adequacy requirements, the Government issued respective resolutions to repay the largest
Government related loans while EXIM has created necessary provisions for these loans. The Project and
EXIM annual audit reports confirmed EXIM's compliance with the capital adequacy requirements and thus
Project's eligibility criteria. EXIM has also contracted ABN AMRO under the Dutch grant to strengthen its
credit function. Thus, throughout the Project EXIM continued to comply with the Bank's requirements and
performed most of the recommended activities, especially in the area of credit scoring and risks
management.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory, including such areas as disbursement, financial
management and project reporting etc. A conservative approach to risk containment was developed as a
result of technical assistance rendered by JEXIM of Japan and ABN Ammo. The Government, for its part,
has also contributed to the success of the project by complying with Bank's requirements aiming at the
repayment of government directed loans.


8. Lessons Learned




                                                     - 18 -

The main lessons learnt from the EDP relate to measures which can be adopted by the Bank at project
design of Fills to strengthen project implementation. They include the following recommendations and
observations:

   l One of the positive features of EDP project design was that during the implementation of the EDP
        project, the Bank combined a bottom up approach with a top down pressures aimed at improving
        banking sector performance at the level of individual banks as well as system in general through
        improved regulation and supervision, and better legal and accounting environment. This top down
        approach was pursued through extensive technical assistance and adjustment lending, especially in
        the areas of NBU regulation and supervision of banks, accounting reform and the reform of
        collateral law. Although FSAL project (which ensured this top down pressure) was closed prior to
        the EDP, the Bank continued its support to the banking sector reform through the series of PAL
        operations (PAL 1, PAL 2). It was through FSAL, PAL 1 and PAL 2 that the Bank pursued
        amendments to the banking legislation, revisions of the NBU prudential requirements, Government
        commitment to restructuring of state banks, including repayment of Government related loans to
        EXIM.

   l Another major prerequisites for the successful implementation of EDP was the requirement and
        the program for institutional development of EXIM as a participating financial institution. Thus,
        implementation of EDP has not only provided EXIM with the funds for expanding its intermediary
        capacity, but more importantly, it has built-in incentives and provided necessary mechanisms for
        strengthening bank's financial and operational performance. The complementary technical
        assistance (TA) engaged in addition to loan funds allowed to tailor TA to the needs of EXIM,
        where necessary supported the TA with capital investments (such as IT/MIS investments of
        EXIM), brought prompt and more sustainable results and increased synergy in using loan and TA
        resources.

In addition, the following lessons merit consideration:

   l Throughout the life of the project, the Bank emphasized the need for EXIM's compliance with the
        covenants entailed in the Loan agreement. During project implementation the Bank recognized the
        need to clarify the provisions of the Loan agreement related to one obligor exposure and debt to
        equity ratio of 70/30. In 2000, the Bank introduced amendments to the Loan Agreement, requiring
        EXIM to comply with maximum (combined) one obligor exposure for all the loans, guarantees and
        other exposures of EXIM to a single EDP sub-borrower, including EDP credit line and other
        EXIM's resources. This approach allowed to accommodate the existing risk that branches of
        EXIM could have extended new loans to the customers of EXIM under EDP and thus exceed the
        existing limitations. This also allowed to ensure that the existing indebtedness of a sub-borrower
        (e.g. debt to equity) is kept within the limits envisaged by the Loan agreement. Thus, it is
        recommended that free limits for the credit line disbursement should be defined on the basis of total
        exposure towards any one customer.

   l In the absence of the previous experience of EXIM and sub-borrowers in using internationally
        accepted procurement practices, the Bank's procurement rules proved to be too complicated which
        delayed procurement, first of all IT/MIS systems for EXIM, at the early stages of project
        implementation. Moreover, commercial practices of sub-borrowers varied and not always proved
        to be efficient. As a result, EXIM took tremendous efforts to enhance its own in-house
        procurement practices as well as increase the procurement skills of its sub-borrowers. The Bank


                                                      - 19 -

        also achieved substantial progress in simplifying its procurement guidelines for private sector
        beneficiaries. In the future, the Bank should allow sub-borrowing enterprises to use commercial
        practices, provided that local legislation lays down a foundation for basic procurement principles
        and enterprises undergo some training in the area of procurement , e.g. brief seminar (to be
        organized by the Bank or a borrowing agency) similarly to the seminars organized under EDP.

    l With regard to future credit lines to financial intermediaries, it is worth noting that according to
        international best practices, one of the best ways to reduce credit risk is to broaden the appropriate
        credit product range. For example, permitting a finance lease scheme might have ensured for
        EXIM the possibility to retain the ownership of the equipment. Leasing was not permitted under
        the existing loan agreement. The same recommendation relates to the purchase and discounting of
        negotiable export documents, factoring, and other forms of asset-based lending to strengthen the
        bank's collateral position.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

On November 19, 2004 EXIM Bank of Ukraine has provided the Bank with detailed report on assessment
of EDP outcomes and lessons learnt (Annex X to the ICR). The main project results can be summarized as
follows:

    l Implementation of EDP played a significant role in strengthening EXIM's and sub-borrowers
        institutional foundation, enhancing their skills and raising export promotion capacity;
    l Financing of EDF sub-projects (specifically, for external IAS audit) has allowed EXIM to reduce
        credit risks;
    l The EDP Credit Line and Export Development Fund facility proved to be highly successful that
        played a significant role in increasing the export capacity of sub-borrowers. Since majority of
        EDP participants were small and medium size enterprises, many of them prepared Export
        Development Plans and entered export markets for the first time. Some have expanded their export
        potential by accessing new markets with compatible products. Combination of EDP relatively
        inexpensive long-term credit resources with know how and technical assistance granted by EXIM
        allowed many sub-borrowers to refigure their internal management processes, improve marketing
        and sales, adopt ISO standards and undertake IAS compliant audits. Financial performance of
        EDP sub-borrowers improved, all participants became highly-dynamic, export-oriented enterprises,
        with some of them ranking among the largest exporters of Ukraine in their product niches. Many
        EDP sub-borrowers and TA recipients significantly enhanced their financial management and
        business planning skills that resulted in expanding the access of EXIM sub-borrowers for new
        lending, including from international banks operating in Ukraine.
    l Institutional development program for EXIM, which included extensive TA in a form of twinning
        arrangement with Jexim and complimentary targeted TA from ABN-AMRO and external legal
        advice, have allowed EXIM to promptly amend its internal procedures, modernize the information
        systems, introduce new products and risks management techniques that allowed bank to become
        one of the most advanced in terms of technologies and most efficient in terms of costs and quality
        of operations (especially for corporate clients) banking institutions in the country.

Among the EDP success factors, the borrower named the following:




                                                     - 20 -

   l Clear structure of EDP designed by the Bank's team allowed it sufficient flexibility to adapting the
        Project to needs of the Borrower and the sub-borrowers;
   l Continued effective communication and cooperation between the experts of the Bank and EXIM
        during and in-between the supervision mission resulted in prompt and effective resolution of
        emerging issues and thus allowed to facilitate project implementation process;
   l Strong commitment and comprehensive, consistent support to the project from the Bank,
        Government of Ukraine and top management of EXIM;.
   l Successful combination of lending, technical assistance resources under EDP and policy dialogue
        interventions through FSAL, PAL allowed to achieve significant results, both in terms of
        disbursement of credit line, development of export potential, restructuring of EXIM as well as
        strengthening dialogue between EXIM, Government and NBU with regard to the needs of the
        banking sector of Ukraine and the role of the Government in reforming state banks;
   l EDP was the first Bank's project which accommodated the needs of the economy of Ukraine in
        long-term credits for development and modernization of production;
   l Ability of the Borrower to employ for PMU skilled employees (specialists in credit analysis,
        financial management, credit line monitoring, procurement etc.) and thus no retraining or long-term
        training from the scratch was required;
   l Creation of an independent Export Development Department as Project's PMU proved to be an
        efficient vehicle for project implementation; it also benefited from the support from other
        departments of EXIM such as legal, credit and risks management. Moreover, EXIM now intends to
        use Export Development Department for all the investment lending operations, not only for
        financial of projects from the re-flow of EDP funds.


The Borrower has also recognized some issues which emerged in EDF implementation and led to
reallocation of funds under this component. Nevertheless, in borrower's opinion, the reallocation of funds
didn't impact the effectiveness and overall results of the project. Moreover, it proved to be justified since it
allowed EXIM to make capital investments in bank technologies and thus reduce its operating costs which
significantly contributed to the institutional restructuring of EXIM and its transformation into a viable
financial institution in Ukraine. Slow implementation of EDF was caused by:

   l Limited knowledge and interest of exporters in developing and implementation of sophisticated
        export and marketing programs aimed at export development;
   l Unwillingness of Ukrainian enterprises to invest resources into marketing and promotion of
        products. This was conditioned by the conservative budgeting of their costs, low quality of
        management and lack of understanding of modern management and promotion techniques, absence
        of skilled and trained personnel in the area of export production marketing and sales, the structure
        of Ukrainian traditional exports (such as metallurgy, chemicals, agricultural produce) which used
        established traditional markets, were dominated by old soviet type companies which required little
        promotion;
   l Inability (and sometimes unwillingness) of the enterprises to comply with the international
        procurement rules and procedures, which could result in cost reduction and improvement in quality
        of the manufactured goods.

In Borrower's opinion, the project was implemented satisfactorily. EXIM considers the level of interaction
and cooperation with Bank's project team as highly constructive and efficient. High qualification and
significant experience of the IBRD specialists involved in the Project contributed to the achievement of the
defined goals, resolving problems that arose in the course of project implementation in a timely manner.
The transfer of knowledge by the IBRD specialists enabled the borrower's employees to shorten the initial



                                                      - 21 -

stage of the Project implementation and ensure a respective level of qualification of the borrower's
employees involved in the EDP.


(b) Cofinanciers:

There were no cofinanciers in this project.


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

The Bank received comments and reaction of the Government of Ukraine as well as NBU to the project
implementation (See Annex 7 with the copies of the letters from the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of
Economy and On the Issues of European Integration and NBU).

Specifically, the Ministry of Finance as the Guarantor in the September 14, 2004 letter to the Bank has
confirmed its satisfaction with the results of the project and the impact it made on the increased efficiency
of EXIM, improved performance (in terms of technological modernization, skills and financial results) of
Ukrainian enterprises ­ participants of EDP as well as overall stimulus the project provided for the
development of the banking sector and increased performance of Ukrainian banks. The Ministry of
Finance of Ukraine, as the Guarantor's representative under the Loan Agreement, drew Bank's attention to
the absence, throughout the Project, of any breach of the Loan Agreement on the part of EXIM, or of any
other event that could trigger use of the guarantee. MinFin confirmed that in the course of the project and
as a result of extensive development support EXIM transformed into a financially viable and efficient
banking institution, one of the best performing banks in Ukraine, with sound reputation and strong
recognition in the international markets.

Considering the positive outcomes from the Project implementation, the Ministry of Finance deems it
necessary to continue cooperation with the IBRD through initiation of new lending programs with other
Ukrainian banks as well as continued cooperation with EXIM.

Deputy Minister of Economy in the letter of September 16, 2004 named EDP as one of the best investment
projects implemented in Ukraine. MinEconomy reiterated its assessment of positive results of EDP
demonstrated by the successful disbursement of project funds, strong financial performance of EXIM as
well as significant impact of the project on development of export potential of Ukraine. MinEconomy
stressed the important of institutional development program for EXIM as well as usefulness and uniqueness
of the export development technical assistance support extended to Ukrainian enterprises under the EDF
component of the project.

The NBU in the October 13, 2004 letter from the deputy Governor commended the Bank for substantial
lending and technical assistance support to EXIM which has led to serious improvement of EXIM
operations, including such areas as strategic and business planning, credit assessment and risk
management, enhanced MIS, IT and communication technologies, qualification of bank's personnel, export
promotion skills. More importantly, NBU indicated that EXIM has significantly strengthened its capital
position, increased its profitability, has adequate provisioning, complies with NBU requirements. In NBU's
opinion, EXIM improved its position in the market by introducing new banking products and services.
Thus, EDP contributed to the development of Ukraine's export potential and financial sector.




                                                      - 22 -

10. Additional Information


In order to better understand the role and impact of the project on EXIM, it is worthwhile to summarize the
development of the bank in terms of its key financial performance indicators.




                                                    - 23 -

   Financial Performance of EXIM during the period of 1996-2003 Based on EXIM's Annual
                             Financial Statements Audited According to IAS/IFRS, in US$ thousands
                                                                   1


                Balance Sheet Items                        2003      2002      2001      2000      1999      1998     1997
Assets
Cash and due from the NBU                                  42,592    36,967    45,064    32,411     21,431    30,221   39,156
Amounts due from credit institutions                       76,916    71,663    49,248    73,882     93,429    87,229  173,248
Loans and advances to customers                           446,595    305,078  214,398   141,385     64,605    56,761   75,703
Investment securities                                      62,205    30,832    88,331    83,248     87,808    8,538    16,235
Government related debts                                                                                     134,085  136,257
Tax asset                                                    88
Property, equipment and computer software                  65,320    61,133    52,955    49,541     60,577    51,294   36,189
Other assets                                                4,930    45,391    10,411     6,859     12,231    17,083   7,581
Total Assets                                              698,646    551,066  460,406   387,326    340,081   385,211  484,369


Liabilities
Amounts due to the National Bank of Ukraine                71,044    78,100   111,730   121,140    125,378   128,716  197,426
Amounts due to credit institutions                        134,621    86,931    59,269    33,301     23,671    19,004   26,875
Amounts due to customers                                  427,112    332,346  255,655   211,128    163,966   175,647  194,572
Current tax liabilities                                     1,129      459
Provisions, accruals and deferred income                                                                      3,240    8,515
Other liabilities                                           4,305     2,328     4,141     2,746     4,409     1,804    1,918
Total Liabilities                                         638,211    500,164  430,795   368,315    317,424   328,411  429,306


Shareholders equity
Share capital                                             182,970    170,588  154,949   151,240     62,338    62,338   61,973
Accumulated deficit                                       (122,535) (119,686) (125,339) (132,229)  (39,681)  (5,538)  (6,910)
Total shareholders equity                                  60,435    50,902    29,611    19,011     22,657    56,800   55,063
Total liabilities and shareholders' equity                698,646    551,066  460,406   387,326    340,081   385,211  484,369


Income and Loss Statements                                 2003      2002      2001      2000      1999      1998     1997
Interest income                                            70,797    62,312    43,406    33,177     25,583    34,133   32,340
Interest expense                                          (37,355)  (38,203)  (14,441)   (9,709)   (8,450)   (20,970) (14,944)
Net Interest Income before allowance for impairment        33,442    24,108    28,965    23,468     17,133    13,163   17,396
Allowance for impairment on interest bearing assets        (4,490)   (2,618)   (7,292)    1,631    (42,039)  (2,409)  (16,733)
Net interest income after allowance for impairment         28,953    21,491    21,673    25,098   (24,906)    10,754    663


Fee and commission income                                  23,822    20,043    17,987    17,934     16,324
Fee and commission expense                                 (3,103)   (1,905)   (1,247)   (1,013)   (1,281)
Fees and commissions, net                                  20,719    18,138    16,740    16,920     15,043    15,708   20,221
Net profit on foreign exchange operations                   4,961     4,140     1,448      520      3,411     8,015    5,860
Dealing in Securities                                        11        37       (679)      232      (306)
Other operating income                                       519      1,988      484       213      2,395     1,284     849
                                                            5,492     6,165     1,253      965      5,500     9,299    6,709


Non-interest income, net                                   26,211    24,303    17,993    17,885     20,543    25,007   26,930


Remeasurement of financial instruments                      (478)     (303)
Salaries and benefits                                     (25,033)  (17,681)  (15,883)  (11,700)   (10,052)  (6,234)  (7,568)
Depreciation and amortization                              (4,819)   (4,821)   (3,761)   (3,545)   (4,185)   (3,868)  (3,070)
Other operating and administrative expenses               (10,667)   (9,302)   (8,497)   (8,817)   (7,307)   (9,921)  (6,804)
Allowance and provision release (charge) for other losses   (277)      365        0       (370)     1,257
Translation differences, net                                                                       (7,044)   (10,406)  (103)
Non-interest expenses                                     (41,275)  (31,741)  (28,140)  (24,433)  (27,331)   (30,429) (17,545)
Income before tax                                          13,889    14,052    11,526    18,551   (31,694)    5,332    10,048
Income tax                                                 (4,355)   (1,911)   (1,393)   (2,821)   (2,449)   (3,595)  (6,896)
Gain on net monetary position                                                             4,901
Net income                                                  9,533    12,141    10,133    20,631   (34,143)    1,737    3,152




                                                                 - 24 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                  1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
Growth of export in the private sector        The beneficiaries of the EDF grant             Ukraine's exports grew by more than 70%
                                              assistance represented a number of             during the period of 2002-2003.
                                              industries, including leather, cloth and fur
                                              production, electronic equipment and
                                              industrial machinery, agriculture and food
                                              processing, plastic and rubber production
                                              etc.

Intermediation capacity growth at EXIM, as    Technological improvements and changes in In nominal terms, the statutory capital of
demonstrated by the growth of assets and      MIS allowed Eximbank to substantially          EXIM increased by more than 5.7 times since
capitalization of the bank and improvement in reduce costs and increase its operational      the foundation of the bank in 1992. EXIM
its corporate culture                         efficiency.                                    streamlined its credit decision making
                                                                                             process, established sound MIS and risk
                                                                                             management systems and procedures,
                                                                                             modernized its operations and upgraded the
                                                                                             quality of banking products and services.
                                                                                             EXIM assets grew 1.5 times in US$ dollar
                                                                                             terms and more than 305 percent in UAH
                                                                                             terms during the period of 1997-2003.

Increase in sales, and export potential of    The majority of EDF grant beneficiaries were Export potential of the 29 sub-borrowers
private beneficiaries under the EDP           medium enterprises that managed to             funded under the Project expanded
                                              increase their export capacity three times     significantly during the EDP life. Export
                                              during the period of the EDP implementation. income of these enterprises increased from
                                                                                             $156 million in 1998 to almost $267 million in
                                                                                             2003. Moreover, their total sales grew to
                                                                                             more than UAH 2.88 billion (orUS$542
                                                                                             million) in 2003.

Institutional development and enhancement     The use of EDF technical assistance allowed EXIM played an important role in advising its
of marketing capacities of EDF grant          grant beneficiaries to (i) enhance their       sub-borrowers in business planning
beneficiaries                                 business and financial management skills; (ii) (preparation of export development plans
                                              enter new product markets both inside and      which was required under EDP),
                                              outside the country by using new marketing     procurement, compliance with standards and
                                              strategies and participating in international  certification requirements, improved financial
                                              exhibitions; (iii) enhance knowledge about     management, marketing and advertising.
                                              sales opportunities abroad and bring their
                                              products in compliance with best practices,
                                              including ISO requirements.

Institutional development of EXIM             Further technical assistance provided to the   According to the IFRS audit report, at the
demonstrated by the growth in the number of bank by ABN-AMRO under the auspices of           end of December 31, 2003 the bank's capital
export financing credit applications handled  the EU TACIS program in 2000-2001 has          adequacy ratio equalled 11.63% as
by EXIM, while maintaining EXIM's portfolio   complemented the institutional development     compared to 13.67% at the end of 2002, well
quality and other key performance indicators work funded the Bank and was focusing on        exceeding the 8% ratio stipulated by the loan
                                              strengthening Eximbank's management and        agreement.
                                              strategic planning function as wel l as
                                              continued improvement of bank.s treasury
                                              operations.




                                                                   - 25 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                                1
              Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Number of Sub-projects financed from the    Export potential of the 29 sub-borrowers      100% of funds under the credit line
EDP funds and re flow of funds              funded under the Project expanded             component of the project, namely US$52
                                            significantly during the EDP life. Export     million and DEM 15 million were fully
                                            income of these enterprises increased more    disbursed by December 31, 2002. This has
                                            than three times from $156 million in 1998 to allowed to finance 29 sub-borrowers and total
                                            almost $494 million in 2003. Moreover, their  36 sub-projects. In June 2004, 33sub-loans
                                            total sales grew from mere $340 million in    were fully repaid to EXIM, while three
                                            1998 to more than $1.05 billion in 2003.      subprojects were still outstanding. As of June
                                                                                          2004, additional US$122 million, EUR 12
                                                                                          million, DM 750 000 and UAH 2,5 million
                                                                                          have been committed to finance 70 sub-loans
                                                                                          from the reflow of EDP funds.     During the
                                                                                          project life, EXIM financed total more than
                                                                                          US$195 million for 106 sub-loans from the
                                                                                          EDP original credit line and the reflow of EDP
                                                                                          funds.


Number of Sub projects financed from the    During the life of the project in 1997-2003,  Seven IFRS and ISA compliant audit reports
EDF Grants serving capacity building to sub Eximbank received a large number of           were financed for EXIM's sub-borrowers from
borrowers: IAS compliant audits of sub      applications for the technical assistance for the EDF.
borrowers and financing attendance of       the total amount of US$ 847.3 thousand,
seminars and marketing efforts              where 17 sub-projects for US$ 419 644 have
                                            been financed by Eximbank.


IT capacity increase at EXIM                The loan funds in the amount of               E-banking, a state of the art plastic cards
Improvement in credit policies and          US$7,556,00 were used for procurement of      processing system, expanded ATM network,
procedures improvement in the quality of    IT/MIS and telecommunication systems          modern SWIFT software to accelerate
legal documents                             which allowed Eximbank to become one of       payments, software from Reuters (Condor+)
                                            the technologically most advanced and better allowing better management of FOREX
                                            equipped banking institution in the country.  exposure as part of its improved Treasury
                                            Specifically, Eximbank established modern     and Trading function have been procured
                                            plastic cards processing system, expanded     and installed. EXIM has devised new credit
                                            its ATM network, introduced modern SWIFT assessment and monitoring procedures,
                                            software to accelerate payments execution     established risks management department,
                                            and reduce costs, installed modern            designed new legal documents for new
                                            security/information protection systems,      banking products, introduced a number of
                                            developed new services and products for       new products for corporate and retail clients.
                                            clients and increased client's access to
                                            information, purchased and installed modern
                                            software from Reuters (Condor+) allowing
                                            better management of banks. FOREX
                                            exposure as part of its improved Treasury
                                            and Trading function etc.


1End of project




                                                                - 26 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     Appraisal        Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                                      Estimate          Estimate             Appraisal
                         Component                                   US$ million       US$ million
Export Development Technical Assistance Fund                             5.00                 0.39                     8
Institutional Development of the Borrower                                2.50                 7.61                  304
Export Development Credit Facility                                      60.00               62.00                   103
Unallocated                                                              2.50                 0.00                     0

Total Baseline Cost                                                     70.00               70.00
                            Total Project Costs                         70.00               70.00
                    Total Financing Required                            70.00               70.00




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                0.00               0.00              2.88             0.00              2.88
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.09)            (0.00)           (0.09)
2. Goods                                5.66               0.00             37.28             0.00             42.95
                                       (5.42)             (0.00)           (18.46)            (0.00)           (23.88)
3. Services                             0.00               0.00              0.11             2.56              2.67
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.05)            (2.31)           (2.36)
4. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                                5.66               0.00             40.28             2.56             48.50
                                       (5.42)             (0.00)           (18.60)            (2.31)           (26.33)

 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                       - 27 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                            Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                     Appraisal Estimate                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank          Govt.        CoF.         Bank           Govt.         CoF.    Bank   Govt.   CoF.
A. Export Development           5.00          2.50                      0.39           0.53                  7.8     21.2
Technical Assistance Fund
(EDF)
B. Institutional                2.50          0.50                      7.61          15.14                 304.4   3028.0
Development program
(technical assistance for
EXIM)
C. Export Development          60.00          9.00                      62.00         36.55                 103.3   406.1
Credit Facility*
Unallocated                     2.50          1.25                      0.00           0.00                  0.0     0.0

   * Including grants of Government of Japan and the Netherlands and expenditures of those funds for Actual




                                                             - 28 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable




                                      - 29 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              03/08/1996                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1),            S               S
                                             SENIOR FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1),
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/19/1996                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1),            S               S
                                             SENIOR FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1), BANKING
                                             CONSULTANT(1),
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1)
              12/14/1996                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1),            S               S
                                             SENIOR FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1), OPERATIONS
                                             OFFICER (1)
              04/27/1997                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1),            S               S
                                             SENIOR FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1), BANKING
                                             CONSULTANT(1),
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)

 Supervision

              07/24/1997                3    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ASSISTANT (1)
              11/29/1997                3    TM/SR. FIN ANALYST (1); SR.      S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
              04/30/1998                4    PTL/TASK LEADER (1); SR.         S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             SR. BANKING EXPERT (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
              10/02/1998                4    PTL, SR. FIN ANALYST (1);        S               S
                                             SR.FIN SECTOR SPEC. (1);
                                             BANKING EXPERT (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
              06/19/1999                5    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER              S               S
                                             (1); SENIOR FINANCIAL
                                             SECTO (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             ACCREDITED (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT/DISBURSEM
                                             E (1); PROJECT OFFICER (1)
              06/08/2000                4    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);          U               U
                                             SECTOR MANAGER (1);



                                              - 30 -

                                           FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                           PRIN. OPERATIONS OFF. (1)
               04/12/2001              2   BANKING SPECIALIST (2)             S    S
               09/21/2001              4   TASK MANAGER (1);                  S    S
                                           FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (2)
               02/13/2002              2   BANKING SPECIALIST (1);            S    S
                                           FINANCIAL SECTOR SPEC.
                                           (1)
               07/24/2002              2   MISSION LEADER (1);                S    S
                                           MISSION MEMBER (1)
               04/25/2003              5   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                                           BANKING SPECIALIST (1);
                                           FMS (1); PAS, KIEV
                                           REG.OFFICE (1);
                                           ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1)
               12/06/2003              4   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                                           PAS (1); FMS (1); BANKING
                                           CONSULTANT (1)

 ICR
               06/12/2004             2     TASK TEAM LEADER (1),             S    S
                                            BANKING CONSULTANT
                                            (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                       149.361                      286,787.14
  ICR                                  9.925                       6,168.38
  Total                             159.286                      292,955.52




                                            - 31 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. November 22, 2004 letter from the Chairman of State Export-Import Bank of Ukraine Mr.
   Oleksander Sorokin to Mr. Paul Bermingham, Director for Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova
   with the detailed comments from the Borrower to the Project's Implementation Completion
   Report.
2. Detailed comments from the Borrower to the Project's Implementation Completion Report.
3. Letter from the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Anatoly Shapovalov to the Bank dated
   September 14, 2004 regarding preparation of Project's ICR.
4. Letter from the Deputy Minister of Economy and on the Issues of European Integration Ms.
   Lyudmila Musina dated September 16, 2004 with the Mininstry's commentaries to the
   Project's ICR.
5. October 13, 2004 letter from the Deputy Governor of the National Bank of Ukraine Mr.
   Oleksander Shlapak to the Bank with the commentaries to the ICR and overall project
   assessment upon completion.




                                            - 34 -

- 35 -

