Report No. PIC3291
Project Name                        Ukraine-Export Development Project
Region                              Europe and Central Asia
Sector                              Non-Sectoral, Private Sector
Development
Project ID                          UAPA44851
Borrower                            State Export Import Bank of Ukraine
Guarantor                           Ukraine
Implementing Agency                 State Export Import Bank of Ukraine
Mr. Alexander N. Sorokin, Chairman of
the Board
8, Kreshchatik Str., Kiev-1, 2001,
Ukraine
380 44 226 2745 (tel)
380 44 229 8082 (fax)
Date Initial PID Prepared           February 16, 1996
Date This PID Updated               February 26, 1996
Projected Appraisal Date            May/June 1996
Projected Board Date                August/September 1996
Country Background
I.   Ukraine joined the World Bank on September 3, 1992. A first Country
Economic Memorandum, dated June 1993, focused on macroeconomic
developments and presented a framework for systemic change and
structural reforms. The first Bank lending operation, an Institution
Building Loan of US$27 million, was approved by the Board in June 1993.
The following twelve months, however, were characterized by hyper-
inflation, economic mismanagement, and irresolute structural reform.
Hence, the Bank group's activities remained limited.
II. After the mid-94 election, and the new Government's commitment to
a strategy of stabilization and economic adjustment, the Bank expanded
its activities. A Rehabilitation Loan of US$500 million in support of
major economic reforms was approved in December 1994. In April and May
1995, investment loans for Hydropower Rehabilitation (US$114 million)
and Agriculture Seeds (US$32 million) were approved. Ukraine has been a
member of IFC since 1992 and of MIGA since 1993. IFC has an active
technical assistance program in privatization and has made one equity
investment. A draft Country Assistance Strategy has been prepared which
provides detail on recent economic and structural developments.
Project Description and Financing
III. The proposed Export Development Project (EDP) will support the
development of Ukraine's emerging private sector export potential by
supporting production of goods and services for export in all sectors of



the economy. The project will provide: (i) credit finance to private
exporters (US$50 million), (ii) technical assistance (TA) for the
institutional development of the State Export Import (EXIM) Bank of
Ukraine in the form of a twinning arrangement with an experienced
foreign EXIM bank (US$5 million), and (iii) export development TA to
private exporters (US$5 million).
IV. Total project cost is estimated at US$60 million. EXIM will be the
Borrower of the Loan as well as the implementing agency. The Government
will provide a sovereign guarantee for the Loan. The beneficiaries of
the credit finance will be private and privatized enterprises. Credit
allocation decisions will be taken by EXIM using predetermined
commercial sub-borrower and sub-project eligibility criteria. The credit
risk for sub-loans to enterprises will be borne by EXIM.
Project Rationale
V.   Macroeconomic Reasons for Export Promotion. Exports are a very
important engine of growth in Ukraine. All CEE and other transition
countries that have achieved positive growth rates have done so on the
back of a strong and continuing surge of exports especially to Western
markets. This should be no surprise: consumption will remain weak after
the output drop and increasing fears of unemployment; private sector
investment will remain low because of regulatory, tax and general policy
uncertainty, and slow progress in privatization; and the Government
itself will have to retrench under the impact of higher social
expenditure and continuing difficulties in tax collection. This leaves
exports as the primary engine of growth.
VI. Experience in CEE and other transition economies confirms that,
even though part of existing production capacity may be unusable (i.e.,
producing inferior products for which there are no markets), export
growth has built predominantly on efforts to more effectively and
efficiently use existing capacity. Thus, there is a clear case for
policy intervention. Export promotion, through multiplier effects in the
rest of the economy, is an obvious and legitimate intervention. However,
if a recovery is to be sustainable, it will have to be private sector
driven and based on profitable activities. The Government is in no
position to subsidize the economy out of the crisis.
VII. Microeconomic Reasons for Export Support. Private companies are
mostly new in export markets. Even those with a past history as state
enterprises do not have a strong Western orientation. This creates acute
problems in financial markets, which are based on mutual trust and a
recognition of mutual interest in continuing customer relationships. In
Ukraine's uncertain legal environment credit relations are sustainable
only if both parties know each other sufficiently to have faith in each
other's interest in a continuing business relation and the associated
intention to deliver on commitments.
VIII.     This characteristic of financial markets creates catch-22
problems for any company trying to enter a new market. To be trusted as
a commercial partner it needs a presence in the market to maintain
effective credit relations, but to establish such a presence it requires
the very credit relations for which that market presence is a
- 2 -



prerequisite. Given the crucial macroeconomic importance of a successful
export drive, this microeconomic problem requires urgent attention.
IX. Such credit market problems are especially urgent across
international boundaries. First, legal recourse, as a practical matter,
is essentially unavailable in the case of payment conflicts, which
greatly increases the importance of mutual trust in establishing credit
relations. But the information gap that needs to be bridged to establish
such relations is especially large between potential partners from
different countries. This problem is exacerbated when the firms involved
are new. This is one of the reasons why export financing merits special
attention and usually special institutions.
X.   The export sector is also the sector where the demand for financial
services is most likely to pick up first. Consumer credit is virtually
non-existent, and private investment is barely taking place: a situation
which, if the recent history in CEE is of any guidance, will not change
much for some time to come. Exports on the other hand will surge if
proper policies are followed, creating an immediate demand for the
associated financial services. Thus, working on credit market problems
in other sectors may for some time look like pushing on a string,
improving supply while demand is not yet there. Arguably financial
sector support in the domestic markets should focus on restructuring,
restoration of balance sheets, establishing proper ownership and
incentive structures, establishing proper expertise and procedures,
etc., and not yet on product development and support. The problem is
clearly different in export markets, however, as demand for export
finance is demonstrably there and there is a reasonably structured and
working intermediary (EXIM - see paragraph 20 below) to act as
counterpart. These considerations strongly argue for singling out export
finance for a project early on in a wider ranging long term financial
reform program.
XI. Moreover, there is more to export support than the provision of
modern financing facilities. In most countries export financing
institutions do a great deal more than export financing. In particular
small companies will have difficulty justifying the fixed costs of
investing in information gathering, promotion of name brand recognition,
acquisition of a reputation as reliable supplier, and so on. A
substantial part of such costs can be more efficiently delivered by a
central agency since organizing it for many firms is not much more
expensive than organizing it for one firm. Examples are the setting up
of a database with useful contacts in various regions of the world,
provision of information on tax regimes, customs regulations and so on.
Because of the non-exclusive nature of such services, substantial
efficiency gains can be had by concentrating this type of activity in
one place. EXIM would be a natural candidate because it already provides
export oriented financial services, and because of its established name
recognition. In fact, lessons learned within the Bank indicate that such
activities are often the most successful in export development programs
(see paragraphs 24- below).
XII. In summary, jump-starting a private sector based recovery in
Ukraine is key to the sustainability of the still fragile reform
process. Experience elsewhere suggests that exports are the only likely
-3 -



venue through which such a recovery can come about. This project will
thus make a key contribution to consolidating the reform process and
establishing the private sector as the dominant factor in Ukraine's
economy.
Bank Strategy
XIII.     The Bank is well advanced in preparing an Enterprise
Development and Adjustment Loan (EDAL) which is expected to be appraised
in the near future. The EDAL extends the work on enterprise development
initiated in the 1994 Rehabilitation Loan and is designed to expedite
the completion of the mass privatization of medium and larger
enterprises, and to facilitate further small enterprise privatization.
In addition, the EDAL will provide post-privatization support to
enterprises, by strengthening the main capital market institutions and
by facilitating the restructuring of privatized enterprises and
improving governance. The EDAL will also address remaining issues in
Ukraine's trade regime in order to encourage the external trade
expansion upon which the success of Ukraine's overall reform program
depends.
XIV. Ukraine's exports total over $12 billion and imports are in excess
of $14 billion. These totals are expected to grow significantly during
the next few years as reform proceeds. At the same time, an increasingly
large part of trade will involve new and newly privatized enterprises,
will be to Western and other non-FSU markets and will be arranged
strictly on commercial terms. This new trade will need a volume and
range of financing products which does not exist at present but which
the EDP is being designed to provide. Hence, the proposed project
provides necessary support to the established reform program in the
enterprise sector and specifically to the many newly privatized
enterprises which will depend on export markets for their future
survival and prosperity.
XV. The EDP is also designed to contribute directly to the strategy for
the financial sector as outlined in the Financial Sector Review (FSR) of
June 1995. This strategy seeks to speed up the differentiation between
strong, well capitalized and well managed banks which need to achieve
expansion, and banks which are financially and managerially weak and may
need to be closed or down-sized. This will be achieved both by bottom-up
direct institutional strengthening of individual banks or groups of
banks, and through top-down pressures towards improved bank performance
through improved regulation and supervision, and a better legal and
accounting environment.
XVI. The bottom-up approach is already being pursued in the context of
an EBRD line of credit for SMEs channelled through the better private
banks. The Bank's own Financial Institutions Development Loan (FIDL)
scheduled for Board presentation in FY1997 will complement this work
both by extending the numbers of banks eligible for credit line
participation, and by providing finance for larger potential
sub-projects. As is the case with the EBRD operation, all banks seeking
access to the Bank's credit line will need to implement substantial
institutional strengthening both in terms of their capitalization and
operational policies and procedures. As part of the preparation for the
- 4 -



FIDL, grant funding has been mobilized to finance in-depth TA support to
two of Ukraine's largest banks (formerly state-owned in both cases)
through twinning arrangements with reputable Western banks.
XVII.      In line with the recommendations of the FSR, the top-down
approach is being pursued through extensive TA especially in the areas
of NBU supervision of banks, accounting reform and the reform of
collateral and bankruptcy law. For the moment these programs are being
delivered mainly by other donors with the Bank involved as a key player
through the donor meetings which it initiated in May 1995, through
training initiatives and through other networking activities. The Bank
will take on a more direct role in these and other matters through the
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL), scheduled for FY1997, which
will also attempt to take on residual questions about the structure and
restructuring of the banking sector.
XVIII.    The EDP fits into this strategy as an important component of
the bottom-up approach. EXIM is one of only two remaining state-owned
banks (the other being the Savings Bank). EXIM is already specialized in
trade finance, is reasonably well capitalized, has made significant
strides in upgrading its accounting and other management systems and
benefits from an existing management team which is committed to turn the
bank into a serious and competent institution. By providing strategic
direction and extensive TA for institution building in the bank through
twinning with an experienced foreign EXIM bank, the EDP can ensure that
this large and important bank becomes an important and positive element
in the post-privatization reform agenda of Ukraine. The inclusion of the
EDP in the lending program will ensure that three of the five large
state and former state banks as well as the strongest private banks are
all exposed to significant institutional strengthening via the bottom-up
approach.
Lessons Learned from Past Bank Projects
XIX. Export development projects have been undertaken by the Bank in a
number of countries, e.g. India, Mexico and Columbia, and a number of
useful lessons have been learnt. These are:
Provision of credit to the export sector was considered to
have a positive economic impact during the transition from
close state control of financial markets to a liberalized
policy environment, especially when sectoral allocations in
lending were left to the market.
An EXIM bank or a foreign trade bank was usually the focus for
onlending, (e.g. EXIM in India, Bancomext in Mexico, Bancoldex
in Columbia). These banks were dedicated institutions for
developing foreign trade, and did not carry out normal
commercial retail operations. Usually they targeted export
financing, and in some cases, they worked as wholesale banks
and developed lending programs for the first tier banks, in
addition to their own direct lending to exporters.
Strengthening the capabilities of both enterprises and
financial institutions in designing, implementing and
appraising export development programs, and export oriented
investments was considered vital for success. This was usually
- 5 -



done by providing (a) export development TA to help exporters
develop export plans and organize marketing, product
development and technological know-how; and (b) institutional
development TA for improving the financial institutions'
capabilities to carry out credit assessment, risk assessment,
and optimum pricing, and to promote and appraise export
development programs and export oriented investments.
Effective coordination of loan financing and TA was vital for
the beneficiaries. Use of loan and grant funds in supporting
the same enterprise when administered by different
implementing institutions resulted in duplication of effort
and weakening of an unified strategy.
Trade promotion funding and activity through matching grant
funds and joint participation by enterprises and financial
entities in trade promotion organizations was considered very
important. The matching grant facilities used in India,
Indonesia, Singapore, Taiwan, and Columbia for these purposes
had the objective of improving information flow between buyers
and sellers, and providing advisory services to exporters.
In India, Export Marketing Funds and Productivity funds were
set up to provide TA as well as pilot marketing and business
promotion assistance on a 50 W cost sharing basis. Funding for
these TA efforts was provided by the Government on a grant
basis. The experience showed that the grant funds helped
enterprises' own efforts to begin or extend their markets
through market surveys, travels to develop business contacts,
and some testing and inspection; and were highly
cost-effective when measured in terms of incremental exports.
XX.   The proposed EDP in Ukraine will incorporate these lessons by
providing both export finance as well as targeted TA through a dedicated
foreign trade bank by strengthening EXIM's supply capabilities, and
targeted TA to enterprises to strengthen exporters' response
capabilities.
Environmental Aspects
XXI. This project is a Category "B" Project involving intermediary
lending.
Program Objective Categories
XXII.     The project focuses on developing the export potential of
Ukraine's emerging private enterprise sector. The project will be
implemented by EXIM in close cooperation with the exporting community.
Contact Point:      Marie-Renee Bakker, EC4EF
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
(202) 473-9285 (tel)
(202) 522-0005 (fax)
- 6-



Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
-7 -



