Page  1
January
28, 1997
 
Mr. Alexander N. Sorokin
Chairman of the Board
State Export-Import Bank of Ukraine
8
Kreschatik Str.
Kyiv,
252001
Ukraine
Re:
Japanese Grant  for Institutional Development of
State Export-Import Bank of Ukraine
Grant Number TF
021274
Dear Mr.
Sorokin:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development
(the Bank) to indicate the Bank
’s agreement, as administrator of grant
funds provided by Japan to make a grant in an amount not exceeding two million five
hundred thousand US dollars
($2,500,000) (the Grant) to the State Export-Import Bank 
of Ukraine
(the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex
to this Letter Agreement. The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, 
that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on
the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon 
receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Paul J. Siegelbaum
Acting Director, Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED:
STATE EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF UKRAINE
By
/s/
Aleander N. Sorokin
Chairman of the Board
Date:
February 11, 1997
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Objective and Scope of Activities Financed under the Grant
1.1.
The objective of the Activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given is 
to strengthen the institutional capacity of the Recipient to enable it to become a
leading export support and financing institution in Ukraine, in particular, for the
carrying out of a coordinated strategy for the development of the productive capacity
of export-oriented enterprises in the private sector of Ukraine’s economy by providing 
an integrated package of information, technical assistance, and financial support to
selected private and privatized enterprises on the territory of Ukraine having export
development potential.
The Activities shall comprise the following particular activities, subject to
such modifications as the Bank and the Recipient may agree from time to time to
Page  2
achieve the above objectives
:
Technical Assistance in the form of a twinning arrangement with the
Export-Import Bank of Japan (JEXIM), to assist the State Export-Import Bank of Ukraine 
in: (a) developing a strategic plan; (b) developing a new charter for its operations; 
(c) addressing corporate governance issues; (d) strengthening its credit, asset 
liability management, accounting and information technology functions;
(e) setting up 
the new Export Services Department; and
(f) reinforcing its export development project 
capability.
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and 
efficiency;
(b)
promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for that purpose;
(c) furnish all information covering the Activities and the 
use of the proceeds of the Grant as the Bank shall reasonably request;
(d) from time 
to time exchange views with the Bank
’s representatives on the progress and results of
the Activities; and
(e) take all necessary measures required to enable the Bank’s 
representatives to visit the territory of Ukraine for purposes related to the Grant. 
Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if the Bank shall so
request, prepare and furnish to the Bank promptly upon completion of the Activities a
report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the results and impact of
the Activities.
3.
Contract
3.1.
The contract providing for the twinning arrangement with JEXIM to be financed 
out of the Grant shall be awarded by the Recipient under its applicable procedures,
provided, however, that such procedures are acceptable to the Bank and in conformity
with the Bank’s policies, as set forth in the applicable provisions of the
"Guidelines 
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency", published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). The 
contract shall be based on a standard form of contract furnished to the Recipient by
the Bank for the provision of consultants’ services under a twinning arrangement, and 
any modifications thereto shall have been agreed by the Bank.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the Bank on 
its books in the name of the Recipient
(the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn
therefrom by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section
4, for
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of the services rendered pursuant to
the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Amount of the Grant
%
of
Allocated
(in
Expenditures to
Item
Dollars
be Financed
(1)
Consultants’
 2,500,000
100%
services
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) for payments made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this 
Letter Agreement by the Bank;
(b)
on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in
the territory of Ukraine;
(c)
on account of expenditures in the territories of any
country which is not a member of the Bank or for services supplied from such
territories;
(d)
for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities if such
payment, to the Bank’s knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; or
(e) 
after June
30, 2002, or such later date as the Bank shall establish by written notice 
to the Recipient
(the Closing Date), except that withdrawals may be made for 
expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding application is
received by the Bank within four months after the Closing Date, after which time any
amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be cancelled.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to the Bank a written application for withdrawal of such amount in
the form specified by the Bank. Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf 
Page  3
of the Recipient by the Chairman of the Board and the First Deputy Chairman of the
Board of the Recipient, or such other person as shall have been authorized in writing
by such persons; and
(b) be accompanied by such evidence in support of the application 
as the Bank shall reasonably request. Authenticated specimen signatures of the persons 
authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with the first
application bearing their signatures. Each withdrawal application for an amount of the 
Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy
the Bank that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account
and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Activities. The Bank 
shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on
the order of the Recipient.
4.5.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.
The Bank, at the Recipient
’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient,
shall purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such
currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Grant. Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this Letter 
Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such value
shall be as reasonably determined by the Bank.
4.6.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and 
maintain in US dollars a special deposit account
(the Special Account) in a commercial 
bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of the Attachment to this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Activities of the departments
or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Activities or any part
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records and accounts referred to in 
subparagraph
(a)
above and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Bank as 
soon as available, but in any case not later than six
(6) months after the end of each 
such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph
(a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after
the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the 
Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph
(b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon
to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following
events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any 
of its obligations herein specified; or
(b) the right of the Recipient or Ukraine, or 
any other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of Ukraine, to
make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit
agreement with the International Development Association shall have been suspended.
6.2.
The Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been
Page  4
suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph
6
.
1
above; or
(
b
)
if the Recipient
shall have failed to enter into a consulting contract with JEXIM, satisfactory to the
Bank, as provided under paragraph
3
above, within six
(6) months after the effective 
date hereof, to carry out the Activities.
Attachment to Annex
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible item" means the item set forth in the table in 
paragraph
4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;
 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of the services rendered pursuant to the carrying out of the
Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $140,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant
to paragraph
3
(a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
 
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a 
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph
4
of this Attachment for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.
On the
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Grant Account under the eligible item, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in paragraph
5.1
(b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to
said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special
Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
Page  5
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph
6.1 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of
the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Recipient.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph
2
of this Attachment; or
(ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or
(B)
deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund,
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the
Bank such outstanding amount.
