Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
LOAN NUMBERS 4107 - 0 UA
4107 - 1 UA
Guarantee Agreement
(Export Development Project)
between
 UKRAINE
and
                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 15, 1997
LOAN NUMBERS 4107 - 0 UA
4107 - 1 UA
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 15, 1997, between UKRAINE (the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and State Export-Import Bank of Ukraine (the 
Borrower), having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in 
the financing of the Project; and
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan in two portions, each 
in such amount and having such currency composition as described in the Loan 
Agreement, namely a portion in an amount equal to sixty million Dollars ($60,000,000) 
and a portion in an amount equal to fifteen million Deutsche Marks (DEM 15,000,000), 
all on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition 
that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of 
such loan as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank’s enter\1fing into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the 
Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modifications set forth in Schedule 8 to the Loan Agreement (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and to this end, without 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Guarantee 
Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not 
as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and interest and 
other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, 
all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 
2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor shall take, and cause the Borrower to take, all 
such action as shall be necessary to enable the Borrower to maintain and ensure full 
compliance with the Borrower’s undertakings pursuant to Section 4.03 of the Loan 
Agreement, relating to the overall financial performance and financial management 
practices of the Borrower.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. The Guarantor shall exercise its rights and obligations under the 
Agency Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Bank, and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Agency Agreement, or 
any provision thereof.         
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor is designated as 
representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministry of Finance
12/2 Hrushevsky Street
Kyiv, Ukraine 252008
Telex:
131450
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
        64145 (MCI)
Page  3
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
UKRAINE
By /s/ Yuri Shcherbak
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Basil G. Kavalsky
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
