Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6689
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
(CREDIT 990-BD)
March 20, 1987
South Asia Region
Irrigation I Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



ABBREVIATIONS
BADC    -  Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BRDB    -  Bangladesh Rural Development Board
cfs     -  cubic feet per second
b.      -  When preceding a crop means broadcast
DAB     -  Department of Agricultural Extension
DCA     -  Development Credit Agreement
GOB     -  Government of Bangladesh
HYV     -  High Yielding Varieties
ICB     -  International Competitive Bidding
IDA     -  International Development Association
IPC     -  Imports Program Credit
LCB     -  Local Competitive Bidding
LLP     -  Low Lift Pump
maund   -  37.32kg ( 1 maund per acre - 0.092 ton/ha)
M&E     -  Monitoring & Evaluation
MOA     -  Ministry of Agriculture and Forest
MOF     -  Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock
MOI     -  Ministry of Irrigation, Water Development and Flood Control
O&M     -  Operation and Maintenance
PD      -  Project Director
PP      -  Project Proforma
t.      -  When preceding a crop means transplanted
Fiscal Year (FY)
July I-June 30
GLOSSARY
Aman    -  Rice planted before or during the monsoon and harvested in
November or December
Aus     -  Rice planted during February or March and harvested during June or
July
Boro    -  Rice transplanted in December to January and harvested in April to
May
Kharif  -  Summer cropping season (May through October)
Rabi    -  Winter cropping season (October through May)
Monsoon -  Period of rains starting in June and ending in October
District-  Administrative unit in the charge of a Deputy commissioner
comprising a number of Upazilas
Upazila -  Smallest administrative unit of the Local Government



TE WORD SANK                    MOR NW" UaS ONLY
Washmgton. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Ofic. -of Dtrectw.awu
Op.eak_ EvaIuI,w
March 20, 1987
MEMORA?TDUH TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Bangladesh Low Lift Pump
Project (Credit 990-BD)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Bangladesh Low Lift Pump Project (Credit 990-BD)"
prepared by the South Asia Regional Office. Further evaluation of this
project by the Operations R"aluation Department has not been made.
Attachment
This document has a restficted distribution an may be used by recipients   iy k the prformace
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be diclosed wibout Word Bank au_mtien



FOR OmCL  USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
(CREDIT f90-BD)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .....................................i
BASIC DATA SHEET ...... ............................. ,               ii
EVALUATION SUMMARY             iv
I.  PROJECT BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY                 1
II.  SECTOR BACKGROUND ...
The Agricultural Setting                                 .
IDA Involvement in Irrigation .............................7
III.  PROJECT PROCESSING ...................................8
TV. THE APPRAISED PROJECT .....................
Project Objective .......................        . 9
Project Description .........................9
The Project Area .......................                    10
Project Cost and Financing .......... ................ 10
Project Management and Organization .......................10
Project Benefits .........................................11
V. THE IMPLEMENTED PROJECT ......................................11
Project Start-Up .........................................11
Changes in Project Scope .. ..11
Project Components .......................................12
Project Cost                                   .. .44420
Disbursement  444444444 21
Procurement ..............................                22
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE           23
Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation 23........23
Bangladesh Rural Development Board .4
Compliance with Covenants 4...4.
Performance of IDA .....
VII.  AGRICULTURAL IMPACT            26
Irrigated Area               ...........              .   26
Production and Farm (Pump Group) Budget      28
This documett has a retriteddstribution and may be usd by fecipients only In t perfomane
of their officia duts It contents may not o,th   be dislsed without World Dank authori_tion.



VIII. ECONOMIC IMPACT                         ........................ 30
Project Benefits .......X**3
Policy Impact .............. .                               30
Economic Analysis ...                                        32
IX.  LESSONS LEARNED                      ...............34
ANNEXES
I. Project Cost at Appraisal
II. Credit Allocation by Category and Disbursement Percentage
III. Appraised and Implemented Project Components
IV. Low Lift Pump Sales Prices and Rental Charges
V. Exchange Rate During Project Implementation
VI. Summary of IDA Supervision Reports
VII. Low Lift Pump Fielding and Irrigated Area by Project Districts
VIII. Actual and Projected LLP Fieldings and Irrigated by Project Subareas
IX. Crop Yield and Input per Acre
X. Paddy Production by Project Sub-areas
XI. Pump Group Budgets
XII. Financial and Economic Prices
XIII. Economic Cash Flow
XIV. GOB's comments on the PCR.
FIGURES I & II: Graphs showing LLPs Fielded and Irrigated Area in Bangladesh
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART: Irrigation Division - BADC
MAP No. 14184 (PCR)



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT (CREDIT 9904D)
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) of the Bangladesh Low Lift
Pump Project (Credit 990-BD). The credit amount of US$37.0 million was approved
by the Board on March 11, 1980, and the Credit signed on April 4, 1980. The
credit was closod on December 4, 1984, and tho US$19.7 million remaining in
undisbursed funds were cancelled after the final disbursements were made on June
3$, 1985.
The PCR was prepared by the South Asia Region, Irrigation I Division,
after a field visit In November 1985. The PCR Is based on a report prepared by
the Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC). Legal documents,
the Prosldent's Report, supervision reports and correspondence were also
reviewed. The Operations Evaluation Department has decided not to audit the
project.
The draft report was sent to the Borrower on December 15, 1986 for
their comments. Coments received from the Government have been incorporated
and are attached as Annex XIV.



- Ii. -
BANCLADESH
W   LIFT PUMP PROJECT
(CR.990-BD)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BASIC DATA SHEET
Key Project Data
Appraisal      Actual or              Actual X
Estimate       Current Estimates      of Apraisal
Total Project Cost (US$ million)          48.0          19.08                  40
Credit Amount (US$ million)               37.0          17*26                  47
Date of Completion of Physical
Components                             12/31/84         12/86                   -
Proportion then Completed (X) 1/          100
Procurement of LLPs                     100           57                     57
Construction of Training Centers        100           50                     50
Training of Mechanics                   100           48                     48
Procurement of Fuel                     100          100                    100
Economic Rate of Return (S)               100+          59                     59
Institutional Performance                 -             unsatisfactory
Irrigation Performance                    -             unsatisfactory
Number of Direct Beneficiary Households  430,000        200,000                 47
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
FY81    FY82  FY83   FY84   FY85
Appraisal Estimate (US$ million)   16.0    23.0  30.6   35.0   37.0
Actual (US$ million)                12.7    15.4  16.2   16.5   17.3
Actual as X of Appraisal            79      67    53      47     47
Date of Final Disbursement:         June 30, 1985
PROJECT DATES
Original
Plan           Revisions          Actual
Identification Report        -                                  10/05/7&
Appraisal                     -              -                  11-12/78
Negotiations                  5/14/79        10/25/79           11/07/79
Board Approval               03/11/80        -                  03/11/80
Credit Signing               04/04/80        -                  04/04/80
Credit Effectiveness         07/08/80        09/08/80           09/08/80
Credit Closing                12/31/84       -                  12/31/84
_/ Main project components only.



- ill -
BANGLADESH
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
(CR-990-BD)
BASIC DATA SHEET
MISSION DATA
Sent   Month/ No.of   Mandays  Specializations Perf        Trend Types
by     year   persons in field represented 1/  rating 2/ 3/    Prob 4/
Identification    FAO/CP   2/78   3                    IE,A,E          -          -     -
Preparation       FAO/CP   7/78   4         80         IE,A,E, En      -          -     -
Appraisal          IDA      11/78  3        90         IE,A,E          -          -     -
Supervision 1      IDA      4/81   1        6         AS                1        1
Supervision 2     RMB       1/82   2                  A,PO             2         2    M
Supervision 3      IDA      5/82   1        7         AS               2         1    F,M
Supervision 4     RMB       12/82  2                  A,PO             2         1    M
Supervision 5     IDA       6/83   1        8         B                2         1    M,P
Supervision 6     RMB       1/84   1                  PO               2         2    H,O
Supervision 7     IDA       10/84  1        16        E                3         2    M,O
Completion        IDA       11/85  1        8         E                -         -    -
OTHER DATA
Fiscal Year of Borrower                     July 1 to June 30
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)             Taka (Tk)
Exchange Rate (Tk/US$)
Appraisal Year Average (1978)              15.5
Intervening Years Average (1981-1983)    17.6
Completion Year Average (1984)             25.6
Follow-up Project                           none
1/ A-Agriculturalist, AE-Agricultural Engineer, E-Economist,
En-Engineer,PO-Program Officer, F-Financial Analyst,IE-Irrigation
Engineer, S-Soils Specialist, AS-Agroindustry Specialist, 0-other.
2/ 1-problem-free or minor problems; 2-moderate problems; 3-major problems.
3/ 1-improving, 2-stationary, 3-deteriorating.
4/ F-financial, H-managerial, T-technical, P-Political, 0-other.



- iv -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT (CREDIT 990-BD)
EVALUATION SUfMKARY
Introduction
The Second Five Year Plan (1980-1985) of Bangladesh accorded high
priority to the attainment of food grain self-sufficiency. Achievement of
this objective called for investments with short gestation period, high
yield, and the integration of the private sector as an active development
partner with the public sector. The Low Lift Pump Project marked a shift
in emphasis towards these directions.
Objectives
The project was designed to improve the supply to farmers of low
lift pumps (LLPs), spare parts and supporting services to enable them to
utilize surface water for crop production in five districts of Banlladesh.
This was to be done through provision of new pumps and rehabilitation of
old ones, and increased emphasis on sales rather than rentals. The proj-
ect was to encourage participation of the private sector in LLP sales and
service and tc strengthen the Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corpora-
tion's (BADC's) role in training mechanics and pump operators and survey-
ing water resources. Total project costs were estimated at US$48.0 mil-
lion. The IDA credit of US$37.0 million was to be disbursed over four and
a half years.
Immlementation Experience
After an impressive start-up, and procurement of 3,000 LLPs
during the first year of implementation, project activities lost momentum.
A World Bank/GOB joint review of the Minor Irrigation Sector in September
1980 uncovered a number of issues not previously addressed, which led to
many ad hoe changes  to  the  project:    the planned construction of BADC
workshops was abandoned; equipment and tools for BADC were found to be
unnecessary; training of BADC mechanics was scaled down, and training of
pump operators was dropped; the water availability survey was dropped and
a more comprehensive survey recommended; rehabilitation of unserviceable
LLPs was dropped as uneconomic; 801 fewer spare parts were fmund to be
sufficient; less than half the expected BADC sales of LLPs were effected;
and no private sales took place because of pricing disputes. As a result
of these aumerous reductions in project scopza, actual project cost was
only 401 of the appraised cost in  US$.    At the closing of the credit, a
total of US$17.3 million or 471 of the IDA credit was disbursed and
US$19.7 million was cancelled.



Results
The project's impact shrank commensurately with the reduction in
project scope. Instead of an expected incremental paddy production of 0.5
million tons at full development, the production is now expected to be
263,000 tons. The privatization policy for LLP ownership supported under
the project appears to have favored individual ownership rather than group
ownership, although it has also helped to reduce direct subsidy payments
by GOB. The project ERR is now estimated at over 50X compared with over
100% at appraisal.
Sustainability
The Bank's on-going dialogue on irrigation matters with GOB, and
its continued lending for irrigation projects offer prospect of a gradual
improvement in the areas of policy and institutional weaknesses demonstra-
ted by the project.    But  the main  case  for sustainability of project
achievemants, curtailed as they were, is that they occurred principally in
areas least affected by such weaknesses.
Findings and Lessons
The problems experienced during implementation betray a failure,
both at appraisal and at earlier stages of preparation, to address con-
flicts between objectives of project design and other objectives being
pursued, particularly by BADC:
(a) BADC staff had strong reservations about the privatization of
LLPs including its program of selling LLPs and repairing
them, and its new program of promoting privatization of
LLP distribution and servicing;
(b) the project provided for private trader acquisition
and sales of LLPs without having resolved an acceptable
pricing mechanism for private sector sales;
(c) the BADC training program for mechanics was conducted
without a concrete plan regarding the future role of LADC and
an apparent need for privatising the trained mechanics;
(d) the director of the project unit established within BADC
wa not given clear authority for project decisions, with
the result that his intended responsibilities were exercised
elsewhere in BADC; and
(e) Bank supervisions focussed mainly on progress with
quantitative targets and failed to emphasize sufficiently
the performance of the privatization policy.



BANGLADESH
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
(CREDIT 990-BD)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I* PROJECT BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
1.01    The Second Five Year Plan (1980-1985) of Bangladesh accorded high
priority to the attainment of food grain self-sufficiency. To achieve this
objective food grain production was planned to grow at annual rate of 4X to 51
which would result in total food grain production of 18.0 million tons by
1984/85. This strategy called for investments with short gestation period and
high yield and the integration of the private sector as an active development
partner. The Low Lift Pump Project marked the shift in emphasis from large
scale water resources projects to small scale minor irrigation development and
the transfer of minor irrigation equipment ownership and distribution from the
public to the private sector.
1.02    The LLP Project was first identified in February 1978 by an FAO/CP
mission which set the stage for a fundamental policy dialogue between IDA and
the Government of Bangladesh (GOB). In November/December 1979 an IDA
appraisal mission visited Bangladesh aitd recommended IDA's assistance to (a)
initiate LLP sales program by the Bangladesh agricultural Development Corpora-
tion (BADC) and for the first time to allow private dealers in importation,
distribution and servicing and (b) phase out the rental program over a period
of three years subject to continuous progress review. The appraisal was
thorough in examining the constraints to improved performance of the minor
irrigation sector and concluded that the adoption of the privatization policy
would (a) reduce the fiscal burden of minor irrigation development by
eliminating direct subsidy and (b) improve the utilization efficiency of minor
irrigation equipment through improved maintenance services resulting in
increased crop production. Despite its affirmative support for the privatiza-
tion policy (ownership of LLPs by farmers and distribution by private
dealers), the appraisal mission was also quick to alert IDA that such a policy
may further aggravate the prevailing inequities in the rural economy. COB's
support to the project's objectives was expressed in a written policy state-
ment submitted to IDA during negotiation in November 1979. The credit was
signed on April 4, 1980 and became effective on September 8, 1980.
1.03    The appraised project components included: (a) procurement of 8500
LLPs (4500 by BADC and 4000 by private dealers); (b) rehabilitation of 5000
unserviceable LLPs ; (c) provision of spare parts, fuel; (d) strengthening
BADC's servicing capacity through provision of storages, workshops, tools,
equipment and vehicles; (e) strengthening BADC's training capabilities through
expansion of the mechanics training program with technical assistance and
upgrading of training centers and (f) undertaking monitoring and evaluation



-2-
studies and conducting water availability survey in South-East Bangladesh.
The project was estimated to cost Tk 746.0 millions or US$ 48.0 millions of
which IDA credit of US$ 37.0 million woutd finance 90% of total project cost
excluding taxes and duties. At full development the project was expected to
produce about 0.5 million tons of paddy benefiting 430,000 farm families. The
estimated economic rate of return was over 100%.
1.04    Project implementation in the  initial years was impressive with
timely procurement of the LLPs and diesel fuel, and completion of the minor
irrigation sector review. Credit disbursement was also significantly faster
than the profile for Bangladesh.
1.05    Implementation delays set in 4uring the process of negotiating arran-
gements for the private dealers to import and distribute LLPs. Disputes
ranging from issuing of import licenses to establishing a set of LLP prices
(full replacement cost) acceptable to the private dealers were the major
bottlenecks.l/ Other components were also plagued with delays in local
procurement, disputes with civil works contractors, shifting credit alloca-
tion from public to private workshops to be implemented by Bangladesh Bank
(BB) and reducing the scope of the training program. Under these circumstan-
ces project implementation lingered at a slow pace in 1983 and 1984 and
resulted in eventual cancellation of the private workshopst imports of LLPs by
private dealers, and abandonment of two training centers.
1.06    Actual project cost is Tk 349.0 million (US$ 19.1 million), 47% of
the appraisal cost estimate or 40% of the estimated cost in terms of US dol-
lars. Disbursement from IDA credit amounted to US$ 17.3 million or 47% of
the IDA credit. The balance of the IDA credit amounting to US$19.7 million
was cancelled.
1.07    Project implementation was officially delegated to a Project Unit (PU)
established under the Chief Engineer for LLP in BADC. The PU's role in
project implementation was marginal and ineffective. The Project Director
(PD) had no direct access to the LLP Division field officers who report
directly to the Chief Engineer, LLP. Project related decisions were sometimes
made by BADC without consulting the PD. The PD was not given adequate
authority commensurate with the expected responsibility. Over a period of five
years five different PDs headed the PU. The PU staff was also under employed
causing low staff morale. Moreover, BADC field staff had expressed strong
reservations about privatization of LLPS. 2/ Under these circumstances,
1/ Other factors which contributed to non-participation of private dealers
in the project are: a) deposit requirements against value of imports; and
b) delay in completing survey of farmers' preference.
2/  GOB does not ackno-wledge the opposition to privatization by BADC field
staff as observed by IDA review mission.



-3-
BADC's field staff role in the privatization process was confined primarily to
selling and servicing of LLPs. Furthermore, the coordination with the
Bangladesh Rural Development Board (BRDB) was loose and collaboration in pump
group formation was minimal. These institutional weaknesses adversely
affected the performance of the privatized LLPs in terms of irrigation area
coverage, production and distribution of benefits. The average command area
per cfs declined continuously from about 18 ac in 1980/81 to about 16 ac in
1984/85. Moreover, number of farmers in a pump group also declined by about
10% since privatization started in 1980/81. These consequences were prompted
by the vigorous pursuit of the privatization policy as an end objective rather
than t means. To accelerate the sales of LLPs, in December 1983, BADC
instructed its field officers to abandon applying the screening criteria (size
of group, command area, etc.) in LLP sales. This action contributed to fur-
ther deterioration of utilization of LLPs and discriminated against the small
and landless farmers with limited investment capacity.
1.08    IDA's performance in the LLP Project was influenced by its other
policy based lending program. The two Import Program Credits, X and XI con-
tained policy conditions having direct bearing on the LLP Project. While the
project has failed in promoting the privatization of LLP distribution and
servicing, IDA's role was catalytic in the privatization (ownership by
farmers) of LLPs. In 1980/81 only 15Z of the LLPs fielded throughout
Bangladesh were privately owned. The share of privately owned LLPs has
increased to 85% in 1984/85. However, critics of the privatization program
attribute the shocks and dislocation i.e. the decline in command area, and
the reduction in the number of farmers in pump groups, to the privatization
policy per se. These negative results could have been controlled if the
appropriate complimentary support services including the promotion of pump
groups, assistance in command area layout etc, were provided by BADC and BRDB.
Moreover, a M&E system was not in place to flag these emerging issues. IDA's
supervision did not focus on these issues but concentrated on the physical
implementation of the project. In an effort to facilitate the participation
of private LLP dealers in the project, and enhance the achievements of the
appraised targets for training with some changes in scope, IDA had prepared an
action plan which GOB had agreed to comply by a given date as a condition for
extending the closing date. Since the agreed conditions were not met by GOB,
the credit was closed on December 31, 1984. 1
1.09    The project's agricultural performance is below the appraisal expecta-
tion due to reduced scope of the project and declining utilization efficiency
of the LLPs sotd. Irrigation command area per LLP has been decl4ining annually
since the beginning of privatization in 1980/81. As a consequence, pump group
1/ GOB noted that BADC had requested the private dealers to open letters of
credit to import LLPs but failed to do so.



-4-
members have also been declining and the average farm size has been increas-
ing. Surveys indicate that the relatively small and landless farmers appear
to be negatively affected under the privately operated LLPs.
1.10    Out of 4,875 LLPs procured under the project in 1980/81 only 1981 LLPs
have been sold as of December 1984. The poor sales record is due to a myriad
of factors including the availability of cheaper used LLPs for sale, easy
access to subsidized rental LLPs, capacity of 2-cfs LLP (originally intended
for the rental program) considered too large for a small pump group, and more
fundamentally, the lack of commitment to the sales program as manifested by
continuous protest by BADC field staff. The remaining LLPs are idling under
poor storage conditions in BADC warehouses and open air. Assuming that the
remaining LLPs would be sold by 1987/88, the total irrigated coverage would
reach about 139,000 ac producing about 263,000 tons of boro paddy. An
estimated 200,000 farm families would benefit from the project. The rees-
timated economic rate of return is over 50X.
1.11    The lessons drawn from the LLP Project are both project specific and
sectoral.
1.12    The PU was not given the required authority commensurate to the
responsibility entrusted upon it. Its marginal and ineffective role in
project implementation coupled with high turn over of PDs contributed to the
neglect of the essential project objectives and delays in implementation of
the project components. This neglect also reflects the lack of institutional
commitment to the privatization of LLP distribution and servicing. Implemen-
tation of major policy changes should not be delegated to the institution
affected by the reform unless a clear understanding is reached on the future
role of the institution. BADC's future role following privatization should
have been formulated clearly. Another institutional failure was in the train-
ing of the BADC mechanics. The project war, only pursuing (which it has
failed) to meet quantitative targets. Steps were not taken to shift the
"ttrained" BADC mechanics who are substantially underemployed with the reduc-
tion in the rental program to start their own services.
1.13    A project which is used as a vehicle for promoting policy reform,
requires a well organized monitoring and evaluation system to continuously
review and evaluate the policy impact. Absence of an integrated M & E
activity in the project 1/ left the policy makers in the dark about the
1/ COB remarked that: "The whole aspect of monitoring and evaluation system
should be viewed from a national perspective. Any M&E activity in piece
meal manner as envisaged in the project appraisal is not likely to yield
desired result".



-5-
effects of the privatisation policy. Early recognition of some of the emerg-
ing adverse effects since the privatization of the LLPs, could have prompted
corrective measures.
1.14    Project supervision by IDA should have monitored closely project
performance (impact) following the adoption of an agreed policy adjustment.
Since there were important policy changes (including shifting investments from
public to private sector, accellerating the sales program by prohibiting the
use of newly procured LLPs under the project for the rental program) after the
appraisal of the project, which had direct impact on the project, continuous
monitoring is critical for identifying emerging problems.
1.15    In so far as shifting equipment ownership from the public to the
private sector, the project (reinforced by the Import Program Credit XI) can
claim success. But the project's impact on the utilization efficiency of the
privatized LLPs by increasing command area and ensuring equitable distribution
of the benefits generated has not been positive, However, termination of the
rental program would reduce direct GOB budgetary subsidy despite the continued
employment of about 10,000 LLP staff in BADC. The project's weakness lies in
failing to provide the necessary supporting services to pump groups formation
and in irrigation command area layout to improve utilization efficiency and
mitigate the deteriorating inequity.
1.16    Finally, while pursuing project specific objectives and simultaneously
promoting sector wide policy objectives under program type lending, an assess-
ment should be made of the policy impact on ongoing projects to identify
possible negative by-products. IDA's unsuccessful effort to involve private
dealers under the project through an adoption of price subsidy transfer
mechanism against the adoption of full replacement cost pricing for LLPs
advocated by IPC XI is a case in point.
1.17    This PCR is based on IDA Completion Mission that visited Bangladesh
in November 1985 and a report prepared by BADC team headed by the Project
Director.
II. SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. The Agricultural Setting
2.01    The agriculture sector generates about half of Bangladesh's GDP;
employs about three-quarters of the labor force and contributes over 80Z of
export earnings. Agriculture is dominated by the crop subsector where over
701 of the agricultural value-added originates compared to about 151 from
livestock, 101 from fisheries and 5X from forestry. The Second Five Year Plan
(SFYP 1981-85) accorded high priority to increased foodgrain production as a



-6-
means of meeting minimum nutritional standards for the country's increasing
population. The main thrust of the SFYP was to help farmers acquire more
control over their production environment through development of irrigation
facilities, construction of flood control and drainage works, reduction in
market related uncertainties, and adoption of productivity increasing prac-
tices.
2.02    Nearly all arable land in Bangladesh is under cultivation.  Average
cropping intensity is about 150% although it is accepted that climatic condi-
tions permit a cropping intensity of over 200% under conditions of complete
water control. The most important crop is rice, cultivated on over
three-quarters of the cropped area. Jute, the principal export crop, is grown
on about 6% of the cropped land. Other crops, in order of importance of
acreage, include wheat, pulses, oilseeds, sugarcane, tea, spices and
vegetables. Less than 20% of cultivated area is irrigated, compared to an
identified water resource potential for irrigating about 50% of the cultivated
area. The absence of flood control and drainage facilities on a major part of
areas subject to inundation prevents a shift from the long-stem low-yield rice
varieties to the short-stem fertilizer-responsive high yield varieties(HYV).
Moreover, inadequate moisture content in the soils during the dry season
prevents a possible increase in cropping intensity.
2.03    Development efforts in the agricultural sector are aimed primarily at
achieving foodgrain self-sufficiency. The strategy for realizing this objec-
tive is based on policy options favoring increased reliance on private sector
initiative, reduction of public subsidies and improved domestic resource
mobilization.
2.04    Realizing that population was increasing faster than the production
from traditional varieties of rice and that HYVs showed technical and economic
promise, The Government of Bangladesh, in the early 1970's, adopted a develop-
ment strategy which concentrated on increasing agricultural production with
particular emphasis on investments with short gestation period and high yield.
This strategy promoted:
(a) The expansion of irrigation primarily through low lift pumps and
tubewells;
(b) The rapid spread of new HYV paddy; and
(c) provision of modern inputs.
2.05    The Low Lift Pump Project was supporting such a strategy.  In view of
the high priority for increased foodgrain production in successive years the
project's objective is still in line with the Government's development objec-
tive.



-7-
S.   IDA Involvement in Irrigation
2.06    Bangladesh has received IDA assistance for various agricultural
development projects, several of which relate to water resource development.
Prior to independence (1971), twc IDA water control projects were completed.
Water development projects completed since independence include: Chandpur II
Irrigation Project (Cr 340-BD), Northwest Tubewells Project (Cr 341-BD), the
Shallow Tubevells Project (Cr 724-BD), Karnafuli Irrigation Project (Cr
605-BD) and the Barisal Irrigation Project (Cr 542-BD). In addition, four
projects that include irrigation facilities are currently being implemented:
Hand Tubewells Irrigation Project (Cr 1140-BD) Muhuri Irrigation Project (Cr.
725-BD), Deep Tubewells II Project (Cr. 1287-BD) and BWDB Small Schemes (Cr
1467-BD). Also the Rural Development I and II projects (Cr 631-BD and Cr
1384-BD) and the Agricultural Credit I Project (Cr 1147-BD) provide finance
for small irrigation schemes.



-8-
III. PROJECT PROCESSING
3.01    Identification/Preparation,  In February 1978 an FAO/CP mission
visited Bangladesh t. identify an LLP project. The mission's findings were
issued in a report dated June 29, 1978 and an PAO/CP preparation mission was
subsequently fielded in July 1978. In line with the Government's expressed
intention, the preparation mission formulated the rationale for the project
viz. the need to promote privatization of both ownership and servicing of
minor irrigation equipment in general and low lift pump in particular. The
preparation mission identified two principal issues (i) organization and
management to promote the policy reform and (ii) cost recovery , for the
appraisal mission to pursue with GOB.
3.02    Appraisal  An IDA mission appraised the project from November 17 to
December 17, 1978. The appraisal report thoroughly reviewed the existing
institutional bottlenecks to improve performance of irrigation by low lift
pumps. The mission noted that under the rental system, the pumps are not
properly maintained; the pumps are under utilized and COB's budgetary subsidy
are burdensome. The SA noted that BADC was unable to maintain all of its
pumps in reliable, running condition. Furthermore, due to high staff turnover
and lack of trained mechanics OMDC was unable to cope with all its repair
maintenance tasks. Based on these findings the appraisal mission recommended
(a) the introduction of pump sales program an (b) phasing out of the rental
program over three years.  The mission, neverthelebs, questioned whether " the
Bank should advocate pump sales" since privatisation would likely worsen the
prevailing inequities in the project area by enabling the relatively better
off farmers to own additional income generating assets.
3.03    A decision meeting held on January 22, 1979 endorsed the mission's
recommendations inter alia on rental rates and pricing of LLPs and agreed to
support the privatization (ownership by farmers) of LLPs since the benefits
would outweigh the adverse effects that are likely to emerge with privatiza-
tion of LLPs. To monitor the negative impact on the small and marginal
farmers, the mission was instructed to integrate a monitoring and evaluation
system into the project to assess the project's impact.
3.04    Negotiation.  The elapsed time between the return of the appraisal
mission and credit negotiation was long. Negotiation was first scheduled for
Kay 1979 then postponed to October 1979 and finally took place in November
1979, one year after appraisal. The major debate was the extent of policy
reform in the context of selling LLPs to private farmers and allowing private
dealers to participate in distribution and servicing of LLPs initiated by IDA.
As a condition of negotiation IDA requested 00B to submit a policy statement
on a plan of action to improve performance of the minor irrigation sector and
in particular the need for allowing the private sector to distribute, operate
and maintain minor irrigation equipment. Agreement was reached on the broad
policy statement outlined by GOB.



-9-
3.05    Effectiveness.  Credit effectiveness was contingent upon GOB (a)
preparing a training program; (b) approving terms of reference for the review
of the institutional requirements of the minor irrigation sector and (c)
approving the project proformas. After extending the original effectiveness
date once, the credit was declared effective on September 8, 1980.
IV. THE APPIAISID PIOJECT
A. Project Objective
4.01    The principal objective of the project was to ensure that sufficient
number of LLPs together with appropriate spares and supporting services, would
be available to individual and group of farmers and to utilize surface water
in the project area. The project was also to promote sales of LLPs and for
the first time, the part'ipation of the private sector in distribution, sales
and servicing of LLPs. The project also aimed at improving the performance
efficiency of irrigation equipment and thereby raising crop production.
B. Project Description
4.02    The appraised project consisted of the following components.
(a)  To  augment the existing stock of LLPs through:
(i) provision of 5500 one-cfs LLPs for sale to farmers;
(ii) provision of 3000 two-cfs LLPs for the rental program;
(iii) rehabilitation of 5000 unserviceable LLPs and provision of spare
parts for other existing LLPs; and
(iv) provision of diesel fuel for LLPs procured and rehabilitated under
the project.
(b)  Strengthening of the Bangladesh Agricultural Development
Corporation's (BADC) servicing capacity by t
(i) constructing of 50 new pump storage and workshop facilities;
(ii) providing equipment and tools for IADC workshops;
(iii) providing vehicles for BADC field operations.
(c) Strengthening BADC's training capabilities by:
(i) continuing and expanding the mechanics training program
(ii) upgrading training centers at Barisal, Chittagong and Dhaka.
(iii) expanding training programs for BADC and private sector pump
mechanics and for pump operators and pump group msnagers.
(iv) providing technical assistance.



-10-
(d) Strengthening BADC's Survey and Investigation Division by providing
equipment, vehicles and technical assistance to conduct water availability
survey in South East Bangladesh; and
(c) Undertaking studies including monitoring and evaluation annually from
1980-1984 in the project districts and reviewing the institutional
requirements of the minor irrigation sector.
C. The Project Area
4.03    The Project Area comprises the five districts of Barisal, Patuakhali,
Comilla, Noakhali and Chittagong (Map: IBRD 14184 PCR). Thirteen upazillas
in these districts containing the Chandpur, Muhuri, Karnafuli and Barisal
Irrigation Projects are excluded from the LLP Project area. The Project Area
with an area of 7.3 million ac represents 21 percent of the total area of
Bangladesh. About 4.7 million ac are cultivated of which 0.9 million ac are
irrigated (0.5 million by LLPs).
D. Project Cost and Financing
4.04    Project Cost.  The total project cost estimated at appraisal was US$
48.0 million or Tk 746.0 million, including US$ 7.1 million or Tk 110.3 mil-
lion of taxes and duties. The foreign exchange cost amounted to US$ 30.3
million or 632 of the project cost. Break down of project costs estimated at
appraisal is presented in Annex I.
4.05    Project Financing. IDA's credit of US$ 37.0 million was allocated to
cover 902 of the total project cost excluding taxes and duties or 100l of
foreign exchange costs and about 63X of local costs net of taxes and duties.
Retroactive financing of up to US$7.0 million was also approved to cover
disbursement against expenditures for procurement of LLPs. Allocations of
IDA's credit among project categories and respective disbursement percentages
are given in Annex II.
E. Project Management and Organization
4.06    BADC, a semi autonomous body under the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
was established in 1961 to promote agricultural development by supplying
agricultural inputs and minor irrigation equipment (LLPs, STW, DTW). The LLP
Project was assigned to the Mechanization and Pumps Division with its own
Project Unit (PU) headed by a Superintending Engineer. Staff, vehicles and
other budgetary provisions were made to the PU to manage the financial and
technical aspects of the project. The PU would also liase with the Bangladesh
Rural Development Board (BRDB), formerly the Integrated Rural Development
Program (IRDP) an agency of the Ministry of Land Administration, Local
Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives (MLC & RD) in identifying pump
groups and formation of cooperatives and also with credit institutions.



-11-
F. Project Benefits
4.07    The Project's benefit was expected from the maintenance of production
levels on farms served by the 9,990 LLPs (6790 new LLPs and 3,200 LLPs to be
rehabilitated) that would be replaced under the project and the increase on
food grain production on newly irrigated lands by installing an additional
3,510 LLPs (1710 new LLPs and 1800 LLPs to be rebuilt) for the first time. At
full development the project's incremental production of paddy was estimated
at about 0.5 million tons benefiting 430,000 farm families. The economic rate
of return was estimated at over 100 per cent.
V. THE IMPLEMENTED PROJECT
A. Project Start-Up
5.01    Project implementation commenced with tendering for LLPs prior to
credit effectiveness. Procurement of 3000 LLPs was completed during the first
year of project implementation.  Preparation of the terms of reference of the
Minor Irrigation Sector Review was also completed on schedule.  By November
1980 BADC had submitted a plan for the construction of the 50 storages cum
workshops and a proposal for invitation of consultancy services for the Water
Availability Study. At the same time BADC also prepared a revised cost
estimate for rebuilding the unserviceable LLPs. The PU was also staffed with
the Project Director and other support personnel which gave the project a firm
basis for implementation start-up.
B. Changes in Project Scope
5.02    Having made an impressive start-up, the project was maintaining good
momentum. However, the World Bank/GOB Joint Review of the Minor Irrigation
Sector which took place in September 1980 raised a series of issues affecting
the project's composition. Consequently, the project composition was con-
tinuously changed on an ad hoc basis without any formal revision of the legal
agreement. The appraised and implemented Project Components are summarized
below. Detailed breakdown of appraisal and actual project components are
given in Annex III.



-12-
Project Components
APPRAISED  IMPLEMENTED   REMARKS
Procurement of LLPs (Nos)                                      -Import licencing and
BADC (Stage I)                    4,500        4,500        pricing issue
Private Dealers (Stage II)        4,000          375        unresolved
Procurement of diesel fuel (bl.)   190,000         190,000     -completed on schedule
Construction of BADC workshops (Nos)    50          dropped    -private workshops
recommended
Equipment and tools for
BADC workshops and mechanics        Lump sum       dropped    -adequate stock
found in BADC
Mechanics Training Program
BADC mechanics (Nos)          4,000         1933       -unrealistic target
Pump operators (Nos)         15,000        dropped      and late start
Upgrading Training Centers (Nos)           3           2        -delays in awarding
contracts and contract
disputes
Water Availability Survey               Yes        dropped      -more comprehensive
survey recommended
Monitoring and Evaluation (annually) 1980-1984       1983       -Absence of M&E Unit in
PU, long procedure in
hiring consultant
Review of Minor Irrigation              Yes          Yes        -Joint Review
IDA/COB
Rehabilitation of Unserviceable  LLP   5,000        dropped    -found to be uneconomic
Procurement of spare parts for
16,400 LLPs                               LB         20Z        -considered adequate
Sales of LLPs (No)
BADC                         4,500         1981      -Not well organized
sales program
Private Sector               4,000          0        -Disputes on pricing
As a result of the dropping of project components, the balance portion of the
implemented project was virtually completed during the initial two years
e.cept for the LLP sales and participation of private dealers in the project.



-13-
C. Project Components
Procurement and Sales of LLPs
5.03    The SAR provided for the procurement of 3,000 two cfs LLPs to replace
condemned units and these were to be used in BADC's rental program. The SAR
also prov:ded for the procurement of 5,500 one cfs pumps, on the basis of
farmers' choice, in two stages. In Stage It BADC would purchase 4,500 one cfs
pump sets on the basis of the 4-5 makes suitable for use in the project area.
After completion of Stage I, selected private sector dealers for pumps of
approved makes would be licensed to provide the remaining 4000 LLPs required
for the project. In consultation with IDA, BADC selected four makes which
were previously operated by BADC. In 1980/81, BADC completed the procurement
of 3,300 two cfs and 1,500 one-cfs LLPs. In 1982, a farmers' preference
survey was carried out, which revealed that the models selected by BADC
matched the farmer's preference. For Stage II procurement, each of the
dealers representlng the four selected makes in the farmers' preference survey
agreed to import and distribute 1,000 LLPs each through their own networks. A
series of protracted negotiations took place between BADC, MOA and the
selected private suppliers on the specific import arrangements and pricing.
The bottlenecks were two-fold. 1/ First, issuing of import licenses directly
to the dealers was not accepted by LADC. Second, agreement on the LLP sales
price (including the dealer's markup) under Stage II remained as the critical
problem even after the licensing issue was resolved. BADC's sales price was
on average 40% below the dealer's estimated full cost retail price. Since it
was evident that GOB/MDC were not prepared to increase the BADC sales price
significantly, the only alternative was to establish a mechanism by which the
private dealers would collect the subsidy equivalent from BDC. At one stage,
this arrangement was found acceptable to all parties. Subsequently, the
dealers requested that BADC deposit the subsidy payment in the authorized
participating banks to withdraw full payments upon proof of sales. This
proposal was initially proposed by an IDA Supervision Mission in June 1983.
However, an acceptable payment arrangement was not reached before Credit
closing. One dealer only imported 375 LLPs (9.4X of the Stage II target) and
has recently sold these LLPs at the market price. Fundamentally, BADC did not
work vigorously to facilitate the privatisation of LLP sales, thus frustrating
a major objective of the project.  A comparative schedule of rental and sales
subsidies for LLPs and Deep TubeWells (DTV) are shown in Table 5.1 below:
I/ According to GOB, the selected private dealers delayed their participation
in the project when "they observed that BADC had a huge stock and was
under heavy pressure for quick disposal of the stock,..."



-14-
Table 5.1    LLP and DTW Rental and Sales Subsidies (Z)
LLP                    DTW
Rental   Sales         Rental  Sales
1980/81        85        40           98       77
1981/82        85        37           97       75
1982/83        71        37           95       73
1983/84        72        28           93       67
1984/85        73        29           93       63
Source: Master Plan Organization, November, 1985.
5.04    Sales performance under the project (as of April 1986) was as follows:
BADC                    Project Allocation        Sold         X
2 cfs                   3000               988          33
1 cfs                   1500              1133          75
Private
1 cfs                  4000                375           9
At appraisal, it was understood that used LLPs would not be sold to compete
with new LLPs. New LLPs were designated for replacement of used LLPs which
became inoperable. Sales of LLPs imported under the project have been growing
very slowly in the project area. However, for the nation as a whole since
privatization started in 1980/81 over 42,000 LLPs have been sold of which 451
are used LLPs. IDA had made a suggestion to MOA and BADC to undertake a study
to explain the slow off take of new LLPs in the project area. Although BADC
had supported the idea, the proposal was not formally cleared by MOA. The
Project's evaluation Study conpleted in 1984 offered some explanation to slow
sales of new LLPs based on its field investigations. These factors include s
a) availability of old engines at nominal prices (301 of the price of new
engines) and low rental charges; b) uncertainty about spare parts and service
availability; c) complicated credit processing and qualification procedures
and d) preference for electric motors. These factors have definitely con-
tributed to the slow sales of new LLPs in the project districts.
5.05    The relatively low rental rates (despite a 1661 rate increase between
1980/81 and 1982/83), also d'scouraged potential buyers from investing in new
LLPs. Annex IV compares BADC's LLP rental rates and sales prices for selected
models. Other possible explanatory factors for the slow off-take of LLPs
include the saturation of potential buyers who are often the relatively large
land owners; and in some localities the high density of LLP fieldings has



-15-
caused water shortages. Notwithstanding the myriad of explanations, the
fundamental cause is the absence of a suitable institutional arrangement fully
committed to the sales program. BADC's LLP program was shifting from rental
to sales which was going to affect the future of over 10,000 staff. Ever
since the beginning of the sales program there was a strong reservation on the
part of BADC staff which created an adverse atmosphere for the implementation
of the sales program. Consequently, the institutional arrangements to
vigorously promote the sales program through intensive campaign, group forma-
tion, assistance in credit application and processing, advise in command area
layout etc. was missing. Moreover, the choice of LLP capacities was also not
conducive to small sise command area development made possible by other types
of minor irrigation equipment such as shallow and hand tubewells. Smaller
capacity LLPs (0.5 - 0.75 cfa) would have been both affordable and manageable
to smaller farmer grcups. Because of these reasons, only 1981 LLPs out 4500
LLPs procured in 1980/81 have been sold as of December 1984.
5.06   Diesel Fuel.  To meet the incremental fuel requirements for LLPs
procured under the project the project procured 190,000 barrels worth US$7.9
million through the Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation (BPC). The purchased
fuel under the project is considered an overall support for the economy as a
whole rather than to meet specific diesel shortages in BADC. However, the BPC
has made diesel fuel available to BADC fuel depots to meet the annual fuel
requirements.
5.07    Rehabilitation of Unserviceable LLPs.  During the first year of
project implementation it was evident that the rehabilitation program was
uneconomic. This conclusion was reached after IDA reviewed and revised BADC's
cost estimate. The SAR had estimated Tk 6398 per LLP compared to Tk 22,000
by BADC and following IDA's review the cost was re-estimated by IDA staff at
Tk 9000. In view of the high cost overrun, BADC requested IDA either to
allocate more funds or to drop the component. The component was finally
dropped since it was not financially viable.
5.08    Construction of BADC Workshops.  To accelerate the implementation of
the privatization policy in the minor irrigation sector, and the perceived
duplication of financing for workshops at regional, zonal and upazilla levels
under the Shallow Tube Well Project (724-BD), the construction of the 50
Upazilla level workshops under the LLP Project was abandoned and a recommenda-
tion was made by IDA to promote investments in private workshops. Pursuant to
the recommendation, the PU advertised the availability of credit to interested
investors in mechanical workshops. The response was fast and overwhelming.
Over 110 applicants submitted proposals of which after thorough screening 72
were cleared to participate and 24 made deposits worth Tk 0.6 million as down
payment.. In the meantime a decision was made to transfer the workshop credit
component from BADC to Bangladesh Bank (BB), executing the Agricultural Credit
Project (1147-BD). The conditions set by BB to take over the subproject with
respect to handling the proceeds from IDA credit were never met. After a long
delay it was apparent that neither 88 nor BADC would implement the subproject



-16-
and the PU had to return back the down payments. This action dampened the
prospects for private sector investment in small workshops. The rationale for
shifting the component from BADC to BB lies in the fact that BB was handling a
similar component under the Agricultural Credit Project and it was perceived
that it would be efficient to maintain a single source of credit for private
sector workshops. Unfortunately, according to BB the performance of the
workshop credit component under the Agricultural Credit Project was not satis-
factory in the first place and BB was never optimistic about credit extension
for such purposes in the project area. The sub project was eventually aban-
doned.
5.09    Upgrading of Training Centers.  Three centers located in Dhaka, Chit-
tagong and Barisal were identified for upgrading under the project. Initial
delays were caused by difficulties encountered in land acquisition and long
lapse time in finalizing contract awards (for Barisal and Chittagong). Due to
lack of suitable location, the Dhaka center was abandoned and the center was
relocated to Joydepur, 20 miles from Dhaka. Construction in Joydepur started
in April 1984 and after completing 251 of the work, BADC reported that the
contractor unilaterally terminated his contract. About Tk 0.730 million worth
of expenditures have been made. Attempts by BADC to recall the contractor
were not successful and the work has now been abandoned. BADC after failing
to retain the original contractor should have acted expeditiously to arrange
for a rebidding and complete the work prior to credit closing on December 31,
1984. Based on the disbursement percentage from IDA credit for civil works,
about Tk 0.650 million (about US$ 25,000) have been disbursed. The PC mission
has brought to the attention of BADC that the borrower is bound by the legal
agreement with IDA to complete project works with diligence. BADC recognizes
its obligation and has agreed to explore other sources of financing to com-
plete the center.
5.10    The training center in Chittagong was completed in 1982 according to
agreed schedule and at 5% below the estimated cost. The center was well
constructed and is now operational.
5.11    In Barisal, after an initial start of excavation and some foundation
lay out, the contractor requested BADC to increase the contract price due to
unanticipated cost overrun. This claim was disputed by BADC and the contractor
left the site.  The expenditure on the Bar4 al center was negligible.  It LS
not also clear why BADC did not retender or invite the second lowest evaluated
bidder. An IDA Supervision Mission had requested BADC to either invite new
bidders or settle the dispute with the original contractor. Neither action
was taken and at credit closing the Barisal center was still at foundation
stage.
5.12    In 1983, BADC, recognized as the primary source of training for
mechanics, was requested to design a program for private mechanics identified
under the Rural Development II Project. Owing to differences in the level of
experience between BADC and private mechanics, a separate program tailored



,for private mechanics was needed. To cater to this group of mechanics, BADC
r4uested to establish   ceenter in Jessore.  This request was granted by IDA
in April 1983. The center was largely complet..4 in December 1985.
5.13    Mechanics Training Program  Training Program for 4000 mechanics and
15,000 pump operators was planned under the project. In addition, the program
was also expected to train a cadre of local trainers. ILO, the executing
agency far the training component signed a contract lasting from October 1981
through March 31, 1985 to provide 162 Manmontha of diesel, electrical,
mechanical and computer experts. The actual placement of the trainers started
in July 1982 and edided in March 1985 utilizing 103 manonths of trainers.
Partly due to its delayed start, the training program was substantially
altered in both size and content.  During the mid-term tripartite review it
was evident that th. program would be unable to train 4000 mechanics. It was
then concluded to'rqduce' tht target to 1920 and to end the ILO program in
March 1985. At the close of'the ILO training program, 1933 BADC mechanics had
received training and'an additional 302 sub-unit and unit officers were also
trained . Training of the 15,000 managers/operators was earlier dropped in
consultation "ith IDA. Except the overseas study tours (financed by UNDP) and
acting es lecturers during the training sessions, the program did not have a
specific training program for the local counterpart trainers.
5.14    The mechanics training program originally started with a duration of
13 weeks per session during which time participants with varying length of
experience underwent both theoretical (classroom lectures) and practical hands
on sessions. The four IL trainers were assigned to the Chittagong, Barisal
and Dhaka Workshops cum training centers and jointly with local counterpart
iftstructors (Assistant Engineers) conducted an average of three sessions
aanually. An I-DA Supervision Mission had raised some issues with respect to
the content of the training program. Specifically, the mission felt that
while the program was lii6ly to achieve its revised numerical target, it
raised a serious reservition particularly about the program undergoing in
Barisal. The mission noted that the training program was biased heavily
towards classroom lectures on advanced subjects, given the low level of educa-
tional background of the participants. Furthermore, there were a large number
of repeaters among participants, attending similar sessions 2 to 3 times for
having earned poor grades. Finally, the training program has not succeeded in
establishing a nucleui of well trained staff to take over the training program
upon the departure of the expatriate trainers. The PC mission has discovered
that some of the local counterpart trainers after having benefited from the
overseas fellowships and some experience in training have already been reas-
signed elsewhere leaving the training program to new comers.
5.15    Review of,Minor Irrigation Sector. The objective of the minor irriga-
tion sector review was to identify the institutional constraints to the effi-
cient epansion of minor irrigation seetor to support GOB's food production
o bjcthiv  TbAT review Vas undertaken in September 1980 jointly by GOD and
ID4 stp  Ubile the review team agreed on the principal issues with respect



-18-
to the policy option for minor irrigation, the GOB had rejected some of the
specific recommendations forwarded by the IDA team members. The principal
findings and recommendations of the review team that are directly relevant to
the LLP program are summarized below:
a) phasing out the rental program and pro.soting the sales of minor
irrigation equipment;
b)  raising rental rates to reflect the sales price;
c)  LLP prices should be raised to full cost as soon as possible;
d)  LLP and STW purchase preference under credit arrangement should
be given to cooperative groups or other organized irrigation
groups;
e)  BADC to phase out distribution of spares in favor of private
dealers;
f)  public sector agencies importing minor irrigation equipment
(except DTW) should gradually cease to import and be replaced by
private dealers;
g)  in line with GOB's policy of privatization of minor irrigation,
BADC's role should be formally redefined;
h)  the mandates and activities of agencies involved in minor
irrigation should be clarified to avoid duplication and
conflicts;
i)  a national framework for irrigation management program should be
defined coordinating the activities of the relevant agencies; and
j) continued involvement of BADC in surface water investigation to
increase fielding of LLPs.
COB had endorsed in principle the findings of the review team. However, with
the exception of items a) and d) above, the remaining actions are still
outstanding.
5.16    Notwithstsarding the above far reaching agreement, the IDA staff team
members called for a deeper commitment by GOB. IDA's unilateral recommenda-
tions were:
a) BADC terminate the rental program of new equipment after 1982/83
season and to limit future procurement to DTW only;
b)  to end the rental programs by 1985 and to operate a small rental
program for DTW;
c)  to phase out the BADC stores and workshops operation by 1985
and establishment of privatized workshops;
d)  transfer distribution of diesel and oil to the private sector
starting in 1984;
e)  to establish a supervisory body to monitor BADC's commitment to
the implementation of the privatization process;
f)  to involve BADC increasingly in ensuring the efficient use of
minor irrigation equipment and promote the use by cooperatives;



-19-
g) to reorganize the Irrigation Wing of BADC on the basis of
specific functions rather than type of equipment.
5.17    IDA members' recommendations were not fundamentally different from the
joint recommendations. IDA's major success was to win COB's commitment to the
privatization of minor irrigation equipment. IDA's unilateral recommendation
in para 5.16 reflect its eagerness to accelerate the implementation of the
agreed policy. Although GOB had rejected IDA's timetable for termination of
the rental program, it subsequently agreed under the Import Program Credit XI
on the same datet July 1985. GOB complied with the agreement by terminating
the rental program as of July 1985.1/ Both GOB and IDA had agreed that BADC's
future role should be redefined to complement the private sector in minor
irrigation. The IDA team members had further specifically called for BADC to
concentrate on promoting efficient utilization of LLPs through group ownership
and maximizing command area. As of this date BADC's role is yet to be
redefined. IPC XIII has a provision for a review of BADC. During the
privatization of LLPs, BADC has largerly been acting as a sales agency rather
than actively being involved in providing assistance to the private pump
groups. BADC's performance is discussed in further detail in Chapter VI.
5.18    Monitoring and Evaluation (M & E) . The SAR had made provisions for
establishing a M & E unit in the PU and an annual M & E study beginning with a
bench mark survey of the project area. The M & E was particularly emphasized
to monitor and evaluate the likely adverse effect of the privatization program
on equity. In view of this possible negative impact, the appraisal mission
had even posed a question in its Issues Paper whether the Bank should support
the sales program. IDA's repeated request to BADC to appoint a consultant to
undertake the study was acted upon towards the end of 1983 and an evaluation
study was issued in March 1984. The study was contracted locally to Rajshahi
University. 2/
5.19    The study was based on a sound methodology and field survey of
selected sample of project beneficiaries. Detailed data was gathered includ-
ing, socio-economic, production etc. The principal findings of the study are
summarized below:
1/ Due to availability of large stock of LLPs in BADC, the rental program is
being reinstated temporarily.
2/ COB remarked that "Part of the failure of the project st-ould be attributed
to inadequate monitoring.  The project study stipulated in the ap?raisal
if carried out definetly would have helped improve implementation'.



-20-
a) all LLPs are being used inefficiently I
b) managers/operators of pump groups arn significantly higher
income than the group members
c) with the introduction of the sale program the number of farmers
in a pump group benefiting from LLP irrigation has declined by
10 percent.
4) number of larger farmers has increased and the number of small
and landless farmers decreased in privately owned pump groups;
e) sixty-six percent of privately owned LLPs are also used for non
irrigation purposes - rice husking, boat running, dewatering,
workshops, etc$
f) command area per LLP is lower under the privately owned than
rental pump schemes.
On balance the study concludes that "No program (sale or rental) has absolute
advantage over the other". However, if the national objective is to' achieve
food self-sufficiency' then according to the evaluation study, the rental
program should be maintained.
5.20    The study has provided useful comparative indicators for both rental
and privately owned LLPs. It has also confirmed the appraisal mission's fear
that the sale program has resulted in creating additional wealth to the rela-
tively large farmers at the expense of the small and landless. This conse-
quence was inevitable since there was no built tn safeguard to protect the
interest of the weaker segments of the farming comunity. In the initial year
of the sale program, attempts were being made to insure the formation of
genuine pump groups with a required minimu  number of mmbers. In December
1983, BADC to speed up the sales program instructed its field offices to offer
LLPs for sale to anyone irrespective of type ownership and end use. This
action has further weakened the position of the small farmers and enhanced the
bargaining power of the well to do. Reports from field offices also indicate
that urban entrepreneurs were taking advantage of highly subsidized engines
for construction, workshops and other uses. Whilst the study's findings were
based on detailed surveys, the conclusions implied from the past performance
of the privately owned LLPs should not be taken as a failure of the privatiza-
tion policy per se and call for the reinstatement of the rental program. The
study has not explained adequately the causes for the poor performance of the
privatized LLPs.
D. Project Cost
5.21    The actual project cost is Tk 349.0 million, 47X of the appraisal cost
estimate (40X of the estimted project cost in terms of US dollars). Cancel-
lation of project components is the principal cause for cost underruns. The
relatively higher cost underrun in dollar terms is attributed to the deprecia-
tion of the Taka from 15.5 to an average of 24 to the dollar during the period
of project implementation.



-21-
5.22    Substantial cost reductions are due to the cancellation of the second
stage private sector procurement of LLPs and the rehabilitation of unservice-
able LLPs. Moreover, the technical assistance for the mechan cs training
program was reduced significantly from 162 manmonths to 103 man months.
Exclusion of other project components including the training centers in Dhaka
and Barisal, the 50 workshops and procurement of tools and equipment also
contributed to the substantial cast saving. Appraisal and actual project
costs are summarised in Table 5.2 below.
Table 5.2 Project Cost
(Tk Million)
Appraisal        Actual         Actual as X of
Appraisal
Land Acquisition        3.5              0.5            14
Pump Sets            297.1             137.1            46
Rebuilding of
Pumps and Spares      67.7              13.7            20
Diesel Fuel          142.6             122.4            86
Civil Works           50.3               5.4            11
Project Unit 1/      123.1              50.7            41
Technical Assistance
Studies, Training     60.0              19.1            32
Total                746.0             348.9            47
I/ Including vehicles, office equipment, overhead, tools, equipment,etc.
B. Disbursement
5.23    Credit disbursement at the end of FY1981 (year 1 of the project) was
US$ 12.7 million, 34X of the IDA Credit. Compared to the disbursement profile
for Bangladesh, this level of disbursement is attained five years after board
approval. The project's fast disbursement is attributed to the completion of
the procurement preparation for pumps prior to credit effectiveness. In the
subsequent disbursement period the actual disbursement was lagging substan-
tially behind the appraisal estimates primarily due to the changes in project
scope and the cancellation of LLP imports by the private dealers. At the
closing of the credit a total of US$ 17.3 million or 47X of the IDA credit was
disbursed and US$19.7 million was cancelled. The monthly average exchange
rate used in disbursement is presented in Annex V. The appraisal estimate
and actual disbursement is shown in Table 5.3 below.



-22-
Table 5.3    Credit Disbursement
US$ Million
Actual Z
Appraisal           Actual         of Appraisal
Category
(1) Equipment, Vehicles,
and Materials                22.0             8.4               38
(2) Civil Works and
Materials                      2.7             0.2                7
(3) Diesel fuel              8.0              7.9               99
(4) Training studies
and Technical Assistance      2.8             0.8               29
(5) Unallocated                1.5              -                 -
Total                         37.0            17.3               47
5.24    The IDA credit of US$ 37.0 million was earmarked at appraisal to
finance 90% of the total project cost excluding taxes and duties. Although
only 47% of the credit was utilized, IDA still financed 91% of the total
project cost net of taxes and duties.
F. Procurement
5.25    Adequate number of procurement packages were prepared at appraisal
to speed the bidding process. Prior to credit effectiveness procurement of
the LLPs under Stage I and diesel were nearly completed. The pumps were
procured directly from existing local suppliers to maintain standardization
with BADC stock. Since the BPC is the sole importer of petroleum products in
Bangladesh, BADC received its diesel supply from BPC through a negotiated
contract. In both instances, IDA reviewed and cleared the quotations and
draft contracts.
5.26    Local competitive bidding procedure was employed for civil works and
other small off-the-shelf items costing less than US$ 50,000 for each con-
tract. The most recurrent procurement problem in local bidding was the delay
in clearing bidding documents, evaluating bids and awarding contracts. Often
the PU reported in its quarterly report that procurement decisions were being
held up in BADC headquarters. Since the Project Director was not entrusted
with any authority to make any financial commitment, even for minor office
supplies, decisions have routinely taken unnecessary long times. Payment



-23-
authorization, according to the author of the Project's Evaluation Study, had
to obtain "33" clearances.
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
6.01    In this section the performance of BADC, the executing agency, BRDB,
and IDA would be reviewed. BADC had the primary responsibility for coordinat-
ing, through the PU, the activities of the BRDB and liase with the central and
local government bodies.
A. Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
6.02    In accordance with the SAR, BADC established the PU headed by a Super-
intending Engineer Project Director (PD) reporting to the Chief Engineer for
Low Lift Pumps. The PU was also staffed with Executive and Assistant
Engineerst Accounting and other support perst;nnel. Initially, posting of
staff was delayed due to temporary employment ban by GOB.
6.03    The responsibilities excercised by the PU were nominal as compared to
the functions envisaged by the appraisal mission. In effect the PU was
neither managing nor coordinating the project. Project implementation
authority was confined largerly to BADC headquarters. Contrary to the opera-
tional plan, the PU did not have any control over the field LLP offices which
were reporting directly to the LLP Chief Engineer in Dhaka. With respect to
the technical assistance component, the Deputy Chief Engineer for LLP was the
official counterpart to the ILO's Chief Technical Advisor, heading the ILO
trainers. Project related decisions were sometimes reached without the
knowledge of the PD. Under these circumstances, the PU was limiting its
activity to a) maintaining accounts for office expenditures, and locally
pr-ocured items and civil works; b) preparing quarterly reports (submitted
regularly on schedule); and c) drawing BADC's attention to outstanding deci-
sions (procurement, payment, recruitment, etc). Partly as a reflection of the
PU's insignificant status, there were five different PDs during the five-year
project implementation period. This high managerial turn over led to low
staff morale and discouraged the staff to make any attempt to broaden the PU's
role in project implementation.
6.04    BADC's role in facilitating the participation of the private dealers
to import LLPs under Stage II was also not effective. After resolving the
disputes on import licensing, BADC was unable to meet the request made by
private dealers to make the subsidy payments through the participating Banks.
Civen the prevailing subsidized LLP price, the private dealers could only
import and compete with BADC if they could recover the full equipment cost
including a mark-up. BADC's proposed mechanism for transferring the subsidy
portion of the LLP price was found unacceptable to the private dealers. IDA's
intervention was also futile to resolve the problem. As a result, LLP import
under Stage II was dropped except for 375 LLPs imported by one dealer.



-24-
6.05    BADC's performance in handling the civil works contracts for Barisal
and Joydepur was also unsatisfactory. Indecision on behalf of BADC led to
the abandonment of the two centers. Disputes with the contractors should have
been resolved to resume the construction or other contractors should have been
invited to complete the work.
B. BanMladesh Rural DeveloPment Board (BRDB)
6.06    To insure that project benefits also accrue to the small and landless
farmers and avert further inequities in the rural economy, the appraisal
mission had recommended that sales priority be given to existing pump groups
and registered cooperatives. This effort required the support of BRDB which
has been instrumental in the distribution of LLPs to cooperatives. However,
BRDB's involvement was limited to existing registered cooperatives only and a
larger share of the LLPs were purchased by individuals and informal groups
without BRDB's intervention. Often these informal groups were fictitious
without any membership. Consequently the average farm size in pump groups has
been increasing and the number of group members has been declining under the
privately owned pump schemes.  These phenomenon was aggravated by BADC's open
sale policy announced in December 1983 to all potential buyers regardless of
type of ownership (individual or group) and end use.
6.07    A more active involvement of BRDB in the pro3ect would have enhanced
the realization of one of the project objectives as demonstrated under the
Irrigation Management Program (IMP) elsewhere in Bangladesh. In 1980/81 BRDB
launched the IMP in Bangladesh "to bring more area under irrigation and to
benefit more farmers by maximizing the capacity utilization of both existing
and new irrigation devices." By 1983/84 thete were 288 LLP schemes and 1,215
DW schemes under the IMP. Average irrigated area per cfs increased from 19
ac to 27 ac and'likewise pump group numbers also rose from 19 to 24. The IMP
is still at experimental stage, but the results demonstrate the effectiveness
of well organized farmer groups in ensuring efficient utilization and enlarg-
ing the beneficiaries.
C. Compliance with Covenants
6.08    BADC's overall performance in project implementation has not been
generally in compliance of the legal covenants. Cancellation of project
components and abandonment of unfinished training centers are indicative of
breach of understanding to implement the project with diligence. More
specifically the following legal covenants were not complied with. (a) submit-
ting audited accounts annually. Up to October 1984 the only audit report
received by IDA was for 1980/81 and reports for subsequent fiscal years were
submitted in 1985; (b) insuring the imported goods against hazards until
delivery for installation and (c) undertaking monitoring and evaluation study
annually.



-25-
D. Performance of IDA
6.09    IDA's performance during 1980-84 should be examined in the context
of all its operations affecting low lift pump irrigation. In addition to the
LLP Project the Import Program Credits contained policy conditionalities
directly affecting low lift pumps.
6.10    With respect to the LLP Project, IDA had exhaustively appraised the
project, examining the institutional bottlenecks, identifying the likely
impacts of promoting the privatization policy and integrating mechanisms that
would minimise project risks. Some of the quantitative targets - procurement
and sale of LLPs, training program - set at appraisal turned out to be
optimistic. However, IDA's policy dialogue with GOB in 1979 and 1980 led GOB
to commit itself to far reaching fundamental reform in the minor irrigation
sector. GOB's pronounced policy direction was further cemented by agreements
reached through the World Bank/GOB Joint Minor Irrigation Sector Review and
the IPCs. Recognizing that major reforms of such magnitude often result in
major shocks and dislocations, the appraisal mission's approach to the
privatization of LLPs was cautious to mitigate major disruptions in both
production and equity distribution. In fact it was the appraisal mission's
objective to allocate the 3000 two cfs LLPs procured by BADC to the rental
program. However, subsequent agreement between GOB and IDA under IPC XI
drastically accelerated the privatization implementation schedule including
the re-allocation of the newly procured 3000 LLPs under the project to the
sales program and establishing July 1985 as the terminal date for the rental
program. GOB has complied with both the provisions. The cost of withdrawing
the 3000 LLPs from the rental program was substantial. As of this date only
900 LLPs out of the 3000 LLPs were sold. The remaining, are dilapidating,
rusting, with missing parts etc. in open stores. Terminating the rental
program in July 1985 while BADC had over 10,000 new LLPs in storage and
without a firm sales plan, may further lead to wasting valuable resources.
Based on the declining sales trend over the last two years, it is very
unlikely that BADC would succeed in disposing of the existing stock of LLPs in
the near future. Recognizing these limitations, the rental program has now
been reinstated temporarily. Despite this set back in reinstating the rental
program, IDA has been positively instrumental in privatizing (the ownership)
LLPs in Bangladesh. In 1984/85 over 852 of the LLPs fielded were privately
owned compared to 151 in 1980/81.
6.11    IDA supervision has been alternatively carried out by headquarters
and RuB staff. Since there was a reorganization of the Agricultural divisions
in the South Asia Projects Department in 1982 and staff reassignments, staff
continuity for Supervision from headquarters was not maintained. Some of the
recurrent problems raised by IDA supervision missions include: slow sales of
LLPs, under employed PU staff and delays in finalizing procedures for private
dealers involvement in procurement etc. Repeated appeals to GOB to establish
acceptable basis for the private dealers to participate in the project brought



-26-
no result. Involvement of private dealers would have been a break through in
low lift pump distribution. Summaries of IDA Supervision Reports are given in
Annex VI. In general the supervision focus has been confined to reviewing
physical targets. Such a project, designed to promote fundamental policy
reforms could have been supf.rvised focussing on the impact of the policy
implementation and evaluated at mid-term to assess the achievements and
prevailing constraints with a view to recommending appropriate courses of
action.
6.12    IDA's supervision effort was also not focussed on monitoring the
utilization of the privatized LLPs. This was partly due to delays in launch-
ing the evaluaticn study (completed in March 1984). Surveys of privately
operated LLP groups revealed ample evidence on the under utilization of the
pumps. Awareness of the performance of privatized LLPs could have led to
adoption of corrective actions. A possible corrective mechanism could have
been to restore the original project concept of directing the sales program to
organized groups with more direct support from BADC and BRDB.
6.13    Despite the substantial delays in project implementation and ad hoc
cancellation of project components etc., the project was only rated once as
a problem project. IDA had also advised GOB that extension of credit closing
date could be considered provided GOB agrees to a set of action plan that will
ensure the reinstatement of the core component of the project viz to provide
the opportunity for private dealers to participate in the project and enable
the completion of the training program and training centers. Since the agreed
conditions were not met by GOB, the credit was subsequently closed on December
31, 1984.
VII. AGRICULTURAL IMPACT
7.01    One of the fundamental objectives of the project is to increase
irrigated area and increase agricultural production through fielding of
privately owned (group and individual) LLPs. It is therefore implicitly
assumed that irrigated area is a function of type ownership (rental vs.
private), and form of ownership (group vs. individual). This section will
analyze how these two factors affected irrigated area, agricultural production
and, imp&'ct on farmers net income.
A. Irrigated Area
7.02    The appraisal had forecasted that 6,787 LLPs, 80X of the LLPs to be
procured under the project would be sold to replace unserviceable or condemned
units in the project area and the balance 1,713 LLPs were to be used as new
fieldings. Since the private dealers component (Stage II) was dropped, the
4,875 LLPs procured, are and will be used entirely to replace the unservice-
able units. Details on actual LLP fieldings and areas irrigated by project



-27-
districts are presented in Annex VII. A summary is shown in Table 7.1 below.
To estimate the total irrigated area at full development (i.e., fielding of
all project LLPs), it is assumed that by 1987/88 all the LLPs procured under
the Project would be fielded and about 139,000 ac would be irrigated. The
actual irrigated area for 1980/81-1984/85 and projections are presented in
Annex VIII.
Table 7.1 Privately Owned LLPs Fielded and Irrigated Area
LLPs            Irrigated Area          Command Area
No.    cfs               (ac)                  ac/cfs
1980/81         568      780              14362                  18.4
1981/82        1211    1618              28348                   17.5
1982/83        1468    2050              36126                   17.6
1983/84        1746    2568              39302                   15.3
1984/85        1981    2969              46822                   15.8
In 1980/81 a total of 568 LLPs with a capacity of 780 cfs were in operation
and irrigated about 14,400 ac or 18.4 ac per cfs. By 1984/85 LLPs fielded
rose to 1981 with 2,969 cfs capacity and irrigated about 46,800 ac but a
command area of 15.8 ac per cfs. To investigate the continuous decline of
command area per cfs between 1980/81 and 1984/85 statistical tests were con-
ducted using 1982/83 cross section data from the evaluation survey. From a
sample survey of 61 pump groups data on irrigated area as the dependent vari-
able; capacity of pump (one or two cfs), type of group (rental or privately
owned), form of ownership (group or individual) and number of farmers as
independent variables were used to test if the observed decline in command
area is significant enough to explain occurences in the entire minor irriga-
tion sector. The estimated correlation coefficients suggest that irrigated
area is negatively correlated with individually owned pump schemes under the
sale program. The reverse is true with rental and group ownership. These
results are also supported by other independent researchers (Quasem et al,
BIDS October 1984, Biswas, University of Mymensingh, 1985, ADB July 1984 and
Dutta, University of Mymensingh, November 1985), indicating declining command
area per cfs under the sale and individually owned LLP schemes. The results
also indicate positive correlation between irrigated area and pump capacity
and number of farmers in the group. It is noted in para 5.19 that group
numbers under the sale program have also been declining, reducing command
area.
7.03    BADC attributes lower command area to the private operation and owner-
ship of LLPs. Surveys carried out by Karim in Comilla (April 1984) and Bhow-
mick in Barisal (October 1984) also confirm obtaining similar results in other
parts of Bangladesh. Rowever, a mere identification of type of operation
(rental vs. private) and form of ownership (group vs. individual) cannot
establish causality. The necessary conditions for promoting efficient
utilisation of privatized LLPs were not in place as envisaged by the appraisal



-28-
mission. One of the principal complimentary services was the active col-
laboration of BADC and BRDB in identifying suitable pump groups and coopera-
tives and assisting in group formation. In 1980/81 BADC's sales program was
actually launched with emphasis on group ownership and ensuring that applica-
tions for LLP purchase meet minimum command area and number of farmers
criteria. Even with these criteria in place, there were numerous instances
when non-existent groups were registered by individuals. In December 1983
even this criteria was abandoned supposedly to speed up the sales program.
There were reports that even urban entrepreneurs were purchasing engines for
non-agricultural purposes. BADC estimated that 20X of the LLPs sold since
1980/81 are permanently diverted for other uses. Biswas (1985), in his survey
concluded that "..the sale programmes have encouraged few individuals for
making diversified business with the pumps and engines of STW or LLPs".
B. Production and Farm (Pump Group) Budget
7.04 Production. Crop production attributable to the project's intervention
is confined largely to paddy output during the boro season. Although farmers
occasionally provide supplenrsntary irrigation during the latter part of the
aman season, the incremental production due to the marginal supply of water
has not been estimated. Actual and projected input and output coefficients
are given in Annex IX. For production estimates, the project districts are
categorized into two subareas based on geographical location and performance
record. Barisal and Patuakhali form one subarea and Comilla, Chittagong and
Noakhali the other. Furthermore the actual cropping coefficients from the
recently completed Barisal and Karnafuli Irrigation Projects have been con-
sidered in establishing the parameters for the LLP Project. As described
earlier, the analysis in this report is based on the utilization of the
project LLPs for replacing unserviceable LLPs. Therefore the LLPs sold
annually are actually replacing worn out pumps. This assumption is found
reasonable in view of declining irrigated area between 1980/81 and 1984/85 in
the project districts. Actual and projected paddy production under the
project is presented in Annex X and summarized below in Table 7.2
Table 7.2: Incremental Actual and Projected Paddy Production
(tons '000)
1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  1989/90  1996/97
--    -----Actual ------------ Projected--
Barisal/Patuakali    6.6        13.5      16.2     12.8      15.9    26.6    2.5
Comilla/Chittagong/ 16.2        33.5      41.1     53.2      64.4   236.0   64.5
Noakhali
TOTAL               22.8        47.0      57.3     66.0      84.2   262.6   67.0



-29-
7.05   Economic life of LLPs is assumed to be ten years.  Therefore LLPs
fielded in 1980/81 would be out of service in 1990/1991 and assuming all the
project LLPs are fielded by 1987/88 the entire fleet would be out of commis-
sion by 1997/98. Since replacements are not built-in, the incremental produc-
tion would decline from a peak of 263,000 tons in 1989/90 to 67,000 tons in
1996/97, the last year of the project. Comparison with the appraisal produc-
tion would not be meaningful due to the exclusion of Stage II LLPs, which
represent 431 of the appraisal stock of LLPs and the cancellation of the
rehabilitation program. However, the production of boro paddy estimated in
the SAR for the replacement component (with 6787 LLPs) was 447,000 tons com-
pared to the current estimate of 262,630 tons or 581 of the SAR forecast.
7.06 Farm (Pump Group) Budset. To illustrate the benefits accruing to pump
group members from investment in new LLP8s two one cfs pump models have been
analyzed. This approach is preferable to the conventional farm budgets based
upon average holdings. It should also be noted that the average area covered
by one-cfs pumps has been declining as discussed in paras 7.03-7.04. The
results of the budget analysis are summarised below in Table 7.3 and the
details are presented in Annex XI.
Table 7.3: Actual and Projected Net Farm Income
(Tk '000)
Barisal/Patuakhali     1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  1985/86-1989/90
------Actual --  --.-                   -----Projected
Net Group Income            73.1    70.3     77.8      53.2     60.4     69.1
Net Income per Ac.           4.7     4.8      5.1       5.0      5.1      5.1
Net Income per member 1/    3.3      3.4      3.6       3.5      3.6      3.6
Comilla/Chittagong/Noakali
Net Group Income           80.8    82.6     71.6       74.9     77.2     91.5
Net Income per Ac.         4.1      4.4      3.8        4.4      4.5      5.0
Net Income per member 1/   2.9      3.1      2.7        3.1      3.2      3.5
1/ Assuming 0.7 ac per member
The above returns to pump group members are based on the assumption that the
LLPs are owned equally by each member. However, if the LLP is owned by a
single member only, the water charges levied on the members would be sig
nificantly higher than the full 0 & N cost of the LLP and the returns would be
much lower than indicated in Table 7.3 above. Notwithstanding the differences



-30-
in return between the group and individually owned LLPs, the financial
benefits to LLP investments are generally attractive.
VIII. ECONOMIC IMPACT
A. Project Benefits
8.01    The project's economic impact is measured both in terms of direct
benefits i.e. increase in paddy production by providing replacement LLPs; and
indirect economy wide long term benefits attributable to the policy reform
i.e. the phasing out of the rental program substituted by the sales program
and the attempts to privatise maintenance services.
8.02    At full development i.e. in 1987/88 when all the LLPs procured'under,
the project would be fielded, a total of about 139,000 ac.-would be irrigated
producing 263,000 tons of incremental paddy and benefiting about 200,000 farm
families. Since the useful life of an LLP is 10 years, starting 190/91 the
irrigated area would decline in proportion to the number of LLPs taken out of
service. In 1997/98 the entire stock (4875) of LLPs would be out of comis-
sion.
8.03    Employment Impact.  Without the project it is assumed that irrigated
area (irrigated by existing LLPs) would disappear completely by 1987/80. :'The
LLPs procured under the project are used to replace those LLPs being disposed
annually when they are no longer serviceable. Therefore the employment sus-
tained due to the replacement of the old LLPs can be attributed to the
project. It is estimated that the average employment creation is about 6.2
million mandays per annum.
B. Policy Impact
8.04    The privatization policy reform supported under the LLP Project was
part of an overall attempt to tap the productive potential of the private
sector in agricultural production and distribution and servicing of minor
irrigation equipment.  This policy was adopted with a view to:  (a) eliminat-
ing the budgetary subsidy for the rental program and release resources for
other investments; (b) enhancing the efficient operation of LLPs through
privately owned maintenance services; and (c) ensuring equitable distribution
of benefits generated by investments in minor irrigation equipment to the
small and tenant farmers. What are the results hitherto?
8.05    Budgetary Subsidy.  In 1979/80 it was estimated that the rental
program subsidy was equivalent to 85  of the cost compared to 732 in 1984/85.
With the termination of the rental program, COB would be saving the budgetary
allocation for pump rentals and servicing. However the sales prices of new



-31-
LLPs is still subsidized to the tune of about 291 applicable to the remaining
lOtOOO LLPs in BADC stores. Notwithstanding the closing out of the rental
program, BADC still maintains LLP staff (mechanics, and other support staff)
estimated over 10,000 who are still under government payroll. It appears that
the privatization program may have reduced GOB's direct subsidy but continues
to support underemployed LLP staff in BADC.
8.06    Equipment Efficiency.  Avaitable evidence does not support the expec-
tation that with privatization the LLPs would be utilized efficiently measured
in terms of command area per cfs. In Bangladesh LLPs have always been operat-
ing signiUicantly below capacity. The average rated capacity of 1 cfs LLP is
about 30 ac (for paddy) but the actual utilization has been less than 20 ac.
Since the beginning of the sales program, command area per cfs has also been
declining as demonstrated in Chapter VIZ. According to BADC sources in
1984/85 the irrigated area in Bangladesh with about 50,000 LLPs fielded (85Z
private 15% rental) was 551 I/ of the irrigated area in 1979/80 with about
37,300 LLPs (100l rental) (siee Figures I and II). Unless the recent trend
is reversed dramatically, the policy impact on equipment utilization has not
been positive. Moreover, according to an RMB sponsored survey of repair and
maintenance services for LLPs, the number of breakdowns per engine has risen
from 1.52 times per season in 1980/81 to 2.38 times in 1983/84. These fre-
quent breakdowns have a direct effect on the command area of the LLPs.
8.07    Equity Impact.  In an economy where 751 of the population is employed
in agriculture; with 401 of the rural population landless,2/ and 511 of the
rural population owning 8.31 of rural land, the issue of distribution of
project benefits is paramount. Project intervention which enhances ownership
of income generating assets (LLPs) in rural Bangladesh without ensuring equal
access to all classes of farmers may further aggravate the prevailing ineq-
uities by creating 'Waterlords'. It is this fear that prompts the appraisal
mission to question the merits of 'advocating pump sales'. GOB in its policy
statement was also cognizant of the possible social inequity arising from
individual ownership of LLPs. Available evidences suggest that the privatiza-
tion policy appears to have contributed to further concentration of productive
assets in the hands of the relatively better off segments of the rural com-
munity. Having abandoned the adherence to group ownership criteria, the LLPs
became profitable income generating investments not only for farmers but also
for urban entrepreneurs.  Therefore, under the waterlord-water buyer arrange-
ment, the buyers paid water rates with an estimated mark-up of about 721 above
the full cost of delivery and generating attractive returns to the investor.
This phenomenon was also true under the rental program when rental group
1/ This may be an underestimate since it assumes that all the 50,000 LLPs are
in operation.
2/ Includes those with and without homestead land only.



-32-
managers were levying exhorbitant water rates on members and recovering the
full cost of water and a mark-up of about 432X OB's subsidy was therefore
benefitting the pump owners and rental group managers. Although the two
systems (rental and sales) of water delivery were exploitative, access to
irrigation water by the landless and small farmers appears to deteriorate
under the sales system. The evaluation survey data also indicates that the
number of pure tenants in privately owned pump groups declined by 15X when the
shift was made from rental to private ownership. Furthermore with the decline
in the command area, the number of beneficiaries has also declined. It is
also observed that with the decline in command area reduction in the number of
members in a pump group and increase in average farm size under the sales
program, the apparent victims have been the small and marginal farmers.
C. Economic Analysis
8.08    The principal assumptions made in the BAR and PCR (in light of actual
performance) in computing the economic rate of return to the project are
compared below:



-33-
Benefit and Cost Assumption
SAR                PCR
-Command Area (ac/cfs)           20              Actual up to 1984/85
and 17.7 thereafter
-Implementation Period (Yrs)    4                    8
(i.e. completion of sales)
-Life of LLP  (Yrs)              10                  10
-Project Life (Yrs)              14                  17
-0 & M Cost for LLPs       includes fuel             Diesel procured under the
project meets requirements
of Project LLPs up to
1992/93 and shown as
investment cost.
Therefore share of fuel
cost in 06M cost is
excluded during this
period. Full O&M cost
including fuel cost
of LLPs is charged beyond
1992/93
-Phasing of benefits/cost quarterly                 annually
-Project Benefits         only from boro cul-       only from boro cultivation
tivation
-saivage value             102 of value of pump     fully depreciated after
sets shown as benefit    10 years.
at end of useful life
8.09    Based on the above revised assumptions and actual results from
1980131-1984/85, the ERR is re-estimated at over 5O0 compared to over 1002
estimated in the SAR. ERRes for LLP investments are often high since the cost
per acre is relatively lower than for other forms of minor irrigation (DTW,
STW, etc) involving civil works and farmers are familiar with the technology
which has been in use for over two decades.



-34-
IX. LESSONS LEARNED
9.01    Owing to the sector wide impact of the LLP Project, the lessons emerg-
ing are both project specific and sectoral.
9.02    The establishment of the PU without adequate project management
authority was one of the detrimental factors for the project. The PU was weak
to the extent that project related decisions were made by its Headquarters
without consultation. BADC's role in implementing the privatization of LLP
distribution and servicing lacked strong commitment. BADC's future role,
after privatization should have been defined clearly. As a result, one of the
project's primary objectives i.e. the privatization of LLP distribution and
servicing failed to materialize. Another institutional failure was in the
training of BADC mechanics. The training program was conducted without a
concrete plan on how to privatise the trained mechanics after BADC. The
project was pursuing vigorously (which it has failed) to meet the quantitative
targets for training. One of the overall objectives was to privatise the
servicing of LLPs. However BADC still maintains the same number of mechanics
as during the rental program.
9.03    To monitor and evaluate the implementation and impact, respectively,
of the project, a M & E Unit was recommended  as an integral part of the PU.
The M&E Unit was never established. Because of the Project's policy content
with expected far reaching impact, the M&E Unit would have played a vital role
in generating continuous feed back to both BADC and GOB policy makers.
However, even the only one report, issued towards the end of the project
implementation period, was not given the attention it deserved to initiate a
dialogue on the issues identified.
9.04    IDA's supervision effort was also focussed mainly on achieving quan-
titative targets. Given the far reaching policy implications of the Project
and the problems confronted, IDA could have supervised the Project with
emphasis on the performance of the privatization policy.
9.05    Whilst the project succeeded in implementing part of the major policy
reform in the minor irrigation sector, i.e. transfering LLP ownership from
BADC to private farmers, the specific complimentary measures at the
micro-level required to ensure the production and equity impact of the policy
reform were neglected. Appropriate measures to reorient BADC's services with
BRDB's participation to provide active support to pump groups, assistance for
group formation and irrigation command area layout, and easing the cumbersome
credit procedures, were considered secondary. Consequently as the performance
of the sales program demonstrated, the impact on equipment utilization
efficiency and on equity was negative. The fiscal impact is also minimal due
to the continuing operation of the rental LLP network and retention of the
same size staff despite the termination of the rental program.



-35-
9.06    In a country lending program where specific projects and sector wide
policy related programs are simultaneously being implemented, there is a risk
of giving contradictory signals to the borrower. Various proposals-including
lowering LLP prices, transfering subsidy to private dealers, maintaining
existing level of subsidy and etc. were suggested to GOB to stimulate sales
of LLPs and to accommodate the participation of private LLP dealers under the
Project. Against this background, IDA was also attempting to move GOB towards
adoption of full cost pricing and elimination of subsidy for LLPs. In this
case it appeared COB's choice was largely influenced by project specific
considerations and LLPs continue to be highly subsidized.



, 3c   /
H/St-1 i          ' ?/S; r  9 -z-   f4/ r~w 



- 37               Annex I
Page 1
BANGLADESH
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
(CR. 990-BD)
Project Completion Report
Appraisal Project Cost Estimate
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total    Cost
---(Taka Million)-- ---(US$ Million)--
(a) Land Acquisition          2.5    -       2.5   0.2    -       0.2        1
(b) Pumpsets,complete with
trolleys,pipes,fitting
and spares                74.7   148.8  223.5  4.8    9.6   14.4         30
(c) Rebuildng of 5,000
pumps and spares         23.2    24.1   47.3  1.5    1.5    3           6
(d) Diesel fuel              18.6   124.0  142.6  1.2    8.0    9.2         19
(e) Civil works for Thana
workshops and training
facilities               24.6     9.4   34.0   1.6   0.6    2.2         5
(f) Machinery,equipment,
tools for workshops,
hand tools for mechanics
and spare                19.6    37.7   57.3   1.3   2.4    3.7         8
(g) Transport vehicles for
BADC field operation
water availability
survey,training pro-
gram, and office
equipment (for training
and water availability
survey)                  18.8    17.5   36.3   1.2    1.1    2.3        5
(h) Training, studies and
advisory services
(Training specialist,
water availability
survey specialists,
training of pump mech-
anics and operators,
and monitoring).         18.8    26.5   44.5   1.1    1.7    2.8        6
Base Cost               200.0   388.0  588.0   12.9   24.9   37.8       80
Physical Contingencies        9.1    26.8   35.9    0.6    1.7    2.3       5
Price Contingencies          65.3    56.8  122.'    4.2    3.7    7.9        15
Total Project Cost          274.4   471.6  746.0    17.7   33   48.0    100
a/  The cost estimates include taxes and duties.  Small discrepancies are due
to rounding.



-38 -            Annex II
BANGLADESH
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
(CR. 990-BD)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CREDIT ALLOCATION BY CATEGORY AND DISBURSEMENT PERCENTAGE
Amount of the
Credit Allocated in       % of Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent         to be Financed
US$ M
1.  Equipment, vehicles      22.0
and materials
(a) directly                                     100% of foreign
imported                                     expenditures
(b) locally manu-                                100% of local
factured                                     expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c) other local                                   702 of local
procurement                                   expenditures
2. Civil works and
materials                 2.7                     902 of expenditures
3. Diesel fuel for
Project Pumps             8.0                    100% of foreign expenditures
4. Training, Studies and
Technical Assistance      2.8                    100% of expenditures
S.  Unallocated               1.5
TOTAL             37.0



-    -:9 _     Annex III
Page 1
BANGLADESH
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
-(CREDIT 990-BD)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
APPRAISAL AND ACTUAL PROJECT COMPONENTS
z
Unit    Appraisal  Actual   Achieved
I.   Low Lift Pumps
Procured:
BADC
1-cusec                    No.       1,500     1,500       100
2-cusec                     No.      3,000     3,000       100
Private Dealers
1-cusec                    No.       4,000       375         9
Sales:
BADC
1-cusec                    No.       1,500       993         66
2-cusec                     No.      3,000       988         33
Private Dealers
1-cusec                    No.       4,000         0          0
II.   Spare Parts for Existing
16,400 LLPs                   Bulk                20% for new   70%
LLPs TK13,17M
for existing
LLPs.
1II. Rebuilding of Unserviceable
LLPs with spare parts          No.      5,000     Dropped           0
IV.   Construction of Thana Level
and Sub-Unit STorage and
Workshop Facilities            No.         50     Dropped           0
V.    Equipment and Tools for
Thana Workshops                                   Dropped           0
VI.   Testing Equipment for Fuel
Injection Systems and Hand
Tools at Zonal Workshops       No.          5     Dropped           0



40 -            Annex III
Page 2
%
Unit    Appraisal  Actual   Achieved
VII.  Diesel Fuel for Project      barrels   190,000   190,000    100
LLPs ($8 M)
VIII. Transport:
Small Motorcycles          No.            150       150      100
Inspection Vehicles        Vo.              5         1       20
Pick-up Trucks             No.              5         0        0
Trucks (5-6 ton)           No.              3         3      100
Tank Lorry
(2,000 imperial gal.)      No.              2         2      100
Inspection Boat(inboard)  No.               1         1      100
Tug Boat                   vo.              1         0      100
Small Powered Boat         No.             22        20       91
Dump Barge (25-ton)        No.              1         0        0
IX.   Training
Training Facilities: Civil No.              3         2       66
Target Croup:Mechaics/Oper No.         15,000      Dropped
BADC Mechanics                         4,000        1,933    48
X.   Water Availability Survey
Consultants (land,water &                            Dropped
legal)
XI.  Monitoring and Evaluation
Study                                                Completed
XII.  Joint Review of Minor Irrigation                     Completed
Sources: BADC, October 1984
IDA file



- 41 -
Annex IV
BANGLADESH
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
(CREDIT 990-BD)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Low Lift Pump Sales Prices and Rental Charges
(Tk)
1980/81  1981/82   1982/83   1983/84    1984/85 1985/86
NEW
1-cusec
Kubota          12000    12000      18100      21815       20815   20815
Mitsubisi       12800    12800      19700      22655       22655   22655
yanmar          12600    12600      18400      21160       21160   21160
Kirlosker       15000    15000       n.a.      25010       25070   25070
2-cusecs
Yanmar          22000    22000      25000      28750       28750   28750
Kubota           -        -          -         26680       26680   26680
USED
1-cusec
Ruston          5900     5900       5900       5900        5900    5900
Deutz           5900     5900       5900       5900        5900    5900
Rental           865     1150       2300       2300       2300    2300
(per season)
(all models)
2-cusec
Ruston          9150     9150       9150       9150        9150    9150
Deutz           5200     5200       5200       5200       5200    5200
Yanmar          7100     7100       7100       7100        7100    7100
Rental          1350     1800       3600       3600       3600    3600
(per season)
(all models)
Source: BADC, December 1985



- 42 -
Annex V
BANGLADESH
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
(CREDIT 990-BD)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EXCHANGE RATES DURING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
June 1980                    14.70
March 1981                   16.74
December 1981                19.92
March 1982                   21455
June 1982                    22.32
September 1982               23.04
December 1982                24.10
June 1983                    24.50
September 1983               24.25
December 1983                25.0
March 1984                   25.2
October 1984                 25.5
December 1984                26.0
Source:   WOA, IBRD, December 1985



- 43 -
Annex VI
Page 1
BANGLADESH
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
(Cr. 990-BD)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUMMARY OP IDA SUPERVISION REPORTS
Supervision Report No. 1
Date: June 10, 1981
Rating: 1/1
Status. Procurement and delivery under the first phase have been completed.
Delivery was about two months late and early rains caused sale of LLPI to
reach only 850 customers. The farmers' preference survey is completed and
orders for the second and final phase will be completed by mid-July.
Procurement of spare parts for about 16,000 LLPs is now being processed.
Training programs for mechanics and managers have started. Prelirainary
agreements have been reached with BADC, UNDPt ILO and IDA on the scope of the
Technical Assistance for engine repair and control of stores. Consistent
with BADC's policy of transferring many of its responsibilities to the
private sector-a policy strongly endorsed by IDA-expansion of BADC's public
sector workshop capacity has been curtailed and workshop development in the
private sector is being promoted.
Trend. The project's initial progress has been good due partly to a new,
aggresive LLP Chief Engineer and competent project management, plus the
requirement that procurement of the first tranche of equipment was well
advance at negotiations.
Problems. (i) Sales of LLPs are slow; (ii) Procurement of spare parts is
struggling within the Procurement Division; (iii) Uncertainty as to viability
of component for rehabilitation of 2-cusec pumping sets; (iv) BADC's plans
for construction of workshops are too elaborate; (v) Workshop equipment
procurement has been slowed down to coincide with workshop completion; (vi)
Initial tool boxes for mechanics are too expensive; and (vii) Processing of
the TA request for consultancy for the water availability study was delayed
in BADC.
Mission Recommendations and Management Action Required: The project is
progressing satisfactorily. Letters outlining mission findings should be
sent to GOB.



44-                   Annex VI
Page 2
Supervision Report No. 2
Date: January 20, 1982
Rating: 2/2
Status: Sales of pumps procured under the first phase is slower than
expected. Only 1078 new pumpsets have been sold out of 4500 procured under
Phase I. Inspite of doubled rental charges within two years the continued
rental program and the sale of reconditioned engines hamper sates of new
engines. Equipment and vehicle procurement is implemented with some delays.
The mechanics training program is progressing slowly. Public sector
workshops have been deemphasized. 24 applicants for private workshops have
been chosen. They have deposited Tk. 644,069 as downpayment for equipment
which has been ordered. The water availability survey and the monitoring and
evaluation study have not yet been started.
Trend. After good progress, project implementation has slowed down.
Problems: (i) Slow sales of pumps has delayed beginning of Phase IT. (ii)-
The Private workshop establishment program suffers from lack of guidelines oa
(a) Criteria for selection of candidates; (b) Safeguards against resale; (c)
Credit arrangements, (iii) Water Availability Survey not yet started. (iv)
Project management is under utilized with insufficiently defined respon-
sibilities, which is causing delays in implementation. (v) Release of Govern-
ment financial Contribution has been delayed.
Mission Recommendation and Management Action Required: Letter raising the
following questions shoud be sent:
(a) Delays in sparepart procurement and training center construction.
(b) Review of sales program for LLP.
(c) Conditions for successful privatization .
(d) Delay in water availability study implementation.
(e) Underutilized project management.
Supervision Report No. 3
Date; June 9, 1982
Rating: 2/1
Status: Although procurement and delivery of LLPs of the first phase is
completed, sales of two cusec are slow. Farmers may obtain free two cusec
LLPs through the channel digging program and LLP rents continue to be low.
Under the SAR two cusecs were originally purchased for rent. After review
GO8, with IDA's concurrence, changed its policy to include the two eusec



_ 45 _                Annex VI
Page 3
pumpsets in the sale program.  Farmers however, prefer purchase of one cusec
LLPs and as a result initial saies were good.  Orders for the second phase
purchase of one cusec LLPs will be given by June 15, 1982 through the private
sector. Procurement of spare parts for the LUPs has been held up by BADC's
procurement department, but assurances were made by BADC that this would be
processed by August 15.  The UNDP/ILO  training program for mechanics is
continuing, but is short of a diesel expert for Barisal and an expert for
stores for Dacca. In line with Minor Irrigation Review and Government
policy, the workshop component is now being encouraged in the private sector;
progress, however, is slow.
Trend: The project's initial disbursement and progress has been good.
However, sales are adversely affected by free LLPs given in the channel
digging program and low rental rates. Other components of project have
slowed down.
Problems: (a) Sales of two cusec LLP are slow; (b) release of Government
financial contribution has been delayed; (c) underutilizing project manage-
ment; (d) procurement of spare parts is delayed within BADC; (e) UNDP/ILO
experts delayed; (f) fragmentation of field activities: (g) monitoring and
evaluation study has not started; and (h) audit reports are behind schedule.
Mission Recommendations and Management Action Required: The mission recom-
mends letters to be sent to COB outlining missionrs findings and agreed
solutions.
Supervision Report No. 5
Date: June 6, 1983
Rating: 2/1
Summary of Project Status, Trend and Problems
Implementation progress has generally been satisfactory, although civil works
and procurement of remaining vehicles, equipment, and spares is now lagging.
Stage I LLP procurement has been completed, and despite some unsold LLPs
within BADC's stock, actions are underway to move into more difficult Stage
II where LLPs will be sold by private dealers, in addition to BADC.
Preliminaries must be completed to enable such sales to begin during the
upcoming pumping seasCA - e.g., meebanism for transferring subsidy to sellers
in case of cash purchase, issuance of import license to private dealers,,
agreement with dealers on se;.uctures of OOB-controlled LLP prices. Land
acquisition problems and martial law have hampered construction of proposed
new training facilities; restrictions have recently been eased for "Core
Projects", including LLP. Thana workshop equipment and tool provision to be
privatised with credit available through commercial banks. BADC mechanic



-46-                  Annex VI
Page 4
training proceeding well, and BADC has recently sought IDA approval for
utilizing Credit savings (about US$ 1.2 M) from previously approved dropping
of thana-level workshops to enhance training facilities for meeting upcoming
private mechanic training commitments. Socio-economic survey underway.
Credit disbursements have slowed due to pending procurements, delay in BADC
submission of withdrawal applications to IDA, incomplete and improper
application preparation, and the current transition from Stage I to Stage Ii
sales. The new BADC Chairman has keen interest in the project, fully sup-
ports LLP privatization, and promises prompt action on outstanding procure-
ments and Credit withdrawal problems.
Mission Recommendations and Management Action Required: The mission recom-
mend prompt action on outstanding procurements and diLigence to necessary
preliminaries to effect stage II LLP sales. The mission recommends IDA
approval in principle to proposed use of Credit savings (about US$1.2 M) to
finance additional facilities to support private mechanic training. The
mission advised BADC to prepare a detailed list of additional needs, specify-
ing proposed locations, investments envisaged, and estimated costs. Such
proposals should be made in consonance with estimated total demand for train-
ing and estimated existing capacity. Each proposal should be evaluated
carefully and approved/rejected by RMB staff. The mission also recommends
use of about US$100,000-150,000 in credit savings for mechanic instructor
fellowships and project staff training. To enable credit withdrawals for
Bagladesh Bank credit disbusements for private purchase of workshop equipment
and tools, the DCA will require amendments. Such changes are discussed by
the mission during its review, and working party discussions in headquarters
are now required to finalize proposed changes for eventual GOB concurrence.
Supervision Report No. 6
Date: February 29, 1984
Rating: 2/2
Status: Out of 1500 1-cusec and 3000 2-cusec LLPs procured by BADC in stage
I, about 1084 1-cusec and 590 2-cusec have been sold up to December 1983.
Slow sales may be largerly due the following: (a) BADC's inability to
motivate farmers to adopt irrigation technology; and (b) sale of old pumps in
the project area at low prices. Preliminary preparations are complete to
move into Stage-II when private dealers are expected to procure and sell
4,000 1-cusec LLPs. Out of 12,000 engines identified as unserviceable, about
9131 engines have been sold in auctions. BADC has invited tenders for the
construction of 3 training centres. Procurement of spares for 16,400 exist-
ing LLPs is underway. Evaluation report of the project is expected to be
completed by March 1984. An estimated savings of US$ 1.0 M is envisaged.



-47 -                    Annex VI
Page 5
Trend: Project activity had come to a standstill during the past several
months. However, implementation has again started and activity is now
limited to pump sales, procurement and civil works.
Major Problems:  The major problems impeding project implementation are:
(a) Slow sales of 2-cusec LLPs;
(b)  bureaucratic delays in formalising private sector's involvement in LLP
sales;
(c) formal notification on the standardisation of Kirloskar engine is yet to
be made; and
(d) procedural difficulties in impLementing the private workshop and
mechanics' tool-boxes components.
Mission Recommendations:
The mission recommends the following actions to be taken:
(a) GOB should formally request IDA for extension of the Credit closing date
to March 1986 to allow pumps to be sold;
(b) GOB should issue the notification on the standardisation of Kirloskar
engine;
(c) Stage-II of the Project (private pump sales) should be expedited by
BADC; and
(d) GOB should formally request IDA to make necessary amendments in the DCA
to include provisions for 3 additional training center at Jessore,
Faridpur and Bogra and privatization of thana workshops and mechanics
tool-boxes.
Supervision Report No. 7
Date:
Rating: 3/2
Summary of Project Status, Trend and Major Problems
Status: The Project is two years behind schedule. Disbursement as of
October 1984 is about $16.7 N or 45% of the Credit. BADC has so far sold
about 40% of its LLP allocation. Of the four private dealers selected, only
one has imported 375 LLPs out of 4000 LLPs to be procured by private dealers.
Private dealer sales have not started yet due to COB's decision to mantain
subsidized prices and unacceptable arrangements to private dealers for trans-
fer of subsidy. Except the completion of one training center, the other
centers are under construction and would not be completed before December
1985. The training program has fallen short of its target having trained
about 1300 BADC mechanics out of 4000. Training of managers/operators has
been dropped. Construction of 50 new BADC pump stores and workshops has been



-.48 -                   Annex VI
Page 6
dropped to be substituted by credit for private mechanics. However private
mechanics have not been able to receive credit for tools and workshops.
Procurement of diesel fuel has been completed. Socio-economic evaluation of
the LLP schemes and review of Minor Irrigation Sector have also been conr-
pleted. With respect to the overall BADC operation, share of rental LLPs
in total LLPs fielded has declined from 93% in 1980/81 to 21% in 1983/84
which is an important achievement.
Trond: The Credit is scheduled to close on December 31, 1984. Unless
immediate action is taken to enable private dealers to sell LLPs, the
project's principal objective to involve private dealers in distribution and
service of LLPs will not be realized. Following recent evaluation studies of
privatized and rental LLP schemes, the merit of privatization policy is being
questioned and its future threatened. Against past trends, BADC has planned
to increase rental LLPs in 1984/85 compared to 1983/84.
Major Problem: The problem confronting the project is both project specific
and sectoral. The major challenge is to open access to private dealers to
participate in sales and service of LLPs. This problem arises partly from
BADC's opposition to privatization of LLPs and involvement of private
dealers. Although GOB remains committed to the privatizacion policy, recent
evaluation studies of LLP schemes seem to strengthen BADC's position that the
sales program has disadvantages in terms of command area, number and class
(large vs. small land owners) of beneficiaries, etc. These studies are more
statements of facts rather than analysis of causes. It is therefore critical
to reestablish the economic and financial viabilities of privately owned LLP
schemes. A related problem is to redefine the role of BADC in LLP irrigation
development. It is important to recognize and identify roles for BADC and
the private sector in minor irrigation developmnet. oo8 has already agreed
on a joint IDA/G&B review of BADC under IPC XIII. One project specific
problem is weakness of the training program. It requires changes in emphasis
as well as introduction of a specific training program for local trainers.
Mission Recommendations: In view of the status of project implementation and
the problems identified, the mission had determined a need to extend the
closing date by one year in the first instance with an additional six months
subject to review in mid 1985. The mission had also outlined a series of
actions to be taken by GOB as a condition for recommending the extension of
closing date to Bank management. The findings and recommendations of the
mission were submitted to GOB as a condition for recommending the extension
of closing date to Bank management. The findings and recommendations of the
mission were submitted to GOB in an Aide Memoire dated October 13, 1984.
Discussions on the Aide Memoire were held with Mr. Anisuzzaman, Secretary of
MOAF; Col. Ansar, Chairman of BADC; Prof. Eusufzai, Member Planning, Planning
Commission and Mr. Jamalludin, Deputy Secretary, MRD. The mission's recom-
mendations were fully endorsed by the Secretary of Agriculture and assurances



-49 -                    Annex VI
Page 7
were given that the conditions outlined in the Aide Memoire would be ful-
filled by November 15, 1984. Further support to the mission's recommenda-
tions were also given by Prof. Eusufzai and Mr. Jamalludin. GOB, has failed
to meet the conditions by November 15, 1984. Mr. Peter Whitford in his
letters of November 17 and 22, 1984 had reminded the Secretary of Agriculture
of the outstanding GOB's response and of IDA's intention to close the credit
as currently scheduled unless an official response is submitted by GOB by
November 28, 1984. Once again cOB has not taken any action that would jus-
tify recommending extension of closing date. Therefore the mission recom-
mends the following:
(a) Closing of Credit 990-BD on December 31, 1984.
(b) Clearance of the attached telex for transmittal to GOB.
(c) Allowing GOB to submit payment applications for a period of up to six
months. The current ILO contract ends August 1985. Arrangement will
have to be made with ILO to submit payment applications no later than
June 1985.



Si
.-4 su -t
22s /S    b/ 4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.



- 51             Annex VII
Page 1
BANGLADESH
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
(CR. 990-BD)
Project Completion Report
Utilization of LLP's Sold Under the Project
Year    |Project  |Project LLps Sold    ITotal   I IrrigatedI Command Are
IDistrictsl(Cumulatives)         ICusec   I Area      I per Cusec
I1 |-cusec|2-cusecltotal|CapacityI (Ac)               I
Comilla   -       37       37    74        1485         20
Noakhali  129     04       135   137       2883         21
1980-81
Chittagong
(including
C.H.T)    175     76       251   327       6240         19
Barisal
(including
Bhola)     26     73        99   172       2612         15
Patuakhali 26     22        48    70       1142         16
Total      356   212       568   780       14362        18.4
Comilla    200   102       302   404       8592         21
Noakhali   199    14       213   227       4132         18
Chittagong
(including
C.H.T)    278    97       375   472       8115         17
1981-82
Barisal
(including
Bhola)     73   111       184   295       4286         14
Patuakhali  54    83       137   220       3223         14
Total      804   407      1211   1618     28348        17.5



52 -           Annex VII
Page 2
Year   |Project IProiect LLps sold       ITotal   lIrrigated|Command
Idistrictl(cumulative)            |Cusec   IArea      |Area per
I        11-cusecl2-cusecltotal ICapacity L(ac)       ICusec
Comilla   200      196     396    592       11502        19
Noakahali 223       27     250    277        5102        18
1982-83
Chittagong
(including
C.H.T)     323       148     471   619       10857        17
Barisal
(including
Bhola)      84       116     200   316        4858        15
Pa,uakhali   56        95     151   246        3807        15
Total      886       582     1468  2050      36126        17.6
Comilla    200       317       517  834      15362        18
Noakhali   225        80       305  385       6298        16
1983-84
Chittagong
(including
C.H.T)       355      171       526  697       10740       15
Barisal
(including
Bhola)       87      129       216  345        4928        14
Patuakhali   57      125        182  307       1974         6
Totual       924      822      -1746  2568     39302        15.3
Comilla    200      404       604  1008       19534       19
Noakhali   225      100       325   425        7813       18
1984-85
Chittagong
(including
C.H.T)     402      208       610   818       10960       13
Barisal
(including
Bhola)      97       146       243   389       4800        12
Patuakhali  69       130       199   329       3715        11
Total      993       988      1981   2969      46822       15.8
Source; BADC, Field Survey Report, November 1985



AM lt          W  -EC Fume OF t  /
tw#|l ISlS## le| I 00t lwfn 12S IIU t- -- -l- f l U --ml
:~~~~~~~~~~*1 -                             NOJCIE P31318 3.Ctl3
1JNIC                         52  1 27        I0       144     U        220      27      310      310      3t0     256      10       170    136       144       VD       U        0
2wEC                          S3    t1        21t      154     276      330      3o       370     310      37D      25       174     In      I3U                0        30       0
Wt3t t1 t                    347     323      35       39      442      5u         0     61O      6        43       533     3         >       2       231      3n         a       w
T&  m                        242     115      52       62     7it        40      90      gm      Ia"      io        4        m53              346     332      210      3         4
t33.TE1 MA                 3,1     7,5"      ,M    j4,2   6,515   11,424  12,4    84,210    4,0   14,30    0469    7,27s   4,437    541    4,5t5    2,64    3,S60                 0
c mw     almu  C  2             15.5    14.4    13.4    10.4    11.9    13.4    13.6    I3.4t   3L3           13. 6 3.        1     13.     13.6    13.4               3. 
U.N1                         147      374      3        u        44      a        3        10       0        0     -147    -174      -30      -47     -4       -u        3       -70
CCU                          24      m         47       90      64      122      I3       to        0        0     -242    -m        -47      -90             -122    -120    -
WW=M11   1114 375                            156   -73    11-3    29           134       13O        0        0    -39     -3713    -0       -224     49      -u9    -134      -130
II.muzu.awrA1nu11111.1
I-E                          304     41       744      7       927    1.00    1,33      1,55   1,56      1,1S5    1,2b1     4        89       7        no       o       215 
2-EC                         I37     233      s5        7      712   1,129    1,60    2,430    2,430   2,63       2,513   2,417   2,20    2.060    19 18 3,510           3 
tW1A 131                     421      "     W,31t   1,15    1,539   2,t1*    3,10    4,115   4,115   4,195    3,14   3,315   3,6            2,34    2,41    2,0        ,04         0
3 c11. OUCS                         3 1,10    1,474   3,945    2,251    3,300   4,4V    4,92    4,9n5    4,125    4,       5,722   5,349   4,95    4,574    S,52      1,N5         0
minim an                  10,406  20,039   27,441  32,40   30,3    60,0o  90,090  124,215  124,2t3  324,215  114,43  10,140   97,352  69,271  6,247  ",55   34,125                 0
C _1111 4ECIC   21          39.7      6. I9  36.6    16.9    17.0   13.2    352          162     36.2    3L2       IL2      IL2    1.2       3.2    382        382     3L2         0
LIPS                         421     469      221      239  1 69        644      970     35         0        0     -4       -44      -221    -239    -169    -4        -9      -04
UECI                         133     5650 VA  m        444     us       049   l3o        1875       0        0     -5       -5      -373      44      -331   -109    -363    -15
ISINNI 1 Om               10,6    l231    62          439    5907   23153   3003    34125           0       0    -M2   -1023    -469    -432    -o024  -19092  -33   -34125
MA t wm
ttPS                       s1o    1,211    1,462   1,78   1,933    2,710   3,7"    4,6         4,6      4,87     4,36     3,644   3,43    3,127   2,694    2,1U5    I,13          0         x
cmIES                       74    1,415    2,033   2,912    2,       4,40    5,90     7,I75   7,I15    7,65      7,"05      27    S,67    5,33    4,40    3,135    1,5            0         C
311671                   14,362  236    3U42   3%,X2   44622  71,44  303,02  13495  138445  3x45  18,432  33,46   03,969  "A,4   87,742  47,038    5.4                            I
'inin    */CEW C 2/        1L4         17.5    17.7    135.3    35.   37.S    3?.5    17.4       7.6 I    1.4     17.7    17.6    17.9    17.S    17.9    17.9    18. .4
LU                        5a3       64       251      2U6     233      72      1050     335        0   e          -56      -43    -251    -2U        -233    -n2     -1       -1115
c3w                        7        83       4O      534      39?    1171     170    15            0       0      -7                -4      -534    -397   -1171   -1740   -195
133=13o           1       4,362   IS9       7t78    3376    75?        2     l15n    354           0       0    -13     -196    -742    -           4922  -20151   35126  -351
St NOW  LI 3W 0         t5 UP  1M     n  1997146 1L 37 POW  FPlIllMD UPI  O0 3 310OF 5         147113.
/ ll          am -   i.     FM  II3/34 a          is 311" own           1_1*111 FOR 3 /-l93l



NUAWN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..
TUL 1t1 WlM  I PAMwwI S au Cm 
FISC. VA
Exit.tlM
Todumlou               Mm Tdmuloau
Ihit       I to a0    1      2       3       4   S      U1   1       2       3       4   5 t1o
aaauaau    asasm    8un=            =am==    xma    mmasm 
VieW                             8              -   1.775    80low    1,375   1.850   1.865   1.m    1.000  19875  1t850   1.85
FMIg        iED11 M.       Ks              -      12      12      12      12      12      12      12      12      12      12
an                         KB              -      6S      65      65      65      65      65      65      as      65      6
1T V                                       -      30      30      30      30      30      10      31      30      30      34
IF                         IB              -      20      20      20      20      20      20      20      20      20      20
INSECTCIUES                IK              -     150    150    150    150    150    150    150   10    150    150
MISUTIUN(all)              a              -             so055    5so    no550o                  am     4       S
Bullock                  ran-mis            -     19      19      19      19    19       1f                             1 
UILLE3 LAN  IN wasI,W"6s                   -      82      82      02      82      82      02      02      02      32     82
rob., 4. 196  16254
Source Kisgida bStitIte



Lev LIFT fl   FECT t SFa
TAL 2.1 CIUA i CmITnM  u/ OmI I PM  CMI N0a
hELlS S INPUStl
vinn ~ ~ ica wr
Existing
Tedalf                                    N T1d*tf
bit        I  to  10   1     2       3       4       5       A       7       8       9      10
field                            a               -   1t539   1.605   1,45   1.t62   1sm    10   13706   1t5   1.850  1.90"
lfatiM
PM   gUm IaCU              a               -      12      12      1 12    12      12      12      12      12      1       1
EA                           6             -      Is       e. 91                         t o 10  1t      100    1o       1
TOP                        a               -      53    A.4    W8    63C   2    Z.*       70      70      70      70      70
?                          go              -      27  7*6   28.2   28.9   294             30    3X        30      if      30
ICtCIUES                    It             -     100    120    140       1       10      200    200    200    200    200
imlzInmuMi )               TI              -    SW       so      S50    MO       sO      so      sO    i5s       so    iso
Bullock                         S          -    19    19        19       19      19    19       19      19       19      19
Lr
IU n LLE      BoI mCM. NWM Y5              -      62      02      82      8       82      82      82      82      92      92
Fubnsvi4. 16  16154
..  .



IuarUlaapat.vIauJkIFTUlaam.sa2-54
Loy LIFT NM"
addv Pr1duwtegeA bw  b - su
Vitkost        22.2   14.9   14.2   11.4   9.6    4.1         2.9    -      -      -     ^      -      -     -      -      -           I
With           20.9   26.4   30.4   24.2  25.5   27.4    24.9   26.4  26.4   26.4  20.S 13.A   12.4  10.1  6.4   S.                2.S to
_        Icrouot  4.7   13.5   14.2   12.6  15.9   21.3    24.1   24.4  26.6   26.4  20.S 13.6   12.4  10.1  8.4   Sa3    2.S 
Co itul lbiZto"o W  i
WLtbot        189.5  100.9   157.5  156.7 151.4  119.4    5. 2   -         -       -     -    -        -
With          205.7  214.4   198.6  211.9  21S.7  222.1   224.2 224.2 229.6  236.0 197.9 164.9  149.  IS1.2 121.9  "4.8   64.
lmcrouuntel    16.2   33.5    41.1   53.2  64.3  103.3   159.0 226.2 229.8  236.0  197.9 164.9  169.4  156.1 121.9  64.    "4.
Total Prtojct
Vitbout       211.7  19S.6  171.7   170.1  161.0  12S.S   6.1    -         -       -     -               -
Witb          234.6  242.6  229.0   236.1 241.2  250.1  251.1  250.6 256.4  262.4  216.4 196.S 182.0 16S. 130.3  70.1   47.3
lecre  -atl    22.9   47.0   57.3    66.0  60.2  124.6  163.1  250.8 256.4  262.6 216.4  196.5  12.0  166.3  3O.3  70.1   61.3
*EU.S.L    C, Nmb1t 965
Wie Los Estimte



MI 1TMrm    I r
TABL  3.1 ME clEC tL I 3*31 L. mtmi             ran  1
rmucns me mis
FL~~~~~~~~~~~FSA VEUt
Uithwt                    Ultb PtnieJat                                      urs
Ibit   lt.10    A         2       3        4       5    6t.10       1       2        3       4       5    6bu
-==*       mmI      mm   umamma  mama. onssm   *am=m m*i..            m~  aw= a.m.a    -ma omu=aumm            inm
C    i  itm tv                      Pe t           -   10,0    4.2   9.4    68.4    76.0    Vo.   10C.0    ".2    ".4    6.4    7.8    V.?
Crewla PLatter
be iedasa
ll"tM   /  IU    I t             AC          -    15.5        .     15.4    106    It.9    13.6    15.5    14.6    15.4    10.6    11.9    13I
Celop   Ae                                       -    15.5    14.6    1564    10.6    1t.s    13.6    1S.5    14.6    15.4    106    I1.'    13.6
31  PAT 13 *. lKS                               - 27M M2.5 26*280*0 211875.0 19.610.0 22,193.5 25,364.0  74*02. 26920. 28#0,37.19,610.0 22s193.5 25,364*.
Sales~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
m    PST  I 1ml.                    K           - 2,512.5 26,230.0 26.375.0 19610.0 22,193.5 259364*0 2512.S 26,230.0 23S6.0 19610.0 22M.S 25*3640 
PM a m SES IN13. MB                           -   106.0   175.2   186.3   1D.2   14.0   143.2   186.0   175*2   14.8   12W.2   142.6  U12
MA                               KS          - 19007.5   99.0  1401.0  6U9.0   m.s   3.0  100.5   949.0  1,61.0   66.0                M.5   IWO
Top                              KB          -   465.0   436.0   462.0   316.0   357.0   401.0   465.0   4.0    412*0   310   357.    MO*
13                               a           -   310.0  m2.    306.0   212.0   2334    272*0   310.0  mi.    306.0   212.0   23.0   272.0
ISECICII  E                      1K          - 2,32M.0  2#390;0 2,310.0  1,900 1.75. 2,040.0 2e325L0 2,190.0 2*310.0 I,590.  1,754.0  2,0.
MIST*(1UI)                       1K          -  vW52.0  =0*00 8,470.0 5330.0 654S.0 74.0 6525.0 I             ,0.     64100 Ss.m    64545.0  7,10.*
Nibs BUOC IN VA               PAI-S          -    "I.s    7         77.0    53.0    54       6.0  O7.5    73.0          D.0    9.0      9.5      6.
UIBIEIUD LAW  aE l.           11T            - 1,271s.  1.197.2  19262.6   369.2   97 5.    115.2  19271.0  1197.2 1926208   6.2  m9.  1115.2
_ddiwn    ItU   tllt 



toLIFTMW ILxET I 
TAM  3.2 OK CLUh  LIP I MISAL #JUIA. Fan fAde
(Ilk TAUV
FIUL VWE
Uwimla               HitS, PeJet I Incrustal
state    1          2        3       4        5         to0
Ptowtion
m          IN   .                       - 11027. 105671116106.4 7351.3 9280.1 101*933.A
Hot Yal. Ot of    ioA                      - 110*627.3 105,6t7.9 I16,106.4    51.3 8ts28.1 010963.6
a
PM  KE    a  A.                    -  1*302.0  1.4       1*2I3.6    9A4   9m.6  Is142.4
OIA                                -  433.0  455.2  4804#,  3W7*2 312.8  4324.2
TSP                                -  IPM.   1*803.4  1,3.6 1t37*4 1t*5.1   I A.4
MP                                 -  180m.h  14220   1*3.0   742.0           .o    952.0
XIISECICII                        -  2*325*0  2"19A0   2310.0 1t,5.0 1*M9.0  200Q.0
A   TI )                          -  8325.0 3t030.0  8*470.0 5.3060 6,54*0  740.0**
IIUE0 WUOCl IN m                   -  3t180.9  2,920,0  3.030  2,100 2386*0  22.0E
si-M    Us                           - 23,172.5 21,32.0  2323.0 15847.0 VO S. 20,332.0
Hired Labor
lUitEUD1*  1611 NM               - 14*325.0 13*50.0 15,245.0 9305.0 10*M50 12900
WSi-f     I'AtimS                       -797.5 35p332.0 VU263.0 25*120 29M7.5 32,912.0
CAW FLUO in nFI IWnNiIB                    - 73313.3  03.   t9.4 53199. 6R*4.  49#076*4



10 LiFT tUt Pc  I PM
s~~~~~~~cI   -  Iwuhs 
TN    61 M  cmut,  '                             IH,U /                          'oo  '            'm      -'m
Ubit   I to 10   I      2       3       4    '3         A       7               9       10
CruwI lnotmuitb                             Pernt         -   100.0    ".9    ".4    5.3    83    92.4   92.*    92.4   92.4    924.
Cvm    tstte
NM Twdclmslug
EOhMA I a           NfII OhII  PS1       AC          -    19.7  IB.9   18.6   16.9   17.0   18.2   18.2   10.2   18.2    102
CM    re                                                 -    19.7    18.9    1.*6   16.9   17.0   10.2   I&I 1 8.2           i.2  2    f.2
lain P.     -                  .*tar
_  tm   il CI        -.                     se          - 30$14Iq0 30#334.5 27,07.0 27,749.8 20B560.0 33,34.0 32,123.0 32.151.0 33,670. 34.10.O
JOIM 901 11 CMs. .                           B          - 30.141.0 30334.5 27,807.0 277.498 29M60.0 31304.0 329123.0 3231.0   670.0 34#2l0.0
PAW  gm0 Io CN. "                                    -   234.4   226.8  223.2   202.8  204.0  216.4   218.4   211    213*4   2134
IDA                                      6          - 1,474.5 1,463.2 1,492.6 1,33*6 1,649.0 1,020L0 3,820.0 1,620.0 1,820*0 It=**
TO                                       K           - 1,0441.  16.O  1,112.3 31*46.1 13132.2 1,274.0 3,274.0 3.274.0 1,274.0 1,274.0
1P                                       K           -   531*9   521.4   54.5   47.6    O.3         .0   5460   346*0   546.0   56
Dl:lCMIKS                                ll          - I.9O.O  2*280.0 2*604.0 2W704.0 34060.*  3640.0 3.40.0 3s0.0 3640.0 3,640.
IlMIIUIKOUI)                             ll          -10,035.0 1O,395.0 10*230.0 9*2.0 9#350 10,00o.0A 10010.0 10*010.0 10#00.O I0*1O.O
1I113 1LOCKII 11                       PAUR-M    .  -    90.5    94.5    93.0   04.5    050    91.0    1.0    n1.0    910o
UOtL  Om  I CIL.                     IMI-MYS        - 1*615.4 135.08 1525.2 1.315.8 1*394.0 1,492.4 3t492.4 1,492.4 3OM2.4   492.4
FO;wn  7v "  131 IJSI



Los Lfn NV"LiI m 
TAUIE 4.2 OIE COKE Ut I CMOMi   / 3TI26 89      NO ID OM I Ffr N_Ie
lb TYMA
fIfdL  VW
Miuth                                    85th projct I lWMASW
I to to    1        2         3        4         5        6         7        a        9        10
*ain Pmwian
DM30 9*3  if CmO.                        - 129,304.9 130,135.0 1M2.O I9M46.6 1225A.4 13h294.2 137.80.? 1 30.8 144.4443. 14#343.2
Nbt Value Ot ProACUtla                      - 129,304.9 13D013S.0 1*99M.O 119.0466  M2O22.4 134294.2 137,307.7 140#o.3 14444.3 14834B8.2
hoat&M Cest
lwAs
PMS  KuR II E.                     -  1tWl.2  1,814.4  17s.6A  1,6A22.4       62.0  1,747.2  1,747.2  19747.2  19747.2  17947.2
UIEA                               -  B.0)7.6  7M*O3.4  ,8124.5  7M,.3  79152.  8,736.0  8736.0  8,736.0  8s736.0   8,736.0
TSP                                -  4489.*  4,583.6  4s7M8  4o592.7  44^8.S  5,478.2  S478.2  5478.2  5478.2  5,478.2                          0
1t                                  -  1.361#   1,825.7  1835.6l  1*706.5  1749*.3  19"t.   19911.0  l,91.0   1.911.0  1s91.0
INMECIIKS                          -  1,m#.   22U8.0  2W604.0  2.7 M.0  3.060.0  364 .00  3,640.0  3,640.0  3640.9  3,640.0
IISAi1In (013                      - 10.635,0 10,395.0 10,230.0  9,295.0  9,353.0 100IO.O 10M0U    10*01, .  10,010.0 10E*010.0
HIfE mumK if can                    -  4e925.O  4, n5,0  46W.0  4,225.0  4.230.0  4,550.0  4535.0  4.5*.0   4.55.0  4,550.0
Sub-total Iouhts                      - 34.010,1 33bm59J  34,012*7 31770.9 32,3250 3P072A.  36,072.4 3602n.4 3672.4 36,072.4
Hived Labiw
UfhKIILED LAW0 IN CE.               - 14U469.0  3U393.0 13,657.0 12U413.0 12,45.# *3.34.0  13,34.0  13,334 .0  133304.0 133 4U.0
.~ -- - *-- ----
Sbl-Total b.,utluu                       - 4U 479.1 47,483l  47,669.7 44,183.9 45,320.0 49,456.4 49456. 4 49,456.4 0446.4 4,S4A.4
. .
CMSH FLON  W E fSCnlx                      -  0,32S.8 02,651.9 71,622.3  M4MS7.7 77n202.4 84.3)7.3  90,351,3 91,474.4 94,987.9 98391.3 
* 1 



- 61 -
Annex XII
MNCGLADU
LOW LIF?T PMP PROJIcT
(CREIT 990-50)
PROJECT   PLIOV REPORT
FINACIAL AND SCOOIC PRICES
TK
Fiaciatl       Economic
Out_ut         Pady (kg)           4.3            4.2
Input             see (kg)         8-0            5.7
urea (kg)        4.8            S.5
TSP (kg)        4.3            5 5.2
tl (kg)        3.5            4.5
Labor (amdays)        34             26
Animal Power (pair dys)       49              39
Irrigation (Tk/ac)     550             650
Insecticide (Tk/ae)     150             180



LO LIt" fl3I PO
~~~~~~~- - - - ------
ECIIIC CASH RIO
*  (1K IIfLIN)
19B0   1981   1992   1983   1984   1Y85   1986   1997   1998   198    t990   1991   1992   1993   1994   195   1996
11e31M. WERTIUe COSTS
imML/PIUWU.I 8E913133 tCOTS                 15.20  30.41  35.09  V295  34.48  46.27  5232  57.83  57.83  57.83  44.50  29.47  26.98   23.68  19.75  12.49   5.95
cOfILUAMUTcTAMU/1fhI         8  M  COWSS   4.73  90.61  120.41  143.26 170.79 269.99  404.99 55*40  558.40  558.40 449.41 420.11 385.24 36,30 297.70 158.35  158.35
MtAL IICIEIWEtL OPEPAINIB C051S             0.93  121.02  155.50 171.21 205.28 316.26 457.32 616.23 616.23 616.23 493.91  449.58 412.12 409.8 317.46 170.5  164.30
_tiN COSTS
PM  gETS                                    99.33   27.91    3.78     -   3.77       -       -       -      -              -       -      -       -      -
sunL                                       111.12      -       -      -       -      -       -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -      -
V3*WIIIM IERS                                   -   0.5B   0.48   0.95  187         -       -      -       -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -      -
lPrm. gSIsOEjA                                  -   4.16       -   4.61   9.27           -       -      -       -      -       -          -       -      -       -      -
fUEC1 tU1T                                   3.42   8*34   7.19   4.01   8,64        -       -      -       -       -      -       _      _       _      _              _       a
IOTAL Il MU i C0M5                         213.87  40.3    1.45   9.57  23.55        -       -      -
lOW. 3IICEtAL COStS                        274.a0  161.91 166,95 130,78 228.63 316.26 457.32 616.23 616.23 616.23 493.91 449.58 412.12 409.99 31746 170.95 164.53
IUUMAL K_                                                                                                          _      _       __
|4tlkIPMR11TlUkL1                        27.99 s56.77      24  53.63  66.70  89.4  101.20 11186 111.86 111.86  86*08  U6.9   51.9   42.40   35.37  22.37  10.*5             [
aiuiiiiia3niumiums.1?68.17  10.4  172.43 223.44 270.29 433.37  6M.84 941*   965*15  91.24 831*  776*.8  72.38 664*31 511*.  272.32 m.32
MATL 1191E1TA  MIUM                        96.15 197.24 240.66 Mo.  336.99 523.36 76.04 1053.53 1077,01 1103.09 917.11 833*6 764.37 706.7  547.32 294.6  22.297
IOTA. ni    EIIaEl  3311 m                -178.16   35.34  73.71  96,2P 9    *16 207.10 311.72 437.30 460.78 486.86 423.20 384.28 352.25 296.73 229.87 123.84  118*67
Fttuv 27VP 190 13123



- 63-                 ANNEX XIV
From s M.UoA.Quaderv                           Page 1
Sr.Asgistant Secretary.  Mmistfr of Finae
Ai_S                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~f211tnaI Reores Diiso
O GVwOmIt. of the P.optos Ropubhc of Isnglhadu
,**    C                                       DCca-7
rO.. No. .MWP-VI/W-5/83                     DtWe .s .r4.-*9bruary 1987.
Dear Mr.Donaldson,
KLndly refer to our telex to your dated 3.2*1987 reprding
GOB's comments on Project Completion Report(PCR) of IDA aided
Bangladesh Low Lift Pump Project(credit no.990-BD).
I am desired to send herewith a copy of GOB's coments
on Project Completion Report of the above project for your
kind perusal and necessary action.
With regardst
Yours sincerely,
( N.U.A*Quader )
Mr.Graham Donaldsont
Chief,
Agriculture & Human Resources Division,
Operation Evaluation Department,
World Bank,
Whtone



_g_~~~~~~~Pg 2
e)        thS  Obe.ivati.  Ma  hwi Is to net Ur.. SAN10 bad
s *inItt of asteet in m  teak It *seted venoie
polteis dest4ou eam^ated by 005 tue "We to time La
pmo'.-.  ot rw dvet$. esoueafts tet in. 5c1 am o ts
Pert Savo Ol out .ouopwatos to the geted t(t.ow)
des)4we for prnwtn & _&Stuia  of WI   ed sot     St
sew o@Ade neot weft udw tho   esto
b)         Zt was Qeeided that (ow) oseted privat 
deelet wVmi  ax VP the Puw of th    wevestive
eqeiues_t   Us lime Ith D1M0 prSidin  fowaua the Mb
d1inett  allowed is a $*. piduw SWe*  eqssl) 4"om. *
to th4ew piin. nravew Ls a too elinet  pric
ealouhatios *wsbte  was  Lve n  ts hr tfweit  Ms as
aw1 there wa m dLsute to the p istai p&oy fow pivwate
4emwl.  An the hwA S. hoo tismmtl iwvosout thq
wetted a swe ae whUh was sot sYdu al at th  time
be e et o   of dn~Oe  suftiset doM& eare  to eteek
h4d by BAN ik tw p"j"et area ther was as -mp* tw
fir12g th  jt." La a  AWse beS4Wee of th  taCt that the-
fLinl oostug depeds em GD  est ot the sa.ooes duties
MA teze set. wM*h ohms" futs now to lea.
o)        to too up better erie. to the users et th
irsigatfon eipdet, the otsutmue upp edng of uaohae
d1I was idntiied as mentiel joitly by BADllW.
Looorft,-gly. a eordehod.ve trdnidg propomw   was prepred
pwUy fneoeod by  UUP/sk/Z    the td.niag pwoFn_e
Ote er WstGe w0ee eOM*Aetd by 4(our) tWeeg $eaS
superted by losa eosustepwet enASero and im tUe groom,
.1ihty Over 4000 saobguse have be" t2w .  ese sek.
NAs a"e em the paw ro* of SAW. tho  erc equally wee-
posAlbse took ater the field Irrigattoeqst
owned by prive poeps or imdVidsa  as per *  mnie
f rad SW tbe piu.. moudere, .wwsL attote were -       ate
nd    ert st projetet msey fonos   by 3 W     to devlp
slld pivete essbUee t_o wormka ttf   lasoee, W  tith
Lidtcd eseecee onLy.
coutd.0.hA



ti~                     ~~               14-oi-*r*4*-5     *;-4   S 
*4    +o). >   -~fto tO| Jl               8          -i  * 1
-    ^  it    ^ W  a proWow   W.   tX                    *   
: : < .v- t t*ot.  I 'fw~m ti >
' '       'h  t.'t'             *.>e ' t,..4                  {
Zdot *s|*il; 
.;    . . Mautit            x
, .  .*t 1a -X-+*   *.tP.ffi*e:i*;~~~~+4



Peu'a.1.@ia    hn  15b. oeetew  Oeo_.s.t of the euwuout
or &WB 3  dose,   thy witus the Stipultetd "ae te
Oourese,m uvAetpr pAvat* motor was dealeyd si.* due to
Por reapoese of the prvLat dealrs pires-um   y M to the
fouoatag toases.
to.  PrAvate d* re were required to deposit eovotpo*
Sa. elaost the a & I Sawlee valn  at the
time of retitemeat of the duoomets tro. the
ii)  they wor rqvoLted to sel the  ~*i t    s  at
piloee fized by the  .voewsut; s theS  pireeo
MfOt prUes ieuld hwv to be oouPetiAo mgl d
pea presdliug mete pies Oteg
iii)  rho dealirs wore to *ovte witb tho pouh    et4w
oeigiaeatiou like 511 she had a hug stoek of
ehept old LIs
Lu sdVt1eu to. the aove, te taluro to saheuwo tbe twt d
Ph;sa.e.  wit i tho Stipulated time wore ose  saiul_ due to 
1)   Seiq i rvey of suser' ohloe of e"Age by
the deewl  In thebojs ss
ii)  e In ooi epteoe of otter ot 58   00 by the
pvate, d 4ealeem
ii)   Cohme, ot iqoet itOes* Laos fam$ ava to
privste dosire'a ft* Is th  imtisi te tges of the
paOS*Gt 0*mplmetatite perlod6
As aegmds Private wwkdys, BAN a.le."  rooteq4ste ditse  osd
tder feo peeuewet of apshlearle, but outg to pot reOpOse
ti  the ptoopeetilo   yw ot thes   *ouaftelo  the ow4e.pst
W. eveut4w   dropped.
Couud...p



I Iergd* of -eteqgeSt ox  and 8`e11sin0
a.I*  of  044lk *$eedr4t   .etou fo   ai s *-of th
wet eledag date up to is.* 30 . 19M, Iord sin reptted
GOS'- Mae"t  desed the eret on 31*. 01$4 m& the
projeot been eSM&04 the mjov portios ot eref _tuat
Sea" be tuise  for th* pwp       " It was Intended totr
M aBZL          The project uStt fleaded by a Inpeinte-m
dies bsneer as Projt    .e"tr W"  et uP itthiu ftire
&oth Of BAN' a8 ekgemet. to WO.PMrt SLOe  et Up woo
rteOse4o by the IDA durig the apprdge -of the projoet
Ae sub the project mZootcr had to deend on the edxstnfinold
offtice o  the projeet ares for  We ilmemottion of the
projeot o*m*onet W*o)k were quite snel esuproa to othe
woas of aotivitlte beng d6ne by tho fielN offiore at that
the .tt..t regrdha  the oplodton of BADCe fien          f
to privaftestlon Polley to nowsat1i. bZ_oveW thee to m
.P.Os the part of the fiold offieree to  io"" gavre
direotives In this regad Vw obersvation regardng esafinemat
of UKe  role to Selling of UP a   so   nt trues ee RA10
offtero & staf In the Usl wwo muggin disekher.n
_ItIfarious Outies tmeling generaftio  oft dmm_  by mativwlS'
the temite suuiteaug after melee serviee e1de by side
v4th deling of other eiv:paet. ike M   WV* otc. As rogards
DM' ea pftwaeon   La elo  oepAg the observation put foruer
In this per& is rot appopriate se US  to met directly
r6lated to the production & detwibuUtos prooee oft  beseite.
bho 4e41ning tred il ker  eue irrigain eiovereg  Oa shown
iL the qwr.. -NW be attributed catni to adveree effeet
of oetetodg over th  Sale asytem wber big  awe ewe the
major beneflrwee at the oet of oor & aroLdal temwte
About th  obserration on the oer"eing eiteia, GOB took the
4docidon  to aoe4leate toe PaC0 of Oal keeping SLa Usme 4th
the UV0 eoremmates
Oent&.. P/



f0 to io4H to S* to "04.  enot be ie  "
e_ t  ,'4.w tus oe_owrep te teae   pow*,, e
sole P*o"of offitaliehagitate ter  atamS ha to
be .b11sAe woIlLm  ik ,asectiftt a" o Uols tor aooS
wieultw.J peaose Oqtvaoa  of watr se  by the poor 
.wzg.1  t.uee -. ettemda,.e to $La# repawlug, .1%
thee   atwlbte  to th oor se       itl,gSi, os s ooeorae
~~~~~0  p6   tdO VoMaSN SI"  su1G oW eSa.
lv. otsatowal plot of Visa t,Lo e   pose weo epo.
Nor mt*"A*u of the ere6t leatug d0t0s I"A &SPosed a wou-
sttoSt   the tow seloted &.,wo had to open 1. for
import ef eWOOee by a epeOeiO eats 58 rea eetedi  weq
mestod the pAwvt* eews to open 1L.. Bt the paty ad Mt
Ome forwalt pehap  to  COMIstated ins psr 1.*. It is
fat a tot tha te psevenmt 4di not take my s&&um, top
Sal fiWau  the coadito  wst  p ted for extemelos or the
Tea4t eo*slug dte.
jvjk:&    a      'Zhere wo en1ugh Seoeh of Uft both I aon
a suego eepdty I. the PuOSeet are0s. UU bf*t's GONSOSeAt
*osasity of 2 eto ZI ooindderd too &er* for a.a11 pu
and ore tfundamotauy, tho laso  of oo_tst to tbh
eglos prop.   en   tOfe.t  bl gen1tluosS prtote  by MM3
st  g .  ot carreOt.
IMLJaIsl a         IDA   pro2est w1   pelt of the lausohlng
of sale Propose of lo uri1s 196041 wM.sh sow. hthto
bids dLst4Lb*e  OmW  the t&"W4 of OWay rwtal beaste
'lb ret was toe _ u.l S iseoeautbe 4th the proedli,
whereas tSe p4s of 4,5 vude sale pro_m s Was OpIltel
Iutmwdve whish mat ot th powr trme oon" got efr*d
to bw. Isid  was the  e  room" for poor prwogo of sae
:Ls th  prj    Greg. TM. AtUAtOs if SAlO  of Oa  knd
ot "iwvauve vprw*omhee. thpwpu Ss psta )" nw t vey
mus lespt4we^ to sew LovaUes lathw tbr  beleve L tr ed.
Coti.*0



- 69 -                            m
tUOnL t*m of Vnwiee.. Ike allsoftes ot lek ot tu Istuoua
oo_s_t & ooinmfUog Interest Would be judo& to thi
perspetvew. 1rtu  te PeAed aew review the tfomlat.a
ot XSDOo role de. a em Im1heMIe   *tae
IhILl.ia      the whole oetet of imitoeig G evelsaotmL
slates  Would be ,L...i from ,.1a V pwspeetlveo A   mS
eeiLty ts peao.l eawr as euyie.dd &  the pJeot
urlde4 to got Uklvd to yied14 &esied result* thesag
fil4d offi..,.  dwer this projeet the eowet4t Int ae
poo.  of prvatleatUso  were dettod & to overoe, tUa
.m1str4sts several seetiug at th D  '8    ; ,Vswl " Wve  s.
In the ULtetit  were held whers rereem*kUUwte ot the NW
sent ofhoer was ale pretest. Sm the smu* oft wJer paue
chang. eass up,  aW couo  nsot SL" an deoLsu.s but 1NA to
seek ahioc trom Waegbomt, *"oh p4w   elewd te  slutios
and snotb fumtsosiug of prejeet activIteft
Oer1ia        Although the projet oe  el0 s  as1   rneoe
ll tmemefeniug the owehp tfro  publo to private seetor Sw
qudutttative ters,  the ultimte, revolt rewase ftr tfa *ats-
faotory which 18 evidet tm  the doimiag treA oft IrrIgtlo
.ooraOg  eLSoe the IutSrdUsthU of sale .Yet. the* 44.tuLU
trowd of irtigtiion otezg  my be attributed "lany to ts
foalowig s
so    Croetios of so-celled" water aord. am
depriAvaom ot poor & *argLal tormws eoem.
to ttdetio water..
Li.   taaplei.med gowth of irrgatiom oe ou
IU"     dLvwerdoatioU ot use ot LU  emgLue.
iv.    vtustvourabl distvibutfwe i^owts an
Iwo    reduotom is InU  m_bew  f "ooperat. potps



7 t -                       AM
j.0a    The oestentien. Of the 136 wIeden r.gmdtnkg U13.
dram   u maw  tUistor of pugs ae net tue. As the UMQ
of mpralal, It we look baek to tho stek podtion of W  it
wod4' revel, J0 ot the puss wero over 5  oWors agog 0%
9U_5 wore of 8.10 yoes & buluwO 3t_ wero rVelatv4y
newo Pho esenegs lto of diesel engn. *1.s 10 vows or
6000 houro ot opertion. uring Introductios ot sas qctm
thero was  - ost.bliUhd vw.o for repang of pueping
eet & by thi, tio s1k   of the  oeohFoo wero impvoed by
U?IW trAining ,"urawne  Regrdins undr uiliatior It
ean bo .44 that ith toe  oroeptoen per oune area .Vereg.
was 22, wshoh th, appraisal aooied    ond.rod lew but wem
oirwed, this  figure with the sol3d pu   It ws fwr better.
The  oedons a pprwberntoi  as to the useqvLti" & aditional
inees  acouwod to the botter of faraee bc be.om. a res)iti.
tkh  teret sot 1t tho approlsal report for various ooswosents
of the proSeot were  eray reaistAo with the tolboeug
too exzoptiones
a)    while fixing tho procurement targe of 4,0o0
i ousoe ongine under pivate seoter, BA8C*c
huge stock of both o.l sad "ew engines
deployed in the proj"t areas shuld bsmv
bee  token Into aeoAderation.
b)      Bo-building progrma* of 5,000 uveerviosable
U$s was not a prapatid prop ALtio
beoaue of exorbitsat oost of repair. In this
oosteat B3&4o past experC eoeo should havo
been token Into ondderation.
o)    Construatiov  of 50 Upadl workshops under
publo seotor and traindig progrnme of 4000
*seanoo and 15. 000 manager operator. seoe
to be Unreallstio t4rget.



7 71 -
pope 9
tide pwa  se  to b labitieses ..USUi*. md 80401
sLtuatio  provei.3s La Dom ak hasw bees wUo   let
dht of is the, dopadsal the g  betsw.. estimted rate
of retur  oVe  100% La the eppuOatand3 No In P5 to too
sd*d  A more owrfal smitivaV 0a4ds oGould boo
avoided mus mi  d*oaipeoleu
tora keo setat_mt .Me herds de potWe_
seglotlati@e to ovweoo the b.ttloeeks for iwort of LIVe
hi pivate eoetore we not omtbel. true. lhe tow aeleoted
deaer at the nlitial stape were very fetStuhast  about
their partioipatiea l  the project sativilLsa ftt  uhe the
observd tht am  bed a hap  euck md mm under bMVu..
presswe for quick disposal of the stook, the  e  )ka3
to hav &ela*d their affectivet otlv  Ito the market ustil
5* a sook was exhausted & tbe ha a sure maket ft.
thAr equie.
Ihe oomet regarding the pw f'orono  of BAN put or"ad
Is the  sat hut one ,etm,.e of the pare was swoepgag
thsre wa so lao of Initiative and drive en the pwt t
5AB0 to off et the privatisation  o_old of tI u a lt
bids to "iet frm te male, of sbOut 00  Wa throughout
the langledeh hW the period under revi..
the folXiwi  suoetione eowq be oonsidered to
tiupswnt privatiztion prospae of governt.
to A nation._60 prtvate delers "etwork$
should be dovelope
ii.  AU Import of esgineshould be basd on
to.wi   abuse and be lited to widmum
of as" & mod
i. iit me tadpo  tonmmltis Is prvato
etor e   bo Alberolod as far as
prootteable.



- 72 -
Lv.  SU. PIAG* fIzAtopsh.oulid-be watl r e
heeiw Is L   ty rowinabl mak VP tw
v*  1069amary factities mho46 be etende
to the dealers to set up m etms.e
wrohtsops li thlx respoetive area of
operatione
Vi.  Sale of privtes  *eotor dealers  ow4  be
oarr4mated seek that didposi ot 88A0'o
old euck La gst 4elyed or hoverud.
Sk      proSect was a pat ot the
lotmtung of .4. prepoma* of WLe Lurs
l980oS1 whiok hitherto were being dictato
"ute  ang the farmer..o pure4  rint4
"Age tn  ret We too woosh.  ad 1 turn-
patible with the produc  (owopo) wreas
the PK*e oS PWS wiLer sale propgwo la
cafitallutessive whbic most of the por
fame  oouleia    t afford* this we th  a.i
reams for poo progiese of srnii %th
projsot areas, the other toeter as stated
Is this par. alme head po in geme 
ig~h.Ua.   tdrainI  propamme of 41000 muohakeas  an
15000 0agr/opror was  bttoua an 8AM  did lot have
the IntrastruoturaL tfalties  to unertake treining
puoPsm  of souW  a Situde. %he ultimate remit *wa to
ot 4to. the numobr of ahuioe to 190* Through the
proS of   MOSSUStratioS at the time of toldg deUvwq of
ets$, a lsarge n0   ot maagrw/opwator were b wee
trend.*



- ?ae MM
t-loa aS LIL  9 &     *       eea1U~ projet.^ wihlS
uwstaftou O.m 4e2 Sation p*m         test b   ittowis .54 ewlitl
at aatloamcl level sea plow a e4ttisal role to lapsewiug
I geset.UL    Pert of the t4     re of the pro4set Won"
be sttributed to 194etuate a.ultorls. The project etta
sdpola  d to te amss" St $ea         at do.fIitolg woalQ
hae he&e*Aprvov Implemenetation.
Kava L23. ANUA         whe cost *e"st*it*ee    to hav
bee Inflated. 8dtUa*on of cos tfo. 18 i    48 42lo  at
appuatl to VA S 37  Illoin MA reweae,mte 2% drop,
wbich *Mee to be uwreassuable. Ibweovwe, o emellatif of
US J 19.7 diloan Ie. anrewly $3 of the oredIt aount to
a tart, dlftfrwepe  It to pertIsnet to rteell that GOD pd.
eo:'taet  habwge  on the  entire wedit mount (le the
mount dieburod) at _  point of tine during the pdod
of Taidity of the Great* A a r* aut the goat of fend
would inrease In tha there was wso" cot for the
_ust whiob was not eventually veed. th   would aleo erode
the grant elment of ID lease
I=  _23 .   A.       The projot work  were ceared ot
by BaDG  the projset aroetc  in the raek of Dvut4 Cotef
ISsinew was the he" of the proot. Znolveaeut ot to tWo
dividos. iwthin BADG 1  handing the proj"t aotviLtL*s
retarde  the pace of  aoutioo the projOct otfice had
Uttle powr In decideo  aking regarding tho proje st
ectivitlese  the project ars  we  under tho ontrol of two
muprintending   Suseres asd di kqeutle aingineere lin the
aene of ao ctrol by tho Projeot  wrootor over the
OecutAve IMLvne*ees of the project distcts feedback
lnf@iatioi5 from the fIlod wer  _           ed.
Gonitd.... .9



-,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
04 lit       1!       ||l  
i~ ~~3                 4 w.             ia'g  
..



BANGLADESH: LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT: PCF
ao   ~ ~   P~dBWat UP. byv MMC rm I -i)
slo              "        h+    : 1
40 
2 _
jao
10
61    64    67    70    7J    76    7         92        6
YVAR
a #PUMPS IN OPWAflON
BANGLADESH: LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT: PCF
1.7 -          ;,ddng of LLPs by d0  (PY6I -PMt)
1.6                               -
1.4 -
,   1.2
0.4
0a v
0.2-
0.1
0
61    6      a7    70    73    76    79    82    8
a  Tal In. Ar.c(Ac)



- 76. -
BANGLADESH: LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT:PCF
Pld ng at UP. by 5O QwY81 -7T)
l.a        ,   
1.6 
0.2 -
0.1 
.0.7 -                ..1                           *      *
1207   247   3k9   1 74   3:1*17  J&2   36B4   41 1&3 iOBS 
Na. Ofr Pumps In Operation
0  T@k3 bT. Aeio(c)



LOUWIFFWPROiCT
(Cm99m)
ond  I                  aAC - 
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
s                                         O cbt _ 
Wi4*
. . _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~%ol &A* . ___ 
WIN1*                                 w. w. . ..
&RsWas1h



K  I                                             gY~~~~~~'T~~~a. ~~INDIA
FoR   (R
mw~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  
L~ OAN 725-SO 
ug~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  {~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  / ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~  ....
,  <~~~~~~~~                       N~~~~~~~                                     N                                                  N~~~~tl
-    ~ ~ ~~~  AP,~~~~~~~~~L#RI~~~~~~~$A/r2V  ~~~~~~~~~~~  N~ ~
-~A;SA,    A- ~y7k\                                                  



F;sssTs}-' F---ot                                                                                                                 -
>.               et      U       t    )       4    >          50    %i                                                  *11 
f  AA'R 'W' '' }:t'i  Hz/ 
s f, X  -  51  - ssX  s  A   n+>  j .  ) r  J                                       ,,  o    .f,    t\'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rOA
.  !      :                LOW  UFt PLJMP PROJECr                         4 z/x            @      >.    _' W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tOA
0~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~UPDSRBMNADDUE,                                                                         /,/'  
PR AUtAlt                                                                                                      2 g 
Ln                                                                                       o  ^.,  CH'...
<  BAttGLADEStat  t  # i t                        t   TRtCTaAGIADEHtAtS!/jt                                                    /
t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iV,- ERS. :/ 
~~~~ -0        - t. -e|3o ,  0   1 A   a     \( 
_   z I, $^ ~    ~    d ro-   4di  of%                       -*-AxtTERNM          M                                         \  
~~~~~~~~~~A*s an_ _,*' ,V Boo of                                                        ,                               t (U?    + trI-Cf2Dufm)ORP  _



