Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2481-BD
FILE COPY
BANGLADESH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
February 20, 1980
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture Division B
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CIJRRENCY EQUIVALENT
The Bangladesh Taka is officially valued at 33 to the Pound
Sterling. The Pound now floats relative to the US Dollar and consequently,
the Taka to US Dollar rate is subject to change. The rate below has been
used throughout this report except where otherwise stated.
US$           = Tk 15.5
Tk 1          = US$0.065
Tk 1 million = US$64,516
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre (ac)                         =         0.405 hectares
1 foot (ft)                         =        30.5 centimeters
1 maund (md)                        =        37.3 kilograms
I metric ton (ton)                  =        26.8 maunds
1 cubic foot per second (cusec)               0.0283 cubic meters per second
I imperial gallon                   =         4.545 liters
1 barrel (bbl)                      =       159.0 liters
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
a-d       animal day
ADB       Asian Development Bank
BARI      Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute
BADC      Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
B. Aman   Broadcast Aman paddy
BDP       Bangladesh Diesel Plant
BKB       Bangladesh Krishi Bank
BMTF      Bangladesh Machine Tools Factory
CB        Commercial Bank(s)
DAC       District Approval Committee
DOAEM     Directorate of Agriculture (Extension and Management)
DTW       Deep tubewell
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GOB       Government of Bangladesh
HP        horsepower
HTW       Hand tubewell
HYV       High-yielding variety
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
ILO       International Labor Organization
IP        Irrigation Project
IRDP      Integrated Rural Development Program
KSS       Village Cooperative Society (Krishi Samabaya Samity)
LLP       Low Lift Pump
MA        Ministry of Agriculture
mrd       manday
MLG&RD    Ministry of Land Administration, Local Government,
Rural Development, and Cooperatives
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
M&P       BADC Mechanization and Pump Division
OCC       Opportunity Cost of Capital
O&M       Operation and Maintenance
P         Present Case
PV        Present Value
STW       Shallow tubewell
SV        Switching Value
TAC       Thana Approval Committee
T. Aman   Transplanted Aman paddy
TCCA      Thana Central Cooperative Association
TIP       Thana Irrigation Program
TORs      Terms of Reference
TTDC      Thana Training and Development Center
T&D       Taxes and Duties
T&V       Training and Visit extension system
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
W         With Project Case
W         Without Project Case
WD        Wheel drive
WDB       Bangladesh Water Development Board
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






BANGLADESH
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.    THE SECTOR ..............................................                        1
A.   Background.........................................                            I
A.    Background.1
B. The Agricultural Sector.                                                      1
Performance and Near-Term Prospects.                                    2
Constraints and Potential.                                             3
Policies and Issues.                                                   4
C.  IDA Operations in Agricultural Sector.                                       5
II. THE LOW LIFT PUMP PROGRAM                     ..                                    6
A.   General ...........             .................................           6
B. Pump Requirements.                                                            7
C. Procedures.                                                                   9
D.    Problems of the Low Lift Pump Program  ....                  ..........    10
E.    Local Manufacture  of Diesel Pumping Units  ..........                    11
III.    THE PROJECT AREA  ........................................    11
Location and Area  ..................................    11
Climate  ............................................    12
Topography and Soils  ...............................    12
Farm Size, Land Tenure,  and Population  ....                .........    12
Agricultural Practices  .............................    13
SurfacelWater Resources   ...........................    14
Low Lift Pump Irrigation  ...........................    14
Agricultural Supporting Services  ...................    16
IV.    THE PROJECT  .............................................    17
A.    Objectives  .........................................    17
B.    Project  Components  .................................    18
C.    Detailed Features  ..................................    19
Procurement  of 3,000 two-cusec LLPs  ....                ..........    19
Procurement of 5,500 one-cusec LLPs ..............    19
Procurement  of Ancillary Fittings  and Spares    .....   20
Rebuilding of 5,000 Unserviceable LLPs  ....                .......    20
Construction and Equipment of BADC Workshops
and Pump Storage Facilities  ....................    20



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd)
Page No.
Procurement of Spare Parts for Existing LLPs
in  the  Project  Area  ............................                                21
Procurement of Diesel Fuel for Project LLPs ......   22
Provision of Transport for BADC Field Operations .   22
Provision of Training Facilities and Training ....    22
Water  Availability  Survey  ........................                                   23
Monitoring  and  Evaluation  ........................                                   24
Initiation  of  Credit  Sales  Program  ....                           ...........      24
Review of Institutional Requirements of the Minor
Irrigation  Sector  ..............................                                  24
D.      Implementation  Schedule  ............................                                     25
E.      Cost  Estimates   and  Financial  Arrangement   ....                           .......     25
Financing   ........................................                                    29
Procurement   ......................................                                    29
Disbursement   .....................................                                    31
Accounts  and  Audit   ...............................                                  33
Environmental  Impact  .............................                                    33
V.      ORGANIZATION  AND  MANAGEMENT  .............................                                       33
A.      Project  Organization   ...............................                                    33
BADC  .............................................                                    33
Project  Management   ..................................                                   34
IRDP  ............................................                                      35
B.      LLP  Sales  and  Rentals   ..............................                                  35
Approval  of  LLP  Schemes  by  the  TIP  ....                         ...........      36
LLP  Rental  Rates   .................................                                  36
LLP  Purchase  Prices   ..............................                                  37
Financial Ability of Farmers to Purchase
Pumps  and  Pay  Higher  Rental  Rates   ....                        ..........     37
Credit  Arrangements   ..............................                                   38
Pump  Maintenance  Procedures   ......................                                  38
VI.    PRODUCTION, PRICES, FARM INCOMES AND COST RECOVERY ......   39
Cropping  Patterns   ................................                                   39
Yields  and  Production  ............................                                   41
Marketing   ........................................                                    42
Prices   ............................................                                  43
Farm  Incomes   .....................................                                   43
Impact  on  Government  Budget   ......................                                44
VII.       BENEFITS,  JUSTIFICATION  AND  RISKS   .......................                                      45
Employment  Opportunities   .........................                                   46
Economic  Analysis   ................................                                   46
Project Beneficiaries and Distributive Impact ....    48
Project  Risk  .....................................                                    48
VIII.        RECOMMENDATIONS   .........................................                                         50



- iii -
ANNEX A - The Low Lift Pump Program
Table 1 - Fielding of Low Lift Pumps by BADC (FY61-FY79)
2 - Costs of Operation of Rented One- and Two-Cusec Pumps
3 - Project Pumps, Cusecs, Area Irrigated, and Incremental Production
ANNEX B - The Project Area
Table 1 - Climate Data
2 - Size Distribution of Farms
3 - Surface Water Balance Sheet--Main River System--Inflows
and Use
4 - BADC Fieldings of Low Lift Pumps by District FY74-FY78
ANNEX C - Policy Statement
ANNEX D - The Project
Table 1 - Estimated Total Cost of Project Pumpsets
2 - Estimated Cost of New Pumpsets
3 - Cost Estimate for the Rehabilitation of 5,000 Pumps
4 - Total Cost LLP Rehabilitation Program
5 - Estimated Building Costs for Workshop-Stores
6 - Thana Workshop Equipment
7 - Details of Proposed Thana Workshop Tools
8 - Zonal Workshop Equipment
9 - Incremental Requirement for Each Regional Workshop-cum-
Diesel Training Center
10 - Toolbox for Pumpset Mechanics
11 - Estimated Costs of Workshop Equipment, Tools, TooTboxes,
and Spares
12 - Tranport Requirement for Project Field Operation
13 - Estimated Costs of Transport Vehicles
14 - Estimated Costs of Training Component
15 - Annual Cost for Local Staff at Regional Training Center
16 - Estimated Costs for Water Availability Survey Component
ANNEX E - Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursements
ANNEX F - Production, Prices, Farm Incomes and Cost Recovery
Table 1 - Project Acreage, Production and Labor Requirements
2a - Cropping Patterns--Currently Irrigated Farms
2b - Cropping Patterns--Newly Irrigated Area
3 - Monthly Labor Requirements for Various Crops
4 - Crop Input Requirements
5 - Farm Budget Estimates
6 - Farm Income Estimates
7 - Sensitivity Tests on Irrigation Rent and Net Farm Income
Figure 1 - Estimated Relationship Between Level of Subsidy under Sales
Program and Level of Derived Aggregated Secondary Benefits



- iv -
ANNEX G - Benefits, Justification, and Risks
Table 1 - Prices for Financial and Economic Analysis
2 - Prices for Internationally Traded Commodities for Economic Analysis
3 - Economic Cash Flow
4 - Economic Analysis: Relative Importance of Individual Cost and
Benefit Streams and Switching Values (SV) of Cost and Benefit
Streams
Figure 1 - Present Values of Base Case Total Incremental Costs and
Benefits at Various Discount Rates
2 - Locus of Base Case Switching Values for Total Cost Overrun
and Benefit Shortfall
3 - Present Values of Disaster Case Total Incremental Costs
and Benefits at Various Discount Rates
4 - Locus of Disaster Case Switching Values for Total Cost
Overrun and Benefit Shortfall
ANNEX H - Evaluation of Economic and Social Impact: Draft Terms of Reference
Appendix 1 - Social Structure of Irrigation Groups: Variables



BANGLADESH
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
I. THE SECTOR
A. Background
1.01      Bangladesh, with a population of about 86 M and a cultivable area
of only some 22.5 M ac, of which one third is normally flooded annually,
presents a critical and complex development problem. The population is poor
(per capita income about US$90), overcrowded (1,550 per sq mi and growing at
2.7% per year), short-lived (life expectancy at birth is well under 50 years),
in many cases unemployed (perhaps 25-30%), and largely illiterate (about 75%).
Foodgrain imports of about 1.5 M tons, or about 10% of total requirements,
are necessary in a "normal" year to maintain per capita consumption levels.
Drought, untimely rains, excessive floods and cyclones periodically bring
disaster; frequently, adverse weather conditions, such as a dry period
in the fall of 1978 (para 1.07), result in a sharp increase in the need
for foodgrain imports.
1.02      Government gives priority to agricultural and rural development
as the means to benefit the largest number of people. The major objective
is to attain self-sufficiency in foodgrain production in the shortest possible
time and to increase substantially jute production for export. Specifically,
Government aims at increasing the production of foodgrain by 4% to 5% a year
which would provide about 18 M tons 1/ by 1984/85. This objective points to
the need to generate without delay a series of quick-yielding, labor-intensive
and low cost projects. The project appraised in this report would have these
characteristics.
B. The Agricultural Sector
1.03      Agriculture dominates the Bangladesh economy accounting for 55% of
GDP, 75% of all employment and, directly or indirectly, over 80% of the
country's exports. About 70% of the agricultural GDP is derived from crops
and the rest from forestry, fisheries and livestock in roughly equal propor-
tions. Bangladesh has a gross area of 35 M ac of which about 22.5 M ac are
under cultivation at a cropping intensity averaging 135% in recent years.
Rice, by far the most important crop, accounts for about 80% of the cropped
area; jute, the pr ncipal export, for 6%, and a variety of other crops such
as wheat, pulses, oilseeds, sugarcane, and vegetables, for the remaining 14%.
1/   The foodgrain requirement is based upon an IBRD-forecasted population of
about 100 M by 1984/85 and a GOB-estimated per capita daily allowance
of 15.5 oz/person.



- 2 -
Agricultural productivity in Bangladesh is among the lowest in the world; the
average rice yield of about 0.5 ton per ac is barely half of the average for
Asia as a whole.
1.04      The mnajor objectives of the Government's agricultural development
efforts are to achieve food self-sufficiency, create employment for the rural
poor in order to improve incomes and nutritional standards, and to increase
export earnings. The Government's strategy for the sector emphasizes
strengthening of rural institutions, improvement of farm input supplies,
better utilization of existing irrigation facilities, and further expansion
of irrigation facilities through low cost, short gestation, minor irrigation
schemes.
Performance and Near-Term Prospects
1.05      During the 1960s, agricultural production grew at an annual rate
of 2.5% and foodgrain production at an annual rate of 2.4%. However, both
lagged behind the population growth rate of about 2.8%. As a result, food-
grain imports increased from less than 0.6 M tons in FY61 to over 1.5 M tons
in FY70. Due to adverse weather conditions as well as disruptions caused
by the war of liberation, production during the early 1970s remained below
FY70 levels, necessitating imports averaging 1.8 M tons per year and account-
ing for about one-quarter of the total import bill. In FY78, due to favorable
weather conditions, a more effective procurement effort, and the sharply
increased supplies of fertilizers and other agricultural inputs, foodgrain
production reached a record 13.1 M tons, some 10% above the 1970 level.
Nevertheless, the production fell short of the requirements by 1.6 million
tons.
1.06      Jute production also declined significantly,during the early 1970s
and, despite a reversal of the declining trend, the FY79 production (6.5 M
bales) remained below the pre-independence FY70 level by about 9% (see para
1.08). The production of a number of minor crops (such as sugarcane, pulses,
oilseeds and potatoes) has also remained depressed. Wheat production has,
however, more than tripled since FY70.
1.07      Due to acute diesel shortages and unfavorable weather, three poor
crops in a row - the 1978/79 aman and boro and the 1979/80 aus crops - have
resulted in an estimated 7% decline (12.7 million tons in 1979 versus 13.1
tons in 1978) in domestic food production in calendar year 1979. Combined
with a slippage in food aid arrivals, this led to a drop in per capita food
availability and soaring rice prices. In addition, low domestic foodgrain
procurement, combined with high offtakes under the ration system, led to
declining public food stocks. In contrast to the targeted level of one mil-
lion tons, stocks fell to the dangerously low level of-209,000 tons at the
end of June 1979. The situation improved somewhat by the import of about
280,000 tons of foodgrains between July and December 1979. However, the cur-
rent aman crop was not much better than last year's and only 150,000 tons
were procured for food distribution. GOB and WFP have determined that a
further 1.25 million tons of foodgrain imports would be needed by June 1980.



- 3 -
1.08      The limited data on unemployment and rural poverty in Bangladesh
indicate that the progress in these areas has also been unsatisfactory. A
recent survey indicates that the distribution of land ownership in rural
Bangladesh is highly skewed and is deteriorating. Landlessness is spreading
and the fragmentation of holdings is reducing more and more farms to below-
subsistence size. It is estimated that 50% of rural households are landless
and that only 25% of all rural households now own more than 2 acres, the
minimum holding size necessary to provide subsistence income. However, even
the larger landowners (over 8 acres) would be considered small and poor in
countries other than Bangladesh.
Constraints and Potential
1.09      Agricultural development in Bangladesh is constrained by scarcity
of cultivable land, limited potential on part of the cultivated land, climatic
hazards, lack of irrigation facilities, and deficient transportation for
moving farm inputs and produce. The major constraint is the heavy pressure of
population on land. Most land holdings in Bangladesh are small and fragmented--
a typical holding being about 2 acres split into six plots. This constitutes
an obstacle to efficient farm management and makes the organization of coopera-
tive irrigation systems difficult. An additional constraint is the agricul-
tural tenancy arrangements, under which about 30% of Bangladesh farmers
operate. Because of the customary rental arrangements, the tenant is normally
expected to provide all of the inputs, but receives only about half of the
crop and has no right of occupancy. Under such an arrangement there is
reduced incentive to develop land for irrigation or to adopt improved farming
practices.
1.10      A number of organizational deficiencies have also adversely affected
growth. Generally, farmers in Bangladesh are receptive to proven innovations.
Their efforts, however, have been handicapped by the inadequate and unreliable
distribution system for farm inputs, such as HYV seeds, fertilizers and pesti-
cides, and by the absence of an effective extension system. Adequate market-
ing, processing and storage facilities, as well as rational and efficient
credit policy, have also been lacking. The inability of the various existing
agencies and departments to fulfill these key functions is due to weaknesses
in planning as well as in implementation. Agricultural planning has generally
been based on an extremely poor data base, inadequate analysis, and very
little feedback from operating departments, resulting in unrealistic targets,
inflexible and uncoordinated programs, and unexpected bottlenecks during
implementation. On the implementation side, the weaknesses include excessive
centralization of decision-making, overly cumbersome administrative procedures,
inadequately trained manpower, unattractive staff salaries and benefits, and
poorly defined work responsibilities.
1.11      The above constraints can be over-emphasized.  Bangladesh has large
areas of highly fertile deltaic soils, a climate suitable for year-round
cropping, and abundant groundwater resources for dry season irrigation. Also,
the development of high yielding varieties (HYVs) of rice and wheat, suitable
for cultivation in large areas of Bangladesh even under rainfed conditions,



- 4 -
has opened up the prospect of substantial increases in production that can be
brought about quickly and inexpensively. The Government has made important
progress in promoting improved farming technologies--during 1970-78 irrigated
areas increased by 1.2 M ac, fertilizer consumption increased from some
280,000 tons to 715,000 tons and high yielding varieties spread from about
1.0 M ac to 3.0 M ac. The potential for continued growth remains considerable.
1.12      Further growth in agricultural productivity is a prerequisite for
meeting many of the country's other major economic objectives, ranging from
food self-sufficiency to equitable income distribution and from increased
domestic resource mobilization to sustained overall growth. The Government's
stated objective is to achieve food self-sufficiency by FY85. At an average
per capita consumption of 15.5 ounces of grain per day, this would require
production of nearly 18 M tons by that time. This implies a sustained
annual growth rate of nearly 5% over the record FY78 crop level. This is an
ambitious target and would be difficult to achieve, particularly in view of
the likely setbacks during FY79.
Policies and Issues
1.13      The cornerstones of an effective policy for raising agricultural
production are: (i) adequate and timely supplies of modern agricultural
inputs and their efficient application; and (ii) attractive input/output
price relationships for farmers. Given the extent and nature of farm level
constraints, a longer-term drive to increase farm production will have to
combine efforts to achieve significant progress on a number of fronts includ-
ing irrigation, fertilizers, HYV seeds, pesticides, credit and extension.
1.14      Irrigation brings high pay-offs in increased productivity.  The
expansion of irrigated acreage beyond the present 2.9 million ac would result
in direct increases in average cropping intensity, as more acreage would be
suitable for an additional crop in the dry season. An expansion of up to a
total of 5.5 million acres is considered to be technically feasible by 1985.
Even with the present low crop yields, this would result in about 2.1 million
tons of additional foodgrain output per year. To accomplish this goal, quick-
yielding schemes with relatively low capital requirements per acre should have
priority. 1/ Further gains could be made by improving the present low utili-
zation of existing irrigation capacity and raising the actual irrigated
acreage to levels approaching the potential command area. This would require
improved provision of maintenance services, spare parts and fuel for existing
pumps by involving the private sector as well as by strengthening irrigation
cooperatives.
1.15      If the announced goal of national foodgrain self-sufficiency is to
be met by 1985, rough calculations indicate that between 1.5 and 2.0 million
tons of fertilizer (depending on the incremental yield assumptions) and 4.8 M
1/   Several such schemes have been identified in a recent joint GOB/IBRD
review of the Bangladesh Water Development Board and include subprojects
supported by the First Five Year Plan.



- 5 -
acres of irrigated land and expansion of HYVs to about 8.0 M acres would be
required. As these inputs are divisible and replicable, the Government would
be assured of high returns of its investment in these two areas regardless of
the actual size of the budgetary allocation to them in any particular year.
Finally, greater supply of these inputs will facilitate considerably greater
utilization by the smaller farmers than has been possible in the present
limited supply situation in which the larger landowners tend to obtain a
disproportionate share of the available quantities.
1.16      A substantially expanded program of supplying these inputs would
not be feasible on budgetary grounds if the present levels of input subsidies
remain in effect. Neither can their retention be defended in terms of equity
considerations as the main beneficiaries are not always the smaller farmers.
If, as expected, the subsidies are to be gradually phased out in the context
of a program of increased supply, care will have to be taken to maintain
incentive relationships between input and output prices through effective
output price support measures.
1.17      At Government's request  IDA is working with various GOB agencies
to help prepare a Medium-Term Agricultural Production Plan which would address
a number of the above issues. During the Plan preparation special attention
will be paid to: achieving the quickest feasible reduction in subsidies to
improve GOB's financial position; the procurement system; marketing and incen-
tive prices for foodgrains and other important crops; adequate and timely
supply of fertilizer, diesel fuel, seeds and pesticides; improved supply of
institutional credit; better utilization of existing irrigation systems and
equipment, expanding investments in low capital intensive irrigation, drainage
and flood control works; development of location specific HYVs adapted to the
cropping seasons and hydrologic conditions of Bangladesh; strengthening of
extension and supportive applied research; intensified and expanded in-service
training; and improved project planning and implementation. To provide ade-
quate and timely feedback on sectoral performance and particularly as regards
production, farmgate prices and inputs use, the Plan would include establish-
ment of monitoring and evaluation cells within appropriate agencies of the
Government.
C. IDA Operations in the Agricultural Sector
1.18      In addition to assisting in preparation of the Medium Term Agri-
cultural Production Plan, IDA is involved in a major program of financing
agricultural and rural development. To date IDA has financed 14 projects
in the agricultural sector. Six involve irrigation and the remaining eight
the development of agricultural extension services, agricultural research,
jute cultivation, the seeds industry, inland fisheries, grain storage, an area
based rural development program, and drainage and flood control. Of projects
in the irrigation sector, the Chandpur II Irrigation Project (Credit 340-BD,
1972, US$13.0 M), provides flood protection for about 140,000 ac and irriga-
tion for about 75,000 ac; the Northwest Tubewells Project (Credit 341-BD,
1972, US$14.0 M), irrigation from groundwater for about 180,000 ac; the



- 6 -
Barisal Irrigation Project (Credit 542-BD 1975, US$27.0 M), irrigation for
about 140,000 ac by low-lift pumping, the Karnafuli Irrigation Project (Credit
605-BD, 1976, US$21.0 M), irrigation, flood control-and drainage to 46,000 ac;
the Shallow Tubewells Project (Credit 724-BD, 1977, US$16.0 M), irrigation
from groundwater for about 150,000 ac; and the Muhuri Irrigation Project
(Credit 725-BD, 1977, US$21.0 M) provides irrigation to about 35,000 ac and
improved drainage on about 50,000 ac. The implementation of these six proj-
ects has involved substantial delays. There have been common difficulties
in hiring of consultants; appointment of project staff; timely release of
budgetary allocations; approval of contracts, coordination among implementing
agencies; and procurement. The Government has taken a number of steps to
remedy the most serious bottlenecks, and both IDA and Government have given
increased emphasis to reguLar monitoring and supervision in order to identify
and resolve potential problems at the earliest possible stage. In addition,
IDA is assisting Government: in strengthening key agricultural ministries and
agencies, e.g. the Water Development Board (WDB) (see Chapter V) and the
Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC), through detailed
studies of their organizations and operating procedures. These steps have
produced improvements in the rate of project implementation and further
improvements are expected.
II. THE LOW LIFT PUMP PROGRAM
A. General
2.01      For centuries, Bangladesh farmers have used bucket-lift methods for
irrigating a dry-season Boro crop (January to May) on lands near low-lying
ponds and perennial streams. However, it was not until the establishment of
the Water Development Board (WDB) in 1959 and the Bangladesh Agricultural
Development Corporation (BADC) in 1961 that a major impetus was given to the
development of water resources. Currently, irrigation is available for about
2.6 M acres: 1.2 M acres by low lift pumps (LLPs), 0.2 M acres by groundwater
from tubewells, 0.2 M acres by gravity supply, and about 1.0 M acres by
traditional methods.
2.02      BADC owns almost all the low lift pumps in Bangladesh, which it
rents to farmer groups during the Boro season, achieving a fielding of around
36,000 in four of the last five years (36,731 in 1977/78). About 80% of these
pumpsets 1/ are 16-18 HP engines directly coupled to centrifugal pumps de-
signed to produce a flow of 2 cusecs from a 40 foot pumping head. The other
20% are 8-10 HP engines designed to produce 1 cusec from the same head.
1/   Although the word "pump" is commonly used to describe a pumpset (engine
and pumps), where necessary the word pumpset is used to avoid ambiguity.



- 7 -
2.03      About 1.4 M farmers, comprising 12% of rural households, now use
low-lift pumps regularly, each irrigating an average of one acre. Rice is
the main crop irrigated, with many farmers replacing a risky rainfed Aus crop,
grown at the very beginning of the monsoon season when rainfall is erratic,
by an irrigated Boro crop in the dry season.  Others use irrigation to grow a
Boro crop in the dry season in lowlands where the depth of flooding precludes
a monsoon crop or where only a risky broadcast Aman crcp can be grown.
2.04      Pump groups usually rent the same pump each year and have a semi-
permanent command area. They irrigate about 35 acres per two-cusec LLP, well
short of the potential of the pumps they are operating. The main reasons
appear to be difficulties of management and water distribution problems, and
risk avoidance, i.e. limiting the risk of crop damage should the pump break
down. The group pays BADC Tk 1,000/year for a two-cusez pump--Tk 600 rental,
Tk 300 for a maintenance service and Tk 100 deposit. The pump is obtained
from one of BADC's 1,049 distribution points in January and returned after
the Boro season. The group is responsible for its own organization and pump
fuelling.
2.05      Since 1977 pump groups and individuals have had the opportunity
to purchase pumps. Only 61 have been sold, about a quarter of which to
groups. This performance contrasts with strong sales of shallow tubewell
pumping sets. The reasons for these small sales' numbers appear to be
farmers' distrust of the used pumps offered by BADC for sale, problems in
obtaining spare parts for which BADC has an import monopoly, high selling
prices compared with current rental charges and the cheapness of BADC's
repair service for its rental pumps.
2.06      WDB has a number of major irrigation schemes in which LLPs are used.
The most important are the IDA-assisted, Chandpur, Barisal, Muhuri and Kar-
nafuli Projects which, in addition to civil works, and the supply of pumps,
involve strengthening of government services and assistance to irrigation
farmers. Typically these projects consist of (a) empoldering an area and
installing primary pumping systems to control water levels, and (b) renting
LLPs to farmer groups for field irrigation from the controlled surface water
bodies. The schemes are largely independent of the BADC program.
B. Pump Requirements
Current Stock and Pump Life
2.07      In January 1979, BADC's stock of pumps was classified as service-
able (working) - 41,720; unserviceable (economically repairable) - 5,550 and
condemned - 7,550; total 54,820. Because of the need to maintain standby
stocks to cover breakdowns as well as logistic problems, only about 90% of
the serviceable stock can be fielded during the irrigation season.
2.08      Most pumps were purchased in the late 1960s - early 1970s.  Many
have been poorly maintained, subjected to poor quality fuel and oil,



-8-
maltreated during operations and often stored in the open without fuel and
oil tank caps during the wet season. Others have been damaged by serious
mishandling or discarded because of a continuing lack of spare parts. This
has resulted in 5-7% of stoDck becoming unserviceable or condemned annually
in recent years. It is estimated that in the future, without further invest-
ment, this rate would increase to 8-9%. It is estimated also that, because
of the above factors, maximum engine life is mostly around 6,000 hours
whereas a pump working under good conditions (pump-house, clean fuel, proper
maintenance, long hours, etc.) should have a life of about 10,000 hours.
2.09      Projections of the BADC pump stock for January 1984 show the stock
of serviceable pumps would fall to around 29,000 as many existing pumps become
condemned or unserviceable. This calculation assumes that before 1984 other
proposed projects financed among others by Kuwait Fund, ADB, Swiss Aid,
British Aid would provide ]3ADC with 5,860 new pumps and have 3,000 old pumps
repaired.
2.10      This decline in the number of serviceable pumps is expected because
BADC has shown that it is unable to carry out the preventive and remedial
maintenance necessary to maintain all of its pumps in reliable, running con-
dition. Although many staff are listed as mechanics, lack of training and
facilities, coupled with procedural problems in obtaining spare parts and
high staff turnover has limited the Corporation's ability to cope with all
its repair and maintenance tasks. GOB recognizes these limitations and
proposes to tap the private sector for handling a greater share of the
operation and maintenance task.
2.11      The 1984 need for serviceable pumps is estimated at 44,500 of which
90% or 40,500 would be fie:Lded. Assuming that current hydrological data are
complete any increase in fielding above 40,500 would require major civil works
to take water out of the main rivers to the agricultural land not adjacent to
them (para 2.06). Demand is expected to increase due to increased food and
fiber requirements, the continuing profitability of irrigation (para 6.10),
and the continuing resuscitation of small waterways and channels such as under
the proposed Small Scale Drainage and Flood Control Project and Bangladesh's
Food for Work Program.
2.12      The projected national shortfall between supply and demand of LLPs
in 1984 is therefore estimated at 15,000 pumps, of which the shortfall in the
project area is estimated at 8,000. The project appraised in this report
would provide 8,500 new LLI's for the project area thus meeting project area
demand and allowing the rebuilding of 5,000 unserviceable LLPs to be used
outside the project area.



- 9 -
C. Procedures
2.13      Farmers wanting to hire a BADC LLP form a group under the leadership
of a manager, generally a progressive farmer in the area. Pump rental appli-
cations are usually submitted in the August preceding the Boro season, but
closing dates are flexible. Each application includes the names and signatures
of all proposed participants, estimated area to be irrigated, a map showing the
proposed pumping site, and location and plot numbers of those to be irrigated.
In accordance with the Thana Irrigation Program (TIP), the manager obtains the
approving signature of the Union Parishad Chairman, and the application is
forwarded to the Thana Irrigation Team (TIT). 1/ TIT prepares a technical
feasibility report for submission to the Thana Approval Committee (TAC). 2/
TIT verifies that a minimum of 22.5 ac per cusec will be irrigated and that,
on the basis of crude hydrological data and recent experience, sufficient water
will be available at the proposed site. TAC considers the TIT report and as-
certains past performance, prior adherence to BADC rental rules, and extent of
arrears in short-term credit of the group. A scheme is provisionally approved,
if technical evaluation proves favorable, subject to repayment of at least 80%
of outstanding short-term loans. TAC recommendations are forwarded to the
District Approval Committee (DAC) 3/ which chooses the eventual recipients of
pumps in consonance with district-specific targets established according to
past fielding results, BADC serviceable stocks, and GOB plan targets.
2.16      The pump group is generally dependent on the entrepreneurial skills
and influence of the pump group manager to organize the group, process its
application, arrange transportation of the pump and supplies, hire and super-
vise a pump operator, and provide credit to group members for these and other
expenses until the end of the Boro season. Pump groups and command areas
vary in size, depending on the size of the pump employed, but seem to average
about 20 ac per cusec (ranging from 3 to 42). Annex A, Table 2 shows the
estimated present financial costs of operation of rented one- and two-cusec
pumps including allowances for managerial input, payments borne by the
manager, time-value of costs prepaid, and risk.
1/   Composition of Thana Irrigation Team:  Unit Officer, BADC, Thana Extension
Officer, Overseer, Thana Irrigation Scheme, IRDP; Section Officer DTW
(BADC); Thana Cooperative Officer.
2/   Composition of Thana Approval Committee:  Circle Officer, Development;
Unit Officer, BADC; Thana Extension Officer; Thana Cooperative Officer;
Section Officer, DTW (BADC); Thana Fisheries Officer; Thana Project
Officer, IRDP; Section Officer, Power Development Board.
3/   Composition of District Approval Committee:  Deputy Commissioner or
Additional Deputy Commissioner, Development; Executive Engineer (BADC);
District Agricultural Officer; Assistant Registrar of Coopertative
Societies; Project Director, IRDP; Assistant Director of Rural Develop-
ment; Subdivision Officer (Home Ministry); Executive Engineer (WDB);
Executive Engineer (Power Development Board); Executive Engineer (Rural
Works).



- 10 -
2.17      When the pump is released from BADC stores, the group must pay the
following fixed charges:
Capacity of LLP           Charge (Tk) Per Boro Season
(cusec)               Rental   Repair   Deposit
1    diesel          350      225        100
2     -do-           600      300        100
3     -do-           800      375        100
4     -do-         1,200      525        100
2    electric        600      300        100
For maintenance, BADC emplcys mechanics each of whom is expected to service
15 pumps during weekly visits to pump sites throughout the pumping period.
Spares and standby pumps are kept at unit or subunit distribution points.
During the off-season, mechanics clean pumps and replace worn out parts,
while major repairs are performed at zonal and regional workshops.
2.18      At the end of the season the BADC unit officer, in collaboration
with the responsible mechanic, prepares a completion report for each pump
scheme under his jurisdiction. This report covers such items as actual area
serviced by the LLP, number of participants, crops grown, fertilizer applied,
yields obtained, and fuel consumed.
D. Problems of the Low Lift Pump Program
2.19      While the LLP program meets a critical need by assuring an annual
production of an estimated 1.7 M tons of food grains; it has many deficien-
cies. Government is aware that changes are necessary in the organization,
management and policies of the program and intends to make these. Many of the
changes needed would be accomplished in the project proposed in this report.
2.20      The three principal concerns of Goverrment are that:
-    LLP life is too short (about 60% of potential) due
mainly to poor maintenance;
-    current pricing arrangements under the program recover
only a fraction of Government's costs (about 20% of the
costs of each LLP and its repair) with the consequence
that the subsidy involved is very burdensome; and
-    organizational arrangements of, and support for, farmer
groups need to be improved to ensure a fair share of
program benefits for smaller farmers and tenants.
Other concerns relate to the need to improve the overall institutional arrange-
ments for support of minor irrigation development, both low-lift pumping from
surface water sources and tubewells, and to develop the local manufacture of
diesel engines and other pumping equipment.



- 11 -
2.21      To tackle the three principal problems, Government intends to in-
crease rental charges (Annex C, para 7); to sell new one-cusec LLPs to farmers
and farmer groups (para 4.07); to involve the private sector in the import,
distribution, sale and repair of LLPs (para 4.36); and to switch to smaller
and more efficient LLPs (para 4.06). On the issue of the organization and
support for farmer groups, a review of current arrangements and an assessment
of needed changes would be carried out under the monitoring and evaluation
program (para 4.25). In addition, useful information should emerge from a
pilot program seeking to improve irrigation group efficiency and being
financed under the Northwest Tubewells and Extension and Research Projects
(Cr. 341-BD, Cr. 729-BD). Finally, it is proposed that the Government and
Association undertake a joint review of the basic institutional requirements
of the minor irrigation sector (para 4.27). The issue of the local manufac-
ture of diesel engines and pumping units is discussed in para 2.22.
E. Local Manufacture of Diesel Pumping Units
2.22      Currently all diesel engines for LLPs and other pumping purposes
are imported, although one manufacturer, the Government majority controlled
Bangladesh Diesel Plant (BDP), has been assembling imported West German diesel
kits since 1970 and will begin manufacture at end of 1979 of units with about
73% of value added locally. BDP has plans to produce 8,000 units in 1980 and
20,000 in 1981. Additionally, two local firms have, from time to time, manu-
factured pumps. Government is anxious that the dependence of its foodgrain
production on imported engines, pumps and spares should be diminished. It is
also keen to use the market offered by the agriculture sector for engineer-
ing products--primarily pumping equipment--as the basis for the development
of a domestic engineering industry. Indications are 4that the market for
diesel engined pumpsets, both new and replacement units, could be 25,000-
35,000 units annually by the mid-1980s.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
Location and Area
3.01      The project area comprises the five districts of Comilla, Noakhali,
Chittagong, Barisal and Patuakhali, including the ten thanas in the Chittagong
Hill Tracts where LLPs are used, and excluding the 13 thanas containing the
Chandpur, Muhuri, Karnafuli and Barisal Irrigation Projects (IPs). Comilla,
Noakhali, and Chittagong, contiguous districts in the southeast, are well con-
nected with Dacca by railways, roads and waterways. Barisal and Patuakhali,
contiguous districts in the south, are more remote; one road and waterway
provides access from Dacca and small water routes are used for internal
transport (Map 14185). The area of the five districts totals 7.3 M ac
(Comilla, 1.7; Noakhali, 1.2; Chittagong, 1.7; Barisal, 1.7; and Patuakhali,
1.0 M ac), representing 21% of the total area of Bangladesh. About 4.7 M ac
are cultivated of which about 0.9 M ac are irrigated (0.5 M ac by LLPs and



- 12 -
0.4 M ac mostly by traditional methods). The area irrigated by LLPs repre-
sents about 10% of the net cultivated area which is higher than the national
average of 7%. Moreover, the 1972 Land and Water Resource Sector Study 1/
indicated that the project area, particularly Barisal and Patuakhali Districts,
has potential for additional LLP fieldings. This potential has yet to be
fully realized. Hence, these districts have been selected for the project.
Climate
3.02      The project area has three main seasons:  (a) monsoon from June to
October, during which about 80% of annual rainfall is recorded; (b) dry season
from November to February, which has scarce rainfall and lowest temperatures
and humidities; and (c) pre-monsoon season from March to May which has the
highest temperatures and- evaporation rates with occasional heavy thunderstorms.
Annual rainfall varies from 90 in (Barisal) to 110 in (Chittagong). Cyclones,
originating in the Bay of Bengal in April-May and September-November, period-
ically cause severe damage to the coastal area.
3.03      Mean monthly temperatures rise steadily from 70 F in February to
850F in April, remain fairly steady around 90 F from May to October, and then
fall to a low of about 60 F in December to January.  Mean relative humidity
is high throughout the year--ranging from about 60% in February to 90% during
the rainy season (Annex B, Table 1). Evaporation ranges from 3 inches in
January to 6 inches in May.
Topography and Soils
3.04      The project area consists principally of level flood plains on the
mature delta (Barisal and Patuakhali), active delta (Comilla and Noakhali),
and coastal plains (Chittagong). A small area in the Chittagong hill tracts
is characterized by a succession of hills and valleys. Most of the soils
are flood plain soils, fine to medium in texture and generally suited for
paddy cultivation. With the exception of the hill tracts, the area is subject
to seasonal flooding, mostly by rain water during the monsoon season; the
area, however, requires irrigation during the dry season.
Farm Size, Land Tenure and Population
3.05      The 1960 Census of Agriculture reported that the project area had
an average farm size ranging from 1.61 ac in Comilla to 3.29 ac in Barisal,
compared with the national average of 3.12 ac. The project districts had a
total of 1.7 million farms with an average farm size of 2.20 ac (Annex B,
Table 2). At the time of the 1960 Census, about 70% of the farms in the
five districts were small (2.5 ac or less), 25% medium (2.5 to 7.5 ac), 5%
large (7.5 ac and over). Small farms accounted for 28.5% of total net culti-
vated area; medium farms, 43.5%; and large farms, 28%. Unfortunately, no
reliable, comprehensive information is available on changes in size distribu-
tion since 1960. However, there has been a relatively large increase in the
number of rural households compared with the increase in the cultivated area
1/   Bangladesh:  Land and Water Resource Sector Study Vol. VII Chapter IV.
IBRD Report No. PS13 December 1, 1971.



- 13 -
during the last 18 years. From this and local enquiries, it is estimated that
the current average farm size in project districts is 20% to 25% smaller than
in 1960. The Summary Report of the 1977 Land Occupancy Survey of Rural Bangla-
desh indicates that nationwide, owner-cultivators comprise 23% of all rural
households, owner-managers 38%, owner-cum-tenants 32%, and tenants 7%. While
no project area specific data are available regarding land tenure patterns,
sharecropping and land rental appear prevalent in southern Barisal and Patuakhali
Districts where ownership of large farms by absentee landlords is pronounced.
3.06      The 1960 Census of Agriculture also found that farms were heavily
fragmented; but not all fragmentation is disadvantageous or involuntary.
Given the unpredictability of rainfall and flooding patterns, cultivation of
various plots at scattered locations and at different elevations permits
reduction of risk of total crop failure and flexibility in cropping patterns,
and labor requirements.
3.07      Population.  The rural population density in the project area is
high, averaging 2,400/sq mi of net cultivated area and ranging from 1,675/sq
mi in Patuakhali to 3,170 in Chittagong Districts (about 3-5 people/ac of
net cultivated area). There is an abundance of agricultural labor during
most of the year, but localized, periodic shortages at times arise during peak
periods of agricultural activity, e.g. Aus and Boro harvest with Aman trans-
plantation.
Agricultural Practices
3.08      Cropping patterns vary with micro-climate, land elevation, and
annual flooding patterns. Paddy occupies 86% of cropped area in the five
districts; jute, 2%; and other crops including wheat, pulses, oil seeds,
spices, and vegetables, 12%. The overall cropping intensity averages 149%,
ranging from 124% in Patuakhali District to 159% in Comilla.
3.09      There are three paddy crops:  Aus, Aman, and Boro.  Aus, a crop
with a short growth period, is usually broadcast with the pre-monsoon rains
in March/April and harvested in July/August. Aman is either broadcast (B.
Aman) or transplanted (T. Aman) depending on flood depths and water avail-
ability. B. Aman, a floating rice with a 220-250 day growth period, is sown
about the same time as Aus and harvested in November/December. T. Aman, with
a 150-day growth period, is sown in June/July, transplanted a month later,
and harvested in November/December. Boro, cultivated with irrigation (mostly
by LLPs), is sown in December/January, transplanted one month later, and
harvested in May/June.
3.10      Of the three rice crops, Aman is the most important since it accounts
for 54% of the crop acreage (T. Aman 42% and B. Aman 12%) and commands higher
market prices because of its finer quality and preferred varieties. Because of
uncertain rains, disease, limited fertilizer use, and high degree of lodging,
yields of local Aus and B. Aman are low compared with HYV Boro and T. Aman.
Without reliable supplementary irrigation to overcome drought during flowering
and ripening stages, farmers are reluctant to invest heavily in fertilizer and
pesticides for T. Aman, either local varieties or HYV. Similarly, lack of
proper flood control and drainage hampers expansion of dwarf HYV Aman. The
Boro crop, however, encounters fewer natural hazards but depends on reliable



- 14 -
water supply. Accordinglyr, where fresh water is available during the dry
season, HYV varieties (e.g. IR-8), highly responsive to fertilizer, are grown
as a Boro crop. HYV Boro currently yields an average 35-40 md of paddy per ac
but is capable of much higher productivity with recommended fertilizer levels.
The most common cropping pattern in the project area is T. Aman followed by
HYV Boro, where irrigation is available, or by some rainfed Aus, if not.
Because of time constraint:, farmers can grow at most two paddy crops per year,
T. Aman and Boro or Aus and T. Aman. If B. Aman is grown, only one paddy crop
is generally possible. Dry season pulse and oilseed crops are also grown for
home consumption after T. Aman with residual soil moisture. B. Aman and jute
are important only in Comilla District and to a limited extent in Noakhali
and Barisal Districts. Generally, these crops neither require irrigation nor
follow irrigated Boro.
Surface Water Resources
3.11      There are two main surface water sources for dry season irrigation:
(a) the main Ganges-Brahmaputra-Meghna river system, and (b) ponds and other
streams. These other streams are the principal water source for the Chittagong
and eastern Noakhali Districts, while the rest of the project area lies on the
main river system. The interface of saline and fresh water moves northward
from the Bay of Bengal to the periphery of the project area during the dry
season (map 14184). However, in the peripheral area, farmers pump sweet
water above the salt water wedge and during high tides.
3.12      An estimated water balance sheet of the main river system for the
present (1978), medium-term (1984), and long-run (2000) is presented in Annex
B, Table 3. Against total. in-flows of 222,000 cusecs during the low-flow
month of March, estimated withdrawals in both India and Bangladesh would total
only 53,400 cusecs in 1978 and 58,600 by 1984. This indicates that during the
project's life, this project and others due to be implemented would have
negligible effect on the flow in the main river system. To prevent localized
overexploitaiton of surface water resources by LLPs, TIP has been and would
continue controlling the number and capacity of LLPs fielded and pumping
locations on the various branches of the river system (see paras 4.23-4.24).
Low-Lift Pump Irrigation
3.13      Introduction of small pumping units has been the key factor in
expanding dry season irrigation of Boro from 1 million ac nationwide in FY61
to about 2.7 million ac in FY78 (para 2.01), with resultant production of Boro
rice increasing from 0.145 M tons in FY61 to 2.24 M tons in FY78. The Boro
crop currently accounts for about 17% of total rice production compared with
5% in FY61. About 1.4 million ac are irrigated by LLPs, most of which are
supplied under BADC's LLP rental program; about 0.5 million ac of these are
located in the project area.
3.14      BADC Facilities.  BADC operates an LLP rental service in 82 of
the 86 thanas in the project area from 82 thana (unit) and 239 sub-unit
distribution points. During the 1977-78 season, 14,850 pumps were rented
(3,410 in Comilla; 1,190, Noakhali; 3,610, Chittagong, 4,550, Barisal; and
2,090, Patuakhali District:s (Annex B, Table 4)) involving the participation
of about 400,000 farmers.



- 15 -
3.15      Most of BADC's distribution points are rented facilities; these are
deteriorated and lack sufficient space and equipment for pump repair. Newer
workshops have been constructed in 50 of the 82 units, but these also lack
equipment and tools. BADC is currently establishing six zonal workshops and
two regional workshops to handle major repair work in project districts.
While some heavy workshop equipment is being installed, basic engine testing
and repair equipment is insufficient. BADC's transport in the project area
is also limited (about 40% was operational in 1978). Inadequacy of service-
able transport constrains movement of supervisory staff and mechanics, and
inhibits their effectiveness in gathering data for pump allocations, transfer-
ring pumps and spares, and servicing fielded LLPs (see paras 4.12-4.15).
3.16      BADC Organization and Staffing.  Six executive engineers (regional
level) of the BADC Mechanization and Pump Division (M&P) in the project area
run the LLP program. Except in Barisal, the BADC region corresponds directly
to district boundaries; Barisal District, however, is divided into two regions--
Barisal and Bhola Island. There are two superintending engineers (SE) respons-
ible for the project area: (a) the first at Comilla is responsible for
Chittagong Circle (project area regions of Chittagong, Noakhali and Comilla,
plus Sylhet); and (b) the second at Barisal is responsible for Barisal Circle
(project regions of Barisal, Bhola and Patuakhali, plus Khulna and Jessore).
The six regions in the project area are divided into 21 zones at which assis-
tant engineers are posted. Within the zones are 82 units (thanas) in which
unit officers are in charge. In units where the number of pumps exceeds 200
or in remote areas, subunits have been established. BADC engineers are
principal members of TIP committees at both the thana and district levels.
3.17      Almost all pump maintenance and repair is currently done at-site
or at distribution points. However, it is evident from the large number of
unserviceable and condemned pumps that BADC's maintenance and repair service
has been inadequate for the following reasons:
(a)  mechanics are poorly trained and are handicapped by lack
of transport facilities and proper tools.
(b)  spares are often not available;
(c)  thana facilities lack support from zonal and regional
workshops; and
(d)  staff lacks incentives and proper supervision.
3.18      Spare Parts and Fuel.  Spares are centrally procured and distri-
buted against indents submitted by field staff. The general lack of spares
at distribution points results from both limited resources and poor inventory
management. These problems are aggravated by the stock of many makes of engines
and pumps at each distribution point. Considerably more resources are cur-
rently being allocated for spares through bilateral aid, and with assistance
from UNDP/ ILO, standard inventory management procedures are being introduced.
The latter effort will be strengthened by consultants to be financed under
the IDA Technical Assistance Credit.



- 16 -
3.19      The majority of diesel fuel for pumpsets is supplied by BADC.  Fuel
shortages have been frequent, causing interruptions to pumping and subsequent
yield loss. The risk of fuel shortage is one of the factors causing farmers
to cover sub-optimal areas with their pumpsets.
3.20      Training.  Under the UNDP/ILO Project, BADC has begun effective in-
service training for project area mechanics at Chittagong and Barisal. Since
1977, BADC has run two-week courses for pump group managers and operators at
thana headquarters involving training for about 1,700 participants annually.
Instructors in these sessions are skilled foremen or head mechanics.
Agricultural Supporting Services
3.21      Ministry of Agriculture (MA) is responsible for agricultural research
and extension, and through BADC, for procurement and distribution of agricul-
tural inputs. The Ministry of Land Administration, Local Government, Rural
Development and Cooperatives (MLG & RD) oversees the Integrated Rural Devel-
opment Program (IRDP), cooperatives, and TIP. IRDP at present covers about
60% of the thanas in the project area.
3.22      Fertilizer Supply.  Over half the national fertilizer supply has
been imported in recent years. Although demand for fertilizer has grown
dramatically over the past 15 years (from 50,000 tons in FY63 to over
700,000 tons in FY78), present use remains significantly below recommended
levels. The project area accounts for about 32% of this total demand. BADC
distributes all fertilizer to thanas where it is retailed by private dealers
at fixed subsidized prices. To remedy supply deficiencies and to stimulate
local manufacture, GOB has taken action to recondition existing plants and
to construct a new plant at Ashuganj (Credit 527-BD). Additionally, to help
satisfy FY80 fertilizer requirements, IDA has approved a US$25 M Fertilizer
Import Program Credit, and the EC has granted a US$25 M Special Action Credit.
The problem of inadequate storage is acute but is being addressed through a
national program to construct 120,000 tons of storage (50,000 tons through
USAID).
3.23      Plant Protection.  BADC procures pesticides, and the Plant Protec-
tion Division of the Directorate of Agriculture (Extension and Management)
(DOAEM) handles storage, distribution, and application recommendations.
Before 1974, pesticides were supplied free which resulted in wasteful and
inefficient use. Since then, a 50% subsidy reduction has curtailed some
wastage, but farmers' knowledge about types, dosages, and use of pesticides
remains inadequate. Application of pesticides is not yet extensive, and
therefore supplies received through bilateral aid are considered adequate to
meet current and near-term demand.
3.24      Agricultural Research.  The Bangladesh Agricultural Research
Council has responsibility for research coordination. The Bangladesh Rice
Research Institute, in cooperation with the International Rice Research
Institute in the Philippines, conducts research on paddy improvement and
production techniques and provides training for extension staff and subject



- 17 -
matter specialists. 1/ The Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute (BARI)
specializes in other crops such as wheat, pulses, and oilseeds.
3.25      Agricultural Extension Services.  DOAEM, the principal agency deal-
ing with agricultural extension, fields about 750 extension agents within the
project area or on average one agent per 2,200 farmers. Through the years,
the extension service has proven ineffective because:
(a) its programs have been obsolete and diffuse;
(b) technical advice given often lags behind research findings;
(c) staff is handicapped by poor training, transport, housing,
and instruction materials; and
(d) extension workers are frequently diverted to non-agricultural
work (e.g. census and statistical reporting).
GOB has recently taken steps to strengthen its extension program. Among
these are progressive in-service training for extension officers and intro-
duction of the "Training and Visit" (T&V) system. GOB intends to replicate
countrywide the T&V system started under the Extension and Agricultural
Research Project (EARP)
3.26      Agricultural Credit.  Since 1971, GOB has attempted to expand agri-
cultural credit; however, institutional credit remains unavailable to the vast
majority of farmers. About 85% of agricultural credit is currently obtained
from non-institutional sources (money lenders, traders, friends, and relatives). 2/
The remaining 15% flows from agricultural credit banks (BKB, Bangladesh Jatiya
Sambaya Bank, and the six other nationalized commercial banks). To encourage
credit use, in 1977 GOB authorized a special credit of Tk 1,000 million for
farmers cultivating three ac or less at 12% interest. Additionally, under the
Second Technical Assistance Credit (Cr. 622-BD), IDA is financing a study to
review the agricultural credit subsector and recommend reforms.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
4.01     The principal objective of the project would be to ensure that suf-
ficient numbers of low-lift pumping units (LLPs), together with appropriate
1/   It has four substations for rice research, one of which is located at
Comilla.
2/   Source:  Bangladesh Bank, Agricultural Credit Study Project, Phase II
Report, Nathan and Associates, March 1978.



- 18 -
spares and supporting services, would be available to farmers and groups of
farmers to exploit the surl-ace water resources of the project area. By the
end of 1983, an estimated 1.9,000 LLPs are projected as being needed in the
project area excluding those required for existing or planned major irrigation
schemes. To ensure availability of the 19,000 units the project would finance
procurement of 8,500 new LLPs, the balance would be LLPs owned by BADC and
expected to be serviceable at that time. The project would also finance the
rebuilding of 5,000 existing but unserviceable LLPs that would be replaced by
the new units. These rebuilt LLPs would be deployed by BADC outside the
project area thereby meetirng in part the needs for LLPs of other areas of the
country.
4.02     By its actions the project would assure the continued provision of
suitable pumping capability to 10,000 existing farmers groups; permit the
establishment and equipping of an additional 3,500 farmers groups; and pro-
vide improved arrangements for the support and servicing of these groups.
4.03     Other important project objectives would be the introduction of
smaller capacity and more efficient LLPs, the introduction of a sales and
credit scheme for LLPs and, for the first time, the involvement of the
private sector in the distribution, sales and servicing of LLPs.
4.04     As the project would involve changes in existing policies that would
be both of a sectoral and project nature, a draft policy statement for the minor
irrigation sector has been prepared by Government and agreed with IDA at nego-
tiations (see Annex C).
B. Project Components
4.05     The project would involve:
(a) procurement of 3,000 two-cusec LLPs; each comprising a
10-12 hp diesel engine attached to a centrifugal or mixed
flow pump designecd to deliver a 2-cusec flow against a
total head of 30 ft;
(b) procurement of 5,5,00 one-cusec (nominal) LLPs; each com-
prising a 6-8 hp dliesel engine attached to a centrifugal
or mixed flow pump designed to deliver a 1.3 cusec flow
against a total head of 30 ft;
(c) procurement of spare parts and ancillary fittings for the
8,500 new LLPs, and spare parts needed to rebuild 5,000
existing but unserviceable LLPs;
(d) rebuilding 5,000 e!xisting but unserviceable LLPs;
(e) construction and equipment of new BADC workshops and pump
storage facilities;



- 19 -
(f) procurement of spare parts needed for existing LLPs in the
project area;
(g) supply of incremental diesel fuel for project LLPs;
(g) provision of transport for BADC field operations;
(i) provision of training facilities and training for BADC
and private sector pump mechanics and for pump operators
and pump group managers;
(j) implementation of water availability surveys and the
monitoring and evaluation of the project;
(k) initiation of a program of credit sales for LLPs involving
both BADC and the private sector; and
(1) review of the basic institutional requirements of the entire
minor irrigation sector.
The project would be carried out over the four years 1980 through 1983. The
principal Government agency involved would be BADC, see Chapter V.
C. Detailed Features
Procurement of 3,000 two-cusec LLPs
4.06     The 3,000 two-cusec LLPs would be required to replace 1,790 condemned
two-cusec units and to replace 1,210 unserviceable but repairable units. The
new units would be rented out to farmers' groups in the Comilla, Noakhali and
Chittagong Districts where most units operate at a total dynamic head of 28
ft. Existing two-cusec units are designed to pump against a 40 ft head and
thus are over-powered and wasteful of fuel. The new units would be designed
to pump against a 30 ft head and their 10-12 hp diesel engines would be lower
powered than the 16-18 diesels now employed. Engines would be manual start-
ing, four stroke, and with forced oil lubrication for all bearings and joints
with splash lubrication of piston pins. Pumps would be of mixed flow or cen-
trifugal design and would be flexibly coupled to the engines. The LLP unit
would be designed for outdoor operation and mounted on a sturdy trolley. The
average cost of a basic two-cusec LLP is estimated at US$1,700 including
duties and taxes.
Procurement of 5,500 one-cusec LLPs
4.07     Unserviceable two-cusec LLPs would be replaced by 3,787 new one-
cusec LLPs and the remaining 1,713 of the 5,500 new one-cusec units would
be provided to new pump groups. All 5,500 LLPs would be sold to individual
farmers or farmer groups, see Chapter V. The one-cusec LLPs would be sold
mostly in the Barisal and Paluakhali districts where the area irrigated by
existing LLPs exceeds 25 acres in only 10% of cases and where the average



- 20 -
total dynamic pumping head is only 19 ft. The existing two-cusec units are
grossly overpowered for such duties. Since some of the one-cusec pumpsets
would be used where the puLmping head is greater than 19 ft and to provide
flexibility for use with longer delivery pipes, the units would be designed
for a total dynamic head of 30 ft using 6-8 hp engines. The general specifi-
cations for the one-cusec unit, except for power, would be as for the two-
cusec units described in para 4.06. The average cost of a basic one-cusec
LLP is estimated at US$800 including duties and taxes.
Procurement of Ancillary 'ittings and Spares
4.08     Each LLP would be procured with a standard set of spares.  Ancillary
fittings would be procured separately for each LLP comprising 30 ft total
length of suction pipes and 4 ft of delivery pipe, a foot-valve, bends, and
fittings. Annex D, Tables 1 and 2 detail cost estimates for new LLPs proposed.
Including taxes and duties the costs are estimated at: Fittings, two-cusec
US$260; one-cusec US$220; standard set of spares two-cusec US$460; one-cusec
US$240. Spares would also be procured to permit the rebuilding of 5,000
unserviceable two-cusec LLPs.
Rebuilding of 5,000 Unserviceable LLPs
4.09     The project would include rebuilding of an estimated 5,000 unservice-
able, but economically repairable two-cusec LLPs. Once rebuilt, these LLPs
would be deployed elsewhere outside the project area according to BADC
requirements. It is estimated that 3,200 would replace unserviceable and
condemned LLP while the remaining 1,800 would be provided to new rental
groups. Annex D, Tables 3 and 4 present cost estimates of the rebuilding
program. Rebuilding costs, including taxes and duties on spares, would total
an estimated Tk 6,389 (US$412) per two-cusec pump, equalling about 24% the
cost of a new two-cusec LLP in 1979 prices (Annex D, Tables 2 and 3). As a
result, BADC would derive an expected four years additional life from this
equipment, 57% of the anticipated life of a new pump.
Construction and Equipment of BADC Workshops and Pump Storage Facilities
4.10     Currently there are 82 thana-level (unit) and 239 sub-unit distri-
bution centers in the project area from which BADC LLPs are released to
approved farmer groups and at which pumps are serviced and stored during the
off-season. Even though these facilities are intended to provide the first
line of defense for maintenance, only 50 thana-level outlets have separate
workshop facilities. Hence, they lack the equipment and tools needed for
satisfactory work. Most sub-unit distribution points are small, rented
godowns lacking adequate space for indoor pump storage and servicing. Conse-
quently, pumps are usually scattered outside and exposed to rain, sun, and
dust.
4.11     To strengthen BADC's servicing capacity, the project would include
construction of 50 additicinal thana-level and sub-unit storage and workshop
facilities. Reflecting pump requirements, the approximate distribution of
these new structures would be: Barisal (14), Patukhali (6), Bhola (8),
Chittagong (10), Noakhali (3) and Comilla (9). Each building would be about



- 21 -
25 x 80 ft with concrete flooring, corrugated iron roofing and siding in
the storage area, and concrete roofing and brick walls in the workshop and
office section. An estimated one acre of land would be required at each
site. Annex D, Table 5 provides cost estimates of workshop buildings includ-
ing land acquisition. Each unit is expected to cost about US$26,000 for
building and US$4,000 for land acquisition.
4.12     Country-wide, BADC currently operates 1,049 pump distribution points
(350 thana-level and 699 sub-unit level) at which minor repairs and routine
servicing are performed. In the project area an estimated 100 thana work-
shops lack the necessary tools and equipment for proper servicing and repairs.
Without improvement project investments in LLPs would be jeopardized, conse-
quently these deficiencies would be rectified through the provision of tools
and equipment listed in Annex D, Tables 6 and 7 and involving a cost of about
US$18,000 per workshop.
4.13     BADC is establishing six zonal units in the project area for engine
and pump overhauls. No zonal workshop is yet in operation; five are under
construction (Comilla, Brahaman baria, Barisal, Bhola and Patuakhali) and one
remains in the planning stage (Dohazari). These zonal facilities are expected
to be completed by the end of 1979. Insufficient provision has been made by
BADC for testing equipment for fuel injection systems and hand tools. These
would be provided through the project as specified in Annex D, Table 8 at an
estimated cost of US$46,000 per zonal workshop.
4.14     To rebuild engines and manufacture some spares, BADC is setting up
regional workshops. At present, such regional units are in operation only at
Chittagong and Dacca. Incremental equipment needs for these facilities are
similar to those for zonal workshops with the addition of valve seat refacers
and other rebuilding equipment. Under the project, the Dacca, Chittagong,
and Barisal regional workshops would be equipped as outlined in Annex D,
Table 9 at a cost per workshop of an estimated US$74,000.
4.15     Mechanics posted at thana-level and sub-unit distribution points
currently lack basic tools to perform proper servicing of LLPs at-site and
routine maintenance at station. This is a major factor in current poor
operating efficiency and premature unserviceability/condemnation of BADC
LLPs. To remedy this problem, field mechanics in the project area would be
supplied with a total of 1,000 toolboxes, each containing both metric and
British sizes. Proposed toolbox contents and costs are presented in Annex D,
Table 10. A unit cost of US$200 is estimated.
Procurement of Spare Parts for Existing LLPs in the Project Area
4.16      To improve availability of spares in the project area, an estimate
of spares needed during the project period has been made and funds for this
purpose provided under the project. Costs of spares average US$80 for each of
the 16,400 existing serviceable LLPs in the project area. Annex D, Table 11
summarizes estimates for workshop equipment, tool, toolboxes, and spares.



- 22 -
Procurement of Diesel FueL for Project LLPs
4.17      To ensure that project pumpsets would not be stopped through fuel
shortages, the project would meet the diesel fuel requirement for 13,500 new
and rebuilt one and two cusec LLPs during the four-year implementation period.
BADC would purchase dieseL oil from the Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation for
distribution to farmers. An assurance was obtained that GOB would make diesel
fuel available for project pumps over the four-year development period. It is
estimated that 190,000 bbl costing about US$8.5 M (@ US$33.60/bbl) would be
required for all project Ipumps.
Provision of Transport for BADC Field Operations
4.18      BADC transport in the project area consists of 50 units, only 22
of which are operating (8 inspection vehicles, 7 trucks and 7 tank trucks).
This is inadequate, and BADC staff are forced to resort to public transport,
often not easily available. As a result, farmer groups are often left to
their own devices, and BA)C's effectiveness is limited. Under a recently
approved financial grant from Switzerland, BADC mechanics nationwide will be
supplied with 3,500 bicycles to improve mobility for at-site maintenance 1/.
While these should alleviate transport difficulties for mechanics, supervising
officers would still face constraints. For officers posted at thana-level and
subunit distribution poinlts the project would include 249 small motorcycles
(90 cc) to be sold to staff on a "hire purchase" basis. Responsibility for
maintenance would rest with the owners who would receive monthly transport
allowances sufficient to cover these expenses. In thanas where water trans-
port is more convenient, lnits and sub-units would receive small outboard
motorboats. Several inspection vehicles (pickups, station wagon, inboard
motorboat, outboard motorboats) would be provided additionally for engineer-
ing and controller staff. To improve routine operation and servicing further,
the project would include 15 trucks, 10 tank lorries, a tugboat, two barges,
and spares. A detailed list of vehicles required and prospective recipients
is provided in Annex D, Table 12. Annex D, Table 13 gives cost estimates
for vehicular needs.
Provision of Training Facilities and Training
4.19      While all BADC lprofessional staff are required to have appropriate
qualifications from recognized technical and vocational institutes their
training often is limited in practical application. To correct these weak-
nesses, BADC, with external assistance, has begun an in-service training pro-
gram nationwide. Despite a number of problems the UNDP/ILO Bangladesh Pumps
Training and Maintenance Program, initiated in 1975, has proven quite success-
ful. The Program includes LLP and tubewell engine repair and maintenance
courses for BADC mechanic;s taught by four expatriate diesel training
specialists with counterpart staff of four BADC regional workshops. However,
training centers currently in operation have virtually no teaching aids or
1/   Agreement between the Government of the Swiss Confederation and the
Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh, signed September 14,
1978 under UNDP/ILO Project.



- 23 -
equipment/tools; and although attached to BADC workshops, programs have little
contact with workshop operations. Furthermore, living quarters and classrooms
are inadequate.
4.20      The UNDP/ILO Program is scheduled for completion in FY80.  The pro-
ject would continue the mechanics' training program and expand it. Training
centers at Chittagong, Barisal, and Dacca would be upgraded to process about
4,000 mechanics over the four-year project implementation period. Each center
would be provided with classrooms, training workshops, dormitory capacity for
60 trainees, teaching aids, and vehicles. Each training site would be staffed
with local personnel and an expatriate diesel training specialist while an
expatriate mechanical engineer would serve all three centers. Trainees would
receive a Tk 10 per diem allowance during each 90-day session. The contract
for the expatriate specialists, totalling 150 man-months and costing an esti-
mated US$9,000 per man-month, would include training of local counterparts
to take over full responsibility to continue the program after the expatriate
services have ended. During the transitional period of transfering the sales
program to privated dealers, special arrangements would be made to permit
private mechanics to receive training at the centers.
4.21      BADC is also currently offering mechanical training to pump group
managers and operators during the off-season. The syllabus covers basic
diesel engine operation and maintenance. Courses, lasting 10-13 days, are
taught by skilled BADC foremen or head mechanics. The program attempts to
train 6,000 pump group representatives per year at thana-level workshops and
adjoining Thana Training and Development Centers (TTDC). A Tk 10 per diem
is also provided to these trainees.
4.22      The project would expand the manager-operator training program to
reach an additional 15,000 participants over the implementation period.
One-month courses would be offered from July to September with about 20
students per batch. Equipment supplied to thana-level workshops would be
utilized for such classes. Annex D, Table 14 summarizes the total costs of
the project's training component: civil works, equipment, vehicles, and
technical assistance. Submission by BADC of a work program for the training
component, providing details of civil works, vehicles and equipment procure-
ment, and technical assistance, would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
Water Availability Survey
4.23      In many areas, expansion of LLP fielding is curtailed by limited
water resources. Based on crude hydrological data and rough estimates, LLP
fieldings nationwide can increase by no more than about 9% above FY78 levels
(36,700 pumps) without investment in civil works to enable multi-level pump-
ing such as under the Chandpur project, see para 1.18. _If Bangladesh is to
realize incremental LLP irrigation, a more systematic, comprehensive data
base must be established and geographical areas delineated where pumping may
be expanded and where already exploited water resources may be tapped more
efficiently.
4.24      Recently, BADC formed a Survey and Investigation Division at Dacca
to collect such data and estimate the maximum potential for LLP fieldings.



- 24 -
Although the Division has been staffed, it currently has no transport and this
limits its ability to undertake field investivations. The Division's work is
of great importance because it was established to act as the central support
unit for BADC participaticon on TIP committees approving LLP allocations. The
project would strengthen the Division by provision of consultarts, transport
and equipment. During the! first project year, all information available on
water resources and use would be collated and analyzed to determine data defi-
ciencies. Hydrological irnvestigations then would be made as required to esti-
mate pump fielding potential. These estimates would be updated annually to
reflect changing water source conditions and any incremental civil works. The
consultants, two water resources engineers and a legal specialist costing an
estimated US$360,000, would assist the division in the planning of the survey
including the preparation of duty descriptions for officers and preparation of
standard procedures for BADC field staff in determining the limit of fielding
to optimize water use in the region. Annex D, Table 16 presents cost estimates
of consultancy services, vehicles, and equipment for BADC's Survey and Investi-
gation Division. BADC has agreed with IDA on the Terms of Reference for the
three consultants.
Monitoring and Evaluation 1/
4.25      Under the project a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) unit would be
established within BADC to monitor the project's progress including evalua-
tion of its economic and social impact. This unit would be under the super-
vision of the Project Dire!ctor. An amount of US$150,000 would be provided
through the project for the M&E unit's activities. Its tasks could be per-
formed by unit personnel, or by a contracted independent development insti-
tute or private consulting; firm (or individual) as considered appropriate
by the Project Director.
Initiation of Credit Sales Program
4.26      BADC would be responsible fcr initiating the sales program of one
cusec pumpsets to individual farmers or farmer groups, on a cash or credit
basis. In the first year of project implementation, BADC would procure 1,500
one-cusec units (para 4.36) for the sales program. The units would be pur-
chased by farmers with cash or credit. The selling price would be not less
than 60% of the capital ccst of the pumpset (net of taxes and duties) which
would average about US$530 per set (i.e. equivalent to a subsidy of 40% of
the capital costs). In the second year of project implementation the sales
of pumps would be through private dealers who would be licensed to import
LLPs. Details of the sales program are given in Chapter V and procurement
discussed in para 4.36.
Review of Institutional Requirements of the Minor Irrigation Sector
4.27      BADC has the prime responsibility for the development of the minor
irrigation sector - basically through sponsoring and providing technical
1/   Draft Terms of Reference are presented in Annex I.



- 25 -
support for tubewell and low lift pumping. However, as discussed in para
5.01, BADC has many and varied responsibilities which are rapidly expanding
and creating heavy pressures on the Corporation's management. The growth of
BADC activities has tended to outrun its administrative capability and Gov-
ernment has ,s;ked IDA to finance, under the Third Technical Assistance Credit,
872-BD, consultants to help BADC improve the management and financial control
of its irrigation activities. IDA has agreed in principle to this and BADC
is seeking consultants. In addition, a thorough review of the basic institu-
tional requirements of the minor irrigation sector is required to ensure that
constraints in this area should not prevent the large and rapid expansion of
minor irrigation needed to meet Government's food production objectives. It
is proposed that GOB and IDA jointly undertake such a review patterned on the
recent, successful joint review of the Bangladesh Water Development Board.
It would be a condition of credit effectiveness that terms of reference and
a work program for the review, satisfactory to IDA, had been approved by GOB.
Should the need for additional investigation become apparent through the
review, further studies could be carried out using committed technical assis-
tance funding.
D. Implementation Schedule
4.28      Project implementation would require an estimated four years (July
1980 to June 1984). Detailed designs, layouts, and tender document prepara-
tion for workshops and training centers would be completed in the first year
and construction would begin in the second. Acquisition of workshop equipment
and tools would be phased with the workshop construction program. Most land
vehicles would be obtained by the end of the second year and most boats by the
end of the third. Expatriate consultants would be hired soon after implementa-
tion begins to avoid discontinuity with ongoing training programs (para 4.19).
The water availability survey (paras 4.23 and 4.24) would be started in the
first project year during which existing data would be systematically organized
and reviewed. The monitoring study (para 4.25), expected to continue through-
out project implementation, would also begin in the first project year during
which baseline information would be collected (Annex H).
4.29      A total of 4,500 LLPs (3,000 2-cusec and 1,500 1-cusec) and all
of the diesel fuel would be purchased immediately following IDA's approval
of the credit. Procurement of the remaining new pumps and spares would be
phased over the four years as required to reflect fielding needs. The LLP
sales program would begin in the first project year initially under the
auspices of BADC and later (second project year) through private dealers.
An implementation schedule was agreed during negotiations.
E. Cost Estimates and Financial Arrangement
Project Costs
4.30      Total project costs are estimated at US$48.0 M equivalent, including
about US$7.1 M of import duties and taxes. The foreign exchange component is



- 26 -
estimated at US$30.3 M or about 63% of the project cost. Cost estimates are
based on January 1980 unit prices. The major elements in project costs are
pumpsets (US$14.4 M); incremental diesel fuel requirements (US$9.2 M),
machinery, equipment, and tools (US$3.7 M); civil works (US$2.2 M), vehicles
and office equipment (US$2.3 M); rehabilitation of 5,000 old pumps (US$1.8 M);
spares for existing pumps (US$1.2 M); and training, studies and advisory
services (US$2.8 M), tota:Lling to a base project cost of US$37.8 M. The
advisory services would include provision of two water resources engineers
and a legal specialist to assist the Water Availability Survey. The consul-
tant services are estimated to require 36 man-months at a total cost of about
US$360,000. The average man-month cost (based on the individual's fees, inter-
national travel and local allowances) is expected to be about US$9,000 which
also includes provision for the cost of vehicles, local travel and some other
minor items. Addition of physical contingencies of about US$2.3 M and price
contingencies 1/ of US$7.9 M gives a total project cost of US$480.0 M. Esti-
mated project costs are summarized in the table below:
1/   Calculated assuming the following annual rates:
Item                   Annual Inflation Rate (%) 1980-83
Foreign Cost                            6%
Local Cost                             10%



- 27 -
Cost Estimate
% of
Total
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Cost
---(Taka Million)-- ---(US$ Million)---
(a)  Land Acquisition               2.5      -      2.5    0.2    -        0.2    1
(b)  Pumpsets, complete with
trolleys, pipes, fitting
and spares                    74.7   148.8  223.5    4.8    9.6   14.4   30
(c)  Rebuilding of 5,000
pumps and spares              23.2    24.1   47.3    1.5    1.5    3         6
(d)  Diesel fuel                   18.6   124.0  142.6    1.2    8.0    9.2   19
(e)  Civil works for Thana
workshops and training
facilities                    24.6     9.4   34.0    1.6    0.6    2.2    5
(f)  Machinery, equipment,
tools for workshops,
hand tools for mechanics
and spares                    19.6    37.7   57.3    1.3    2.4    3.7    8
(g)  Transport vehicles for
BADC field operation,
water availability
survey, training pro-
gram, and office
equipment (for training
and water availability
survey)                       18.8    17.5   36.3    1.2    1.1    2.3    5
(h)  Training, studies and
advisory services
(Training specialists,
water availability
survey specialists,
training of pump mech-
anics and operators,
and monitoring                18.0    26.5   44.5    1.1    1.7    2.8    6
Base Cost                    200.0   388.0  588.0   12.9   24.9   37.8   80
Physical Contingencies              9.1    26.8   35.9    0.6    1.7    2.3    5
Price Contingencies                65.3    56.8  122.1    4.2    3.7    7.9   15
Total Project Cost                274.4   471.6  746.0   17.7   30.3   48.0  100
Ia   The cost estimates include taxes and duties.  Small discrepancies are due
to rounding.



- 28 -
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures
Total Cost   1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84
------------     Taka Million---------------- -
(a)  Land Acquisition
Base Cost                          2.5         1.0       1.3       0.2       -
Physical contingencies             0.3         0.1       0.2        -        -
Price contingencies                0.7         0.2       0.4       0.1       -
Sub-total                    3.5          1.3       1.9       0.3      -
(b)  Pumpsets
Base cost                        219.8        11.0      88.0      87.9      32.9
Physical contingencies            17.3         0.9       6.9       6.9       2.6
Price contingencies               60 0         1.3      18.5      26.8      13.4
Sub-total                  297.1         13.2    113.4    121.6       48.9
(c)  Rebuilding of 5,000 pumps and spares
Base cost                         47.3         6.2      19.3      17.4       4.4
Physical contingencies             5.0         0.7       2.0       1.8       0.5
Price contingencies               13.4         0.9       4.5       5.9       2.1
Sub-total                   65.7          7.8       25.8    25.1        7.0
(d)  Diesel Fuel
Base Cost                        142.6       142.6
Physical contingencies             -           -
Price contingencies                -           -
Sub-total                  142.6       142.6
(e)  Civil Works
Base cost                         34.0         5.0      12.7      12.8       3.5
Physical contingencies             5.0         0.7       1.9       1.9       0.5
Price contingencies               11.3         0.8       3.5       5.1       1.9
Sub-total                   50.3          6.5     18.1      T9.8       5.9
(f)  Machinery, Equipment and Tools
Base cost                         57.3         2.9      25.8      25.8       2.8
Physical contingencies             3.9         0.2       1.7       1.8       0.2
Price contingencies               14.6         0.4       5.3       7.8       1.6
Sub-total                   75.8          3.5     32.8      35.4       4.1
(g)  Transport Vehicles &
Office Equipment
Base cost                         36.6         1.8      17.7      14.1       3.0
Physical contingencies             1.1         0.1       0.5       0.4       0.1
Price contingencies                9.9         0.2       3.8       4.6       1.3
Sub-total                   47.3          2.1     21.7       19.1      4.4
(h)  Training, Studies and
Advisory Services
Base cost                         44.5         7.8      12.4      12.3      12.0
Physical contingencies             3.3         0.6       0.9       0.9       0.9
Price contingencies               12.2         0.8       2.5       3.9       5.0
Sub-total                   60.0         9.2       15.8     17.1      17.9
Total                      746.0       336.1    146.6    166 2        97.1



- 29 -
Financing
4.31      The proposed IDA Credit of US$37.0 M proposed (covering 90% of the
total project costs, excluding taxes and duties) would finance 100% of foreign
exchange costs, and about 63% of local costs net of taxes and duties. GOB
would finance the balance of project costs of US$11.0 M equivalent (Tk 170.5
M) including taxes and duties, through annual budget appropriations made to
BADC, MA and Ministry of Finance as grants. As discussed in Chapter V BADC
operates basically as a Government department with its expenditures far exceed-
ing revenues. To ensure prompt provision of budgetary funds and hiring of the
required additional project staff, approval of the Project Proforma 1/by GOB
would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
4.32      Provision would be made for retroactive financing of purchases up to
US$7 M equivalent. This would cover IDA's share of the cost of the 3,000 two-
cusec and 1,500 one-cusec pumpsets, and their spaces and fittings, for which
procurement procedures are well advanced and for which payments may have to
be made ahead of Credit signing.
Procurement
4.33.     Civil Works (US$3.3 M). 2/  Project works (workshops, classrooms/
dormitories) would not be suitable for international competitive bidding (ICB)
because they would include relatively small, simple structures widely distri-
buted throughout the project area. Therefore, works would be carried out
under contracts let following local competitive bidding procedures satisfac-
tory to IDA.
4.34      Machinery, Workshop Equipment, Tools, Vehicles and Spare Parts
for Annual Repairs and Rehabilitation of Unserviceable Pumps (US$7.9 M) 3/.
These items would be procured through International Competitive Bidding TICB)
in conformity with Bank Group Guidelines. A preference limited to 15% of cif
price or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended
to local manufacturers in bid evaluation. Small off-the-shelf items costing
less than US$50,000 for each contract, which are either urgently needed or
not suitable for ICB, would be purchased through normal GOB procedures, which
are satisfactory to IDA. Such purchase would be limited to a total of
US$500,000.
4.35      Pumpsets and Accompanying Spares (US$16.8 M) 3/.  Three thousand
(3,000) two-cusec pumps with spares would be procured for BADC's rental schemes
to replace pumps which will become unserviceable and condemned during the pro-
ject implementation period. BADC's 1978 pump stock comprises 5 makes of about
1/   An internal GOB document, the approval of which is a prerequisite for
release of funds and authorization to hire staff.
2/   The amount includes land acquisition and physical and price contingencies.
3/   The amount includes physical and price contingencies but excludes taxes
and duties.



- 30 -
40,000 serviceable and unserviceable (but repairable) two-cusec pumps exclud-
ing electric units. In view of the large number of existing pumps and the
relatively small number to be procured under the project, BADC, in the interest
of standardization, would procure the 3,000 new units from suppliers of its
existing LLPs on the basis of competitive quotations. To expedite procurement
BADC had, at the time of negotiations (January 1980): (i) prepared a detailed
proposal for the procurement of these 3,000 LLPs together with a justification
acceptable to IDA, (ii) obtained firm quotations from the selected suppliers
together with evidence that the quotations were in line with competitive quo-
tations made recently by the suppliers to other customers, and (iii) drawn up
a draft contract satisfactory to IDA.
4.36      Procurement of the 5,500 one-cusec pumps for the sales program would
be on the basis of farmer's choice and be executed in two stages as follows:
Stage I. BADC would procure the first 1,500 pumpsets for sale to
farmers to establish the basis for farmer's choice when sales are
handed over to the private sector and in agreement with IDA, BADC/
GOB had selected 4 malkes of one-cusec pumpsets which are suitable
for use in the project aea. The selection was based on experience,
including text trials, obtained in Bangladesh with various makes
of equipment as well as on offers made in the course of recent
bidding exercises carried out by BADC. The sets selected meet
general specifications agreed with IDA and are from manufacturers
whose equipment has been used on a reasonably extensive scale in
Bangladesh or in countries with similar climatic and operating
conditions. The selected LLPs would provide a range adequate to
permit farmers to make a choice between relatively cheap and
heavy unsophisticated equipment used extensively in other coun-
tries in South Asia and the more expensive, sophisticated and
lighter, equipment that has been produced in the industrialized
countries in recent years. BADC has tended to favor the latter
equipment trading off the higher initial cost against expected
longer life and ease of handling. It is believed that many
farmers would prefer the initially cheaper equipment that lends
itself to maintenance by relatively unskilled mechanics and for
which many spare parts can be fabricated locally. The selected
suppliers/manufacturers have signified that they are prepared
to mount a sales familiarization campaign for their product in
the project area, and to develop a sales and service network in
the project area. Firm quotations which are satisfactory to IDA
has been obtained from the selected suppliers and a draft has
been prepared which is satisfactory to IDA.
Stage II. The selected private sector dealers for pumps of
approved makes would be licensed to import and sell the remaining
4,000 pumpsets required for the project. NADC would plan detailed
arrangements for Stage II in collaboration with potential dealers,
and in consultation with IDA. Guidelines for the Stage II arrange-
ments were agreed during negotiations. Key features are:



- 31 -
(i)  New manufacturers/dealers wishing to participate under
Stage II would be permitted to do so if GOB is satisfied
that it is necessary, e.g. to replace a selected dealer
or to permit participation by a new dealer offering an
attractive proposal. They would be required to meet the
conditions applicable under Stage I;
(ii)  Stage II procurement would take place in several tranches.
For each tranche approved dealers would provide to BADC a
detailed breakdown of the price at which they proposed to
retail pumpsets. "Quotas" under each tranche would either
be proportionate to each dealer's sales under the preceding
round of sales or the dealer's demand, whichever was less.
Price and quota proposals would be forwarded to IDA for
approval. Subsequent to IDA approval, BADC would approve
the issue of import licenses;
(iii)  Sales would only be made to individuals or groups having
secured approval of their proposed irrigation scheme through
the Thana Irrigation Program (TIP). Dealers would be
required to sell only against presentation of the approval
letter issued through the TIP. Dealers would retain two
copies of the letter which they would return to BADC and
the Unit Officer BADC for record. A dealer's continued
participation in the program would be contingent on their
satisfactory performance in this regard. This would ensure
that project pumpsets go to the intended beneficiaries.
4.37      Diesel.  The Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation (BPC) has sole res-
ponsibility for the importation of refined petroleum products and would procure
diesel for supply to BADC. In the present state of the oil market, and in
view of the limited volume of diesel to be financed under the proposed credit,
procurement under ICB would not be practicable. Procurement would therefore
be by negotiated contract, which would be cleared with IDA before signing.
To simplify procurement, and to obtain the maximum possible amount of diesel
under the Credit, procurement would be in one tranche early in the project.
However, GOB has given an assurance that the diesel requirement of project
pumpsets would be met through the four-year implementation period.
4.38      Documents for tenders for goods or works with over US$50,000 would
be submited for ex-ante review, for smaller tenders documents would be sub-
mitted for ex-post review. Proposals for the 3,000 two-cusec and first 1,500
one-cusec pumpsets have already been approved by IDA (para 4.34). Line and
quota proposals for the procurement of the remaining one-cusec pumpsets by
private dealers would be submitted to IDA for approval (para 4.35).
Disbursement
4.39      The proposed credit would be allocated as follows:



- 32 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated in   % of Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent       to be Financed
US$ M
1.   Equipment, vehicles
and materials                    22.0
(a)  directly                                     100% of foreign
imported                                    expenditures
(b)  locally manu-                                100% of local
factured                                    expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c)  other local                                  70% of local
procurement                                  expenditures
2.   Civil works and materials         2.7             90% of expenditures
3.   Diesel fuel for Project           8               100% of foreign
pumps                                            expenditures
4.   Training, Studies and             2.8             100% of expendi-
Technical Assistance                                tures
5.   Unallocated                       1.5
TOTAL            37.0
4.40      It is expected that disbursements would be completed by December 31,
1984, approximately six months after the end of project implementation. Dis-
bursements for all purchases and contract payments would be against full docu-
mentation. This would apply to pumpset procurement by private dealers who
would arrange letters of credit at a bank selected by GOB. The letters of
credit would be covered by IDA's "qualified agreement to reimburse" procedures
and disbursement would be against normal documentation. Annex F presents an
estimated semi-annual disbursement schedule.
Accounts and Audit
4.41.     Assurances have been obtained from GOB that:
(a) A separate account would be kept for all expenditures made
under the project and that this account would identify
individual categories under the expenditure items shown
in the detailed cost estimates in Annex E;
(b) The account would be audited annually; and
(c) GOB would annually send to IDA copies of audit reports
within six months of the end of each fiscal year.



- 33 -
Environmental Impact
4.42      The project is expected to have no deleterious effects on the
environment. In fact, the proposed water availability survey would assist
in water use management by providing a systematic basis for annually deter-
mining optimal pump fieldings. This exercise would examine surface water
exploitation for irrigation in relation to other uses and factors including
fisheries, navigation, and seasonal salinity intrusion.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Organization
BADC
5.01      Primary responsibility for carrying out the project would rest with
the Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC). BADC is a semi-
autonomous organization under the Ministry of Agriculture, established in
1961. Its purpose when created was to develop agriculture by supplying neces-
sary inputs such as fertilizer, seeds, low lift pumps and tubewells. It has
since grown into an organization employing about 22,000 employees, with an
annual budget of US$144 M. It administers Government subsidies and its annual
deficit is covered by the national budget. This system of budgeting has meant
that although it is a corporation enjoying autonomy in staffing, financing and
operating policies, it has tended to function as a Government department. BADC
is responsible for three IDA financed projects viz: Shallow Tubewells Project
(Credit 724-BD); Northwest Tubewells Project (Credit 341-BD); and Cereal
Seeds Project (Credit 410-BD). Its effectiveness in managing these projects
has been mixed. In the case of the seeds project implementation is 3-4 years
behind schedule but, performance is now adequate; in that of Northwest Tube-
wells, maintenance was fair but impaired by procurement difficulties early
in the life of the project and on inability to provide support to pump groups
formed around the deep tubewells financed under the project. Performance in
connection with the Shallow Tubewells Project again has been less than satis-
factory because of delays in procurement. For the latter reason rather spe-
cialized procurement arrangements have been designed for this LLP project.
5.02      The BADC is organized into five Directorates each headed by a Member
Director. The Directorate of Irrigation is responsible for: deployment and
maintenance of LLPs; supervising the installation of both deep (DTWs) and
shallow tubewells (STWs); some tubewell operation and maintenance; and for
the operation and maintenance of rental farm tractors 1/. The Directorate
is divided into three Divisions: Mechanization and Pumps (M&P), DTWs, and
STWs. Each has its own complement of staff, often down to the sub-thana level,
operating independently, though in some areas DTWs and STWs are under one
executive head. The M&P Division has a total staff of about 6,000.
1/   158 fielded in 1976-77.



- 34 -
5.03      BADC Organization and Staffing in the Project Area.  The operations
of the M&P Division in the project area are run by the six executive engineers
located at regional level. In all districts, except Barisal, the BADC region
corresponds directly to the district boundaries; Barisal District is divided
into two regions--Barisal and Bhola.
5.04      The executive engineers report to the Chief Engineer M&P at head-
quarters through a superintending engineer, but are answerable directly to
headquarters. There are two superintending engineers responsible for the
project area: one at Comilla is responsible for Chittagong Circle, comprising
the project area regions of Chittagong, Noakhali and Comilla, plus Sylhet;
one at Khulna is responsible for Barisal Circle, comprising the project area
regions of Barisal, Bhola end Patuakhali, plus Khulna and Jessore.
5.05      The six regions in the project area are divided into 21 zones for
which assistant engineers aLre responsible. Within the zones are 82 units
(equivalent to thanas) for which unit officers located at thana headquarters
are responsible. These unit headquarters are distribution points for pumps
and have maintenance facilities and staff. Where the number of pumps exceeds
200, or the areas are remote, sub-units have been established headed by sub-
unit officers responsible to the unit officer (para 3.16). Including the
staff associated with the zonal workshops, the total M&P staff in the project
area is 1,308. These are the staff working in the five districts outside
the Bank-assisted irrigation projects.
5.06      The tubewell divisions function independently of the M&P Division.
They have a different geographic spread and have different boundaries for
their organizational units. An executive engineer at Chittagong is respon-
sible for Chittagong and Noakhali Districts, one at Comilla handles Comilla
and Sylhet Districts, and another at Faridpur has Faridpur and Barisal
Districts. They have 111 staff, complementary to the M&P Division.
Project Management
5.07      A Project Director, of equivalent rank to a deputy chief engineer/
superintending engineer, has been appointed and would be responsible for the
financial and technical aspects of the project, reporting through the Chief
Engineer (Mechanical and Pumps) to the Chairman, BADC. He would be supported
by a project unit comprising 15 professional accounting and engineering staff
to keep project accounts and be responsible for coordinating implementation.
The unit would employ BADC headquarters services, such as the procurement
section, for specialist activities. The Project Director would be responsible
for all BADC irrigation engineering activities and staff in the project area,
both LLP and shallow tubewells, as well as for BADC workshops in the area.
He would also supervise the M&E unit to be established under the project.
BADC has sufficient numbers of suitably experienced staff in the project area
for field operations and, if necessary, would be able to draft in personnel
from other areas.
5.08      Under the project, improvements would be made in the staffing of
BADC's zonal workshops--not least to ensure the success of the LLP rebuilding
program. This would mean more the rationalization of use of existing BADC



- 35 -
staff than of employing additional personnel, see para 5.07. Under the proj-
ect, staffing of each of the five zonal workshops would be as follows:
1 Assistant Mechanical Engineer,
4 unit officers,
32 mechanics,
16 ancillary staff, and
8 storekeepers
IRDP
5.09      IRDP, an agency of the Ministry of Land Administration, Local Govern-
ment, Rural Development and Cooperatives (MLG & RD) is responsible for promot-
ing and supporting cooperatives. The level of IRDP involvement in rural areas
depends upon whether the thana concerned is an IRDP thana or not. About 250,
or 60%, of all thanas in Bangladesh are IRDP thanas and about 50 of the 86 in
the project area. In IRDP thanas a Thana Apex Cooperative Society (TCCA) is
established that acts as a union for its member primary societies, the KSS,
and for which it provides credit (through linkage with the nationalized com-
mercial banks), marketing and input supply services. TCCA receives technical
and financial aid from IRDP. In non-IRDP thanas, cooperatives exists, but are
supported in a much less intensive way by the Cooperative Department of MLG &
RD. It is Government's current intention that ultimately the TCCA/KSS system
should become the standard for the whole country. In IRDP thanas pump groups
can be either TCCA/KSS or TIP/KSS.  The TIP/KSS is registered with the thana
cooperative officer solely for the season for which the pump is allocated to
the group. On the other hand, the TCCA/KSS is a permanent farmers' coopera-
tive that, in practice, is usually engaged in activities in addition to the
rental of pumps.  As most KSS are organized on a village basis they may have
within them two or more pump groups. TIP/KSS are formed in non-IRDP thanas;
there, the role of the TCCA/KSS is undertaken, albeit rather ineffectively,
by village multi-purpose cooperative societies that are linked through 62
central cooperative banks to the national cooperative bank, SBJB.
5.10      No immediate changes are foreseen for the IRDP and MLG & RD coopera-
tive organizations as a consequence of the project.  Similarly, no changes are
proposed in pump group organization. However, with the proposed change to
LLP sales, the adequacy of the present systems of pump group support needs
examination, not least to determine their ability to protect the interests
of smaller farmers and tenants and to provide credit for those groups that
need it. The adequacy of present arrangements would be examined under the
studies described in paras 4.24 and 4.27-4.28; and needed changes discussed
with the Government at the conclusion of the studies.
B. LLP Sales and Rentals
5.11      For the reasons discussed in para 2.21, Government would sell the
one-cusec LLPs procured under the project to individuals and groups prepared
to purchase them. The sales scheme would be operated in parallel with the
rental of both two-cusec LLPs, including those procured under the project,



- 36 -
and the one-cusec LLPs now in BADC stock. At the same time rents would be
adjusted upwards, see para 5.14. BADC would be responsible directly for
selling the 1,500 new one-cusec LLPs that would be imported under Stage I
of project LLP procurement. For Stage II, involving 4,000 one-cusec LLPs,
sales would be undertaken by private sector dealers. Two cusec pumps would
not be sold since Government fears that without the control that BADC could
enforce as owners of these units, their sale might lead to the establishment
of "water-lords". However, the situation would be kept under careful review
and a change of policy cannot be excluded particularly if the monitoring and
evaluation study indicates that such adverse developments on any significant
scale are improbable. One-cusec pumps now in stock also would not be sold
because their mechanical condition could result in maintenance problems for
their owners.
Approval of LLP Schemes by the TIP
5.12      Pumpsets would only be rented or sold to groups or individuals
whose schemes had been approved under existing TIP procedures. Priority for
rental or sale would go first to existing groups, secondly to new groups
and last to individuals. Scheme approvals would stipulate the pumping site,
the maximum area to be irrigated and, in the case of individuals, the maximum
area farmed by the individual that may be irrigated. To provide a sound basis
for approving schemes for incremental pumps, all existing information on
water sources and pump groups would be assembled and evaluated in project
year 1. The need for legislation to strengthen GOB's ability to manage the
water resource would be examined in the water availability survey (para 4.23
et seq).
LLP Rental Rates
5.13      The LLP program involves substantial subsidies to the agriculture
sector. First, the rental rate is inadequate to amortize the capital cost
of LLPs and fittings--it covers about only 15% of the initial cost net of
duties and taxes and financial charges. Second, repair charges meet only
about 51% of spares' costs, net of duties and taxes, and none of BADC's
overhead. The real cost of the subsidy is thus in the area of Tk 210 M
annually (US$13.6 M equivalent). Government recovers some of this subsidy,
about Tk 19.1 M annually, from taxes and duties levied on diesel and lubricat-
ing oils used by LLPs, about 16% and 20% of the final prices of the two items
respectively.
5.14      Toward a long-term goal of total elimination of subsidies, rental
rates would be doubled under the project: from Tk 600 to Tk 1,200 annually
for two-cusec LLPs, and from Tk 350 to Tk 700 for one-cusec units. These
measures would increase the level of recovery of the initial cost of an LLP
including fittings (typically US$1,780 for a two-cusec unit and US$890 for a
one-cusec unit) from about 15% to about 29%. The doubling would be carried
out on a gradual basis to minimize any adverse impact on productivity. The
Government has prepared a program, acceptable to IDA, for doubling rental
rates by September 30, 1981 and an assurance was obtained that it would
be implemented.



- 37 -
LLP Purchase Prices
5.15      The average one-cusec LLP including fittings is expected to cost
about Tk 15,228 ex-BADC store in the project area. The price is made up a
Tk 12,510 cif price, Tk 1,467 representing the 15% custom duty on foreign
cost, and Tk 1,251 (10% of cif cost) to cover internal transport, handling
and overhead. To make a sales program viable, some subsidy on pump sales
would be required to allow the sales program to compete with ongoing sub-
sidized rentals. Annuities and repair costs under pump purchase arrange-
ments would not need to equal rental and repair charges under the BADC
rental program since additional benefits are derived from pump ownership.
Some of these benefits include risk avoidance, elimination of annual pump
transport costs from the BADC distribution unit to the pumping site, use of
pump/engine for other agricultural and for non-agricultural purposes, avoid-
ance of extra-legal payments incurred under the rental program, and LLP
salvage value. Examination of the question of appropriate subsidy level for
LLP purchase has been carried out by (a) quantifying those costs incurred
with pump ownership (downpayment, annuities, full repair charges 1/ inclu-
sive of taxes and duties) and those saved with avoidance of rental (rental
charge, repair charge to BADC, pump transport costs), and (b) determining
the level of annualized, aggregated, secondary benefits that would equate the
present values of cost and benefit streams (discount rate used: 12% p.a.),
assuming various subsidy levels. Costs and benefits common to the rental and
purchase cases were not included. Results of this analysis are graphed in
Annex F, Figure 1.
5.16      Taking account of all the above factors, the sales program would
be started with a 40% subsidy on the tax and duty free price of the LLP, i.e.,
the typical one-cusec LLP costing Tk 13,700 delivered would be sold for a cash
price of Tk 8,200. Under such a sales system effective cost recovery would
exceed 60% if adjustments are made for revenues stemming from the consumption
of fuel and lubricants. If these are taken into account cost recovery rises
to 74% and to 80% when adjusted for duties and taxes levied on LLP spares.
This compares with the maximum calculated recovery on rentals that is esti-
mated, with the doubling of rental rates, to be 37.5%. Sales prices would be
reviewed each July (at the end of each Boro season) and such desirable adjust-
ments in the sales price as may be agreed with IDA would be introduced. As
the thrust of Government policy is to help small farmers and the development
of cooperatives and group activity, particular attention would be paid to the
level of purchases made by individuals, and generally the more wealthy members
of rural society. The program, and particularly sales to individuals and
subsidy levels, would be reviewed annually with IDA beginning January 1,
1981. Assurances covering these issues were obtained during negotiations.
Financial Ability of Farmers to Purchase Pumps and Pay Jiigher Rental Rates
5.17      The farm income benefits of using LLPs are described in para 6.10.
The analysis indicates the proposed doubled rental rates can be borne. In
1/   Owners would be free to utilize BADC or private facilities and would
pay full cost of such repairs, para 5.21.



- 38 -
a typical pump group the additional cost would be about Tk 17.5 (US$1.13)
per acre irrigated, whereas the incremental net farm income obtained from
irrigating an acre is estimated at Tk 610 (US$39.4). Assuming that the same
typical pump group purchased its one-cusec LLP using credit on standard
terms, see para 5.18, the annual cost per acre additional to current rental
rates would be Tk 100. It is believed that the benefits of irrigation are
such that farm incomes under the doubled rental rate would remain adequate
to ensure the participation of the bulk of project farmers in the LLP rental
program. It is expected also that the income generated by using purchased
LLPs would more than compensate for the increased annual cost inherent in
purchasing an LLP.
Credit Arrangements
5.18      A program of medium-term credit would be established through the
nationalized commercial banks (CBs) and the Cooperative Banking System for
the purchase of LLPs by creditworthy farmers and farmer groups. This program
would make available credit on the following terms: For TCCA/KSS: (a) a
downpayment of 10%; (b) repayment by ten half-yearly installments at 13%
interest and with a six-month grace period; and (c) collateral to include the
pumpsets and a land with joint and several liability. For other cooperative
societies, groups and individuals: (a) a downpayment of 20%; (b) repayment
by ten half-yearly installments at 12% interest and with a six-month grace
period; and (c) collateral requirement for the pumpsets and may include land
security. The terms favor the TCCA/KSS. Their higher interest rate is in
line with present practice and reflects the services provided to members.
An assurance covering these features of the credit program was obtained during
negotiations.
Pump Maintenance Procedures
5.19      The field staff of the M&P and tubewell divisions of BADC would be
amalgamated under the project. The project would therefore be responsible
for the maintenance of both pumps and tubewells.
5.20      BADC would continue to be responsible for maintenance and repair
of rented LLPs. Under the sales program, spare parts would be sold by BADC
at cost to pump purchasers. Pump owners would be free to choose maintenance
services of their choice, either BADC's or private facilities. Until the
private sector was able tc provide an adequate spares supply, BADC would
operate as wholesalers for spare parts.
5.21      BADC would run down the number of its regularly employed field
mechanics consistent with the development of private ownership and sales and
spares activities. Mechanics released are expected to move into the private
sector in a manner similar to that in which 36,000 pump drivers (technical
operators) left BADC service two years ago. From about Year 3 of the project,
the private sector is expected to have taken over much of the maintenance and
repair (M&R) activities in Comilla, Noakhali, and Chittagong Districts. In
Barisal and Patuakhali Districts, however, problems of remoteness and diffi-
cult transport would probably mean that BADC would have to remain responsible
for (M&R) services for a longer transitional period.



- 39 -
5.22      During the four years of the project, BADC workshops including
those financed under the project are expected to be fully utilized. Beyond
that time the situation is less clear and will depend upon the level of sales
of LLPs and degree of participation by the private sector in LLP sales dis-
tribution and repairs. It is assumed that if workshops become underutilized
BADC would sell or lease them to the private sector.
VI. PRODUCTION, PRICES, FARM INCOMES AND COST RECOVERY
Cropping Patterns
6.01      Introduction.  Through the project, 8,500 new LLPs would be provided
and 5,000 unserviceable units would be rebuilt. Of the total 13,500 project
LLPs, about 9,990 would replace existing pumpsets that are expected to become
unserviceable and to be condemned; these would have a total capacity of
16,200 cusecs. The balance of 3,510 LLPs would permit new irrigation; these
units would have a total capacity of 5,300 cusecs. As a result, assuming 20 ac
per cusec, an estimated 323,900 ac would be affected by the replacement pro-
gram and 106,000 new ac would be irrigated through new installations (see
Annex A, Table 3).
6.02      Replacement Program.  Farms affected by the replacement program
comprise a total net cultivated area of 637,000 ac of which about 324,000 ac
are currently irrigated with LLPs. A total cropped area of 1,147,000 ac at
present yields a cropping intensity of 180% (Aus 10%, T. Aman 100%, Boro 50%
and other crops mainly pulses and oilseeds 20%). Without pumps, there would
be no irrigation, and cultivation of HYV Boro would not be possible. Instead,
farmers would have to revert partially to low yielding, rainfed Aus. This
would reduce the intensity of land use to about 150% (Aus 30%, T. Aman 100%
and other crops 20%) as summarized in Table 6.2.  There probably would be a
slight substitution of HYV T. Aman for local T. Aman, but this would not alter
the overall cropping intensity, as shown in the following table.  The With
Project Case in Table 6.2 would be achieved in 1984 after completion of project
implementation (see Annex G, Table 3).



- 40 -
Table 6.2 Present and Future Cropping
Patterns (Replacement Program)
Area ('000 ac)
P           W            W
1.   Paddy
Aus                            61         194           61
T. Aman (local)               590         548          548
T. Aman (HYV)                  47          89           89
Boro (HYV)                    324          -           324
Subtotal               1,022         831        1,022
2.   Other Crops
Pulses                         61          61           61
oilseeds                       64          64           64
Subtotal                 125         125          125
Total Cropped Area                1,147         956        1,147
Net Cultivated Area                 637         637          637
Cropping Intensity %                180         150          180
6.03      Newly Irrigated Farms.  Farms with newly irrigated land would
cover a total net cultivated area of 208,000 ac. With a total cropped area
of 313,000 ac, present cropping intensity is 150% (Aus 30%, T. Aman 100%, and
other crops 20%). Through the project, about 106,000 ac would be irrigated
with new and rebuilt LLPs and sown to HYV Boro. This would increase the
cropping intensity to 1802 (Aus 10%, T. Aman 100%, Boro 50% and other crops
20%) as shown in Table 6.3:



- 41 -
Table 6.3: Present and Future Cropping Patterns
(Farms to be newly irrigated)
Area ('000 ac)
P                        w
1.   Paddy
Aus                             64          64           20
T. Aman (local)                193         179          179
T. Aman (HYV)                   15          29           29
Boro (HYV)                      -           -           106
Subtotal                 272         272          334
2.   Other Crops
Pulses                          20          20           20
Oilseeds                        21          21           21
Subtotal                  41          41           41
Total Cropped Area                  313         313          375
Net Cultivated Area                 208         208          208
Cropping Intensity %                150         150          180
Yields and Production
6.04      Estimated present crop yields in the project area are presented in
Table 6.4.
Table 6.4: Present Crop Yields
mds/ac            Equivalent tons/ac
Paddy
Aus                        14                         0.52
T. Aman (local)            16                         0.60
T. Aman (HYV)              30                         1.12
Boro (HYV)                 37                         1.38
Other Crops
Pulses                      6                         0.22
Oilseeds                    7                         0.26



- 42 -
6.05       Estimated present and future production levels based on the crop-
ping patterns above and present yields are summarized in Table 6.5. The With-
Project Case is reached in 1984 after completion of project implementation.
Table 6.5: Present and Future Production Levels
('000 tons)
Replacement             Newly
Program       Irrigated Area          Total
P    W    W    P       W      w   p        w      w
1. Paddy
Aus                        32  101   32   33    33    10         65  134      42
T. Aman (local)           396  368  368  130   121   121    526  489    489
T. Aman (HYV)              52   99   99   17    32    32         69  131    131
Boro HYV                  447   -   447   -       -    146    447   -        593
Subtotal          927  568  946  180   186   309  1,107  754  1,255
2. Other Crops
Pulses                     16   16   16    5       5      5      21   21      21
Oilseeds                   14   14   14    5       5      5      19   19      19
Subtotal           30   30   30   10    10    10         40   40      40
6.06      Present paddy production totals 1,107,000 tons, and without the
project this would be reduced to 754,000 tons.  The project would not only
safeguard the present Borc production level but would also enable production
of an additional 146,000 tons of Boro, thereby increasing the paddy output
from 754,000 without the project to 1,255,000 tons with the project, giving
an incremental project-related production of 501,000 tons.
Marketing
6.07       The marketing system in Bangladesh is largely traditional.  Most
growers dispose of portions of their crop before or immediately upon harvest
because of (a) need for cash; (b) inability to hold grain in storage;
(c) crop loan obligations; and (d) tenancy crop division arrangements. Such
farmers often have to buy grain later at higher prices for family consumption.
However, only 2-3 million tons of foodgrain, about 20-25% of national produc-
tion, actually enter commercial markets, and private traders handle about
80% of such trade. Traders buy grain principally at primary daily and local
weekly markets. Farmer cooperatives have been officially encouraged to market
paddy and engage in rice milling, but so far, such efforts have not been suc-
cessful. Government foodgrain procurement in the past has often been resented
by farmers when procurement prices have been below the free market level. To
rationalize the system, Government policy was re-oriented after FY75 to
emphasize (a) incentive pricing, (b) management of supply and distribution to
promote food price stability, and (c) food subsidy reduction. However, only



- 43 -
585 procurement centers operate nationwide, and farmers often have to sell to
middlemen at lower prices to acquire needed cash or to avoid time-consuming
transactions at distant and congested procurement centers. In absolute terms,
Government procurement has remained small, averaging about 3% of national
production. Through the FY77 season, GOB procured only Aman paddy and rice,
but in FY78 it began to purchase Aus and Boro paddy and rice at base support
prices the same as for Aman. Since FY79 foodgrain production was below levels
recorded in FY78. The Aman crop currently provides about 80% of domestic
procurement, Aus 10%, Boro 6%, and other grains 4%. Although procurement
centers operate in every district, greatest success has come from surplus
districts--Dinajpur, Rangpur, Bogra, Rajshahi, Patuakhali, Mymensingh, and
Sylhet.
Prices
6.08      GOB provides guaranteed support prices for paddy and wheat, the
current procurement price for each being Tk 105 per md with an additional
Tk 5 per md to cover transport to procurement centers. Because of weaknesses
in the official procurement machinery, paddy farmgate prices have demonstrated
volatility and at times have dipped below procurement prices. Current pro-
curement prices are considered reasonable and if enforced effectively, provide
adequate incentives to cultivators. These prices, however, must be reviewed
continually to ensure adequate incentives in light of rising input prices
and GOB's strategy to stimulate agricultural productivity. Paddy prices used
in financial analyses represent FY79 average prices derived from project
area-specific and crop-specific farmgate data. These prices conform reasonably
with national averages and official prices when adjusted for quality differ-
entials. Production of other crops such as pulses and oilseeds is small and
mostly for home consumption. Because of the residual nature of the market,
pulse and oilseed farmgate prices have oscillated considerably. The financial
prices for pulses and oilseeds employed in the following analysis represent
four-year national annual averages (see Annex G, Table 1).
6.09      Fertilizer and pesticide prices used, except for urea, are subsi-
dized levels current at the time of appraisal (December, 1978). The urea
price approximates the black market rate. Prices for other inputs such as
animal and human labor are based on prevailing project area-specific prices.
To isolate the project impact from changes in nominal prices of inputs and
outputs, a single set of prices, expressed in constant FY79 terms, has been
used to estimate present, with, and without project returns (Annex F, Tables 5
and 6).
Farm Incomes
6.10      The impact of the project on farm income was analyzed for three
different farm models: 1 ac, 3 ac, and 7 ac of which portions would be irri-
gated through the LLP programs. Because of data scarcity on non-farm and
other agricultural income, only crop production activities have been con-
sidered. Size-specific cropping patterns have been incorporated, but for
input requirements and yields obtained, constant returns to scale have been
assumed. Net farm income levels, therefore, are a function of respective
cropping intensity, extent of cultivation of each crop, and on-farm labor



- 44 -
self-sufficiency. A relatively minor difference was the assumption that the
small farmer would have to resort to non-institutional sources for credit
needs (see Annex F, Table ; 6/). Hired labor requirements have been estimated
assuming peak monthly family labor availability of 40 man-days. Estimated net
income, therLfore, includes remuneration to family input of labor and manage-
ment. 1/  The following summarizes farm income from Annex F, Table 6 and also
provides information concerning the percent of farms and cultivated area in
the five project districts represented by the three model farms.
Net Farm Estimates
One         Three      Seven
Acre Farm Acre Farm Acre Farm
Number of Farms Represented (%)  /a            68.3        25.8        5.9
Cultivated Area Represented (%) /a             28.5        43.5       28.0
Projected Net Farm Incomae (Tk) on those
farms not in LLP program or losing
access to serviceable LLPs                1,222       2,859      3,832
Project Net Farm Income (Tk) on farms
in LLP program with doubled rental
charges                                   1,830       4,723      6,523
Incremental Income (Tk)                       608       1,864      2,691
/a   See Annex B, Table 2.
Impact on Government Budget:
6.11      With initiation of an LLP sales progam and a higher rental rate
structure, GOB's subsidy of the LLP subsector should decline substantially.
Specifically, GOB would have to purchase and service fewer pumpsets, and
revenues would increase from higher rental charges and higher cost recovery
from pump sales and spares.  To illustrate the impact of these structural
adjustments introduced under the project, the following two tables attempt
to set out in general terms, first, the levels of GOB receipts and expendi-
tures that could be expected for the 13,500 project pumps were the existing
regime of rentals and rates maintained over the project life, and second,
those anticipated with higher rental rates and LLP sales. As may be observed,
the net deficit estimated lor project-associated LLPs would drop by about
Tk 141.9 M. GOB revenues over the project term would increase by Tk 32.0 M,
and expenditures would decline by Tk 109.9 M.
1/   No estimates of farm income were made for the Present Cases since farm
income under Present Case A (land currently under irrigation) would
approximate that under the With Project Case, and that under Present
Case B (land currently without irrigation) would be similar to income
under the Without Pro-ject Case.



- 45 -
Existing LLP Rental System and Rates
(M Tk)
Expenditures                             Receipts
New LLP Purchases (8,500)    158.7          Rental Charges (13,500)   38.1
Purchase of Spares              24.7        Repair Charges (13,500)   21.0
LLP Rebuilding (5,000)          27.0        Fuel Taxes                   36.3
Overheads                      143.1                                     95.4
353.5
Net Deficit:  258.1
LLP Sales and Doubling Rental Rates
Expenditures                             Receipts
New LLP Purchases (4,500)    103.7          Rental Charges (8,000)       49.2
Purchases of Spares             16.7        Repair Charges (8,000)        12.8
LLP Rebuilding (5,000)          27.0        Fuel Taxes                   42.5
Overheads                       74.2        Payments for Spares
Subsidy on Privately                          Purchased from BADC          3.0
Sold LLPs (4,000)             22.0        Taxes on Spares (4,000)       7.5
243.6        Principal Payments for
Purchased LLPs (1,500)  12.4
Net Deficit:  116.2                                                      127.4
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
7.01      The project's principal benefit would be the maintenance of produc-
tion levels on farms served by the 9,990 LLPs that would be replaced under the
project and the increase in foodgrain production that would be generated for
farms to which irrigation would be introduced by installing 3,510 LLPs for the
first time. As discussed in Chapter VI, net production that would be foregone
by 1984 (the end of the project development period) were the 9,990 LLPs not
replaced would amount to 378,000 tons of paddy, and the net incremental pro-
duction obtained through the 3,510 units would be 123,000 tons of paddy.
Based on a projected rice import price (in 1979 US$) of about US$295 per ton
(see Annex G, Table 2), the annual gross foreign exchange value of the produc-
tion of 378,000 tons of paddy protected is estimated at US$72.5 M and the FE
value of the incremental production stemming from new and rebuilt LLPs,
US$23.7 M. Net of foreign exchange costs for imported recurrent inputs, for-
eign exchange savings would reach about US$78 million. The foreign exchange
benefits of the project are considered conservative since incremental pro-
duction from pump use in other than the Boro season has been excluded. 1/
1/   Farmers can use pumpset to drain fields (Aus) and to irrigate during
end-season droughts (Aman).



- 46 -
Employment Opportunities
7.02      The project would generate incremental annual employment of 7.1 M
man-days in on-farm work at full development, and protect against the loss of
21.6 M man-days. (Annex F, Table 1). About 26% of this employment would
represent hired labor. Through secondary effects, the project would enable
off-season use of privately owned engines/pumps in agricultural and non-
agricultural activities (e.g., rice milling, transportation) with additional
labor needs. Private ownership would likewise give impetus to development of
a small-scale pump servicing industry within the rural sector, heretofore
curtailed by public ownership and servicing. All this would tend to relieve
prevailing unemployment and underemployment.
Economic Analysis
7.03      The Bangladesh economy would realize an economic rate of return from
total project investment inclusive of physical contingencies of over 100%. A
sensitivity test for the case of a simultaneous occurrence of a cost overrun
of 25% and 25% shortfall in net benefits shows that the rate of return would
still exceed 40%. The economic analysis employs the following basic assumptions:
(a)  Project Life.  Project implementation would span a four-
year period. New rented pumps would have an expected life
of seven years; rebuilt rented pumps, four years; and
purchased pumps, ten years. The project life would, there-
fore, be fourteen years, i.e. the four-year implementation
period plus the 10-year life of LLPs sold in the fourth
year.
(b)  Prices.  For internationally traded goods, farmgate prices
employed were derived from projected 1990 world market
prices expressed in 1979 currency values. Appropriate
adjustments were made for freight, handling, and quality
differentials. For other agricultural produce, prices
are based on the historical ratio between prices and
paddy prices. For non-tradeable services such as han-
dling, processing, and transportation, a standard con-
version factor cf 0.75 was applied to reflect the pre-
vailing regime of taxes and quotas. To adjust for
seasonal unemployment/underemployment and peak period
labor shortages, farm labor requirements were valued at
seasonally adjusted economic wages ranging from 50-123%
of the annual average market rate (see Annex G, Tables 1
and 2).
(c) Benefits. Projected crop benefits were estimated assuming
average conditions in the project area. Economic benefits
(and costs) associated with the 5,000 rebuilt two-cusec
pumpsets are based on avoidance of costs (and benefits)
of new units. Although additional benefits would arise
through increased use of privately owned pumps, in both
agricultural and non-agricultural pursuits, only incremen-
tal benefits from Boro cultivation were considered. In



- 47 -
terms of pump use efficiency, an average of 20 ac were
assumed irrigated per cusec. Foodgrain benefits represented
99.3% of the present value (PV) of the Base Case incremental
project benefit total. The remainder included unexpired
economic lives and salvage values of investments. Salvage
values for tools, equipment, and vehicles were calculated
at 10% of original value. Unexpired economic lives were
computed using straight-line depreciation (see Annex G,
Table 3).
(d) Crop Production Costs. Per ac input requirements assumed
are provided in Annex E, Tables 3 and 4. Crop production
costs equalled 72.8% of PV of total incremental project
costs (see Annex G, Tables 3 and 4).
(e) Investment and O&M Costs. All investment costs except
price contingencies, land acquisition cost, and taxes
and duties were included in the economic analysis. Land
acquired for workshops was valued at agricultural produc-
tion foregone. Direct O&M costs included fuel, pump
transport, management input, and other costs directly
related to LLP irrigation. Indirect O&M costs comprised
of incremental BADC overheads.  Net investment costs repre-
sented 15.1% of PV of total costs; direct O&M, 11.1%; in-
direct O&M, 0.6%; and land value, 0.1% (see Annex G, Tables
3 and 4).
(f) Administrative Costs. Administrative expenses (BADC, IRDP,
and CBs) to execute the pump sales program were assumed
equal to about 2% of the capital cost of sord units. This
minor cost equalled 0.3% of PV of total costs (see Annex G,
Tables 3 and 4).
(g) Phasing of Benefits/Costs. To reflect realistically the
incurrence of economic costs and generation of benefits,
both have been phased on a quarterly basis over the project
life. 1/ Further assumptions regarding implementation are
specified in Annex G, Table 3.
7.04      The principal reasons for the high viability are:
(a) Avoidance of civil works. Unlike tubewells, LLPs require
no time-consuming, costly drilling and pipe installation.
1/   When phased in the traditional, 12-month format (assuming simultaneous,
end-of-period cost and benefit generation), the economic rate of return
(ERR) to project investments was 36% higher than that derived with
quarterly phasing. This is to be expected in projects with capital
costs low relative to recurrent costs (see W. Schaefer-Kehnert, The
Phasing of Inflow and Outflow in Farm Cash Flow Projections, EDI
Course Notes CN-8, June 1978 and Annex 6, Table 4).



- 48 -
(b)  Fast implementation with no learnin  period.  The project
would be implemented in four years and would reach peak
production in five. Bangladeshi farmers understand well
the use and efficacy of LLP irrigation, and the bulk of
project LLPs wouLd be replacements. Pumps/spares were
assumed to be procured and rebuilt one year prior to
fielding.
(c) High sunk costs for 5,000 rebuilt LLPs. 1/
(d) Addition of a full HYV crop in production cycle. Provision
of irrigation permits growers to substitute an HYV Boro
paddy crop for a large portion of higher risk, lower yield-
ing Aus (see Annex D, Table 1).
Project Beneficiaries and Distributive Impact
7.05      About 324,000 rural households 2/ would have their existing access
to irrigation facilities assured through project investments, and a further
106,000 households would be provided with such access for the first time
enabling increases in their family incomes of 50% or more. Initiation of
private pump ownership would probably allow intensification of use of LLPs
and their engines thereby generating incremental output and stimulating addi-
tional employment. Private pump ownership is also expected to give impetus
to small-scale, village-based servicing industry enabling better LLP mainte-
nance and producing beneficial effects for users of other small-scale capital
equipment (sprayers, tillers, STWs, HTWs, etc.). These secondary benefits,
however, have not been included in the economic analysis of the project.
7.06      The poverty target group in Bangladesh comprises that segment of the
population in the lower 40' per capita GNP percentile. According to recent
estimates (1973-77), individuals in the absolute poverty group (rural areas)
earn less than US$90 per annum. About 50% of the rural poor are classified
as landless or near landless with the balance operating sub-subsistence hold-
ings. While some tenants and sharecroppers are expected to participate in
pump groups under the project, the bulk of project beneficiaries are
anticipated to be landowning farmers. Nevertheless, about 30-40% of project
beneficiaries would fall within the poverty target group.
Project Risk
7.07      There are few risks attached to investing in replacement and addi-
tional LLPs. This is indicated by the results of the analysis described in
earlier paragraphs and confirmed by the sensitivity analysis below and, very
importantly, by farmer demand for LLPs. This situation is not surprising since
1/   When these sunk costs (unexpired income lives) were included as a sen-
sitivity test, the Base Case net PV dropped by 3%. The Base Case ERR
declined by 18% but still remained above 100%.
2/   Assuming an average of one irrigated acre per household.



- 49 -
dry season (Boro) irrigation in Bangladesh permits an additional crop in a
country where land pressure is extremely high, foodgrain shortages are a
permanent fear, and where labor is in over-supply and consequently cheap.
Nevertheless, farmers are conscious of cash costs and past experience tends
to indicate that quite small adverse changes in prices (e.g., in the paddy
procurement price) can have a depressive effect on the number of LLPs utilized
in the affected season. This occurred in FY77 when the numbers of pumps
fielded dropped to 28,360 from 36,380 in FY76. Consequently, it is important
that GOB maintain its incentives at suitable levels--a situation that appears
to exist at the present time.
7.08      The major innovation in the project is the proposal to sell LLPs
to farmer groups and individuals. While it is believed that this development
will be welcomed by the farming community, the proposed sales of 5,500 units
must be considered as a pilot operation the outcome of which cannot be pre-
dicted with certainty. Should the sales program prove unsuccessful or proceed
more slowly than anticipated, it may be necessary to field some of these units
on a rental basis. Such a decision would be made only in the event that a
well designed and managed sales program had been implemented and had failed.
7.09      Sensitivity tests were made to assess the impact of variations in
incremental cost and benefit streams on the project's viability. Switching
values (SV) 1/ for individual and total cost and benefits streams are pro-
vided in Annex G, Table 4. While an opportunity cost of capital (OCC) of
12% has been assumed throughout the analysis, SVs were also calculated at
lower and higher discount rates (10-16% p.a.). A plot of PVs for total cost
and benefit streams against various discount rates is presented in Annex G,
Figure 1. In addition, a locus of all possible SVs for aggregate costs and
benefits 2/ is provided in Figure 2. A rectangle has been inserted into the
locus to demarcate the most conservative combinations of cost overruns and
benefit shortfalls considered possible in the project. The SVs demonstrate,
and the figures illustrate, the large amount of shock the project can bear
and still retain economic viability. Assuming that each combination of cost
overrun and benefit shortfall within the rectangle has an equal likelihood of
occurring, the probability of project non-viability is about 11%. However,
since extreme cases of cost overruns and benefit shortfalls are considerably
less likely, the actual probability of non-viability would be much less.
7.10      To demonstrate this resilience, the Base Case was altered to in-
corporate a disaster every four years beginning with the first cropping year.
It was assumed that the disaster (cyclones, floods, hail, etc.) always strikes
immediately after the Boro harvest so that while crop benefits are zero, all
costs are still incurred. The SVs, PV plot, and SV locus are presented in
Annex G, Table 4, Figure 3, and Figure 4 respectively. Since this test was
equivalent to a 20% shortfall in benefits (see Figure 2), the project remained
highly attractive and able to absorb further negative impact.
1/   Switching value is the percentage change which reduces the net PV to zero
at a specified discount rate, e.g., the opportunity cost of capital.
2/   OCC = 12% p.a.



- 50 -
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      The following major assurances were obtained:
(a) GOB would make diesel fuel available for project pumpsets
over the four-year development period (para 4.37);
(b) GOB would double LLP rental sales by September 30, 1981
according to a program acceptable to IDA (para 5.14);
(c)  GOB, together with IDA, would review the results of the
sales program and subsidy levels semi-annually beginning
January 1, 1981 (para 5.16); and
(d)  GOB would, by June 30, 1980, in consultation with IDA,
formulate and establish a program for sales of LLP in
conformity with guidelines agreed with IDA (para 5.16).
8.02      Conditions of credit effectiveness would be that:
(a) a work program for the training aspects of the project
providing details of civil works, technical assistance
and vehicle and equipment procurement, satisfactory to
IDA, had been approved by GOB (para 4.22);
(b) the terms of reference and a work program for the review
of the institutional requirements of the minor irrigation
sector, satisfact:ory to IDA, had been approved by GOB
(para 4.27); and
(c)  the project proforma had been approved by GOB (para 4.31).
8.03      With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable
for an IDA credit of US$37 M on standard IDA terms. The borrower would be
the Government of Bangladesh.



ANNEX A
Table 1
BANGLADESH
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
Fielding of Low Lift Pumps by BADC (FY61-FY79)
Average      Area Irrigated       Total Area
Number of Pumps    Cusec          per Cusec           Irrigated
Years (FY)   in Operation      per pump         (Acres)             (Acres)
1961           1,267             n.a.            n.a.              64,528
1962           1,555             n.a.            n.a.              73,922
1963           2,024             1.70            38.5            .133,043
1964           2,477             1.85            34.1             156,751
1965           2,239             1.95            30.0             132,262
1966           3,420             2.05            24.6             173,512
1967           3,990             2.14            26.4             225,105
1968           6,558             2.08            23.3             317,903
1969          10,852             1.89            20.7             430,052
19,70         17,846             1.84            19.6             642,752
191l          24,483             1.85            18.3             889,800
1972          24,243             1.84            19.4             883,941
1973          32,917             1.84            20.3           1,218,766
1974          35,343             1.84            20.1           1,330,810
1975          35,534             1.86            20.0           1,300,507
1976          36,382             n.a.            n.a.           1,313,576
1977          28,361             1.86            20.9           1,101,210
1978          36,730             1.87            20.2           1,391,669
Source: Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation.
51



ANNEX A
Table 2
BANGLADESH
LOW-LIFT PULMS PROJECT
Costs of Operation of Rented One- and Two-Cusec Pumps
(in Taka)
One-Cusec Pump                 Two-Cusec Pump
Rent                                   350                            600
Repair Charge                          225                            300
Pump Transport                         300                            300
Subtotal         875                          1,200
Pump Operator (4 months)             1,600                          1,600
Diesel (4 barrels)                   1,760    (6 barrels)           2,640
Diesel Transport                       100                            150
Oil (10 gallons)                       460    (12 gallons)            552
Contingency (10%)                      392                            494
Subtotal       4,312                          5,436
Total          5,187                          6,636
Per Acre Cost (+ 20 ac)                259        (- 40 ac)           166
Management Expenses 1/                  50                             38
309                           204
1/ Mission estimates to include managerial input, extra-legal payments to
obtain inputs and services, and time value of costs prepai4,   risk.
52



LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
Project Pumps, Cusecs, Area Irrigated, and Incremental Production
Type of      Number      Number           Area       Net Cultiva-         Total        Net Paddy
Project Pump CIa~ssficaton          pump       of pumps   of Cusecs   irrigated 1/  ted Area 2/            Cropped         Production
Area (W) 3/   (W-W) 4/
'000 ac         '000 ac           '000 ac          000 tons
A. Rep1"cerment Program
1. ;eo pulilps replacing unservi-   1-cusec       3,787         3,787          75.7         149.0              268.3            88.3
ceables in. project area          2-cusec      1,213        2,426           48.5          95.4              171.8            56.5
2. New pumps replacing condemned
un_ts in Droject area             2-cusec      1,787        3,574           71.5         140.6              253.1            83.4
3. Rebuilt pus.ps replacirg
unserviceables/condemned units
outside project area              2-cusec      3,205        6,410          128.2         252.2              454.1           149.5
Subtotal                                       9,992       16,197          323.9         637.2            1,147.3           377.7
B. New Pump Fieldings
1. New pumps in project area         1-cusec      1,713        1,713           34.3           67.4             121.3            39.9
2. Rgebuilt pur.ps out-
side project area                 2-cusec      1.795       3,590            71.8         141.2              254.2            83.7
Subtatal                                       3,508       5,303           106.1         208.6              375.5           123.6
Total                                         13,500      21,500           430.0         845.8            1,522.8           501.3
1/   at 20 ac per cusec                                                                                                                               0 
2/   Boro covers on average 51% of net cultivated area on project farms                                                                               mx
3/   in With Project Case, cropping intensity of 180% assurad
'~/  Yie ~ds per acr,e: (a) Bor,a: 1.,38 tons; (b) Aus: 0.'_ tors.      Azan p:oduction remains the same,W to *W.  For each acre of
Ba-o g:own, fu.rmers forego .41 ac Aus; therefore for each ton boro paddy produced, farmers forego .155 tons Aus paddy.



IA)W 1.1 F  PiNIP PRo iE ICT
Clii,. ctic Data
It ers                            Jail      t'eH      Ms crli,    Ap  1        ay      IuIs     J3aly      KMuust       'Spi        Oct       NoV        Dee        'Total
Rainfall (ill)
Comilla 2/                        0.J        0.7        2.8         4.3       10.9    20.5        21.8       16.8        11.8       8.5        1.9       0.3         100.6
Noakhali 3/                       0.4        1.0        2.6         7.2       11.8    20.5        22.4       21.3        14.0       7.7        1.8       0.3         111.0
Chlttagong 3/                    0.4       0.8         2.2         4.5       10.4    22.3        25.4       22.7        12.6       8.7        1.5       0.6         112.1
Barisal 3/                        0.6       0.6         1.5         3.3        7.6    16.9       17.0        16.8        11.7       8.5        1.2       0.2          86.0
TemperatLre (') 4/
Maxiwum
Comlilla                          88         94         100         100       100      100        96         99          97         98         92        90
Noaktrali                         90        100          96         100       101       96        97         93          99         98         91        89
('hittagong                       89         91          96          96        98       94        99         92          94         95         92        88
Barisal                           87        93          102         106       101      104       99          99         94          93         99        89
ComnilIa                          40         46          50          65        65        70       71         71          71         68         44        48
Noakiali                          48        47           50          64        65       64        71         70          70         68         57        50
Ch it tagolig                      57        48          58          63        65        70       73         71          72         69         57         50
l1arisal                          45        46           55          60        65       70       65          72         62          65         54        47
Me an
CouijI la                         64         70          75          82        82       85        83         85          84         83         68'       69
Hoakilahi                         69         73          73          82        83       88        84         81          84         83         74        69
Clrittagong                        73        69          77          79        82       82        86         81          83         82         74        69
Barisal                           66        69           /8          83        83       87       82          85          78         79         76        68
llurid ity (7.)
Colil ila                         71         72          75          78        81       85       87          85          83         82         78         79
Noakhali                          79         77          76          79        82       87       88          89         88          86         81        82
Chittagong                        67         65          67          72        76       84       85          85          84         81         72        71
Barisal 1/                        76         74          74          74        74       83       87          85         83          79         75        78
1/  Applicable to Pat,takhali districL which was formerly a part of Barisal district.,
2/ 10 year average - 1965-1974.
3/ 20 year average.
_/ 10 year average - 1965-1974.
-n SOURCE:  Metrological Departme-nt, Governu.lent .f Biangladesh.



ANNEX B
Table 2
BAN4GLADESH
LOW LIFT PUMIP  PROJECT
Size Distribution of Farms
Comilla        Noakhali       Chittagong      Barisa-1 /    Bangladesh
Size Intervals (ac)          District       District          District      District        Total
Number of Farms
0.00  -  0.50                 23             24               28             14             13
0.51  -  1.00                 20             21               13             11             11
1.01  -  2.50                 33             31               28             27             28
2.51  -  5.00                 17             15              .19             26             26
5.01  -  7.50                  4              5                6             11             11
7.51  - 12.50                  2              3               4               7              7
12.51  - 25.00                  1              1                2              3              3
25.01  - plus                                          -                       -
TOTAL         100            100             100             100            100
Number
Total ('000)                  592.8          324.7            265.6          507.7        6,139.0
Cultivated Area
(Z)
0.00  -  0.50                  3              3                2              1              1
0.51  -  1.00                  7              7                3              2              2
1.01  -  2.50                 30             24              20              12             13
2.51  -  5.00                 32             26              29              25             27
5.01  -  7.50                 14             14               16             18             20
7.51  - 12.50                 10             12              14             19              19
12.51  - 25.00                  4             10               10             16             14
25.01  - plus                   -              4                6              7              4
TOTAL         100            100             100             100            100
Area
Total area ('000)             955.6          578.7            537.8        1,672.7       19,138.1
Average Farm Size (ac)          1.61            1.78            2.02           3.29           3.12
Source: Agricultural Census 1960.
i/
Includes Patuakhali district which was formerly a part of Barisal District.
55



ANNEX B
TabIe 3
BANGLADESH
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
SURFACE WATER BALANCE SHEET
Main River System - Inflows and Use
----------- Year -----------
1/  1978         1984         2000
A. Inflows into Bangladesh - Lower Quartile in March-
Brahmaputra river system                      136,000
Ganges river system                            68,000
Meghna river system                            18,000
Total                                 222,000 Cusec
B. Withdrawals
(i) In Bangladesh
Low Lift pumps 2/                                   14,000         16,000       22,000
Low lift pumps with major works 3/                        -         3,000        3,000 +
Gravity systems (WDB)                                2,000          2,000        2,000 +
Tubewells                                               400           600          600 +
Traditional irrigation methods 4/                     7,000                      7.000
Subtotal                                         23,400        28,600       34,600
(ii) In India (estimates)5/
Farakka barrage diversions                          30,000         30,000       30,000
Irrigation expansion
- Ganges plain                                                               30,000
- Brahmaputra plain                                                          20,000
Subtotal                                         30,000        30,000       80,000
Total Withdrawals                                53,400        58,600      114,600
C. Inflow Remaining (%)6/                                  168,600       163,400      107,400
(76%)         (74%)        (48%)
1/  Mean from records up to 1970.  From World Bank's Land and Water Resources Sector
Study Volume VII Water Section IV B.                   1978           1984         2000
2/  Expected number of pumps t:o be fielded               37,731        40,000       42,000
Number of these on the major river system            29,000         31,000       33,000
Abstraction rate (cusec)                             58,000         62,000       66,000
Estimated average length of pumping day (hrs)              6             6            8
Average abstraction rate over a 24 hour period   14,000             16,000       22,000
3/  Chandpur Irrigation Project                    1,200 cusec
Barisal Irrigation Project:                    1,800 cusec
3,000 cusec
4/  Yission estimate - Imillion acres under  iltivation bv traditional methods 50% from
rain river system. Required 7,000 cusec assuming at 2L hour irrigation day.
5/  1972 estimates from World Bank's Land and Water Resources Sector Study, Volume "IT
Water, Section VII D.
6/  A minimum of 40% is required for fisheries and navigation.
56



ANNEX B
Table 4
BANGLADESH
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
BADC Fielding5of Low Lift Pumps by District FY74-FT78
FY74       -M5,          FY76      FY77        FY78
Eastern Region
Chittagong                             2,712       3,162       3,263       3,108       3,611
Chittagong hill tracts                   318         333         303         259         281
Noakhali                               1,055       1,146       1,183       1,068       1,187
Comilla                                3,322       3,577       3,348       3,151       3,407
Sylhet                                 3,516       3,858       3,583       3,490       3,790
Subtotal                        10,923      12,076    11,680        11,076      12,279
Central Region
Mymensingh                             5,293       5,661      1,830        1,201       1,584
Kishorganj                              '                     3,860        3,600       3,973
Tangail                                  913         980        853          651         922
Dacca                                  3,330       3,770      3,658        2,944       3,347
Subtotal                         9,336      10,341    10,201          8,396      9,826
South West Region
Faridpur                               1,441       1,660      1,485          946       1,598
Barisal                                5,209       3,772      4,489        2,162       4,554
Patuakhali                             1,959       1,163      2,134        1,005       2,094
Khulna                                 1,362         986        946          653       1,007
Jessore                                  581         588        536          485         695
Kustia                                   260         339        371          450         524
Subtotal                        10,812       8,508      9,961        5,701      10,472
North West Region
Pabna                                    729         857        831          571         664
Rajshahi                               1,487       1,558      1,543        1,341       1,618
Bogra                                    692         837        835          549         680
Rangpur                                  832         937        950          504         868
Pinajpur                                 332         420        381          223         324
Subtotal                         4,072       4,609      4,540         3,188      4,154
TOTAL                                 35,343      35,534    36,382        28,361      36,731
Source: BADC
57



ANNEX C
Page 1
BANGLADESH
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
POLICY STATEMENT
1.        The Government of Bangladesh has from time to time reviewed its
policies with respect to the irrigation sector and institutional support
therefor. The objective is to derive full benefits from current and future
investments in the sector through optimization of both area coverage and
cropping patterns. Simultaneously, emphasis has been laid on giving maximum
access for small farmers and sharecroppers to the benefits of irrigation.
2.        Investment in irrigation presently covers the following:
(a)  Hand pumps, irrigating one third (paddy) to half of an
acre (wheat), are meant for farmers with very small
holdings and low capital base.
(b) Shallow tubewells are attractive to farmers with above
average or large holdings, who own them individually or
in the same family. Under these circumstances, there
may also be sale of water to other farmers in the vicinity.
Ownership of shallow tubewells by cooperatives of small
farmers is also being encouraged through preferential
sales (10% down payment for cooperative as against 20%
for individuals) and credit support.
(c)  Low lift pumps and deep tubewells with much larger
coverage are meant to benefit farmers of all categories
within respective command areas. Under Bangladesh land
holding patterns, medium or even large land holders seldom
own all their larnds in one compact block. Therefore, if
the command area is optimized, all classes of farmers
should benefit.
(d) Medium and large irrigation like the Ganges-Kobadak
Project, Chandpur Irrigation Project or Barisal Irrigation
Project obviously cover all farmers in the project area.
3.        Hand pumps and shallow tubewells are already privately owned.  The
long term GOB objective is that low-lift pumps and deep tubewells will be
owned, operated and maintained by farmers' groups. The benefits expected
from this transfer are:
58



ANNEX C
Page 2
(a) the pumping sets will be better maintained than at
present and more efficiently used;
(b) with control over the equipment, farmers will have a
higher degree of confidence in switching over to
irrigated agriculture;
(c)  the present budgetary burden on the Government will be
gradually eliminated releasing funds for investment
in other areas.
In the absence of large compact land-holdings except in few acres of the
country, individual ownership of low-lift pumps and deep tubewells may gene-
rate "Water-lordism" and aggravate social inequity.  Ever, now there are com-
plaints of group managers charging exhorbitant rates from small farmers though
the equipment is rented to the group as a whole at a subsidized rate.  With
individual ownership, rates of such charges to small farmers are likely to
increase.  Therefore, though individual ownership of LLP sets and deep tube-
wells will not be denied, emphasis will be laid on group ownership.
4.        Full realization of this objective has to go along with the follow-
ing developments:
(a) training of pump drivers and managers enabling them to
undertake servicing and small repairs;
(b) creation of private sector capability, at least at thana
level, to undertake repairs and overhaul. This will
include setting up of small private workshops with
government assistance and training of mechanics and
skilled workers to be employed in these workshops.
Another requirement will be the growth of small agro-
based industries where pipes, fittings and ordinary
spare parts will be manufactured at regional level;
(c) standardized domestic manufacture of irrigation equip-
ment within the country to enable sale under a free
market system and ensuring free availability of replace-
ments and spare parts.
(d) Allowing sale of imported spare parts through private
dealers;
(e) organization of current irrigation groups into functioning
cooperatives so that irrigation acreage is optimized and
these cooperatives are able to invest in these equipments.
5.        Some actions have already been initiated by the government in this
direction. 15,000 pump drivers and managers of groups have been trained in the
59



ANNEX C
Page 3
last two years in minor repair and maintenance. This program will be con-
tinued. In addition, private mechanics will be trained during the current
season under this program. Low lift pumps were offered for sale to farmers'
cooperatives three years back. Since the response was not good, sale has
been opened to individuals also since 1977. 61 low-lift pumps have been
sold. Recently deep tubewells have also been offered on sale at 50% sub-
sidized price (Tk 75,000 in total, Tk 25,000 down payment and the rest in
instalments over 5 years). The first tubewell has been sold to a cooperative
in Comilla. Applications have been received from Mymensingh and Dacca. Set-
ting is being implemented under the IDA Shallow Tubewells. Project covering
the northern districts. BADC has prepared a plan for setting up of such
workshops in other areas of the country. Bank financing has been made avail-
able for all these activities.
6.        During the transition period, BADC which now handles many of these
tasks, would have to play a role in encouraging and assisting the private
sector in setting up the alternative services. The eventual goal, however,
would be to leave BADC with functions such as mechanics training, groundwater
and surface water surveys, and supporting services for individual farmers and
farmers' groups including assistance in water management and command area
development. Without detracting from this goal, however, it should be noted
that if it is impossible to establish private sector activities in some areas,
BADC may have to retain some residual maintenance and supply services in those
areas. We expect this transitional period to extend over three to five years.
7.        We recognize that with efficient use, participating farmers will
have financial benefits ad,equate to enable them to pay for the full costs of
the LLP program. We have already indicated to you our proposals for initial
increases in the current rental rates and charges, which will culminate in
a doubling of these fees over the next three years. We have also indicated
to you our marketing stratesgy for LLP sales under the project at a price
which implies a small subsidy of 30 percent (15 percent net of taxes and
duties).  It is our long-term policy to eliminate altogether financial subsidy
elements for both rentals and spares, that is to achieve full cost recovery,
by the end of our Second Five Year Plan (fiscal year 1984/85). The only
exception to this policy would be if direct public intervention or subsidies
were required to ensure equitable access by small farmers to the benefits
of irrigation.
8.        An integral part of our policy is to encourage the domestic manu-
facture of pump and engines and eventually to standarize on domestically
manufactured equipment. We believe the establishment of a small number of
manufactures will, inter aLia, save foreign exchange, provide increased
employment, thus facilitate repairs and spare parts supply, and provide a
measure of competition and farmer's choice.
60



ANNEX C
Page 4
9.        In mid-sixties, the Thana Irrigation Programme was launched for
organizing farmers' cooperatives around potential irrigation sources and
issue of low lift pumps and deep tubewells was restricted to such groups
only. It is acknowledged that the desired objectives of optimization of
coverage and access of small farmers and share-croppers to benefits of
irrigation through this system has not been fully realized. We recognize
the present deficiencies of IRDP in organizing tubewell and pump groups into
efficiently managed cooperatives. The Government however, has undertaken
a number of studies for reorganization of IRDP, particularly with respect
to decentralization of authority to TCCAs. In as much as IRDP today is
not fully able to organize all the tubewell groups, the Ministry of Agri-
culture and Forests/BADC has played a role in helping informal associations
of farmers to get together to obtain optimum benefits from tubewell command
areas. Nevertheless, the organization of farmers into cooperative and meeting
their credit requirements, is clearly the responsibility of IRDP.
10.       Not enough attention was given to development of optimal cropping
systems and efficient water use technology in LLP and DTW areas. An 'Action
Programme' has been started since 1977-78 season under which combined teams
of thana-level Extension/BADC and IRDP/Cooperative Officers are working on
expansion of cooperative groups, cropping pattern and water distributive
systems around specified low-lift pumps, deep-tubewells and shallow tubewells.
This effort will be intensified.
61



ANNEX D
Table 1
BANGLADESH
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
Estimated Total Cost-  of Project Pumpsets
Item                                           Local       Foreign         Total
----------Tk'000 -------------
a.  Pumpsets -
3,000 two-cusec 3/                             5,100        59,550        64,650
5,500 one-cusec 3/                             9,350        44,110        53,460
b.  Pipes and Fittings 2/
3,000 sets for two-cusec pumpsets              3,090          7,770       10,860
5,500 sets for one-cusec pumpsets              5,665          9,680       15,345
C.  Spares 4/                                       4,641        24,222       28,863
d.  Contingencies 10% of (a + b + c)                2,785        14,533       17,318
e.  Taxes and duties -/                           29,308          -           29,308
f.  Transport, handling and overhead -6           17,597          3,519       21,116
Total                                     77,536       163,384      240,920
1/ Exclusive of Price Contingencies
2/ Annex E, Table 2 for details of pumpset cost.
3/ With coupling and trolley
4/ 20% of foreign cost of- a+b.
5/ 15% of foreign costs of pumpsets; 35% of foreign cost of spares.
6/ 10% of subtotal (a + b + c + d).
62



ANNEX D
Table 2
BANGLADESH
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
Estimated Cost of New Pumpsets
Type A  10-12HP Engine           Type B: 6-8 HP Engine,
2 cusec Pump                      1.3 cusec pump
Local    Foreign       Total    Local   Foreign   Total
Cost       Cost        Cost      Cost     Cost      Cost
--------------------Taka----------------------
A. CIF Equivalent Price
Diesel engine              -      17,500      17,500        -    6,200    6,200
Pump with coupling   1,280         1,820       3,100   1,280    1,290    2,570
Pump Trolley             420         530         950      420       530      950
Pipes and fitting    1,030         2,590       3,620   1,030    1,760    2,790
Sub-total           2,730      22,440      25,170   2,730    9,780   12,510
B. Taxes and Duties
15% Customs duty on
Foreign Cost        3,366            -       3,366   1,467          -    1,467
Sub-total           3,366            -       3,366   1,467         -    1,467
C. Transport, Handling and
Overhead
10% of total cif cost  2,097           420       2,517   1,042        209    1,251
Total Cost          8193       22,860                5,239    9,989   15,228
63



ANNEX D
Table'3
BANGLADESH
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
Cost Estimate for the Rebuilding of 5,000 Pumps
A.  Cost of Parts per Engine                                    Unit Cost
c if
Parts Required                          Quantity    Chittagong 1/  Total Cost
(Tk)             (Tk)
1.  Big end bearing                                    2             32.11          64.22
2.  Main center bearings                               3             37.76         113.27
3.  Thrust washer                                      3             17.99          53.97
4.  Fuel pump                                          1          1,267.27       1,267.27
5.  Fuel filter                                        1             31.95          31.95
6.  Lube oil filter                                    1             68.25          68.25
7.  Gasket kit                                         1             14.12          14.12
8.  Nozzle                                             2             84.63         169.26
9.  Injector                                           1            379.18         379.18
10.  Piston w/ rings                                    2             46.63          93.26
11.  Cylinder liners                                    2             72.29         144.57
12.  Miscellaneous                                               Lump Sum            80.68
Total     Tk 2,480.00
(US$160)
B.  Total foreign cost for 5,000 Engines                                     Tk    12.4 M
Basis: A sample survey of Deutz F2L-812 engines was taken to estimate cost
of repairs to bring the engine back to operational order. The parts
required are expected to be about the same for almost all of the engines
now classed in the unserviceable category.
1/ Rates were supplied by BADC from recent orders in June 1978.
64



ANNEX D
Table 4
BANGLADESH
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
Total Cost-/ LLP Rebuilding Program
Item                              Local             Roreign         Total
a.  Parts                                            -----------___Tk'000---------------
(1)  Spares                                      1,240            12,400          13,640
(2)  Physical contingencies 2/                      186            1,860           2,046
(3)  Taxes and duties 3/                         4,991              -              4,991
(4)  Transport, handling and overhead 4/         1,968               388           2,356
Sub-total                                   8,385           14,648           23,033
b. Mechanics Labor and Administration
(1)  Labor, administration 5/                    7,750               -             7,750
(2)  Physical contingencies  6/                  1,162                -            1,162
Sub-total                                   8,912                -            8,912
Total                              17,297            14,648          31,945
1/ Excluding Price Contingencies
2/ 15% of Spares costs
3/ 35% of foreign cost
4/ 15% of a (1) + (2)
5/ Tk 1,550 per LLP
6/ 15% of b (1)
65



ANNEX D
Table 5
BANGLADESH
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
Estimated Building Costs    for Workshop-Stores
Local        Foreign         Total
-------------Tk'noo        . --------------
a.  Land acquisition 2/                                   2,500          -             2,500
Physical Contingencies 3/                               300          -               300
Sub-total                                        2,800          -              2,800
b. Civil works
(1)  Buildings - 50 Units 4/                         9,800        4,200           14,000
(2)  Physical Contingencies 5/                       2,000           800           2,800
(3)  Engineering and Administration 6/               3,400          -              3,400
Sub-total                                      15,200        5,000          20,200
Total                                   18,000        5,000          23,000
1/ Exclusive of Price Contingencies
2/ One ac per facility
3/ 12% of land acquisition costs
4/ 2000 sq. ft. per structure @ Tk 140/sq.ft.
5/ 20% of b (1)
6/ 20% of b (1 + 2).
66



ANNEX D
Table 6
BANGLADESH
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
Thana Workshop Equipment
Unit Cost Cif
Item                                           Quantity        Chittagong    Total Cost
(Tk '000)        (Tk '000)
1.  Bench vice, 4" jaw opening                         2               2.0              4.0
2.  Bench grinder, 10" dia. electric                   1               7.7              7.7
3.  Bench drill, 1/16" to 1/2", electric               1              14.0              14.0
4.  Nozzle cleaning kit                                1               6.2              6.2
5.  Lathe, 4" height of center, about 4' bed           1              52.0             52.0
6.  Transformer welding set, 300 amp                   1              50.0             50.0
7.  Steam cleaner, electric                            1               6.2              6.2
8.  Light chain hoist., 3 t.                           1               3.1              3.1
9.  Grease gun, hand type                             10               0.8              8.0
10.  Workshop tools (Annex C, Table 7)                2 sets           27.9             55.8
11.  Generator, 5 kW                                    1              50.0             50.0
12.  Miscellaneous items                                             Lump sum           15.0
Total   (per thana Workshop)                                                  272.0
(US$ 17,548)
67



ANNEX D
BANGLADESH                                Table 7
Page 1
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
Details of Proposed Thana Workshop ToolB
TOOL CHEST CONTIIC=NG:
Quantity
A.  British Standard ToolB   (Using A/F Sizes)
1.  3/8" Souare drive, box sockets, 3/16 " to 7/8" with all                    1 set
handles, ratchet, extensions, spijners and ratchet head
torque wrench handle, click type, from 15 lb-ft to 100 lb-ft
2.  Y4" Square drive, box sockets, 2BA, 3/16" to 3/8" with all                 1 set
handles, ratchet, extensions, spinners etc.
3.  Y2" Square drive, 3/16" to 7/8", complete with all handles,                1 set
ratchet, extensions etc.
4.  Short handle combination wrench,3/16" to 7/16"                             1 set
5.  Long handle combination wrench, ~116" to Y2"                               1 set
6.  Open end wrenches, 316" x Y4" to 11/16"I x 7                                 set
B. Metric Standard Tools
1.  Box sockets, 6-22 mm, complete with all types of handles,                  1 set
extensions and spinners, and torque handle, click type
150 kg-cm to 1,0O0 kg--cm
2. Y4" Square drive box sockets, 4-14 mm complete with all types               1 set
of handles, extensions, spinners and ratchet head torque
handle, 30 kg-cm to 2C0 kg-cm
3.  Long handle, combination wrenches, 10-32 mm                                1 set
4.  Y2" Sqaare drive, box socket, 10-32 mm complete with all handles,
extensions, spinners and ratchet head torque handle, 5 kg-cm to
30 kg-cm
C.  Other liscellaneous Tools
1.  Hammer, 1 lb plastic tip                                                     1
4 oz ball peen                                                       1
if    12 oz ball peen                                                      1
2.  Hacksaw frame with 12 blades                                                 1
3.  16" Pry bar                                                                  1
4.  W4ire brush                                                                   2
5.  Plier, 7Y2" gripping                                                         1
"    5" gripping                                                           1
i    7" needle nose                                                        1
68



ANNEX D
Table 7
Page 2
6.  Screwdriver set (Std.) 7 pieces                                            1 set
7.  Screwdriver set (Phillips) 4 pieces                                        1 set
8.  Punch and chisel set with chisel gauge                                     1 set
9.  12' White tape in retractable unbreakable case                               1
10. Steel -rule, 6" length marked in inches and mm                               2
11. Tube cutting and flaring set in box                                        1 set
12. Heavy duty soldering iron, 300 W, 220 V                                   '  1
13. Adjustable wrenches, black finish, 3,4 " x 13/4"                             2
14. Metric tap and die sets                                                    1 set
15. British tap and die sets                                                   1 set
16. File set, mill, 6", 8", 10", 12", 14" and 16" lengths                      1 set
17. Half round file set, 6", 8", 10" and 12" lengths                           1 set
18. Round file set, 6", 8", 10" and 12" lengths                                1 set
19. Pipe wrenches for 1", 2", 3" and 6"                                          4
20. Ectra heavy duty puller for two or three jaw use with all                  1 set
necessary accessories to handle gears and pulleys to 20"
dia. and a reach of 20"
21. Puller, 3 jaw type with 14" reach and 15" spread complete                  1 set
with all accessories
22. Bearing puller set, complete with collets, pressure screw,                 1 set
yoke bridge, expanding rods and all accessories for bearings
5/16" through  1Y8" and 1" through 13/4 "
23. Puller, 3 jaw type with 9Y2" reach and 13" spread complete
with all, accessories
24. "L" shaped metric hex head wrenches, 2 mm to 19 mm in kit bag              2 sets
D.  Gauges and Testers
1.  IMetric feeler gauge, 20 blades, 0.05 to 1.00 mm                             10
2.  British feeler gauge, 25 blades, 0.0015" to 0.025"                           10
3.  Compression gauge set measuring 0-250 psi and in metric                    1 set
0-12 kg/cm2 with flexible adapter and other short adapters
E. Estimated cost per thana workshop (cif Chittagong) - Tk 27,900 (US$1,800).
69



ANNEX D
Table 8
BANGLADESH                           Page 1
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
Zonal Workshop Equipment
I. HAND TOOLS
A. Metric Tool set
comprising the fcollowing:
1. " Drive socket
2. 3/8" Drive socket
3. " Drive socket
4.  Punch & chisel set
5. Combination WTench set
6. Phillips screwdriver set
7. Standard screwdriver set
8. Boxsocket wrench set (long)
9. Boxsocket wrench set (short)
10.  7" Gripping plier
11. 5" Gripping plier
12. 7" Diagnal cutter
13. 7" Needle nose plier
14. 7-3/4" Battery plier
15. 16" Pry bar
16. Wire brush
17. 1 lb plastic tip hammer
18.  4 oz Ball peen hammer
19. 12 oz Ball peen hammer
20. Cotter pin pu:Ller
70



ANNEX D
Table 8
Page 2
Zonal Workshop Equipment
2.1. Carbon scraper
22. Spark plug gauge
23. Feeler gauge
24. Ignition point file
25. Hacksaw frame with blades
26. Spark plug flexsocket
27. Screw starter
28. Spark test screwdriver
Special Metric Tools                                               Quantity
1.  1" sq drive, standard length sockets, impact type,
6 point ranging from 19 mm to 75 mm complete with
handles, extensions and ratchet        ..         ..            1 set
2.  Standard open end 6 x 7 mm to 30 x 32 mm                        I set
3.  Pipe wrench, 1" capacity                                        1
4.  Pipe wrench, 3" capacity                                        1
5.  Pipe wrench, 5" capacity                                        1
6.  Tube cutting and double flaring tool set                        1 set
7.  Small diameter tube bender                                      1
8.  Tap and die set                                                 1 set
9.  Medium duty combination puller set complete                     1 set
10. 20-ton Heavy duty bar type puller set complete with
20-ton hydraulic jack, adaptors etc.                            1 set
11.  'L' shaped wrenches 2 mm to 19 mm in kit bag                    I set
B. British standard tools (Using A/F sizes)                              1 set
1. " Drive socket, 12 point, standard
2.  " Drive socket, 6 point, deep
71



ANNEX D
Table 8
Page 3
Zonal Workshop Equipment
3. 3/8" Drive socket, 12 point, standard
4.  " Drive socket, 12 point, standard
5. Punch and chisel set
6. Combination wrench set
7. Phillips screwdriver set
8. Standard screwdr:Lver set
9. Boxsocket wrench set (long)
10. Boxsocket wrench set (short)
11.  7" Gripping plier
12.  5" Gripping plier
13. 7k" Diagenal cutter
14. 7" Needle nose plier
15. 7-3/4" Battery plier
16. 16" Pry bar
17. Wire brush
18. 1 lb Plastic tip hammer
19. 4 oz Ball peen hammer
20. 12 oz Ball peen hammer
21. Cotter pin puller
22. Carbon scraper
23. Spark plug gauge
24. Feeler gauge
25.  Ignition point fi:Le
26.  Hacksaw frame with blades
27.  Spark plug flexsocket
28. Screw starter
29.  Spark test screwdriver
72



ANNEX D
Table 8
Page 4
Zonal Workshop Equipment
C. British special tools (Using A/F sizes)
1.  1" sq Drive, standard length, block impact type,
6 point ranging from 3/4" to 3-5/8" complete with
handles, extensions and ratchet                               1 set
2.  Standard open end " x 5/16" to 1-7/16" x 1-5/8"              1 set
3.  Pipe wrench, 1" capacity                                      1
4.  Pipe wrench, 3" capacity                                      1
5.  Pipe wrench, 5" capacity                                      1
S.  Tube cutting and double flaring tool set                      I set
7.  Small diameter tube bender                                    1
8.  Tap and die set                                               1
9.  'L' shaped wrenches 0.028" to 3/4"                            1 set
10.  Torque meter in English and metric, 3/8" sq driver
150 lb-in/175 kg-cm                                           2
11.  Torque meter in English/metric, " sq drive,
175 lb-ft/25 kg-m                                             2
12.  Torque meter in English/metric, 3/4" sq drive,
360 lb-ft/50 kg-m                                             2
13.  Micrometer sets, 0"-1", 1"-2", 2"-3", 3"-4"                   1 set
14.  Rod design inside measuring micrometer 1"-8" range           1 set
15.  AVO meter with all accessories                                1 set
16.  Compression gauges set                                        1 set
D.  Miscellaneous Items                        Lump sum    Tk 2,325/set
Cost per set = Tk 40,300 (US$2,600)
Total cost per workshop (2 sets) = Tk 80,600 (US$5,200).
73



ANNEX D
Table 8
Page 5
Zonal Workshop Equipment
II.  WORKSHOP Equipment                                         Unit Cost
Cif
Item                                     Quantity    Chittagong    Total Cost
1.  Bench type wet valve refacers complete                      (Tk '000)        (Tk '000)
with accessories                                   1          46.50              46.5
2. Valve seat grinders and cutters,
complete with accessories                          1          19.38              19.4
3.  Diesel fuel pump test bench 1/                     1         147.25             147.3
4.  Pump test stand 1/                                 1          62.00              62.0
5.  Injector test bench 1/                             1          38.75              38.8
6.  Nozzle analyzer 1/                                 1          24.80              24.8
7.  Nozzle test master 1/                              1          12.40              12.4
8.  Injector reconditioning machine 1/                 1          37.20              37.2
9.  Nozzle multi-cleaner 1/                            1          12.40              12.4
10.  Nozzle inspection viewer 1/                        1            6.20              6.2
11.  Nozzle cleaning kit 1/                             1            6.20              6.2
12.  Diesel engine exhaust analyzer 1/                  1          21.70              21.7
13.  Engine spot check kit 1/                           1            9.30              9.3
14.  Fuel feed pump tester kit 1/                       1           4.65               4.7
15.  Pneumatic governor tester 1/                       1           4.65               4.7
16.  Steam cleaner, with electric motor                 1            7.75              7.8
17.  Transformer welding set with accessories           1          77.50              77.5
18.  Gas welding set complete with gas cylinders  1 set            12.40              12.4
19.  Miscellaneous items                             Lump Sum                         50.0
Total              601.3
(US$38,794)
1/ Hartridge type or equivalent.
74



ANNEX D
Table 9
BANGLADESH
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
Incremental Requirement for Each Regional
Workshop-cum-Diesel Training Center
Unit Cost
Cif
Item                                Quantity   Chittagong   Total Cost
(Tk '000)    (Tk '000)
1.  Diesel fuel pump test bench 1/                        2         147.25             294.5
2.  Pump test stand 1/                                    2          62.00             124.0
3.  Injector test bench 1/                                2          38.75              77.5
4.  Nozzle analyzer 1/                                    2          24.80              49.6
5.  Nozzle test master 1/                                 2          12.40              24.8
6.  Injector reconditioning machine 1/                    2          37.20              74.4
7.  Nozzle reconditioner 1/                               2          18.60              37.2
8.  Nozzle multicleaner 1/                                2          12.40              24.8
9.  Nozzle inspection viewer 1/                           2           6.20              12.4
10.  Nozzle cleaning kit 1/                                3           6.20              18.6
11.  Diesel engine exhaust analyzer 1/                     1          21.70              21.7
12.  Engine spot check kit 1/                              3           9.30              27.9
13.  Fuel feed pump tester kit 1/                          3           4.65              14.0
14.  Pneumatic governor tester 1/                          2           4.65                9.3
15.  Miscellaneous testing gauges and meters              lot         99.20               99.2
16.  Steam cleaner, with electric motor                    1           7.75               7.8
17.  Assorted tools 2/                                   3 sets       40.30             120.9
18.  Miscellaneous                                       Lump Sum                        50.0
Total                                                                        1,088.6
(US$ 70,230)
1/ Hartridge type or equivalent.
2/  Same set of tools outlined in Annex C Table 8.



ANNEX D
Table 10
BANGLADESH
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
Coolbox-/ for Pumpset Mechanics
Fundamental too:Ls which each field mechanic should have comprise:
3/8" square drive consisting of:
Ratchet                      1
Speeder                      1
Breaker bar                  1
3" Extension                 1
6" Extension                 1
12" Extension                1
Universal joint              1
Hexagonal sockets - (A/F sizes) - 4BA through 9/16" - BSW - 12 pieces
- 8 mm through 26 mm - metric - 17 pieces
Combination wrench (A/F sizes) - 3/16" through 7/16" - BSW - 7 pieces
- 10 mm through 32 mm - 19 pieces.
Screwdriver set - 5 pieces (including 2 Phillips)
Gripping plier - 1 piece
Diagonal cut:ter - 1 piece
Needle nose plier - 1 piece
8 oz Ball peen hammer - 1 piece
16 oz Ball peen hammer - 1 piece
16 oz Plasti.c tip hammer - 1 piece
16" Pry bar - lpiece
Punch & chisel - 1 set
Feeler gauge - 1 piece, 6" adjustable wrench - 1 piece
1/ Steel Chest.
Estimated cost per set (elf Chittagong) * Tk 3,100 (US$200)
76



ANNEX D
Table 11
BANGLADESH
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
Estimated Costs -/ of Workshop Equipment, Tools, Toolboxes, and Spares
Item                                     Local         Foreign         Total
a.  Equipment and Tools                                 -------------Taka '000-----------
(1) Thana workshops (100)                           1,360          27,200        28,560
(2) Zonal workshops (5)                               171           3,411         3,582
(3) Regional workshops (3)                            163           3,266         3,429
(4) Toolboxes for mechanics (1,000)                   155           3,100         3,255
(5) Physical contingencies 2/                         185           3,698         3,883
(6) Taxes and duties 3/                            14,236                -       14,236
(7) Transport, handling and overhead 4/             3,559             712        4,271
Sub-total                                 19,829           41,387       61,216
b. Spares for Annual Repairs
(1) Spare parts                                     1,100          10,990        12,090
(2) Physical contingencies 5/                         170           1,643         1,813
(3) Taxes and duties  3/                            4,418           -             4,418
(4) Transport, handling and overhead  6/            1,752              341        2,093
Sub-total                                  7,440           12,974       20,414
Total                                     27,269           54,361       81,630
1/ Excluding Price Contingencies
2/ 10% of a (1+2+3+4)
3/ 35% of foreign costs
4/ 10% of total cost net of taxes and duties
5/ 15% of b (1)
6/ 15% of total cost net of taxes and duties.                                                77



BANCLADESH
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
Transport Requirement for Project Field Operation
Qty.   Station   inspection   Pick-up   Truck   Tank lorry   Motorcycle   Inspectioni boat   Tug boat   Dumb barge
wagon     vehicle                5-6 Ton   2,000 IG         90 cc       28'       14'                  25-ton
4 WD        4 WD
1.  Project  Director                I        1           -            1         -          -            -            I        -            -          -
2.  Executive Enigineer              8        _            8            -       15         10            -            _         -            1          2
3.  Asst. Engineer                  29        -            4           10        -          -            -            -        15            -          -
4.  Unit and Subunit Officer    285           -            -            -        -          -            249          -        34            -          -
5.  Controller of Accounts           I        -            1            -        -          -            -            -         -            -          -
6.  Asst. Controller Accounts        6        -            -           -         -          -              6          -         -            -          -
TOTAL REQUIlREMENTS                    I           13           11        15         10           255           1       49             1         2
Existing (-)                       -            8            -         7          7              -          -        -            -          -
Net Requirement                         1            5          11         8          3            255          1       49             1          2
CT



ANNEX D
Table 13
BANGLADESH
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
Estimated Cost I/ of Transport Vehicles
Quan-
tity   Unit Cost        Local       Foreign       Total
(US $)         -------- ---Taka '000---------
a. Station wagon (4WD)                            8,000             -            124         124
b. Inspection Vehicle (4 WD)              5        7,000            -            542         542
c. Small Pick-up                         11       4,500             -            775         775
d. Truck (5-6 tons)                       8      12,000             -          1,488       1,488
e. Tank lorry (2,000 imp. gal.)           3      13,000             -            605         605
f. Motorcycle (90 cc)!                  255         750             -         2,960       2,960
g. Inspection boat (28 ft, inboard
engine   1       56,000            -            868         868
h. Speedboat (14 ft, 25 hp outboard
engine  49        3,500            -          2,666       2,666
i. Tugboat                                1      80,000             -          1,240       1,240
J. Dumb barge (25-ton)                    2      30,000             -            930         930
k. spares 2/                              -       -                 -          2,899       2,899
1. Physical Contingencies 3/                                        -            760         760
Subtotal                                                    -         15,857      15,857
Taxes and Duties  4/                                          14,322       -          14,322
Transport, handling and overheads 5/                            1,442      3,372       1,814
Sub-total                                                 15,764         372      16,136
Total                                                     15,764      16,229      31,993
1/ Excluding Price Contingencies
2/ 20% of foreign costs
3/ 5% of foreign costs
4/ 133% for land vehicles; for boats; and 35% for spares.
5/ 11% of total costs before taxes and duties.
79



ANNEX D
Table 14
Page 1
BANGLADESH
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
Estimated Costs 1/ of Training Component
Item                                    Local        Foreign            Total
--Tk'O00--------______
a.   Buildings
(1)  Civil Works - Classroom,and Workshop 2/               1,085          465              1,550
(2)  Civil Works - Dormitory 3/                            1,845           790             2,635
(3)  Sanitary and eletrical fittings, furniture 4/           403           279               682
(4)  Tables and workbenches 5/                                 93           -                 93
Subtotal                                              3,426        1,534              4,960
(5)  Physical Contingencies 6/                                     512          *232               744
(6)  Engineering and Administration 7/                             388          186                574
Subtotal                                                      9S0          418             1,318
Total (one center).                                         4,326        1,952             6,278
Total (three centers)                                      12,978        5,856            18,834
b.   Teaching Aids
(1) Slide projector, 16 mm projector,
miscellaneous materials                                16.0         46.0              62.0
(2)  Physical Contingencies 8E/                               3.1          9.3             12.4
Total (one center)                                     19.1         55.3              74.4
Total (three centers)                                  57.3        165.9             223.2
Footnotes on p.. 3
80



ANNEX D
Table 14
Page 2
Item                                   Local        Foreign            Total
-______         0OOQ_________________
c.   Vehicles
(1)  Inspection Vehicles 4WD (2/center)                     -             217.0           217.e
(2)  Pick-up 4WD (1/center)                                 -             124.0           124.0
(3)  Motorcycle 90cc (4/center)                             -              46.0            46.0
(4)  Bicycles (2/center)                                     1.5            1.5             3.0
(5)  Spares 9/                                              -              77.5            77.5
Subtotal                                                1.5          466.0           467.5
(6)  Physical Contingencies 10/                             -              46.5            46.5
(7)  Taxes and Duties 11/                                  596.8            -             596.8
(8)  Transport, handling, overheads 12/                     41.8            9.3            51.1
Subtotal                                             638.6            55.8           694.4
Total  (one center)                                  640.1           521.8         1,161.9
Total (three centers)                              1,920.3        1,565.4          3,485.7
d.   Staff and Allowances
(1)  Diesel Engine Specialists (3 x 42 manmonths) 13/   1,757.7          17,577.0      19,334.7
(2)  Mechanical Engineer (2 x 12 manmonths) 13/               334.8       3,348.0       3,682.8
(3)  Local Staff                                            4,267.9       -             4,267.9
(4)  Allowances for mechanic-trainees 14/                  4,017.6       -             4,017.6
(5)  Allowances for mgr/operator-trainees 15/               4,687.2       -             4,687.2
Subtotal                                             15,065.2      20,925.0      35,990.2
(6)  Physical Contingencies  16/                              636.0       2,092.5       2,728.5
Total (Three Centers)                                15,701.2      23,017.5      38,718.7
Training Grand Total                                 30,656.8      30,604.8      61,261.6
Footnotes on page 3.
81



ANNEX D
Tsible 14
Page 3
1/ Net of Price Contingencies
2/   Groundfloor, concrete flooring, 10,000 sq. ft. @ Tk 155/sq. ft.
3/   Upper floor of classroom-workshop facility.  Reinforced concrete structures with
concrete flooring and roofing @ Ik 264/sq ft
4/   for 60 trainees @ Tk 11,470/trainees
5/   for 60 trainees @ Tk 1,550/trainees
6/   15% of Building Subtotal
7/   10% of Building Subtotal and Physical Contingencies
8/   20% of b (1)
9/   20% of c (1+2+3+4)
10/  10% of c (1+2+3+4+5)
11/  133% for vehicles; 35% for bicycles and spares
12/  10% of Vehicles Subtotal and Physical Contingencies
13/  at US$9,000/manmonth
14/  4,320 trainees
15/  15,120 trainees
16/  10% of d  (1+2+3)
82



ANNEX D
Table 15
BANGLADESH
LOW LITT PUMP PROJECT
Annual Cost for Local Staff at Regional Training Center
Taka
1.  Executive Engineer, 1 at Taka 2, 276/mo. x 12 months                 27,312
2.  Assistant Engineer, 4 at Tk 1,716/mo. x 12 months                    82,368
3.  Unit Officer, 4 at Tk 955/mo. x 12 months                            45,840
4.  Office Superintendent, 1 at Tk 955/mo. x 12 months                   11,460
5.  Upper Div. Assistant, 2 at Tk 955/mo. x 12 months                    22,920
6.  Lower Div. Assistant/Typist, 4 at Tk 663/mo. x 12 months             31,824
7.  Draftman, 1 at Tk 663/mo. x 12 months                                 7,956
8.  Vehicle Driver, 5 at Tk 663/mo. x 12 months                          39,780
9.  Peon, 8 at Tk 350/mo. x 12 months                                    33,600
10.  Watchman, 2 at Tk 663/mo. x 12 months                                15,912
Total                                                          273,584
Allowances and overhead                                             82,075
Sub-total (per center)                                       1,067,000
83



ANNEX D
Table 16
BANGLADESH
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
Estimated Costs 1/ of Water Availability Survey Component
Item                                        Local         Foreign           Total
____________ Tk'00 _____
a.  Technical Assistance
Land and Water Resource Engineers (Consultants) 2/   596.0            5,022.0         5,518.0
Legal (Consultant) 4 manmonths 3/                        62.0           558.0            620.0
Physical Contingencies 4/                                55.8           558.0            613.8
Subtotal                                                613.8         6,138.0         6,751.8
b.  Transport Vehicles
Field vehicles - 4WD (3)                                  -             325.5            325.5
Speed boat with 25 HP outboard motor (2)                  -             108.5            108.5
Spares 5/                                                 -              93.0             93.0
Physical Contingencies 6/                                 -               46.5            46.5
Taxes and duties 7/                                     604.5             -              604.5
Transport, handling & overhead 8/                        46.5             -              46.5
Subtotal                                                651.0           573.5         1,224.5
c.  Office Equipment                                         232.5            77.5           310.0
Physical tontingencies 9/                                46.5             15.5            62.0
Taxes and duties 10/                                     31.0             -               31.0
Subtotal                                                310.0            93.0           403.0
TOTAL                                                 1,574.8         6,804.5         8,379.3
1/  Exclusive of Price Contingencies
2/ 36 man-months @ US$9,000/man-month (foreign cost)
3/ 4 man-months @ US$9,000/man-month (foreign cost)
4/  10% of total consultancy costs
6/  20% of total vehicle costs
7/ 133% for land vehicles, 70% for boats, 35% for spares
8/ 10% of total net of taxes and duties
9/ 20% of office equipment cost
10/ 35% of foreign cost of equipment
84



ANNEX E
Table 1
BANGLADESH
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursements
Accumulated
Disbursements          Disbursements
-------------- Us$-
July-December 1980                           12.0                  12.0
January - June 1981                           4.0                  16.0
July - December 1981                          3.5                  19.5
January - June 1982                           3.5                  23.0
July - December 1982                          3.5                  26.5
January - June 1983                           3.5                  30.6
July - December 1983                          3.0                  33.0
January - June 1984                           2.0                  35.0
July - December 1984                          2.0                  37.0
85



BANGLADlESH
Low Lift Pump Project
Prolect Acreage.Production,and Labor Requirements
Presently Irrigated Area               Newly Irrigated Area                           Total                            Total
P           W            W           P            W           W            P            W            W         N-P          W-P          W-W
Net (ultivated area ('000 ac)              637.2        637.2       637.2        208.6        208.6       208.6        845.8        845.8       845.8           -           -            -
Cropped area ('000 ac)
Paddy
Au s                                    61.2        194.0        61.2         63.5         63.5        20.0        124.7        257.5        81.2        132.8        -43.5      -176.3
Vr hatan(local)                        590.3       548.6        548.6        193.3       179.6        179.6        783.6       728.2        728.2        -55.4       -55.4           -
I .snan(iIYV)                           46.8        88.6         88.6         15.3        29.0         29.0         62.1       117.6        117.6         55.5         55.           -
Boro                                   323.9          -         323.9          -                      106.1        323.9          -         430.0      -323.9         106.1       430.0
Paddy Sob-total                      1,022.2       831.2      1,022.3        272.1       272.1        334.7    1,294.3       1,103.3      1,357.0       -191.0         62.7       253.7
Other Crops
Pulses                                  61.2        61.2         61.2         20.0        20.0         20.0         81.2        81.2         81.2          -            -            -
Oilseeds                                63.7        63.7         63.7         20.9        20,9         20           84.6        84.6         84.6
Other Crop Subtotal                    124.9        124.9       124.9         40.9        40.9         40.9        165.8       165.8        165.8
Total All Crops                      1,147.1       956.1      1,147.2        313 .0      313.0        375.6    1,460.1       1.269.1      1,522.8       -191.0         62.7        253.7
Overall Croppioig Iltensity                  1.80        1.50         1.80         1.50        1.50         1.80        1.73         1.50         1.80
Crop Production ('000 tons)
Paddy
Aus                                     32.0        101.3        32.0         33.0         33.2        10.4         65.0       134.5         42.4         69.5        -22.6        -92.1
T.Atan(local)                          396.3       368.3        368.3        129.8       120.6        120.6        526.1       488.9        488.9        -37.2        -37.2          -
T.Aman(HYV)                             52.4         99.1        99.1         17.1        32.5         32.5         69.5       131.6        131.6         62.1         62.1          -
boro                                   447.0          -         447.0          -           -          146.4       447.0           -         593.4       -447.0        146.4       593.4
Paddy Sub-total                        927.7       568.7        946.4        179.9       186.3        309.9    1,107.6         755.       1,256.3      -352.6         148.7       501.3
itil. r (  -
Pulseu                                  16.0        16.0         16.0          5.2         5.2          5.2         21.2        21.2         21:2                       -            -
Oil.eeds                                14.2         14.2        14.2          4.7         4.7          4.7         18.9         18.9        18.9          -            _            _
Other Cro,p Sub-total                   30.2        30.2         30.2          9.9         9.9          9.9         40.1        40.1         40.1          -            -            -
Total All Crops                        957.9       598.9        976.6        189.8       196.2        319.8     1,147.7        795.1      1,296.4      -352.6         148.7       501.3
L.bor K,qeiren,ent (million mandays)
Family                                    52.5        37.0         52.9         12.7         12.1        17.3         65.2        49.1         70.2        -16.1          5.0         21.1
Hiir,L-In                                 27.1         21.3        27.0    e      .3          7..           . 9       33.4         28.3        35.9        - 5.1          2.5          7.6
Iota I Pe<quitOlSOLv                      79.6        58.3         79.9         19.0        19.1         26.2        98.6         77.4        106.1        -21.2          7.5        28.7
0"



ANNEX F
Table 2a
BANGLADESH
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
Cropping Patterns -- Cutrently Irrigated Farms 1/
1 Acre Farm           3 Acre Farm            7 Acre Farm
Cropped Area  (in acres)      P      W       W       P      W      W        P      W      W
Paddy
Aus                          0.1    0.4    0.1      0.3    0.9    0.3      0.6    1.5    0.6
T. Aman (Local)              0.9    0.8    0.8      2.8    2.6    2.6      6.6    6.4    6.4
T. Aman (HYV)                0.1    0.2    0.2      0.2    0.4    0.4      0.4    0.6    0.6
Boro (HYV)                   0.6       -    0.6     1.5      -    1.5      3.0      -    3.0
Pulses                       0.1    0.1    0.1      0.30   0.30   0.30    0.6    0.6    0.6
Oilseeds                     0.1    0.1    0.1      0.30   0.30   0.30    0.7    0.7    0.7
Total Cropped Area           1.90   1.6    1.90    5.4    4.5    5.4    11.9    9.8   11.9
Net cultivated area          1.00   1.0    1.00    3.0    3.0    3.0       7.0    7.0    7.0-
Cropping Intensity %         190    160    190      180    150    180    170      140    170
1/ P = Present
W = Future without Project
W = Future with Project.
87



ANNEX F
Table 2b
BANGLADESH
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
Cropping Pa:terns -- Newly Irrigated Area 1!
1 Acre Farm            3 Acre Farm             7 Acre Farm
Cropped Area (in acres)         P'      W      W        P      W       W        P      W       W
Paddy
Aus                            0.4    0.4    0.1       0.9    0.9    0.3       1.5    1.5    0.6
T. Aman (Local)                0.9    0.8    0.8       2.8    2.6    2.6       6.6    6.4    6.4
T. Aman (HYV)                  0.1    0.2    0.2       0.2    0.4    0.4       0.4    0.6    0.6
Boro (HYV)                       -       -    0.6        -       -    1.5        -      -    3.0
Pulses                         0.1    0.1    0.1       0.3    0.3    0.3       0.6    0.6    0.6
Oilseeds                       0.1    0.1    0.1       0.3    0.3    0.3       0.7    0.7    0.7
Total Cropped Area             1.6    1.6    1.9       4.5    4.5    5.4       9.8    9.8   11.9
Net cultivated area            1.0    1.0    1.0       3.0    3.0    3.0       7.0    7.0    7.0
Cropping Intensity %           160    160    190       150    150    180       140    140    170
1/ P = Present
W = Future without Project
W = Future with Project
88



BANGLADESH
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
Monthly Labor Requirements for Various Crops
(man-days/ac)
Jan.   Feb.   March  April   May   June  July   August  Sept.   Oct.   Nov.    Dec.  Total
1. Aus              P           0        0        7      13       2      2     12        9       0        0        0       0      45
W           0       0         7     13        2     2      12       9       0         0        0       0      45
w           0       0        7      13       2      2      12       9       0         0        0       0      45
2. T.Aman (Local) P              0       0        0       0       0      7      14      20       3        3       15       8      70
W           0       0        0       0       0      7      14      20        3        3       15       8      70
w           0       0        0       0       0      7      14      20        3        3       15       8      70
3. T. Aman (HYV)  P             0        00       0       0       0      7     15       21       4        4       16      10      77
W           0       0        0       0       0      7      15      21        4        4       16      10      77
W           0       0        0       0       0      7      15      21        4        4       16      10      77
4. Boro (HYV)       P          12      29         4       4      12    20        0       0       0        0        0        4      85
v          12      29         4       4      12    20       0        0       0        0        0       4      85
W          12      29        4        4     12    20        0       0        0        0        0       4      85
5. Pulses           P            3       2       20       0       0      0       0       0       0        0        3        7      35
W           3      22       20       0       0      0       0       0       0         0        3       7      35
W           3       2       20       0       0      0       0       0        0        0        3       7      35
6. Oilseeds         P            3       2       20       0       0      0       0       0       0        0        3       7      35
W            3       2      20        0       0     0        0       0       0        0        3       7      35
W           3       2       20       0       0      0       0       0        0        0        0       7      35
Xq c
m e4
(IX
co
0o



bANGLADESII
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
Crop Input Requirements
Atis             T. Amani (Local)         T. Aman (HYV)          _  Boro (UYV)                Pulses                 Oilseeds
P      W      W        P      _       W        P       w       w       P       w       w        P       w       w        P      w       u
Fertilizer and Pestices
Urea (467. N) (mds/ac)               0.1    0.1   0.1       0.3    0.3    0.3        1.0    1.0    1.0       1.8    1.8    1.8         -       -      -        _       _       _
TSP (467. P265) (mds/ac)              -       -      -      0.1    0.1    0.1        0.5    0.5    0.5       0.8    0.8    0.8         -       -       -        -       -      -
MP (60Z K) (mds/ac)                  -       -      -        -      -       -       0.2    0.2    0.2       0.3    0.3    0.3         -       -       -        _      _       _
Plant Protection (Tk/ac)              -       -      -      10      10      10       10      10     10       20      20      20        -       -       -        -      -       -
Annual Family and Hired Labor
Preparation (m-d/ac)                 18      18    18       22      22      22       22      22     22       22      22      22       10     10      10       10      10      10
Planting and Nursery (lu-d/ac)        2       2     2       i8      i8 i    8       18 i    8      18       20      20      20        2       2      2        2       2       2
Crop Management (m-d/ac)              6       6      6      10      10      10       12      12     12       14      14      14        5       5       5        5      5       5
Harvesting and Threshing (m-d/ac) 19         19    19       20      20      20       25      25     25       29      29      29       18      18     18       18      18      18
Subtotal (m-d/ac)                    45      45    45       70      70      70       77      77     77       85      85      85       35      35     35       35      35      35
other Inpujts
Animal Power (a-d/ac)                15      15    15       17      17      17       17      17     17       17      1/      17        8       8       8        8      8       8
Seed (m-d/ac)                        1.0    1.0   1.0       0.4    0.4    0.4       0.4    0.4    0.4        0.4    0.4    0.4        0.4    0.4    0.4       0.2    0.2    0.2
Miscellaneouis (Tk/ac)                ---------------------------------- - - - --_-- 10% of costs --------- ------------------
0



BANC.LAUESH
LOW LIFI PUMP PROJECr
( in Taka )
Farm Budget Esrimates
One Acre Fanm                                            Three Acre Farm                                         Seven Acre "arm
/2        /3 
P-Case A   P-Case d    W-Cases A&B    W-Cases A6B          P-Case A   P-Case B   U-Cases A6&    W-Cares A6B          P-Case A    P-Case B    1i-Cases A6B   W-Cases AB
9ross Valuc of Productioi t
A.s                                      108         431            431              108            323         970           970             323             647        1,617            1,617           647
'r. AMan - lucal                      1,328        1,328          1,181            1,181          4,133       4,133        3,838            3,838           9,742        9,742            9,446        9.446
T. Aman   IIYV                           246         246            492              492            492         492           984             984             984          984            1,476        1.476
Boro                                   1,665         -              -              1,665          4,162         -             -             4,162           8,325          -                -          8,325
Pulses                                    46          46             46               46            136         136           136             136             273          273              273           273
jilseeds                                 129         129            129              129            387          387          387             387             903          903              903           903
Total                             3,522       2,180          2,279            3,621          9,633        6,118        6,315            9,830         20,874        13,519          13,715        21,070
CerLai"ty  Eq.uialept of GVP /4          2,901       1,744           1,823           2,980          7,914        4,894        5,052           8,072          17,115       10,815           10,972        17.272
C.st of fanm inpucs
Hired-in labor                           -           -              -                -              583         528           539             583           4,411        3,267            3,278        4,411
hBlloCk labor                           454          369            369              454          1,287       1,040         1,040           1,287           2,841        2,278            2,278        2,841
Seed                                      78          72             74               79            217         191           194             220             472          397              400           475
Plaut Protection                          22          10             10               22             60           30           30               60            130            70              70           130
Fertil izer
llrea                                 146           41             48              153            215         113           127             229             460          253              267          474
rsP                                    34           8              10              36              87          21           26               91             180           47               52          184
MP                                       9           1              2               10             22           2             4              24              44            4                5            46
Fertilizer sub-total                189          50              60             199             324         136          157              344             684          304              324          706
?lcSellaneous/5                           74          50             51               75            247          179          196             249             854           632             635           856
Shlort-'iTnn, Credit /6                   96          32             37              100             53          35            37               55            229           154             155           230
Cost of Production Sub-total/7   913            583             601             929           2,771       2.139        2,193            2,798           9,621        7,102            7,140        9,649
Cost of Family Labor /8                1,465       1,053          1,060            1,473          3,531       2,475        2,475            3,542           4,609        3,399            3,399        4,631
managmenLt Fee /9L                       137          87             90              139            416         321           329             420           1,443        1,065           1.071          1.447
Cost of Production Total          2,515       1,723           1,751           2,541           6,718       4,935        4.997            6,760          15,673       11,566           11,610       15,727
I.plicit kent                          386           21             72              439          1,196        - 41            55           1,312           1,442         -751            - 638         1,545
lCLigati.. Rent (W-1W)                                                              367                                                     1,257                                                      Z,183
(1,545)110
(rritgation Rent per Acre Boro)                                                      (612)                                                     (838)                                                      (728)
(515)/10
Current Estreated Water Charges /11                                                  210                                                      525                                                       1,050.
Balanlce of Irrigation Rent                                                          157                                                      232                                                      1,133
(Per acre Boro)                                                                 (262)                                                     (488)                                                      (378)
(165)/10
/I  P = Frcsesn, w - Without Project; W= With Project.
j2  I.dn  pr-ce-tly under irrigation.
/3  I.nd pre-ently without irrigation.
/4 Certainty Eq.ivalenLta (CE) of .85 for Boro and .80 for other crops.
/5  101 ot preceding *osts.
6   ive-.month bor-owcigs to cover 50% of hired i,, labor costs, 100% of plant protection costs, 1007, of fertilizer costs, and 257. of seed costs.
A-u-pLion  -ade that one-acre farmer uses lon-inscitutional credit at 1007 p. a, interest, and others use institucional credit at EgMOP rate of 17.5% p..F
- IE.tudes fanily labor costs and water charge.
/1 Ac an smput.rd ccci of Tk Il/day; based on a monthly peak family labor availability of 40 san-days. .4 
9  1'1;. of C-Lb   ot Plr.d-xt-o   Snb.bral. 
F_      tl   igic.cs urgati-e W implicit rent.
7!T  For 0.6 aC born on 1 ac farn;  1.5 ac itor. - 3 at farm;  and 3 at Boro o- 7 ac farm.



BANGLADESH
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
Farm Income Estimates
One Acre Farm                           Three Acre Farm                         Seven Acre Farm
1         2         3        W           1         2         3          W           1           2          3
Certainiry Equivalent of Gross Value of Production /a   1,823    2,980    2,980    2,980              5,052    8,072      8,072     8,072      10,972     17,272      17,272     17,272
Fanrm Costs
a.  Production Costs                                         601       929       929       929      2,193    2,798    2,798    2,798          7,140      9,649      9,649       9,649
b.  Water charge /a                                          -         210       221       270      -           525       551       675                  1,050       1,100      1.550
Total farm costs                                         601     1,139    I1,1 5       1i         199A    1,323    3,349   3, 6          i3 7.140    10.699    10,749    10,999
Net Farm Incone                                              1,222     1,841    1,830    1,781        2,859    4,749    4,723    4,599          3,823      6,573       6,523      6,273
Net Farm Income per Cultivated Acre                          1,222     1,841    1,830      1,781        953    1,583      1,574     1,533          547        939        932        896
1   2   3     -
Inicreim.ental Net Farm Income (W , W , W, - W)                -         619       608       559      -        1,890      1,864     1,743       -          2,741      2,691       2,441
Incremental Net Farm Income per Cultivated Acre                -         619       608       559      -           630       621       580       -             392        384        349
w1     Future with Project:  existing rental rates.
W2  =  Future with Project:  doubied rental rates.
W3  =  Future with Project:  sales program
/a  =  Reference Annex   Tables 5 and 7.
m.D



BANClADESli
LOW LIFT FIiP PROJECT
Sensitivity Tests on Irrigation Rent and Net Fare. Income
(in Taira)
Balance of Irrigation Rent                             Net Farm Incone (W)                                 IncremenLal Net Farm Income
Senisitivicy                                             per Acre of Borog/                                  per Cultivated Acre!'                                      per Cultivated Acre2/
One Acre Farm  Three Acre Far.  Seven Acre Farm          One Acre Fare  Three Acre Far,  Seven Acre Farm           One Acre Farm  Three Acre Farm  Seven Acre Farm
Bdse                                        262              488              378                   1,841           1,5B3               939                    619             630               392
(165)1I/
1. Doubling of Vlump Rental Rate3/              244             470             (S)                     1,830          1,574               932                    608             621               385
2. Dushliag of lPump Rent7,1 Rate
and Repair Charge-                       233              459              349                   1,824           1,569               927                   602             616                380
(136)
3. Full Capital Cost Recovery (Rencal),-!
Existing Repair Charge                      160              386              276                   1,780           1,532               895                    558             579               348
(63)
4. Full Capital Cost Recopvry (Rental),
and Full Repair Charge6                      141             367              257                    1,769          1,523               887                    547             570               340
(44)
5. Full Capital Cost Recovery (Rental),
Full Repair Charge. Full Indirect
0&611 Charge?/                               58              284            (..q4                    1.719          1.481               852                    497             528               305
6. Full Capital Cost Recovery (Rental)
with puapset T&D, Full Repair Charge
wiLI Spares TD, Full Indirect O0M 8/   38                   264              154                   1,706          1,471               843                     484           518                296
(-59)
7 Aninuity under l-cusec Pump Sales Program
i,,cludi,,g 40% Subsidy, Full Repair Charge
with Taxes and Duties on Spares 9/           162            388               278                   1,781          1,533              896                     559             580               349
( 65)
8. Annuity under 1-cusec Pump Sales Program
including no Subsidy, Full Repair
Charge  10/                                 102             328               218                    1,745         1.503              870                     523             550               323
(5)
9. Annuity under I-cusec Pump Sales Program
Including Pumpset T&D and no Subsidy,
Full Repair Charge 11/                       91             317               207                   1,738          1,497             866                      S16            544                319
(-6)
1,  Reference Annex G, Table 5.
2/ Reference Annex C, Table 6.
3/  Assuming 20 acres irrigated per cusec, doubling of rencal rate implies an additional TK 17.5 per ac for tie one cusec pump case and TK 15 for th two cusec pnup case.  In the
calculation, the higher increment was utilized.
4/  Assuming 20 acres irrigated per cusec, doubling of rental rate and of repair charge implies and additional TK 28.8 per acre for the one cusec pump case and TK 22.5 for the two
cusec pump case. In the calculAtion, the one cusec increment was utilized.
5/  Assuminig pumpset life of 7 years, trolley life of 12 years, and pipe and fittings life of 10 years, scrap value 10%, interest 12% p.a. full cost recovery implies a rental charge
ot TK 2,396 or on additional Tr. 102.30 per as for one cusec pump case.
O/  Asumin.g sparescost of rk 444 p.a. (net of caxes and duties) and labor repair charges of TK 150 p.a. for one cusec pump.  Since repair charge of TIK 22S levied on farm  group,
inplicit subsidy of about TK 369 results.  On a per acre basis, incremental costs, if this subsidy eiiainated, work out to TK18.45.  Thus, incremental costs for this
sensivity sutamnarize to: TR 102.30 (capital cost) + TK 18.45 (repair cost) - 120.75.
71  Reference:  lBRD, Bangladesh, Irrigation Water Charges. Discussion Paper, March 6, 1978, Annex 4, Table 2.  Indirect OEM costs adjusted for labor cost inclusion Is 6/.
Therefore on a per pump basis, indirect OM costs work out to TK 1,650, or TK 82.50 per ac.  Pull incremental charges sum as follows TK 120.75(6/) + 82,50 = TK 203.55
per ac of boro irrigated.                                                                                                                                                                                    It1
8/  Inclusion of taxes and duties on pumpset implies full recovery rental charge of TK 2,650, or incremental charge of TK115 per irrigated ac.  Full repair charges with taxes and                                  hX
duties on, spares gives an incrensental charge of TK 26.25 per irrigated ac.  Indirect OEM as per 7/.  Total incremental rental costs sum to TK 224 per irrigated ac.
9/  Assuming 20% downpayment and financing of balance on following terns:  13% p.a. interest, S-year repayment, one payment p.a.  Annuity, asuming 40% subsidy on the tax and duty
free price, cusses to TK 1,816 implying an incremental TK 1,466 (TK 1,816-350) on capital costs.  Regarding repair charge, inclusion of taxes and duties on spares yields a per
irrigated as increme.ntal sost  L TK 26.25 and total increment  of TK 525.  Ineram.ntal casts sum to TK 99.55 per -c irrigated ((1,466   525)- 20).
10/ Sal,e temns as in 8/.  Annuity, with no subsidy on tax and duty free price, comes to Tk 3,027 implying an incremental TK 2,677 (TI 3,037 - 350) on capital costs.  Regarding
rePair ch.rgr sce 8/.  Incremental costs sum to TI 160.55 per as irrigated ((TIh 2,67/ F 525) t 20).
II/ Ss-te clt sn  as 9/. Incremental costs sum to TK 171 per irrigated acre with inclusion of pumpset TED.
'C



ANNEX F
Figure 1
BANGLADESH
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
Estimated Relationship Between Level of Subsidy under Sales Program
and Level of Derived Aggregated Secondary Benefits
Taka   1900
1800
1700
1600
1400
1300
1200
1100
Aggregated
Secondary   1000
Benefits -
Annualized
900
300                              \       s   :
600 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~0 
Soo  - ~     ~       ~        a 
400  - 
700-
600 -
600                                     \
400
0                   I          I I I  I      I      t       !   
10     20     30     40      50     60     70    80      90     100
Percent SuDsidy on Tax-Free PriceOne-Cusec Pumpset
World Bank - 20050
94



ANNEX G
Table 1
BANGLADESH
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
Prices for Financial and Economic Analyses
Financial Price-        Economic Price-/
Crop (Tk/md)
Paddy
Aman                                         82                      138
Aus                                          77                      133
Boro                                         753/                    1304/
Oilseeds                                     215:-/                   371-
Pulses                                        65-                     112-
Fertilizer (Tk/md)
Urea                                         100-/                    137
TSP                                           55                      154
mlP                                           45                       96
Other Inputs
HYV Paddy Seeds (Tk/md)6-/                   120                      150
Animal Labor (Tk/pair/day)                    147/                     158/
Farm Labor (Tk/man-day)                       11-'              5.5-13.5-
1/ Derived from 1978-79 Crop Season data unless otherwise specified.
2/ Derived from projected 1990 world market prices in constant 1979
dollars. See Annex A, Table 3 for details of derivation.
Reference: IBRD EPD/CE, Commodity Price Forecasts - Mid-Year
Updating, October 5, 1978.
3/ 1974/75-1977/78, national annual average farmgate prices for Mustard
and Khesari Pulse respectively. In view of large oscillation through
time, these prices considered satisfactory, representative prices.
4/ Non-traded commodities assumed to increase by same percentage as paddy
prices.  Levels of oilseed and pulse production assumed same in both
W and W Project Cases. These prices, therefore, used only in opportunity
cost of land for 50 ac on which new BADC workshops to be constructed
under project.
5/ Current black market rate and likely official price as of 1979-80 season.
6/ For local varieties same as crop prices.
7/ Project area-specific average; see 1/
8/  Tk 5.5 during slack months of January, March, April, May, September, and
October. Tk 9.5 during moderately busy month of December.
Tk 13.5 during peak months of February, June, July, August,and November.
95



ANNEX G
Table 2
BANGLADESH
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
Prices of Internationally Traded Commodities for Economic Analysis
Commodity
Item                                Rice       Urea        TSP       MP
1.  Projected 1990 World KMrket
Price (US$/ton) 1/2/                             453        217       182       91
2.  Adjustments for Quality                                     10
Differentials (x)                              65-702       100       100      100
3.  Projected Price Adjusted for
Quality (US$/ton)                           294-317         217       182       91
4.  Shipping Costs  to Chit:tagong                                  4/
(US$/ton)                                         25         10-       30       30
5.  CIF/FOB Chittagong Price
(US$/ton)                                    319-34         227       212      121
6.  Handling and Transport Cost
Between Port and Wholesale   5/
Markec/Main Godowne (US$/ton)-                    40        -20        20       20
7.  Price Ex-Godowns (US$/ton)                   359-382        207       232      141
8.  Processing, Handling and
Transport Costs Between the
Wholesale Market/Godown and
Farmgate (US$/ton)5/                             -15         30        35       25
9.  Farmgate Price (US$/ton)                     344-367        237       267      166
10.  Processing Ratio C%)                              65        100        100     100
11. Farmgate Price Adjusted for
Processing Losses (US$/ton)                 224-239         237       267      166
12.  Tk/md-/                                      130-1382./     137        154       96
1/ Source: IBRD EPD/CE. Commodity Price Forecasts - Mid-Year Updating,
October 5, 1978, Projected 1990 world market prices in
constant 1979 dollars.
2/ Pricing Basis: Rice: Thai, milled 5% broken, FOB Bangkok
Urea: Bagged, FOB Europe
TSP : Bulk, FOB US Gulf
MP  : Bulk, FOB Vancouver
3/  For 25-35% broken.  Larger discount for Boro and Aus crops which are of
poorer quality than the Aman crop.
4/  Assuming Bangladesh would be  an exporter and because of proximity to
markets in South Asia would command a price advantage over European
suppliers.
5/ Assuming a SCF of 0.75 for non-traded goods and services.
6/  Rounded.
7/  Boro: Tk 130; Aus; Tk 133; Aman: Tk 138.
96



BANGLADESH
LtW LIFT PUil' PROJECT
Eoonrmnic  C4Yh rlo F 1/
Cale--dar Year:                            1980       1281        I8           1983        1984        1985        1986        198/         1988       1989        1990         1991        1992         1993
Project tear:                   ~~~~~~(1)  (2)         (3)         (4)          (5)         (6)         (7)         (8)          (9)        (10)        (11)         (12)        (13)        (14)
--------(thousand taka) ------------------.--------___--______________________-________________-__
locremrental Pro ject Ben efits; 3/ 4/
crop Output                                       -       46.345    417,335       788,370    927,590    806,761        525,742   244,722    217,621   305,217    392,492            421,529    244,077       66,625
Salvage Value & Unexpired Econonic life
of Inves.tent,                               -           -                  -          1.185       17.228       2,471      _JfLU         (762)      (8871     ,A     -L      3.641     .A.D 55. s
'lotl Incremental Project Benefits                   -       46.299    417,335        788,370    928,775    823,989        528,213    244,535    216,859   304,330    427,294           425,172    248,077       72,121
increme,ital Project Costs:-/ 4/
Investment Costs;
New Puisps.ta                                 8,723       69,787      69,787        26.170       -           -             -           -            -           -          -           -            -
LLP Rebuilding PrcSram                      (14,480)      (33,788)   (33,739)    (14,864)        -           -             -           -            -           -          -           _            _
Civil Works                                5,304       13,532      13,532         3,717
Equipm,ent and  'ools                      3,347       30,122      30,122        30,122       -           -             -           -            -  6/       _
Vehicles                                   1,451       14,334      11,402         2,428       -           -             -           -            649-/
'iechnical Assistance                      9 203       12,476       12,476       12.069       -           -             -           -                        _          _           _            _           _
1,,vests.leet Cost Sob-total                    Tt3548        106,464     103,580       59.642        -                                                  649
crop Prod.ctio, Costs-                               -        17,059     153,715      290,488    341,785    297,263    195.247          .9.0,172     80,188   112,403      144.898      155,207      89.935      24,549
Direct (WI Costs (Irrigation)7/                       -         2,565      21,900       41,371      48,678       43,586      31,742        19,898    18,755    22,440        26,126       26,872      15,560      4,247
i.dirt,L- WM Costs (Irrigation) 8/                                255       2,295        4,335        5,100       3,827         865       (2,096)   (2.382)   (1,460)          (539)        -           -            -
Administrative Costs/                                 -            99         876         1,525       1,539       1,174          766          336         74                    -                                    -
l.regorse Net llenefits frorr land Under
Bluildings (5S0   IO/                         75          151          151          151         1)1         151          151          151        151        151          151         151          151      1,026
n1.cre.eoLl.I Project Costs                13,623      126,593    282,517       397,512    397,253    346,001    228,771          108,461      97,435   133,534    170.636    182,230    105,646           29,822
Net IncremntOLal Project Benefits               (13,623)    (80,293)   134,818         390,858    531,522    477,988    299,442         136,074      119,424   170,796    256,658    242,942         142,978    42,662
FO'.LnoteL  on foliowing page
U0



ANNEX G
Table 3
Page 2
2/  (a)  This economic cost flow presented in traditional, 12-month format and is
therefore considered notional. Economic analysis of the Project actually
performed with a quarterly breakdown of costs and benefits. See W. Schaefer-
Kehnert, The Phasing cf Inflow and Outflow in Farm Cash Flow Projections, EDI
Course Notes CN-8, June 1978. (b) Costs and benefits related to the 5,000
rehabilitated pumps are net of those costs and benefits associated with
alternative new pumpsets (see 4/).
3/ See Annex E, Table 1 and supporting crop production tables for technical
details about inputs and outputs. See Annex H, Table 1 for economic prices of
inputs and outputs.
4/ Pumpsets assumed procured/rehabilitated one year prior to distribution for use.
All project pumps fielded by year 5. Area serviced per cusec assumed 20 ac.
Expected lives of pumps under various categories: (a) rehabilitated pumps -
4 years; (b) new BADC pumps for rental program - 7 years; and (c) privately-
owned pumps - 10 years.
5/ Salvage value assumed 10% of purchase price net of taxes and duties. Unexpired
economic lives calculaited on basis of straight-line depreciation. For rehabili-
tated pumps, salvage values and unexpired lives considered only for spare parts
acquired under Project. Buildings assuned to have economic life of 20 years
with zero salvage value.
6/ Represents 10% reinvesl:ment in BADC vehicles having 5 years economic life
in order to service groups renting the few remaining serviceable Project pumps.
7/  Includes rental pump transportation, salary of pump operator, diesel and
oil, diesel transport, 10% contingency, managerial expenses, and mechanic
services for privately-owned pumps. Charges total Tk 6,430 per 2-cusec pump
(rented) and Tk 4,890 per 1-cusec pump (privately-owned).
8/ Includes BADC salaries, maintenance allowance on BADC structures, fuel for
BADC vehicles and miscellaneous expenses. Charges total Tk 1,700 per 2-cusec
pump (rented).
9/ For IRDP and commercial banks involved in pump sales program. Charges assumed
equal to 5.5% of loans outstanding.
1O/ Fifty acres of land assumed removed from agricultural production to build 50
workshops. Land costed in analysis at net agricultural benefits foregone
using the With Project One Acre Farm Model as basis of calculation. Charge
estimated at Tk 3,024 per ac.
98



ANllLY G
Table 4
BANGLADESH
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
Economic Analysis:
Relative Importance of Individual Cost and Benefit Streams
and Switching Values (SV)t/ of Cost and Benefit Streams
Percent of Total Present
Value of Benefit/
Cost Stream                    SV     2/            SV     2/3/            SV     2J         SV
(12% p.a.)213/               (10% p.&.).         (12% psa.)--            (14% p.a )-       (16% p.a.)2/
____________- _____.__-----   percent --------.-.--------                                         . ----------
4/
t. Base Case-
A. Incremental Project Benefits
Crop Output                                         99.3                      -52.6               -51.6                   -50.7            -49.8
Salvage Value and Unexpired
Economic Life                                      0.7                         */
Total Incremental Project Benefits                   100.0                     -52.2                -51.2                    -50.3           -49.5
B. Incremental Project Costs
Investment Costs                                    131,                     E65 8                695. 1                  643.5           597.3
Crop Costs Excluding Labor
and Irrigation                                   31 .9                     340.2                328.8                   319.5           30';.5
Crop Labor Costs                                    4G.9                     264.4                256.3                   249.7            24 . 3
Direct O&M Costs (Irrigation)                       11.1                     962.5                912.8                   926.1            909.2
Indirect 01 Costs (Irrigation)                      0.6                         *5/                  *5/                    *5/               *5/
Administrative Costs                                 0.3                         *5/                  *5/                    *3/               *k/
Land Cost                                            0.1                         *5/                  *5/                    *3/               *3/
Total Incremental Project Costs                      100.0                     109.5                104..9                  10l. .               O0
II. Four-Year Disaster Cycle Case-
A. Incremental Project Benefits
Crop Output                                         99"1                     -40.6                -39.4                  -38.4            -X ..
Salvage Value and Unexpired
Economic Life                                     05*
Total Incremental Project Benefits                   100.0                     -40 2                -39 0                  -3S.1             -31
B. Incremental Project Costs
Investment Costs                                    13.5                     471.1                424.4                  390.6            36 ..3
Crop Costs Excluding Labor
and Irrigation                                   31.9                      209.3                200.1                  193 .9           187 .3
Crop Labor Costs                                    40.9                     162.6                156,5                  151.6             146..
Direct O&M Costs (Irrigation)                       11.1                     59241                575.7                  562,1            5B4_4.
Indirect 06M Costs (Irrigation)                      0.6                         *5/                  *5/                    *5/               *5/
Administrative Costs                                 0.3                         *5/                  *S/                    *3/               *5/
Land Cost                                            0.1                         *5/                  *5/                    *3/               *5/
Total Incremental Project Costs                      100.0                       40.4                 39.5                   38.8             38.0
1/ Switching Value (SV) is the percentage change which reduces the net present value to zero at a specified
discount rate, e.g. the opportunity cost of capital.
2/  Economic analysis done on quarterly basis with the following quarterly rates of discount (in percent):
Quarterly Rete                Equivalent Annual Rate
(a)             2.314                               10.0
(b)             2.874                               12.0
(c)             3.330                               14.0
(d)             3.780                               16.0
3/  Assumed Opportunity Cost of Capital.
4/  Reference  Annex H  Table 3.
S/  Greater than 1100% : Costs(+),Benefits(-).
6/ Assumes post-harvest destruction of incremental Soro crop every fourth year beginning with first cropping
year under Project. Project Year 2.
99



BRNGLRDESH
LON  L.IFT PUMP PROJECT                                          Figure I
Present Values of Base Case Total Incremental Costs
and Benefits at Various Discount Rates
30 .0 -
ElOS
UJ 25 .0
20.0
LU15.0 _<
CD
nr xlo - 
Z5.0
LU
u)
2    4    6    8   10   12   14   16   18   20   22   24   26
DISCOUNT RRTE
LEGEND
2-    Z.87% - OPPORTUNITY COST OF CRPITRL
-_______________   -       TOTRL  INCREMENTRL  PROJECT BENEFITS
-         -_____________ -  =TOTRL  INCREMENTRL PROJECT COSTS
1/  See Table Z 2/
100



BRNGLRDESH                                          ANNEX G
LOW  LIFT  PUMP  PROJECT                                        Figure2
Locus of Base Case Switching Values for Total
Cost Overrun and Benefit Shortfall-/
no_
u\
m  80
=   60_\
40
z  20
LU_\
a-,
0b         ii 1  1 i  1 i  1 11 1  1  1I 11 11  1  1  I  1I II II  I I III I I 1I I I I I   I
0     5    10    15    20    25    30    35    40    45    50
PERCENTRGE SHORTFRLL  IN BENEFITS
LEGEND
= MRXI1MUM ,SSUMED  FRLL  IN BENEFITS IS  50 .0%
- = MRXIMUM qSSUMED  RISE  IN COSTS IS            25.07
BENEFIT SWITCHING POINT IS 51.2%
COST SWITCHING POINT IS           104.97.
1/ Based on Discount Rate of 1.2% p.a.
101



BRNGLHDESH
LOW  LIFT  PUMP  PROJECT                                 AigrNeX3
Present Values of Disaster Case / Total Incremental
Costs and Benefits at Various Discount Rates
25 .0-
o~ 20 .0
1 15.0
CC
-  10.0       4       6      8      10     12      14     16      18     20
I SCOUNT RRTE
LEGEND
__ -  -2.87%  - OPPORTUNITY COST OF CRPITRL
-___--   = INCR. S WI 4 YR DISRSTER  CYCLE
-______________ -  =CTOTRL  INCREMENTRL PROJECT COSTS
1/ See para 7.07
I/ See Table 4 2/
102



BRNGLRDESH                                            ANNEX G
LOW  LIFT  PUMP PROJECT                                             Figure 4
Locus of Disaster Case Switching Values for Total
Cost Overrun and Benefit Shortfalli/
60_
C-_
:z 50 _        
:z
40\
>30
Lu
0  20
z
UJ 10
0   3   5   8  10  13  15  18  20  23  25  28  30  33  35  38  40
PERCENTRGE SHORTFRLL IN BENEFITS
LEGEND
BENEFIT SWITCHING  POINT  IS   39.1%
COST  SWITCHING POINT  IS               64.1%
I/ Based on Discount Rate of 12% p.a.
103



ANNEX H
Page 1
BANGLADESH
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
EVALUATION OF ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL IMPACT
Draft Terms of Reference
Objectives
1.        Progress of the rental and sales program, would have to be monitored
carefully and the social and economic impact evaluated. Therefore, evaluation
would be carried out with the following objectives:
(a)  to collect information on the present social structure 1/ of
pump rental groups, their composition, and water charge
collection procedures;
(b) to gather information on the present water charge structure,
rate level, timing of payments, rate differentials within
and between groups, and collection method(s) (e.g., in-kind,
in-cash, labor);
(c) to monitor rates charged group participants when new rental
and sales programs start and compare these with those de-
manded under the older rental regime;
(d)  to monitor and evaluate the implications of the sales program
on equity among managers, landowners, sharecroppers, and land
renters;
(e) to gather information on cropping patterns, input use, water
use efficiency, crop production, man-days of family and hired
labor and animal--days use for different farm operations;
(f) to study the use of LLPs for other purposes after the irrigation
season;
(g) to analyze the extent and nature of secondary effects,
e.g., employment generated with intensification of pumps
use, creation of village-level servicing industry, dis-
placement from land; and
1/   Appendix 1 contains arL outline of variables to study.
104



ANNEX H
Page 2
(h) to recommend to Government whether to continue with both
programs unchanged or to institute modifications, includ-
ing the option to discontinue pump sales/rentals.
Scope
2.        The evaluation study would be concentrated in the five project
districts of Comilla, Noakhali, Chittagong, Barisal, and Patuakhali where
new project pumps would be fielded. It would be carried out during and
after the Boro crop seasons over the FY80-84 period. During the first year,
baseline information would be collected from a representative sample of old
rate regime rental groups. These and thereafter an additional representative
sample of ownership groups and rental groups with higher rental charges would
be monitored. Given the confidential nature of required information, it will
be necessary to do some in-depth case studies of farm family budgets and of
group aggregates.
Detailed Description
3.        To assess the effects of the project on equity, the existing or
pre-project situation has to be known. Therefore, during the first year
baseline study, the following information is needed:
(a) Composition of pump rental groups (registered and unregis-
tered groups) in terms of number of farmers; percent of
landowners, sharecroppers and land renters; sizes of hold-
ings, and farm incomes as compared to total family income.
(b) Ages of these groups; variation in composition, reasons why
certain individuals jointed or dropped out.
(c) Characteristics of pump group managers (farm size, age,
income and its sources, education, community status).
(d) Water charge structure:
(i) payments made and time invested by pump manager
before and throughout the irrigation period,
details of costs, risks, and responsibilities
borne by the manager;
(ii) payments made by group members, in-cash (amounts),
labor, or in-kind during the season. If group members
pay the manager in labor, the prevailing wage rate
during that day and the possible effect of not being
able to work on one's own fields would be recorded.
If payments are in-kind, the approximate value would
be recorded (e.g., part of the harvest).
(e) Decision-making procedures within the group.
105



ANNEX H
Page 3
4.        The effects of the two changes introduced through the project (sales
and higher rental rates) would be monitored.
(a) To understand the effects of higher rental charges, data
would be collected on:
(i)  stability of group composition;
(ii)  changes in rates charged to group members;
(iii) impact of higher charges on farm profits (in
conjunctionl with changes in prices of peddy and
other inputs) and family income; and
(iv)  analysis ofE who benefits and who losses.
(b) To assess the ef-fects of introduction of the sales program,
the following information would be collected:
(i)  progress of sales and prices of different pump
types;
(ii)  number of former rental groups that decide to buy
pumps;
(iii) reasons for purchase rather than rental;
(iv)  method(s) of collection and sharing costs of down-
payment and annuities among group members;
(v)  ownership structure (e.g., genuine group ownership,
individual ownership under guise of group ownership,
variations);
(vi)  types and distribution of off-season benefits from
pump/engine use;
(vii) private sector involvement -- characteristics of pump
dealers, services provided, charges demanded; develop-
ment of servicing industry in rural communities.
5.        To assess the efiEects of sales program and rental rate increase
on water-use efficiency, following data would be collected:
(a) irrigated area per pump (in ac per cusec of pump capacity);
(b) cropping pattern;
(c) amount of water actually pumped per season per ac;
106



ANNEX H
Page 4
(d) estimated crop-water requirement per ac for the season;
(e)  irrigation efficiency; and
(f)  water losses identification.
Execution
6.        The evaluation study would be undertaken by the Project Monitoring
and Evaluation unit assisted by consultants, nationally recruited. The con-
sultants should have previous experience in applied social studies in rural
Bangladesh, preferably in the project area. They would employ graduate
studea,Ls and interviewers to carry out the in-depth participant-observation
and interviewing phases of the study. These students and interviewers would
receive training in objective and procedures of the study and in region-
specific characteristics such as dialects, technical terms, and volumetric
measures. Interim progress reports would be produced annually; beginning
with the FY82 season.
Costs
7.        The total budget for the evaluation study would be US$150,000
equivalent. This would include professional fees, payments for interviewers,
transport, and other miscellaneous costs. Detailed proposals for the study
and budgets would have to be submitted by prospective consultants.
Samples
8.        Baseline data should be collected from at least 375 groups, a 2.5%
sample of all existing groups in the project area (15,000). The sample
should be divided among the five districts in proportion to the total number
of groups in each district, but with a minimum of 30 group observations per
district.
9.        In-depth data should be gathered on 35-50 groups, using local
interviewers to construct farm budgets. Adequate representation of small vs.
large and landowners vs. landless should be included in the budget study.
At least 30 case studies should be prepared for each major category of farm
size and tenure pattern.
10.       In the monitoring phase, data should be collected from rental
groups continuing to rent, rental groups deciding to buy, and newly formed
rental and ownership groups. The 35-50 groups studied in detail during the
baseline -hase would most likely become purchasers or continued renters and
therefore would provide adequate representative samples in these categories
for the monitoring phase. An additional sample would have to be selected
to study newly formed buying and renting groups (at least 85 should be sur-
veyed of each type, while 8-15 should be studied in-depth).
107



ANNEX H
Page 5
Summary of Project Pump Groups
Expected Group Composition by 1984
Outside
Total           Project Area       Project Area /a
Groups   Farmers  Groups  Farmers   Groups   Farmers
Existing rental group:   9,992    400,000   6,787  197,740    3,205   128,200
- becoming buyer groups  3,787       75,740   3,787   75,740
- continuing as rental
groups                6,205    248,200   3,000  120,000    3,205   128,200
New groups                3,508    106,060
- buyer group             1,713      34,260   1,713   34,260
- rental group            1,795      71,800                       1,795    71,800
/a   Rehabilitated pumps rented to existing and newly formed groups; these
pumps would be distributed outside the project area to the rest of the
country to replace condemned pumps. These groups would be excluded from
the evaluation study.
108



ANNEX H
Appendix 1
Social Structure of Irrigation Groups: Variables
1.        Pump rental and ownership groups form to provide members with irri-
gation facilities for dry season cropping. To study the social structure of
irrigation groups, information should be gathered on how the following four
functions of any irrigation system are organized:
(a) construction of canals and other system works;
(b) water allocation among members and plots;
(c) system maintenance; and
(d) conflict management (intra- and inter-group).
2.        To accomplish these functions, each group organizes itself with
carefully defined roles and rules for its members. The manager performs
functions in the group, rules are established to allocate water to group par-
ticipants, penalties and rules delineate consequences when a member fails to
pay the manager (e.g. loss of land).
3.        In addition to intra-group roles and rules, the group,, and espe-
cially the manager, has modi operandi determining the group's relationship
with the outside world, e.g. neighboring group, BADC, banks and extension
agents.
109






t a 1 *4noa 0 Jt |; L _ ; = *ioewn  t-G  -                              ss,,3;,Aw;4 rrm;\i~  a  1
' X, \h</ S=: ~~~~~~~SiWWtlV  =i3ft4=fJ5l-            '    = '   It  i   ;f =t 6*                "V\92-hf /aE
J    \    u   oh  <  i  2    1:eF    sHu#vrvl4 = 13ldolti_t       ,  :;                     to  3       ,t
nWw*44lSn ONI 1 aivt NI~OlinsNii V]r
\   > S~      ~      ~     ~~~~~~ ,'V)"t Nv,O'+S .PCNffVlJOJ flTJJ                              1    / -,,,c -
;t ~                                      0NTq  a        J        ;tr:    .  .  uNuitmWDIRiko=; tri Hs3UrffB
., ', \ :~~~091104   010           jaO OrnINWIfl0  4013601         -E        - .. flrW~ .,0          Zit4 
DWOU civqnj          i           njdawi   30mo              -
/>t~~~~~~~~~~~~~0            3 0   , - ' - -   -        n P I S W " W . 9 6 3 0 * #   . 0 0,
W_N31 4001y                                              i w
.      .s .    , NSg ONNY NOlISrISI
' AW<fiStt~~~~~~~~~------
"ro
VI HONIOYO-
)     -i )  '=-
X    .....   V1  t=<>/ \tn -;a8r 0 ,->44
\' ~ ~    ~       ~      ~      ~      (/ F' V/e0';; O > l!(        ;,               ,,4 
I ~      ~~~~          '   I ''  -' rI-''  VE        >        A'-t



