Document of                       FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repo  No. P-2709-BD
REPORT AMD RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
February 20, 1980
' b d.ecm b _  ruiet  dIstrbudw sd may be _e  by rec4pbae edy 1 Ow pdornme ol
d      Irsl dk es. Its l entam   may wa t aohwbe be  sloed widout Word l1k shosi_.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
The Bangladesh Taka is officially valued at Tk 34.6868 to the Pound
Sterling. The Pound now floats relative to the US Dollar and consequently,
the Taka to US Dollar rate is subject to change. The rate below has been
used throughout this report except where otherwise stated.
US$          - Tk 15.5
Tk 1         - US$0.0645
Tk 1 million - US$64,516
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre (ac)                                 0.405 hectares
1 foot (ft)                                30.5 centimeters
1 maund (md)                               37.3 kilograms
1 metric ton (ton)                         26.8 maunds
1 cubic foot per second (cusec)             0.0283 cubic meters per second
1 imperial gallon                  -        4.545 liters



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
a-d       animal day
ADB       Asian Development Bank
BADC      Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BARI      Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute
B. Aman   Broadcast Aman paddy
BKB       Bangladesh Krishi Bank
CB        Commercial Bank(s)
DAC       District Approval Committee
DOAEM     Directorate of Agriculture (Extension and Management)
DTW       Deep tubewell
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GOB       Government of Bangladesh
HP        horsepower
HTW       Hand tubewell
HYV       High-yielding variety
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
ILO       International Labor Organization
IP        Irrigation Project
IRDP      Integrated Rural Development Program
KSS       Village Cooperative Society (Krishi Samabaya Samity)
LLP       Low Lift Pump
MA        Ministry of Agriculture
m-d       man day
MLG&RD    Ministry of Land Administration, Local Government,
Rural Development, and Cooperatives
M&P       BADC Mechanization and Pump Division
OCC       Opportunity Cost of Capital
O&M       Operation and Maintenance
P         Present Case
PV        Present Value
STW       Shallow tubewell
SV        Switching Value
TAC       Thana Approval Committee
T. Aman   Transplanted Asan paddy
TCCA      Thana Central Cooperative Association
TIP       Thana Irrigation Program
TORs      Terms of Reference
TTDC      Thana Training and Development Center
T&D       Taxes and Duties
T&V       Training and Visit extension system
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
W         With Project Case
W         Without Project Case
WD        Wheel drive
WDB       Bangladesh Water Development Board
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






BANGLADESH
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       People's Republic of Bangladesh.
Amount:         US$37.0 Million Equivalent.
Terms:          Standard.
Purpose:        The project would be implemented over a four-year development
period (1980/81-1983/84) and would include: the provision of
8,500 new Low Lift Pumps (LLPs) together with spares to replace
unserviceable and condemned units and to allow additional LLP
fieldings; the rehabilitation of 5,000 unserviceable LLPs; the
initiation of LLP sales to farmers with provision of credit
from commercial banks; the provision of tools and equipment for
BADC workshops; the supply of transport vehicles for BADC field
operations, a training program and facilities for pump mechanics
and operators and, advisory services to execute water avail-
ability and monitoring surveys. The project would also assist
in the financing of incremental diesel fuel requirements of
project LLPs over the four-year development period. About
430,000 rural households would benefit directly from access
to irrigation facilities provided under the project, resulting
in significant increases in output and incomes. At full devel-
opment in 1984, the project would protect against the loss
of 21.6 M man-days of employment and generate an incremental
annual employment of abou,t 7.1 M man-days in on-farm work.
The main project risk relates to the rate of uptake under the
proposed program for the sale of one-cusec LLPs to farmers.
Provision of institutional credit has been made under the
project to minimize this risk. The sales program would be
closely monitored throughout project implementation.



Estimated Project                                                             % of
Costs: /a                                                                  Total
Local Foreign Total Cost
---(US$ Million)---
Land Acquisition              0.2    -       0.2       1
Pumpsets                      4.8    9.6   14.4       30
Rehabilitation of
5,000 pumps and spares    1.5    1.5    3.0          6
Diesel Fuel                   1.2    8.0    9.2       19
Civil works for Thana
workshops and training
facilities                  1.6    0.6    2.2        5
Machinery, equipment,
tools and spares            1.3    2.4    3.7        8
Transport vehicles and
office equipment            1.2    1.1    2.3        5
Training, Studies,
Advisory Services,
and-Monitoring              1.1    1.7    2.8        6
Base Cost                  12.9   24.9   37.8       80
Physical Contingencies        0.6    1.7    2.3        5
Price Contingencies           4.2    3.7    7.9       15
Total Project Cost           17.7   30.3   48.0 /b 100
Financing Plan:                                         Local Foreign Total
---US$ millions--
IDA                           6.7   30.3   37.0
GOB                          11.0    -      11.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                         FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85
Annual           16.0    7.0    7.0    5.0    2.0
Cumulative       16.0   23.0   30.0   35.0   37.0
Economic Rate
of Return:          over 100%.
Appraisal Report:    Bangladesh:  Low-Lift Pumps Project,
Report No. 2481a-BD, dated February 20, 1980.
/a   The cost estimates include taxes and duties.  Small discrepancies are
due to rounding.
/b   Of which import duties and taxes amount to about US$7.1 m.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for the equivalent of US$37.0
million, on standard IDA terms, to assist in the financing of a Low Lift Pump
Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Bangladesh:  Current Trends and Devel-
opment Issues" (Report No. 2245-BD) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on December 15, 1978. An updated Country Economic Memorandum is currently
being prepared by an economic mission which visited Bangladesh in October 1979;
it will be distributed in March 1980.
Background
3.        The first years of independence were difficult for Bangladesh.  With
its economy already disrupted and its physical infrastructure severely damaged
by the struggle for independence, the country was afflicted by poor harvests
in 1972/73 and by damaging floods in 1974. Foodgrain output fell drastically
during these troubled years and recovered to the pre-independence level only
in 1975/76; foodgrain imports averaging over 2.1 million tons per year were
required between FY72 and FY75 to maintain food consumption levels near mini-
mum standards. The terms of trade worsened considerably, and the production
of jute, the predominant export commodity, declined sharply. Inflation, dec-
lining real wages, labor unrest and political instability added to the troubles.
Relief, rehabilitation, the building of a national government from a provincial
administation, and the consolidation of Government authority were unavoidably
the paramount concerns of policy makers in the first half of the 1970s.
4.        Economic improvements in recent years, together with greater
political stability, have signaled a significant shift in the conditions of
Bangladesh and have somewhat brightened its economic prospects. The late
1970s may be characterized as a period of consolidation and economic recovery -
following the disruptions of the early 1970s - in which planners and policy
makers had an opportunity to focus on the longer-term needs of development.
In recognition of its needs for a reorientation of policies, the Government
wisely chose to delay the preparation and implementation of a new Five-Year
Plan by two years. The current Two-Year Plan (FY79-FY80) has given GOB
officials time to consider the development strategy and policies to be
incorporated in the next Five-Year Plan to begin in July 1980.



2-
Recent Developments and Near-Term Prospects
5.        From 1975 until March 1979, Bangladesh was governed under martial
law and without a parliament. In elections held in February 1979, 29 politi-
cal parties and groups contested 300 seats in the National Assembly. Roughly
two-thirds o- the seats were won by the Bangladesh National Party (BNP) headed
by President Ziaur Rahman, who had won the presidential election held in
June 1978. Thirty additional seats, reserved for women, were subsequently
filled by the BNP. Martial law was lifted following the convening of the
new Parliament in March 1979, and a new cabinet was appointed at that time.
6.        The year FY78 (July 1977-June 1978) was a relatively good one for
the Bangladesh economy. Mostly as the result of a record grain crop (13.1
million tons) and a 10% increase in industrial output, GDP grew by nearly 8%
in real terms, following a 2% rise in FY77. But the experience of the past
year has again demonstrated the severe vulnerability of the Bangladesh economy.
During this period, economic developments were dominated and largely determined
by the consequences of unfavorable weather conditions, including droughts and
floods. These conditions affected adversely both the foodgrain crops (which
represent roughly one-third of GDP) and the size and quality of the jute crop;
they also had repercussions throughout the rest of the economy. Inflation,
which was aggravated by the shortfall in food production and consequent rapid
rises in rice prices, increased to a current rate of about 17%; GDP growth
slowed sharply, and with population growing at 2.7% annually real per capita
incomes rose barely, if at all. On the positive side, however, FY79 saw a
continuing strong performance of the construction sector, improved budgetary
performance, a substantial increase in development expenditures, the emergence
of stronger balance-of-payments and international reserves positions than had
been expected, further rapid growth in wheat production, and a number of signi-
ficant policy adjustmenfts, most notably in the areas of exchange rate manage-
ment and public sector pricing. But due to the continuing effects of the
1978-79 drought, the current outlook for FY80 is that GDP growth will be well
below the rate of 7.3% projected by GOB in its FY80 budget.
7.        The succession of three relatively poor crops in a row (1978/79
aman, 1979 boro and aus) meant that foodgrain available from domestic produc-
tion during CY1979 was considerably below the previous year's level. This
situation was compounded by a serious slippage in the scheduled arrival of
food aid during the first half of CY1979 and resulted in a fall in the per
capita availability of food and in increased rice prices to levels unrecorded
since the food crisis of 1975. Meanwhile, low domestic foodgrain procurement
from the small crops and high offtakes under the ration system led to a rapid
depletion of public food stocks. In contrast to the targeted level of one
million tons, stocks fell to only 209,000 tons at the end of June 1979.
Below this level, it is generally conceded, the public foodgrain distribu-
tion system is liable to break down, with the dire consequences that this
could entail.
8.        To prevent a serious food crisis in the July-October 1979 lean sea-
son, Government authorities at the highest level took charge of the situation
and directed an all-out effort to import and distribute the massive volume of



-3-
foodgrain needed to supplement the reduced domestic crops. This effort was
remarkably successful. Almost 2 million tons of food, both aid-financed and
commercially purchased, were imported between July and December 1979. This
placed a heavy burden on the country's port handling capability, its internal
transport facilities, and its public administration and distribution system.
Although the disruptive impact of this massive effort on the other sectors
of the economy was held-to a minimum, it could not be entirely avoided. The
internal movement of other important bulk commodities and the shipment of
exports were impeded for some time during the peak months of foodgrain
imports. Nevertheless, the authorities were able to unload and distribute
this unprecedented volume of foodgrain imports quickly enough to enable off-
take to be stepped up and stocks to be restored to a more comfortable level.
By the beginning of September 1979, therefore, rice prices had begun to ease
and what might have become a serious food crisis was averted.
9.        The underlying problem--i.e., the slow growth of agricultural
production--has become the principal focal point of concern among Bangladesh's
top leadership and economic planners. The Second Five-Year Plan is expected
to give top priority--together with population growth control--to agriculture,
and especially to food production. Meanwhile, the short-term food supply
outlook is still problematic. The public stock position at the end of 1979
was adequate because of the substantial imports between July 1979 and December
1979. The current aman crop, however, appears to be no better than last
year's and procurement from this crop--in spite of a recent procurement price
increase--will be very small, Consequently, in order to avert a repetition
of the CY1979 situation, considerable amounts of additional imports will be
needed in CY1980. The extent of these requirements will depend on the
prospects for the boro, wheat and aus crops, which cannot yet be ascertained.
In any event, efforts to ensure an adequate stock of foodgrain to meet 1980
consumption and stock build-up requirements cannot yet be relaxed. A special
meeting of the Bangladesh Aid Group was convened in late January 1980 to con-
sider the country's food situation, import requirements and policy measures
needed to prevent future repetitions of the recent experience. A Bank report
entitled "Bangladesh: Food Policy Issues", prepared for consideration at that
meeting, was distributed to the Executive Directors in late December 1979. 1/
The Balance of Payments
10.       Repercussions of the 1979 food shortage were reflected also in the
balance of payments. For example, the need to finance commercial purchases
of food was evidently a factor underlying GOB's rather cautious implementa-
tion of its import program. Other factors included the Government's desire
to defer the importation of non-essential items during the period when the
ports were expected to be congested with the food imports anticipated to
arrive during the last quarter of FY79. Delays in commitments of commodity-
aid also resulted in corresponding delays in the issuance of import licenses.
As a result, non-foodgrain imports in FY79 remained considerably below target.
1/   Report No. 2761-BD, dated December 19, 1979.



- 4 -
Because of this and other factors, foreign exchange reserves increased, which
in turn added to the increase in money supply and further aggravated infla-
tionary tendencies. The reserve increase, however, was a temporary phenomenon.
Even at this higher than expected level, reserves at the end of FY79 were
still not quite sufficient to cover two months of merchandise imports at the
projected levels of FY80. Even with a continuing relatively favorable export
performance and a restrictive import policy, a substantial current account
deficit is projected for FY80, primarily due to large increases in the volume
and price of foodgrain imports and to significant price increases for imported
crude oil and petroleum products and other imports.
11.       Bangladesh's balance of payments continues to be characterized by
a massive structural trade deficit and heavy dependence on foreign aid. Ex-
port earnings in FY79 represented less than 7% of GDP and less than 40% of
the import bill. Moreover, Bangladesh's export structure continues to be
dominated by raw jute and jute goods, which together account for approximately
70% of total export earnings. Although exports increased by about 20% in FY79,
the trade deficit widened to almost $1 billion. The terms of trade appear to
have improved somewhat during the year. The value of raw jute exports totalled
US$143 million in FY79, a 47% increase over the previous year's receipts; this
reflected a 17% increase in volume and a 27% increase in prices. Jute goods
exports in FY79 were valued at US$276 million, an 11% increase over the pre-
vious year's receipts; a decline in export volume was more than offset by a 27%
increase in unit prices. Relatively large gains were also recorded in exports
of leather, fish and shrimps and other non-traditional exports. Among the
notable developments on the import side in FY79 was the US$40 million decline
in food imports to a level of about US$200 million; this was some US$50 million
less than had been projected, owing mainly to the delays in food aid arrivals
noted above. Capital goods imports rose by 21% to US$384 million. Fertilizer
imports nearly doubled in value, and there were significant increases also in
both the volume and prices of petroleum products and cement imports.
12.       The FY79 current account deficit was considerably smaller than the
trade deficit, owing mainly to the continued rapid growth of worker's remit-
tances. These receipts are now the second most important source of foreign
exchange earnings, exceeded only by jute goods exports. A notable development
was the US$100 million increase in project aid disbursements in FY79, reflect-
ing in part the country's growing absorptive capacity. Total aid disburse-
ments, which exceeded US$1 billion for the first time, were equivalent to 63%
of total merchandise imports. Debt service payments rose to US$95 million,
notwithstanding some debt relief measures undertaken by various donors, and
the debt service ratio deteriorated from 13.5% in FY78 to 15.8% in FY79. 1/
13.       Between August 1978 and August 1979, GOB undertook a series of ex-
change rate adjustments whereby the Taka was devalued by about 24% against
the Pound Sterling. These adjustments served to strengthen somewhat the
balance of payments and the allocation of resources within the economy. In
July 1979, the IMF approved a Stand-by Arrangement for a period of one year
1/   Debt service as a percentage of merchandise exports.



- 5 -
in an amount equivalent to SDR 85 million. Net of repayments, and including
projected disbursements from the IMF Trust Fund and (possible) new SDR alloca-
tions, the IMF is expected to cover about US$59 million of Bangladesh's financ-
ing requirements in FY80.
Public Finance
14.       Public finances improved in FY79 and are expected to improve further
in FY80. In both years, the contribution of the current budget surplus to the
development budget showed a rising trend, in absolute as well as relative terms.
Borrowing from the domestic banking system, which re-emerged as a source of
budget financing in FY78, has since been avoided. Nevertheless, inflation has
again become a serious problem, while the implementation of many projects, both
aided and non-aided, continues to be hampered by insufficient or tardy allocation
of domestic funds. This emphasizes the urgent need for further improvement in
the mobilization of domestic resources if the ratio of public investment to GDP
is to be raised above the 10% level of recent years.
15.       This task of raising additional domestic resources is wide-ranging,
involving not only a strengthening of the tax effort, but in addition--and
above all--improved performance of the public sector business enterprises and
utiLities and reduction of the three key subsidies (on jute, food and agricul-
tural inputs). The Government has shown growing awareness of the problem. In
October 1976 it established a Taxation Enquiry Commission, and in mid-1978 five
special committees to review various aspects of domestic resource mobilization.
The five committees reviewed, respectively: (i) the gradual elimination of the
food subsidy; (ii) the rationalization of the rate structure of public trans-
port agencies; (iii) economic pricing by public utilities; (iv) the reduction
in agricultural input subsidies, including the fertilizer subsidy; and (v)
improvement in the financial performance of public sector enterprises. The
committees recently concluded their work; the final report of the Taxation
Enquiry Commission was submitted to the Government in April 1979. Furthermore,
a detailed survey of the jute industry was recently completed for GOB by
Economic Consultants Ltd. (ECL).
16.       A start has been made to implement some of the recommendations of
these advisory groups. Several of the measures suggested by the Taxation
Enquiry Commission, especially those in regard to tax administration, have
been implemented gradually from FY78. In mid-1978 the Government increased
railway fares, and in the course of CY1979 it raised foodgrain ration prices,
several utility rates and commodity sales prices of public sector enterprises.
Fertilizer prices, for example, were increased by 28% in September 1979 and
petroleum product prices by up to 45% in November 1979. In some cases these
price adjustments only kept pace with inflation, but in others they served to
reduce the subsidy burden in real terms.
17.       Development expenditures increased by almost 40% and total revenues
by about 21% in FY79; development expenditures are projected to increase by
a further 29% and revenues by another 21% in FY80. Increased development
activity has also been reflected in the increased disbursement of project aid,
which rose by an estimated 35% in FY79 and is projected to rise by a further
24% in FY80--reflecting improvements in Bangladesh's absorptive capacity.



- 6 -
18.       As noted above, the Government abstained from domestic budgetary
deficit financing in FY79, and it plans to avoid doing so in FY80 as well
but inflationary pressures, which re-emerged in FY78 (sparked primarily by
too rapid a creation of liquidity by the banking system) continued into FY79,
especially in the latter part of the year when rice prices rose very rapidly.
The cost of living index (COL) for urban consumers rose by an estimated 19%
between June 1978-June 1979 (pushed by a 48% increase in average rice prices),
although the average COL index for FY79 was only 9% above that for FY78. This
rate should decline somewhat during the current fiscal year as a result of
efforts being made to slow down the rise in liquidity. In addition, accele-
rated foodgrain imports and higher foodgrain production should contribute
to an abatement of inflationary pressure on consumer prices.
Development Planning and Policy Issues
19.       FY79 and FY80 comprise the period of the Two-Year Plan, which was
meant to provide an opportunity for policy re-appraisal and for preparation
of the Second Five-Year Plan and a Twenty-Year Perspective Plan. In the pro-
cess of preparing these plans the planners have addressed themselves to the
factors underlying the slow development of the economy over the past decade:
these include poor land use, lack of irrigation, inadequate public adminis-
tration, low domestic resource mobilization, and social impediments to change.
The planners have also analyzed those problems posed by the basic structural
conditions of the economy: a unique environment prone to natural disasters;
a high rate of population growth; mass poverty; a highly-skewed distribution
of income and land ownership; a high ratio of population to land; extreme
fragmentation of landholdings and growing landlessness of the predominantly
rural population; high illiteracy; poor health and short life expectancy;
high unemployment and underemployment and scarce employment possibilities
outside agriculture; and a heavy dependence on foreign aid, not only for
investment financing, but also for food and recurrent inputs.
20.       Although the Second Five-Year Plan is still in preparation, it seems
clear that first priority in the next Plan will go to agriculture and, within
agriculture, to the production of food. The potential for increasing agricul-
tural output in Bangladesh is considerable, as yields are among the lowest in
Asia, cropping intensity is low, and fertilizer use still very modest. Except
for last year, when it was adversely affected by the weather, fertilizer
demand has been growing at a rapid rate. Wheat production has expanded very
rapidly since FY75 and is likely to continue to grow significantly, and there
seems to be a large unsatisfied demand for irrigation. Precisely how rapidly
food production could be boosted remains to be determined. The Plan's targets
have yet to be announced, but are expected to be very ambitious.
21.       Recent projections 1/ indicate that the population of Bangladesh,
estimated at roughly 90 million in January 1980, would total 145 million by
the year 2000 if the net reproduction rate of 1 were not reached until 2035.
1/   World Development Report (World Bank, August 1979), Table 17, pg. 158.



-7-
These projections imply that the population growth rate, currently estimated
at about 2.5% -2.7% per annum, would not decline very dramatically over the
next 15 to 20 years--a grim but seemingly realistic assumption in view of
the poor implementation and limited success of population control efforts
in Bangladesh so far. The implications of such a rate of population growth
for the development prospects of Bangladesh are staggering. The density of
population on cultivable land would increase from the present 3.8 persons per
acre to over 6.2 persons per acre by the end of the century. In a country
where the mainstay of the economy is agriculture and where food shortages are
already serious, the adverse consequences of such overcrowding are obvious.
Annual foodgrain requirements--even at the present low per capita consumption
level of about 15.5 ounces per day--would increase from about 14 million tons
at present to roughly 23 million tons by the year 2000. For domestic produc-
tion to meet this requirement, it would almost have to double from the record
level of about 11.9 million tons (net of seed, feed and waste) achieved
in FY78. Substantial increases in cropping intensity and in yields would
be required, therefore, even to maintain food consumption at a subsistence
level.
22.       Without a drastic reduction in the rate of population growth, a sig-
nificant improvement in real incomes, the satisfaction of basic needs and the
provision of public services would also be extremely difficult. By the same
token, it would become increasingly impossible to educate the rapidly growing
number of people and to provide gainful and productive employment opportun-
ities for them. In recognition of these factors, high priority is being given
by GOB to improving the performance of its population control and family
planning program.
23.       Emphasis in the next five years is also likely to be placed on the
satisfaction of a number of basic needs, including the provision of adequate
clothing, universal primary education and rural electrification. The planners
recognize that it will take more than five years to meet these and other
targets, but strides will be made in the'next plan period towards their achieve-
ment.
24.       A plan aimed at effecting a significant departure from past trends
will place a severe strain on domestic finance and managerial skills. Even
with the adoption of labor-intensive and low capital-cost techniques, a signi-
ficant step-up in development spending will be required. This in turn will
require sizeable increases in both the mobilization of domestic and the inflow
of foreign resources. A critical factor will also be the extent to which
implementation capabilities are improved. Although immediate improvements can
be made in the ability of the administration to expedite project implementation,
it is unlikely that the efforts of public agencies alone would be adequate to
achieve the targeted breakthrough. The Government recognizes that in certain
key areas, greater reliance will have to be placed on the private sector. It
also believes that, to a certain extent, activities such as education and rural
development should be carried out in a decentralized fashion, with greater
emphasis on local initiative and grass-roots participation.



8 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
25.       Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in August 1972.
Initially, Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactiva-
tion of uncompleted projects, financed under credits made origin.ally to
Pakistan, before 1971. Eleven such credits, amounting to US$148.6 million
(including US$44.1 million for the repayment of amounts that had been dis-
bursed under the corresponding previous credits to Pakistan, and net of can-
cellations) were made to Bangladesh. In addition, as of January 31, 1980,
37 new credits, excluding the consolidation credit of US$31.0 million referred
to in paragraph 26, have been made, totalling US$1,039.7 million. Of the
amount, US$525 million has been for eight program credits (including a fer-
tilizer program credit).  The project credits have emphasized agricultural
development, but also included amounts for population, telecommunications,
transport, power, water supply and industry. On June i8, 1976 Bangladesh
became the 105th member of the IFC, and IFC's first investment (High Speed
Shipbuilding and Engineering Co., Ltd.) was approved on May 10, 1979.
26.       Agreement has been reached between Bangladesh and most of the
bilateral and multilateral donors, concerning the assumption by Bangladesh
of portions of the debt contracted by Pakistan, before Bangladesh became
independent. This will lead to some increase in debt service and, while the
debt service ratio is not expected to exceed 20% before the mid-1980s, it
could do so thereafter, unless careful debt management policies are pursued
and aid is provided on appropriately concessional terms. With respect to the
Bank Group, Bangladesh agreed to accept liability for portions of IDA credits
extended for projects visibly located in Bangladesh and completed before
independence. Based on this agreement, a consolidation loan of about US$54.9
million, and a consolidation credit of about US$31.0 million were signed on
February 14, 1975. The Bank Group's share of Bangladesh's outstanding
external debt is not expected to rise significantly above the present level
of about 27% over the next few years.
27.       Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and the Bank
loan made to Bangladesh as of January 31, 1980, and notes on the execution
of ongoing projects. While disbursement of the program credits has proceeded
satisfactorily, project credit disbursements have lagged far behind expecta-
tions, due, inter alia, to delays in the release of local funds, approval of
contracts, employment of consultants, and appointment of staff. The Govern-
ment has taken some steps to eliminate bottlenecks and the results are begin-
ning to be reflected in improvements in project implementation and disburse-
ment performance. However, serious implementation constraints remain because
of a shortage of qualified staff, over-centralized bureaucratic procedures
and organizational deficiencies. Some progress is being made. For example,
at the Government's request, IDA is providing assistance to strengthen the
key ministries and agencies dealing with agriculture and water resources, such
as the Water Development Board (WDB) and the Bangladesh Agricultural Develop-
ment Corporation (BADC) through detailed studies of their organizational and
operating procedures. These steps have produced noticeable improvements in
the rate of project implementation and further improvements are expected.



- 9 -
Furthermore, the Government has taken a number of steps, including improved
procedures for recruitment of civil servants and increased emphasis on train-
ing, which should gradually improve the quality of public administration.
On the organizational side, the Government is in the process of establishing
planning cells in the main ministries and agencies and is strengthening the
Planning Ministry. In this connection, IDA is providing assistance both under
specific projects and under the ongoing Technical Assistance Credits (Credits
622-BD and 872-BD).
Agricultural Operations
28.       Of the 37 new credits totalling US$1,039.7 M, 13 credits totalling
US$221.5 M have been directed towards agriculture and rural development
(excluding subprojects of the Technical Assistance credits allocated to this
sector). In line with the strategy set forth in the Bank Group's "Land and
Water Resources Sector Study" (Report No. PS-13) IDA-supported projects have
emphasized:
(a) expansion of irrigation, drainage and flood control facili-
ties through technically simple, low cost, short gestation
water control projects;
(b) strengthening of agricultural supporting services such as
extension, applied research, credit, small farmer cooperatives
and rural training; and
(c) improvement of farm input supplies such as seeds and
fertilizers.
29.       Several of the IDA-supported agricultural projects--among them the
Chandpur II Irrigation Project (Credit 340-BD), the Northwest Tubewells Project
(Credit 341-BD) and the Foodgrain Storage Project (Credit 381-BD)--are complete
or nearing completion and the preliminary assessment of the likely benefits
indicates the soundness of these investments. Other projects also remain
economically viable although in many cases the pace of implementation has been
rather disappointing and their completion is likely to be delayed. Inadequate
project preparation, poor monitoring as well as a lack of experienced and
adequately trained field staff have contributed to delays in implementation.
In addition to the measures discussed in paragraph 27 above, the Government
and IDA have given increased emphasis to regular monitoring and supervision of
the various projects in order to identify and resolve potential problems at an
early stage. The above measures have resulted in visible improvements in
project implementation and disbursements over the past two years. Further
improvements are feasible in many cases and are being pursued as part of the
ongoing dialogue between the Government and the Association.
30.       The fundamental need to improve agricultural productivity means that
projects geared to the rural sector should remain the cornerstone of future
IDA lending to Bangladesh. However, in the short-term, the rate of lending



- 10 -
for agriculture will be based upon progress in improving the currently
limited absorptive capacity of the various implementing agencies.
Other Sectors
31.       Inc..stry has been the main beneficiary of the eight program credits
signed to date. For the reasons given in paragraphs 94-99 of the Presi-
dent's Report and Recommendation on the Eighth Imports Program Credit (P-2664-
BD, dated January 22, 1980; the Credit has been approved but not yet signed),
program lending to Bangladesh will continue to be required while efforts are
made to correct basic structural weaknesses in the economy. The industrial
sector has also benefitted from DFC and small scale industry projects and a
fertilizer production project. IFC is currently in the process of identifying
further suitable investment opportunities following the approval of its first
project referred to in paragraph 25 above.
32.       The enormity of Bangladesh's population problem makes this an ex-
tremely high priority sector, limited only by its absorptive capacity. The
first population project (Credit 533-BD) is now making encouraging progress,
and a second population project was approved on May 29, 1979. Improved
education and availability of trained manpower is also crucial. Past lending
in this field has emphasized agricultural and technical training; a project
for vocational and management education was recently approved.
33.       Given Bangladesh's immense needs, efforts are also being made to
identify and provide assistance in support of other critical infrastructural
areas, such as transportation, water supply, energy and power, and telecom-
munications. Emphasis will continue to be placed on projects which provide
infrastructure for the rural sector, process or provide outlets for products
from the rural areas and reduce the strain on Bangladesh's foreign exchange
resources. In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position, IDA
credits should cover a substantial proportion of total project costs including
in appropriate cases part of the local currency expenditures.
34.       In addition to lending, economic and sector work provide the basis
for continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government on develop-
ment strategy, and for the coordination of external assistance within the
framework of the Bangladesh Aid Group. Recent activities in this area have
concentrated on food policy, industrial investment strategy, and increased
domestic resource mobilization.
35.       The scope and complexity of Bangladesh's development problems will
continue to strain the physical, human, and financial resources of an already
overburdened development administration. Since substantial improvements will
take many years, external assistance agencies, including the Bank Group, will
increasingly have to tailor their requirements in terms of project design,
preparation and implementation to administrative realities. They will also
have to be prepared to provide higher amounts of technical assistance and
supervision than is the case in many other countries.



- 11 -
PART II1 - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
General
36.       Agriculture dominates the Bangladesh economy, accounting for 55% of
GDP, 75% of employment and, directly or indirectly, over 80% of the coun-
try's exports. About 75% of the agricultural GDP is derived from crops and
the rest from forestry (4%), fisheries (13%) and livestock (8%). Bangladesh
has a gross area of 35 M ac of which about 22.5 M ac are under cultivation at
a cropping intensity averaging 135% in recent years. Rice, by far the most
important crop, accounts for about 80% of the cropped area; jute, the prin-
cipal export, for 6%, and a variety of other crops such as wheat, pulses,
oilseeds, sugarcane, and vegetables for the remaining 14%. Agricultural pro-
ductivity in Bangladesh is among the lowest in the world; paddy yield of
about 0.5 ton per ac is barely half the average for Asia as a whole.
37.       The major objectives of the Government's agricultural development
efforts are to achieve food self-sufficiency, create employment for the rural
poor in order to improve incomes and nutritional standards, and to increase
export earnings. The Government's strategy for the sector emphasizes strength-
ening of rural institutions, improved farm input supplies, better utilization
of existing irrigation facilities, and further expansion of irrigation
facilities through low cost, short gestation, minor irrigation schemes.
Constraints to Increased Agricultural Production
38.       Available data on unemployment and rural poverty in Bangladesh in-
dicate an increasingly precarious situation. A recent survey indicates that
the distribution of land ownership in rural Bangladesh is highly skewed and
may be deteriorating. Landlessness is increasing and fragmentation of hold-
ings brought about by population pressure is reducing more and more farms to
below-subsistence size. It is estimated that 50% of rural households are
landless and that only 25% of all rural households now own more than 2 ac,
the minimum holding size necessary to provide subsistence income. However,
even many of the larger landowners (over 8 acres) would be considered small
and poor in countries other than Bangladesh. The heavy pressure of popula-
tion on the land represents a major development constraint, constitutes an
obstacle to efficient farm management and makes the organization of coopera-
tive irrigation systems difficult. An additional constraint is the agricul-
tural tenancy arrangements, under which about 30% of Bangladesh farmers
operate. Under customary rental arrangements, tenants normally provide all
of the inputs, but receive only about half of the crop and have no right
of occupancy. There is therefore, little incentive to develop land for
irrigation or to adopt improved farming practices.
39.       A number of organizational deficiencies have also adversely affected
growth. Generally, farmers in Bangladesh are receptive to proven innovations.
Their efforts, however, have been handicapped by the inadequate and unreliable
distribution system for farm inputs, such as HYV seeds, fertilizers, pesti-
cides, pump fuel and spares, and by the absence of an effective extension
system. Adequate marketing, processing and storage facilities as well as a
rational and efficient credit policy, have also been lacking.



- 12 -
Development Strategy and Issues
40.       Given the constraints inhibiting a more rapid growth of the agri-
cultural sector, any effective policy to raise significantly the level of
production and assure long-term growth must provide for a more timely and
adequate supply of modern farm inputs (fertilizer, HYV seeds, pesticides,
credit and extension) and also, an effective input/output pricing policy to
provide suitable incentives to farmers.
41.       Furthermore, since increased production must come essentially from
land already under cultivation, the provision of irrigation facilities will
have to be the principal means of increasing land use intensity, particularly
during the dry season (November to March). Earlier government policies had
emphasized the development of large-scale gravity irrigation and flood control
projects. However, by the early 1960s, there was a change in emphasis with
priority being given to greater reliance on the use of low lift pump (LLPs)
and tubewells. This strategy has proved economically attractive and is now
yielding significant results. Since their inception, WDB and BADC have been
instrumental in implementing a number of schemes to provide flood protection,
drainage and irrigation. Thus, the traditional bucket-lift method used by
farmers for irrigating dry season (boro) crops is gradually being replaced by
modern irrigation facilities such as, LLPs and shallow tubewells (STWs). By
1978, a total area of around 2.7 M ac of land was under irrigation, of which
only about 0.9 M ac was still being irrigated by traditional methods.
42.       LLPs are small capacity (1-2 cusec) diesel powered centrifugal pumps
used to raise irrigation water from perennial streams and ponds. LLPs were
introduced in the late 1950s; in recent years about 37,000 LLPs have been
fielded annually, irrigating a total land area of around 1.4 M ac. It is
estimated that existing surface water resources could support additional
fieldings of around 3,500 LLPs. Further expansion of the program would then
have to be in conjunction with the improvement of natural channels, including
the provision of associated control structures.
43.       Tubewells to exploit groundwater offer another good prospect for
quick-yielding, high return expansion of irrigated areas where surface water
is not available. Conservative estimates based on preliminary investigations
indicate that some 4 M ac could be irrigated by tubewells. Two kinds of
tubewells are used in Bangladesh--deep tubewells (DTWs-typically using 20 hp
diesel engines and yielding about two to three cusec) and shallow tubewells
(STWs-typically equipped with 5 to 6 hp diesel engines yielding less than one
cusec). Hand pumps capable of irrigating 1/3 ac are currently irrigating
approximately 20,000 ac.
44.       Until recently, much of the emphasis in groundwater development was
placed on DTWs, and by the end of 1979 an estimated 9,000 DTWs were in opera-
tion. However, STWs can be used by smaller groups of farmers, and are less
expensive and simpler to install and maintain. As a result, the Government
has been encouraging greater utilization of STWs. Although so far only
about 7,000 STWs have been installed, proposals are under consideration for
installing an additional 35,000 STWs over the next 4-5 years to irrigate about
0.4 million ac. Ultimately, Bangladesh should be able to absorb about 100,000
STWs irrigating over one million ac.



- 13 -
45.       GOB's current TYP allocations for water resource development amount
to Tk 3,250 M (US$210 M), representing about 35% of the total gross develop-
ment outlay for agriculture, water resources, and rural institutions and about
10% of the total national planned expenditures. Of the planned total for
water resource development, an estimated Tk 1,890 M (58%) would be directed
to WDB projects consisting mainly of drainage and flood control systems and
irrigation schemes. Another Tk 1,325 M (41%) would be allocated to BADC
primarily for investment in irrigation facilities. Through TYP investments,
irrigated area is expected to increase from 2.7 to 3.3 M.
46.       Realization of GOB's objective to achieve national foodgrain self-
sufficiency would require the timely implementation of a number of institu-
tional reforms and, depending on the incremental yield assumptions used, an
offtake of between 1.5 and 2.0 M tons p.a. of fertilizers; about 4.8 M ac of
irrigated land; and an increase in the use of HYVs to around 8.0 M ac. While
investments in these inputs would be attractive and assure high returns, an
expanded program for the provision of inputs in such magnitudes would not be
feasible on budgetary grounds if, inter alia, GOB's current levels of input
subsidies are maintained. Nor can the continued retention of such subsidies
be justified on grounds of equity as the main beneficiaries are generally the
larger farmers. The Government recognizes the need for phasing out subsidies
on farm inputs though in doing so care will have to be taken to offer suffi-
cient incentive to farmers through the provision of appropriate output
price support measures.
The Low-Lift Pump Rental Scheme
47.       BADC, a semi-automonous organization established under the Ministry
of Agriculture, is the principal agency responsible for the supply of agricul-
tural inputs and services. With a total staff of around 22,000 and an annual
budget of US$144 M, BADC is one of the largest organizations in Bangladesh.
in addition to being responsible for the procurement of farm inputs, machinery
and equipment, BADC also deploys and maintains LLPs, tubewells, tractors and
power tillers. A major activity of BADC is the annual rental of LLPs to
farmers and the provision of backup services for their maintenance. As of
early 1979, BADC's stock of pumps included 42,720 serviceable pumps suitable
for fielding, 5,550 unserviceable though economically repairable pumps, and
7,550 condemned pumps. To maintain standby stocks to cover breakdowns and
circumvent logistical bottlenecks, only about 90% of the serviceable stock is
fielded during each irrigation season. Most pumps currently in stock were
purchased in the late 1960's and early 1970's. Many have been poorly main-
tained, poorly operated and left to deteriorate under adverse weather condi-
tions through lack of proper storage facilities. A pump working under proper
conditions should have a life expectancy of about 8-10,000 hours. In Bangla-
desh, pumps generally have a life of only seven years or less with about 6,000
total working hours. In recent years about 5-7% of the serviceable stock has
been reclassified unserviceable or condemned annually; without further invest-
ment, this rate will increase in the future to 8-9%.
48.       Approximately 1.4 M farmers, representing around 12% of rural
households, now use pumps on a regular basis, with each farmer irrigating
an average of one acre. LLPs are usually rented out to interested groups of



- 14 -
farmers, organized for the purpose under the leadership of a manager. Appli-
cations showing the names and signatures of proposed participants, estimated
areas to be irrigated, maps of proposed sites, and the location and plot
numbers of areas to be irrigated are usually submitted in August before each
Boro season in accordance with the Thana Irrigation Program (TIP). After
obtaining th; signature of the respective Union Parishad Chairman, each
application is forwarded for review by the concerned authorities within each
district (the Thana Irrigation Team; the Thana Approval Committee; and the
District Approval Committee). Each application is evaluated on the basis of
technical feasibility; availability of sufficient water at the proposed site;
past performance; prior compliance with BADC's rental rules; and extent of
arrears in short-term credit. Most pump groups receive the same pumps annually
and maintain a semi-permanent command area. While most participants are
landowners, some are tenants.  Pump groups and command areas vary in size,
depending on the size of the pump employed, but seem to average about 20 ac
per cusec (ranging from 3 to 42). This is well below the potential of about
40 ac per cusec. The main reasons for this are the difficulties associated
with management of large groups and risk avoidance in the face of uncertain
supplies of fuel and spares. Allocation of LLPs by each District Approval
Committee (DAC) is made in accordance with district-specific targets estab-
lished on the basis of past fielding results, BADC's serviceable stocks, and
GOB's plan targets.
49.       When the pump is released from BADC stores, the group must pay the
following fixed charges in respect of each planting season:
Capacity of LLP                 Charge (Tk)
(cusec)             Rental   Repair  Deposit
1     diesel         350       225       100
2       "            600       300       100
3       "            800       375       100
4       "          1,200       525       100
2     electric       600       300       100
For maintenance, BADC employs mechanics each of whom is expected to service
15 pumps during weekly visits to pump sites throughout the pumping period.
Spares and replacement pumps (standbys) are kept at various distribution
points. During the off-season, mechanics clean pumps and replace non-
functioning parts, while major repairs are performed at zonal and regional
workshops.
50.       At the end of the season the BADC unit officer, in collaboration
with the responsible mechanic, prepares a completion report for each pump
scheme under his jurisdiction. This report covers such items as actual area
serviced by the LLP, number of participants, crops grown, fertilizer employed,
yields obtained, and fuel consumed.
51.       In addition to BADC, WDB also rents out a relatively small number
of LLPs under larger-scale, regional irrigation projects, including the



- 15 -
Karnafuli Irrigation Project (Cr. 605-BD), Muhuri Irrigation Project (Cr. 725-
BD), Chandpur Irrigation Project (Cr. 340-BD), and Barisal Irrigation Project
(Cr. 542-BD).
52.       While the LLP program meets a critical need by assuring an annual
production of an estimated 1.7 M tons of foodgrains, it has many deficiencies.
Government is aware that changes are necessary in the organization, management
and policies of the program and intends to make these.
53.       Three principal concerns of Government are that:  LLP life is too
short (about 60% of potential) due mainly to poor maintenance; current pricing
arrangements under the program recover only a fraction of Government's costs
(about 20% of the costs of each LLP and its repair) with the consequence that
the subsidy involved is very burdensome; and organizational arrangements of,
and support for, farmer groups need to be improved to ensure a fair share of
program benefits for smaller farmers and tenants. Other concerns relate to the
need to improve the overall institutional arrangements for support of minor
irrigation development, both low-lift pumping from surface water sources and
tubewells, and to develop the local manufacture of diesel engines and other
pumping equipment. The proposed project would help correct these deficiencies.
54.       In an attempt to address these problems, Government intends to in-
crease rental charges; to sell new one-cusec LLPs to farmers and farmer groups
(paragraph 63); to involve the private sector in the import, distribution, sale
and repair of LLPS (paragraph 75); and to switch to smaller and more efficient
LLPs. On the issue of the organization and support for farmer groups, a
review of current arrangements and an assessment of needed changes would be
carried out under the monitoring and evaluation program. In addition, useful
information should emerge from a pilot program seeking to improve irrigation
group efficiency and being financed under the Northwest Tubewells and Extension
and Research Projects (Cr. 341-BD, Cr 729-BD). Finally, it is proposed that
the Government and Association undertake a joint review of the basic institu-
tional requirements of the minor irrigation sector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
55.       The proposed project was appraised by a mission that visited
Bangladesh in November/December 1978. A Staff Appraisal Report (Report No.
2481a-BD dated February 20, 1980 ) is being distributed separately. Supple-
mentary project data are summarized in Annex III. Negotiations for the pro-
posed credit were held in Washington, D.C. in January 1980; the Bangladesh
delegation was led by Mr. A. Samad, Chairman of the Bangladesh Agricultural
Development Corporation.
Project Description
56.       The proposed project would help maintain present levels of paddy
production through a program of pump replacement and rehabilitation; increase
output through additional LLP fieldings; improve the life of LLPs and their
utilization by upgrading BADC's maintenance, repair and storage capabilities;



- 16 -
increase cost recovery; promote greater private ownership, sales and servicing
of LLPs; estimate LLP fielding potential; and introduce a monitoring and eval-
uation program to determine the impact and effectiveness of such programs in
meeting future needs. It would also assist in the financing of diesel fuel
requirements of project LLPs during the four year development period.
57.       The project area comprises the five districts of Comilla, Noakhali,
Chittagong, Barisal and Patuakhali, excluding the 13 thanas in those districts
contained in the Chandpur, Muhuri, Karnafuli and Barisal Irrigation Projects.
The project area covers 86 thanas, totalling 7.3 M ac or 21% of the total
area of Bangladesh. About 4.7 M ac are cultivated of which around 0.9 M ac
are now irrigated (0.5 M ac by LLP and 0.4 M ac by traditional methods).
58.       The proposed project would be implemented over a four-year develop-
ment period (1980/81-1983/84) and would include:
(a)  the provision of 8,500 (5,500 one-cusec and 3,000 two-
cusec) new LLPs with spares, to replace unserviceable
and condemned LLPs and to allow additional LLP fieldings
in the project area;
(b) the rehabilitation of 5,000 unserviceable LLPs and
spares;
(c) the construction and equipment of pump storage and
workshop facilities and training centers;
(d) the provision of transport for BADC field operations;
(e) the provision of training facilities and training for BADC
and private sector pump mechanics and for pump operators
and pump group managers;
(f) the provision of technical assistance to estimate water
availability and to monitor and evaluate the project;
(g) the initiation of a program for the sale of LLPs to
farmers involving both BADC and the private sector,
with provision of credit from commercial banks; and
(h) the financing of incremental diesel fuel requirement of
project LLPs over the four-year project development period.
Project Execution
59.       Overall responsibility for the execution of the proposed project,
including the formulation of related policy matters and coordination of
project activities at all levels, would be vested in the Ministry of Agricul-
ture (MA). The project would be implemented by BADC, the Integrated Rural
Development Program (IRDP), and the Sonali, Janata, and Bangladesh Krishi
Banks.



- 1 7 -
60.       Primary responsibility for carrying out the proposed project would
rest with BADC, with responsibility for the project's day-to-day management
being vested in a specially appointed Project Director. The Project Director
would be responsible for the financial and technical aspects of the project
and would report through the Chief Engineer (Mechanical and Pumps) to the
Chairman, BADC. The Project I)irector would be assisted by a project unit of
15 professional accounting and engineering staff and supported by BADC's
headquarters staff for speciaList activities. He would supervise all BADC
irrigation engineering activities and staff in the project area, including
BADC workshops, and the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit.
61.       By 1984, the total LLPs requirements countrywide are estimated at
around 44,500 of which about 90% or 40,500 would be fielded. To meet this
target, BADC would require 15,000 new LLPs for the replacement of unservice-
able stocks. Of this amount, an estimated 8,500 new LLP would be required
in the project area to maintain a required stock of 19,000 LLP. At present
many groups are forced to use large, uneconomical two-cusec pumps because of
a shortage of smaller one-cusec units. The proposed project would remedy this
situation by providing 5,500 one-cusec LLPs under a sales program described
in paragraph 63 below. The 3,000 two-cusec pumps would be supplied to farmer
groups under the BADC pump rental scheme.
62.       The project would also rehabilitate some 5,000 BADC LLPs, classified
as unserviceable, by financing the cost of spares, labor and administrative
expenditures for repairs. These would be made available to rental groups
outside the project area.
Sales Program and Credit Arrangements
63.       A major innovative element of the proposed project would be the
introduction of a program for the sale of 5,500 one-cusec LLPs to individuals
and farmers' groups whose schemes had received TIP approval. GOB intends to
gradually replace the present system of pump rental with one of private pump
ownership. In the first year of project implementation, BADC would procure
1,500 one-cusec units for sale on a cash or credit basis. The selling price
would be 60% of the cost of each LLP (net of taxes and duties) or about US$530
per pumpset (see paragraphs 77-79 below). In the second year, sales would be
through private dealers who would be licensed to import LLPs for the purpose
(Section 3.03 and Schedule 4 of the draft DCA). A program of medium-term
credit would be established through the nationalized commercial banks (CBs)
and the Cooperative Banking System for the purchase of LLPs by creditworthy
farmers and farmer groups. This program would make available credit on the
following terms: For Thana Central Cooperative Association/Village Coopera-
tive Society (Krishi Samabaya Samity) (TCCA/KSS) members: (a) a downpayment
of 10%; (b) repayment by ten half-yearly installments at 13% per annum interest
and with a six-month grace period; and (c) collateral to include the pumpsets
and a land with joint and several liability. For other cooperative societies,
groups and individuals: (a) a downpayment of 20%; (b) repayment by ten
half-yearly installments at 12% per annum interest and with a six-month grace
period; and (c) collateral requirement for the pumpsets which may include land
security. The terms favor the TCCA/KSS. Their highest interest rate is in
line with present practice and reflects the services provided to members
(Schedule 4 paragraph 2 of the draft DCA).



- 18 -
Maintenance of Equipment and Provision of Facilities
64.       Inadequate maintenance has often resulted in the premature with-
drawal of LLPs from service. To remedy this deficiency, provision has been
made under the proposed project to upgrade and improve BADC's existing main-
tenance facilities within the project area, through the provision of essential
equipment and tools, including the construction of 50 new storage and workshop
facilities. Field maintenance staff assigned to areas where land transport
is practical would be offered small motorcycles on a "hire purchase" basis
with a monthly allowance being paid to each staff to cover O&M costs. Units
and sub-units located in areas best served by water transport would be provided
with small outboard motorboats. In addition, vehicles would be provided for
use by engineering and other supervisory staff to facilitate routine operation
and servicing of project equipment.
Training
65.       While BADC's professional staff are required to have appropriate
technical qualifications, they often lack practical experience. BADC cur-
rently operates an in-service training program with assistance from the
UNDP/ILO for LLP and tubewell engine repair and maintenance staff. However,
most of the training centers currently in operation are poorly equipped and
living quarters and classroom space are inadequate. The proposed project
would continue the current UNDP/ILO Program (scheduled for completion in
1980) and expand it to meet national requirements. The training centers at
Chittagong, Barisal and Dacca would be upgraded to process about 4,000
mechanics over the four-year project development period. Each center would
be provided with classrooms, workshops and dormitory facilities to accomodate
up to 60 trainees, and with training aides and vehicles. An expatriate diesel
training specialist would be assigned to each center to assist and train local
staff and an expatriate mechanical engineer would cover all three centers.
Efforts would be made to ensure that by the end of the project development
period local staff would be able to assume responsibility for the program.
66.       BADC currently offers mechanical training to some 6,000 pump group
managers and operators each year during the off-season. The proposed project
would expand this program to reach an additional 15,000 participants over the
four-year development period through the provision of courses, each of a
month's duration, to be held during the period July to September each year
with approximately 20 participants being selected for each course. BADC
would submit a work program for the training aspect of the project to IDA
providing details of civil works, vehicles and equipment procurement, and
technical assistance as a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 5.01(a)
of the draft DCA).
Water Availability Survey
67.       Preliminary indications suggest that LLP fieldings cannot be signi-
ficantly increased countrywide beyond about 40,500 annually without invest-
ments in civil works to enable multi-level pumping. However, available
hydrological data are crude and a more systematic and comprehensive data base
would have to be established in order to delineate geographical areas where



- 19 -
pumping could be expanded and where already exploited water resources may be
tapped more efficiently. The proposed project would provide technical assist-
ance, vehicles and equipment to strengthen the recently established Survey and
Investigation Division of BADC in carrying out hydrological investigations to
determine pump fielding potential and also, in establishing standard procedures
for BADC field staff responsible for technical analysis of individual pumping
schemes. The advisory services would include provision for two water resources
engineers and a legal specialist to assist the Water Availability Survey (Sec-
tion 3.02 of the draft DCA). The consultancy services are estimated to
require 36 man-months at a total cost of about US$360,000. The average man-
month cost (based on the individual's fees, international travel and local
allowances) is expected to be about US$9,000. The total estimated cost also
includes provision for the cost of vehicles, local travel and some other minor
items.
Review of Institutional Requirements of the Minor Irrigation Sector
68.       BADC has the prime responsibility for the development of the minor
irrigation sector--basically through sponsoring and providing technical sup-
port for tubewell and low lift pumping. However, BADC has many and varied
responsibilities which are rapidly expanding and creating heavy pressures
on the Corporation's management. Hence, Government has asked IDA to finance,
under the Third Technical Assistance Credit, 872-BD, consultants to help BADC
improve the management and financial control of its irrigation activities.
In addition, a thorough review of the basic institutional requirements
of the minor irrigation sector is required to ensure that constraints in
this area should not prevent the large and rapid expansion of minor irrigation
needed to meet Government's food production objectives. Accordingly, GOB and
IDA will jointly undertake such a review patterned on the recent, successful
joint review of the Bangladesh Water Development Board. It would be a condi-
tion of credit effectiveness that terms of reference and a work program for
the review, satisfactory to IDA, had been approved by GOB (Section 5.01 (b)
of the draft DCA). Should the need for additional investigation become
apparent through the review, further studies could be carried out through
the use of funds provided for advisory services.
Monitoring and Evaluation
69.       Monitoring of project progress would be through quarterly and annual
progress reports prepared by the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) unit to be
established under the project. The reports would include all relevant data
on the physical and financial progress of the project together with reasons
for deviations, if any, from the targets set under the annual work programs,
including an evaluation of the project's economic and social impact. Fol-
lowing review and consolidation by the MA the quarterly and annual reports
would be sent to IDA for review.
Implementation Schedule
70.       Project implementation would be spread over a four year period
1980/81-83/84. Detailed designs, layouts and preparation of tender documents
for workshops and training centers would be completed in the first year and



- 20 -
construction would begin in the second. Acquisition of workshop equipment
and tools would be phased with the workshop construction program. The pur-
chase of vehicles and boats would be made during the second and third years.
Expatriate staff would be recruited at the beginning of project implementa-
tion to avoid a disruption of on-going programs. The water availability
study would be started in the first year during which existing data would be
systematically organized and reviewed. The monitoring study would be spread
throughout the project implementation period with baseline information being
collected during the first year. A total of 4,500 (3,000 two-cusec and 1,500
one-cusec) LLPs, and the diesel fuel requirements of project financed LLPs
would be purchased immediately after approval of the proposed credit. Pro-
curement of the remaining LLPs would be phased over four years to reflect
fielding needs and rehabilitation capacity.
Cost Estimates
71.       Total project costs are estimated at US$48.0 M equivalent, including
about US$7.1 M in import duties and taxes. The foreign exchange component is
estimated at US$30.3 M or about 63% of total project costs. Cost estimates
are based on unit prices at January 1980 levels. Project costs include
US$14.4 M for pumpsets, US$9.2 M 1/ for incremental diesel fuel for project
financed LLPs, US$3.7 M for machinery, equipment and tools, US$2.2 M for
civil works, US$2.3 M for vehicles and office equipment, US$1.8 M for pumpset
rehabilitation, US$1.2 M for spares for existing pumps and US$2.8 M for
training and technical assistance. Physical (US$2.3 M) and price (US$7.9 M)
contingencies have been included in total project costs. Price contingencies
have been estimated at 6% annually for foreign, and 10% annually for local
expenditures.
Financing
72.       The proposed IDA Credit of US$37.0 M (covering 90% of total project
costs, excluding taxes and duties) would finance 100% of foreign exchange
costs, and about 63% of local costs (net of taxes and duties). GOB would
finance the balance of project costs, US$11.0 M (Tk 170.5 M equivalent, in-
cluding taxes and duties), through annual budget appropriations. To ensure
prompt provision of budgetary funds and hiring of additional project staff,
approval of the Project Proforma 2/ by the Borrower would be a condition of
credit effectiveness (Section 5.01(c) of the draft DCA).
Procurement
73.       Civil works comprising workshops, classrooms and dormitories valued
at US$3.3 M 3/ would not be suitable for international competitive bidding (ICB)
1/   This amount includes US$1.2 M for taxes and duties and distribution
costs.
2/   An internal GOB document, the approval of which is a pre-requisite for
the release of funds and the hiring of staff.
3/   This amount includes the cost of land acquisition and physical and
price contingencies.



- 21 -
because of the small size and dispersed nature of the works involved and would
therefore be carried out under contracts let through local competitive bidding
procedures which are satisfactory to IDA. Machinery, workshop equipment, tools,
vehicles and spares for repairs and rehabilitation of unserviceable pumps
valued at US$7.9 M would be procured through ICB in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines. A preference limited to 15% of the cif price or the prevailing
customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers
in bid evaluation. Small off-the-shelf items costing less than US$50,000 for
each contract, which are either urgently needed or not suitable for ICB, would
be purchased through normal GOB procedures which are satisfactory to IDA.
Such purchases would be limited to a total of US$500,000.
74.       BADC's 1979 LLP stock comprises 5 makes of about 40,000 serviceable
and unserviceable (but repairable) two-cusec LLPs excluding electric units.
The 3,000 units to be financed under the proposed project would be entirely
for replacement of existing LLPs. In view of the large number of existing
LLPs and the relatively small number (less than 10% of BADC's existing stocks)
to be procured under the project, a standardization procedure which will
enable BADC to acquire new units and spares compatible with existing ones
would be used based on competitive quotations.
75.       Procurement of the 5,500 one-cusec pumps for the sales program would
be executed in two stages. Stage I: BADC/GOB, in consultation with IDA, has
selected 4-5 makes of one-cusec pumpsets as being suitable for use in the
project area. The selection was based on experience, including test trials,
obtained in Bangladesh with various makes of equipment as well as on the offers
made in the course of recent bidding exercises carried out by BADC. The sets
selected meet general specifications agreed with IDA and are from manufacturers
whose equipment has been used on a reasonably extensive scale in Bangladesh or
in countries with similar climatic and operating conditions. The selected
LLPs would provide a range adequate to permit farmers to make a choice between
relatively cheap and heavy unsophisticated equipment used extensively in other
countries in South Asia and the more expensive, sophisticated and lighter,
equipment that has been produced in the industrialized countries in recent
years. BADC has tended to favor the latter equipment trading off the higher
initial cost against expected longer life and ease of handling. It is believed
that many farmers would prefer the initially cheaper equipment that lends
itself to maintenance by relatively unskilled mechanics and for which many
spare parts can be fabricated locally. For Stage I, BADC would purchase a
total of about 1,500 units directly from the selected suppliers on the basis
of quotations obtained and which are acceptable to IDA. The purchase would
be divided equally amongst the suppliers. The selected suppliers/manufacturers
have signified that they are prepared to mount a sales and familiarization
campaign for their own product and develop a sales and service network in
the project area. Stage II: The remaining 4,000 pumpsets required for the
project would be procured for sale by selected private sector dealers of
approved makes of LLPs. The selected dealers would be licensed by GOB and
would sell directly to farmers or farmer groups approved under TIP. Import
licenses, would be issued in respect of selected makes of LLPs on the basis
of farmers' choice and be conditional upon suppliers submitting to GOB detailed
plans for their proposed sales and service networks in the project area,
including a financial plan endorsed by an approved private bank or guarantor.



- 22 -
During Stage II, BADC would gradually transfer, in accordance with an agreed
schedule, responsibility for providing spares and services to dealers, possibly
even making special arrangements with dealers for servicing of existing BADC
pumpsets and for disinvestment of some BADC capital assets, for example of
BADC workshops. It is expected that this Stage would be completed during the
fourth projecz year. Detailed arrangements for Stage II including the basic
concept and objectives of the licensing system would be planned in collabora-
tion with potential suppliers/dealers and IDA and by June 30, 1980, a detailed
plan including confirmed arrangements with suitable dealers would be agreed
with IDA.  GOB would introduce the licensing system agreed with IDA before
December 31, 1980. To facilitate the placement of orders for the first set of
4,500 (3,000 two-cusec and 1,500 one-cusec) LLPs required under the project it
is recommended that retroactive financing up to an amount of US$7.0 M with
effect from March 1, 1980 be approved.
76.       The Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation (BPC) has sole responsibility
for the importation of refined petroleum products and would procure diesel
for supply to BADC. In the present state of the oil market, and in view of
the limited volume of incremental diesel to be financed under the proposed
credit, procurement under ICB would not be practicable. Procurement would
therefore be by negotiated contract, which would be cleared with IDA before
signing. To simplify procurement, and to obtain the maximum possible amount
of diesel under the Credit, procurement would be in one tranche early in the
project. However, GOB has given an assurance that the diesel requirement of
project pumpsets would be met through the four-year implementation period.
Disbursements
77.       Disbursements for all purchases and contract payments would be
against full documentation. This would apply to pumpset procurement by private
dealers who would arrange letters of credit at a bank selected by GOB. The
letters of credit would be covered by IDA's "qualified agreement to reimburse"
procedures and disbursement would be against normal documentation.
78.       Disbursements from the proposed IDA Credit would cover:
(a) 90% of civil works expenditures, including construction mate-
rials for workshops and training centers, totalling US$2.7 M;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported goods, or
100% of ex-factory cost of locally manufactured goods, or 70%
of local expenditures for other locally procured goods, total-
ling US$22.0 M;
(c)  100% of foreign expenditures for incremental diesel fuel
requirements of project pumps, totalling US$8.0 M; and
(d) 100% of expenditures for training, studies and advisory
services, totalling US$2.8 M.
It is expected that the Credit would be fully disbursed by December 31, 1984,
approximately one year after the completion of project implementation.



- 23 -
Recovery of Costs
79.       To stimulate productivity, GOB has traditionally subsidized the use
and maintenance of LLPs while seeking to reduce subsidies on other centrally-
controlled inputs such as fertilizers. Currently, rental charges 1/ for LLPs
cover only about 15% of capital costs, and maintenance charges amount to 51%
of the cost of spares (net of taxes and duties) with no allowance being made
for BADC's overhead costs. GOB does, however, recover part of its existing
subsidies through taxes and duties levied on diesel and lubricating oils,
equivalent to about 16% and 20% of the price of each product, respectively.
GOB is cognizant of the need to rationalize its pricing policies in the
agricultural sector and, in particular, enhance irrigation water charges
in an effort to achieve greater domestic resource mobilization. GOB has
therefore prepared proposals for rationalizing rental charges for LLPs.
The objective is to move toward the elimination of all subsidies on rental
charges on the basis of a phased program. As a first step, GOB will double
existing rental rates for LLPs by September 30, 1981 (Section 3.04 of the
draft DCA). This will increase capital cost recovery to around 29%. The
first installment of an increase in rental rates would be implemented in
the 1980 planting season.
80.       The proposed one-cusec LLP sales program would further enhance GOB's
cost recovery efforts. However, to make a sales program viable, the sales
price and rental charges must be such that farmers are relatively indifferent
to either rental or purchase. Because subsidy on rental rates is likely
to continue for some time, some subsidy on pump sale price would be necessary
initially. However, annuities and repair costs under pump purchase arrange-
ments do not necessarily have to equal rental and repair charges in view of
the additional benefits (such as risk avoidance, elimination of annual pump
transportation costs, use of pump/engines for other agricultural and non-
agricultural purposes, avoidance of extra-legal payments incurred under rental)
to be derived from pump ownership, which would make ownership attractive even
with annuity and repair costs higher than those incurred under rental. While
it is difficult to quantify such benefits, it has been estimated that a
maximum level of subsidy of around 40% on the sale price for one-cusec LLPs
(based on current rental rates and on accrued aggregated secondary benefits
of around Tk 1,200 per pumpset p.a.) would be justified initially. The above
sales program would be established not later than June 30, 1980 (Section
3.03 of the draft DCA).
81.       Under the proposed sales program GOB would realize an effective
cost recovery of over 60%. If taxes and duties on fuel are included, the
subsidy would decrease to about 26%. Similarly, allowance for taxes and
duties on spares would reduce the subsidy level further to around 20%. The
results of the sales program, including review of sales to individuals, and
any subsidy on the sales price for one-cusec pumps would be reviewed with
IDA semi-annually. (Section 3.03 of the draft DCA).
1/   Rental charges do not include cost of diesel fuel which is purchased
by farmers from BADC's diesel depots.



- 24 -
Production and Marketing
82.       Of the 13,500 new and rehabilitated pumps to be financed under the
proposed project, about 74% would be allocated to existing groups and would
forestall a net reduction in paddy production of 378,000 tons. The remaining
26% would be issued to new groups and lead to incremental production of around
123,600 tons of paddy. Crop surpluses over consumption needs would be marketed
through traditional channels which are adequate to cope with the expected
volume.
Prices
83.       Paddy prices used in the financial analysis represent 1979 average
prices derived from project area-specific and crop-specific farmgate data.
These prices conform reasonably to national averages and official prices when
adjusted for quality differentials. The prices for pulses and oilseeds
employed in the financial analysis of the project represent four-year national
annual averages. Fertilizer and pesticide prices used, except for urea, are
at current subsidized levels. The urea price approximates the black market
rate and conforms with official price revisions expected in the near future.
Prices for other inputs such as animal and human labor are based on prevailing
project area-specific prices. To isolate the project impact from changes in
nominal prices of inputs and outputs, a single set of prices, expressed in
constant late-1978 terms, has been used to estimate present, with, and without
project returns.
Environmental Impact
84.       The project is not expected to have any adverse effects on the
environment. On the contrary, the proposed water availability survey would
yield environmental benefits by providing a systematic basis for annually
determining optimal pump fieldings. This exercise would examine surface water
exploitation for irrigation in the broader context of water resource manage-
ment including fisheries, navigation, and seasonal salinity intrusion.
Economic Rate of Return and Benefits
85.       The economic rate of return from investment in the proposed project
is estimated at over 100%. The project's principal benefit would be the
maintenance of production levels on farms served by the LLPs that would be
replaced under the project and the increase in foodgrain production that would
be generated for farms to which irrigation would be introduced for the first
time. The project's principal direct beneficiaries would be the 430,000 rural
households who would have access to irrigation facilities provided under the
project. At full development in 1984, the project would generate an incre-
mental annual employment of 28.7 M man-days in on-farm works, about 26% of
which would represent hired labor. Additional employment opportunities would
result from off-season use of privately owned engines/pumps in agricultural
and non-agricultural activities (e.g. rice milling, transportation). Private
pump ownership is also expected to provide an impetus for the development of
a small-scale pump servicing industry capability within the rural sector
thereby providing additional employment opportunities. At full development
in 1984 the project would result in an aggregate production of 500,000 tons



- 25 -
of paddy. Based on a projected rice import price (1979 US$) of about US$295
per ton, this would result in an annual gross foreign exchange savings of
about US$96 million or a net foreign exchange savings of around US$78 million
(allowing for the cost of imported rectirrent inputs).
Risks
86.       Little risk is attached to investing in the replacement and addi-
tional fieldings of LLPs. However, the proposed sales program would involve
risks. While it is assumed that the opportunity for private pump ownership
would be welcomed by the farming community, the proposed sales program must be
considered as a pilot operation the outcome of which cannot be predicted with
certainty. Should the sales progranm prove unsuccessful or proceed more slowly
than anticipated, it may be necessary to field some of the units involved on a
rental basis. However, such a decision would be made only in the event that a
well designed and managed sales program had been implemented and had failed.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
87.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee pro-
vided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
88.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Additional conditions of effectiveness of the Credit would be (i) the
approval of the Project Proforma by the Borrower (paragraph 72); (ii) approval
by the Borrower of a work program for the training component providing details
of civil works, vehicles and equipment procurement, and technical assistance
(paragraph 66); and (iii) approval by the Borrower of the terms of reference
and work program for the review of institutional requirements of the minor
irrigation sector, satisfactory to IDA (paragraph 68).
89.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
90.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
February 20, 1980



-"6-                                        ANNEX I
ANGLsHSH - SOCIL IHICATOIS DATA SHU
SLAN  A.                        CZ GRtOUPS (ADJUSTz *ANLAGES
j&__E___ _    S__D_No__                                                          Z IECUT_STIMATZ
TLSAME     mSA       S  UMG
AGJTCULTU3AL     99.9                               MST S  OUT      GCDGPRC    DCOH          rmC
1960  &b   1970 A  ESTI5ATE A       01I1O /L  GC5UP LI    GOUP /a
P PUER CAITA    S                    40.0       60.0      90.0           191.1     209.6       467.5
ENECY CoWSIMPON nn CAPIT
(KILGRAMS OF COAL EUIVALET)         ..          ..      3j.0           69.1       83.9       262.1
POPMATICSI AID VITAL STATISTICS
POPULITION, MID-YEAR (MILLIMH)    51.4        61.3      81.2
RAt POPMUATION (PU T 01 TOFTA) 5.2             7.6       9.3            13.2      16.2        24.6
POPULATION PROJETIONS
POPULATION IN TYEA  2000 (MI-IONS)                  145.0
STATIONARY POPULATION CNILLIONS)                     334.0
TEAR STATIOIIAT POPULATION IS RZACUD                2165.0
POPULATION DEJSmT
PU SQ. zx.                      357.0      474.0    564.0            86.6       49.4        45.3
PI  SQ. EN. AGRICO'UICAL LAID   540.0      613.0    813.0           330.2      252.0       149.0
POPULATION AGE STEUCrUM (PUCEN)
0-14 YnS.                       44.3        46.4      46.0           44.3       43.1        45.2
15-64 Ys.                        52.5        51.0      51.0           52.4       53.2       51.9
65 YES. AIND ABOV                 3.2         2.6       3.0            3.1        3.0         2.8
POPULATION GCWT RATE (PFUCMT)
TOTAL                             2.4        2.9       2.5            2.4        2.4         2.7
muAm                               ..        6.7       6.3            4.1        4.6        4.3
CRUDE NrIE RATE (PE TOOSAID)    49.0          48.0      46.0           44.4       42.4        39.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PU THOUSAD)    23.0         20.0      18.0           16.4       15.9        11.7
GIlOSS REPRODUCTION IATI            3.5        3.1       3.2            3.2        2.9         2.7
FAMILT PLAIlING
ACCEPTRS, 5  DAL (NOUSARDS)        ..      345.6   1103.1
USns (PUCECIT OF MARIED WO)   .               .        8.9            7.9       12.2        13.2
FOOD AND MUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRtODUCTION
PUR CAPITA (1969-71-100)        107.3      101.0      98.0           99.4       98.2        99.6
PUR CAPITA SUPT OF
CALOrIES (PEgemNT oP
REvICWlTS)                     9.XOLf     89.0      93.0           93.0       93.3        94.7
PROTEIS (GRAMS PR DAY)          42.6L         ..      58.5           56.1       52.1        54.3
or WHICH AOIMAL AnO PDLSZ       9.2/f       ..       8.0           10.4       13.6        17.4
CHILD (AGZS 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    29.0       25.0      23.0           19.2       18.5        11.4
3PALTS
LIFE EXPETANCT  AT SIt  (TES)    42.0         45.0      47.0           49.1       49.3        54.7
INFAPT MMTALITT RATE (PZl
ThOUSAND)                           ..       153.0    140.0              ..      105.4        68.1
ACCESS TO SA  VATU (PECENT Or
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..        45.0      53.0           31.5       26.3        34.4
UN                                 ..       13.0      15.0           63.9       58.5        57.9
RAL                                ..       47.0      55.0           20.1       15.8        21.2
ACCESS T0 ECIETA DISPOSAL (PE1CEN
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              *-        6.0       5.0           15.7       16.0        40.8
WAN                                ..         ..      40.0           66.8       65.1        71.3
RURAL                             ..Z..                 ..            2.5        3.5        27.7
POPULATION PER PYSICIAN             ..      7600.0L 11350.0          7107.9   11396.4       6799.4
POPC'LATION PER SUESING PESON       ..    72030.Oj 53700.0          12064.0    5552.4       LSZZ.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                         11000.0Lh    8120.0&  41430.0       2738.4    1417.1        726.5
IRJAN                              ..         ..        ..             ..      197.3       272.7
URAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..    2445.9      1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..          ..        ..              ..      24.8        27.5
SOtUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..         ..        ..              ..       5.3         5.4
URBAN                              ..         ..        ..             ..        *.9         5.1
RCBAL                             ..          ..        ..             ..        5.4         5.5
AVERAGE S81ZMR OF PMSONS PER MOM
TOTAL                             ..          ..        ..
URBAN                              ..         .         ..
RURAL                              ..         .         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTR.CITY (PERCENT
OF DUILLINGS)
TOTAL                              .          ..        ..              ..      .2.5        28.:
ERJAN                                                     _                                  95.1
RURAL                              ...                  ....                                 9.9



- 27 -                                   ANNEX I
TWLZ 3k
1~GAIB-  SOCIAL  UDIcAToR  OATA 5ST
NMI   CIIT      IIlUcEC  rOPS    rS           y
1960 /b     1970 /b ETDATZ            IZGIWc /e   G&W  /d    Gidp/e
6DJUSTED EROLLMENT uRAOS
pIDMIT:    TOTAL                   47.0        61.0       S3.0            59.5        63.3        82.7
MALE                 64.0         80.0      106.0            74.9        79.1        87.3
7341.                26.0         42.0      60.0             43.7        48.4        735 
SVCOIDIZT    TOTAL                  8.0        19.0       23.0             19.5       16.7        21.4
MAUE                  14.0        30.0       34.0            27.6        22.1        33.0
IIZ.E                  1.0         8.0      11.U             10.0        10.2        15.5
VOCATIONAL DI1OL. (0 Of    O          1.0          1.0       1.0              1.3        5.2          9.
mLL-T ZAC    RATIO
PEIMAR                              4..        49.0       55.0            42.2        41.0         34.1
SECDA                                ..        26.0       24.0               ..       t1.7        23.4
ADULT LIZTACY BATE (PERCEN)          21.611         ..      22.0             25.5       31.2         56.0
OONSUMeTION
PASSEUG    CA"S PEn  DWU
POPUATIO                             ..         0.4        0.4/1           2.3         2.8         9.3
RADIO RECZmU  PM DtlSAuD
POPULAOW                             ..          6.0        ..             15.5       27.2        76.9
TV ICzcIrVZU  PU  UDUUA
POPlTUSIOII                          ..           ..        ..               ..        2.4         13.5
NMSPAPR ('MILT  GtULAL
srREST) CIRCOLATION PU
EROOSAUD P0PUIC                        ..           ..       5.0              6.2        5.3         18.3
CtN3A ANAL ATTUA C             CAITA   ..           ..        ..               ..        1.1          2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR 7OL  (TWUShAIS)    13516.0        23402.0   29900.0
F3IALE (PERCENT)                   15.2        16.5       17.0            Z1.4        24.J        29.2
ACItCLDTSZ (PERCIET)               86.J        85.9       78.0            66.3        69.4        62.7
UIDIUSTlE (PUt )                    3.3         3.5        7.0             9.6        10.0        11.9
PARTICIPATIOR RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                36.0         34.6      34.4             35.8       36.9         37.1
tALE                                 58.7         55.8      55.3             52.3       52.4         46.J
FEWALE                               11.4         11.6      12.1             15.7       18.0        20.4
ECONOMIC DEPEYDENCE  RIO                1.3          1.4       1.3              1.3        1.2          1.4
INCOME OISTRIOTION
ERCENT OF PRIVATE IrCO5
REzcEIvED 3?r
E13T 5 PFRCEN  or mSnLDF    18.3!              16.7k        ..               ..         ..        13.2
RIGHEST 20 PrCENT OF BWUSEOLDS  4.5            42.37W       ..               ..         ..        4.2
LWEST 20 PERCENT OF WSZiOLDS    6.91            7.97k       ..               ..         ..         6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OP 1S0 WLDS   17.97          19.67k       ..               ..         ..         16.3
POVERTS TARGET GROUPS
ESTIS2ATED ABSOLUTE POVERST
LEEL (USS PER CAPITA)
UAN                                                      1100             865         99 2       241.3
RURAL                                                     91.0            74.2        70.9       136.6
ESTIATED RVfATXVE POVEt INCO1
LML (USS PER CAPITA)
N                                                           ..               .        91 9       179.7
lama                                       ..               .             50.4        54.8       103.7
ESTIMATD POPCLATION SELOW  ABSsOLUE
POVERIT INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                             ..      55.0            1.3        "4.1         24.8
XURAI                                                     74.0            52.4        53.9        37.5
Not available
Not applicable.
/a   The adjusted group averages for each Indicator are population-aeighted gemetric  eanse, *xcluding che extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries   _g the
Indic-tors depends on availability of data and is not unifor.
'b    Unless othervion noted, data for 1960 refer to any Jear between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, betwee  1969
and 1971; and for Most Racent Fstimte, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    South Aaia;  /d  Low Income 1S280 or les per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income (s2bl-550 per capita,
1976);   if  Av. 1961-65;  7R  R.eisterad, not all practicing in the countrv;  ih  Govt. establishments
only;  '.  1972; Li  1963- _;  ik  1966-67;  /1  1962;  /n  1973.
Most Racant Estimaea  of 12P per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



-28 -                                                          ANNEX I
iEMITIMi O? SOCIAL fIDIrAIORS
lo.:Athoug  the data ar  dras   f-e   ors  generally judged the  -a  authuitativ- an~d rlae,It  hould tlso ho cOatS that thep sa  cot ha inter.-.
T    caoouparahle because of the lar,k of standardized definItions sad  donceyte  "ed byt different voteotries in orl.letiog tne data. 1hz data are, accathelees,
oeefusl to describe orders of   gzsiaods, iniaetrends, and o aoe iecrtain  -or dirffe- .oe   hatoeoconr-
The ad,osted groop  -vrages for earn indicator are popjatir.,-oibteod ge.tretet  5000, rilodI  lng b.5 roirle  5l-ot  Cr tOe Indioator and toe meet populated
cdoutry io renh group.  D.o to lark of late, grop averages of zl. idictors for CapJtal lorlos21  Raporer  sd tofobsoaof Azores to Water an-i E.oveta
Disposal, H-ousa, = -s. Dsaedi:Utio   ad Pvry forotdher o                   -tseygoP. aepooatid--eoghtol get-trIosee. eithvt exlusion of the zotee  vaLues and
the ast popLLated cut.Siethoveaeof occtias aeneythe idia,rAced                                  s oavoiai.Drof et-aeu Os so   -if-oc   cautio. Meat he eceroisec
hei relating averaged of oeindicator to mother.  These averagesar  inesueu   n  orcaia  o   epco                                euza -hen cosporing the olesof ...
Indicator at o tier san   the to,untry sod reference groups.
Total - Total aurface area csprLisig iand earea and  nlnid eaters.                          Pushr of Wpepletortal          a,ads'r.Isre   yezrt   tpaia
dgroo-at-1.  - tadt recent etinate of  -gouovs.te  useo t-orns-iiy                          percentages of their respoctio  pspulntionc.  octet. disposal say incl~de
or p.reoetly for Crops, p--tre, aerct sod uitoe  garen  or to                             the oo.2lectio  so d disposal, oltd  or  ithittr.L      c,C  h,-  ecrete
lie  ffue.                                                                                and cate-_atr by eater-oorae epsies  I  the us  of pitprivies an               uai-
- 015? per cpita estinats at Correctenroot pelie.4%    fPpp~ti..   P*, id.a    - Poposatioc dipdtedby cooker of prartic-ng ptWaician
alu hY eas  o-erselo  aetn.  as World Dan  Ati.a.   17W6-7$ bat                      iaalfleron    o          lchota  dooesiy ccl
1960, 1970, and 1978 data.                                                                PIccltoo  perPrsn   Person - 1lcoadivided by nuaber of prearticag sale
ENgsT fYSiC Pfl0    PEP CAPOfA -    uA-I ocouataia of o-aria   rca                             0   esal  graduateuss  p-atioal zurses, sod uss-tet  urea..
tocl  odlaole  ptrlea,aeura  go  vi h    -I,b  cuoea  coot ne.Pcla-cPr ocr  bed   toHPtal    ear  end rra  -p Pnjal. ctta,ara.
thersal eiect-ioity(t   iorn    foa   qooartprcpt. otsr   ua'aoddo  hi  rese.tocouserof  os Ital brs    aislei
1970, and 1976 data.                                                                        Pobii  and pRot  geealad apet.si-d hoetpital and r.t                     loaict o_or_
doiaaaretahlisneeno  oor,eso-tl.y staffed by at leant oeopanylias.I
POPUIATIONS AND 0V0ITAL  fIISTICf 0                                                             -baliat-att  provding pr-ioapal,ly vuoodoal. otec. tee dot iooloed. Rura
Total pnlto    EtO--zar ailli..o.    As of J.Iyi 1. ItbOo, 1970, and                        to-pttal, heornr, iacude dealth cod tedival  -e-tra cot peesnetSy stfico
1977 Daa                                                                                 ayabsiarht Pp a  ed,ioa   -1sitant, ourSe, eldaife, etc. ohiot offer
Urban Pepultbuc ,oe-ot of total     -nob  of erbs  to total poopjht:,icptet-esdtc   n   tCiicabie    ag   fmdclfri'aa
diffee-e  aefioitiTa  ofg4boa  cress 01  ffect t-P-raolity  At-t hooiCtsI -c  oo-cat-i Pd '  oa   une   ttaicoct  or dashage  fr-
as   ontrac  t 100,190  and 1977  so                                                 cptt   aoodO   i   oPro  oo
Poplsaojpea   7050 - C-oret 'popo.ltlo  rtzcia,  ae Iaase  to                   oimiSlG
toa   opaaaaob  aemdec'o  tersetln   ano fertll-p                                Averag  leofcueold   csc   c  iural   tona,    anhsd rral
eae, .r.eto   caranete-  far sortalaty rate. coeprooc of three                 0  caeodcoet   fn1opo   edvnaucvsaelncpatr   n
leeeioaounlc   ifecoetanvy  ti tinh  -zareso-     cthil ooutsy' cterno    et   At 000c t-                               ue  na   .r.aitt to ,olun-d an toe:
finaly olaacac  perfrnanE. au  co ,ty to the   ssge  0 c -th-c                 ro-p--tolp.  Poilosceld   to  -posaet struturca cod uoot
caecsintion  of ao'a.lity co   eoaop0:cd   Por pr- o-o                           Aooeas,o Electroo-tyoorc:t  orlc                   total, oibar  and re..-..       t
Staciocavy                L.aair-Joaoohor  populot-i   te  t  o  go-col                  total, aror  an  rural d-e11tag   r-apetioely.
:cctoe biroh race  i equa  to toe deat  rate, no  also. the age
structur          _  tuo   oetan.   lotoriodoyafefrtln rts                       tOhT t
ceolia  to the r-plaen-et level ofurc  c  vprooIao  rae   Or,                        hocci-oisa   (lo
eara gec-tiot of ct-c  reio    it ocIf toi.y.  The ctaicn.-p popes                     Pror   eol   oa    aecd a lena  - l.ns  tota, -aecn  eoe  o-.
looti.. sioeOs5estetdC  toe hota  of the  rtoe    oroetl  nsc   falae  at thyh t1i.;-pioay lev-   o  percentages of re.oPectac   .ra-Y
oftepI     uocci  tie year00   coo tie rate of se-hloc o  fs'r tty                       coihco-age Ipopalaioi  oorml-ly anoude- o-liree age. 6-Il ye-ocu
rate to ceplsotecet  md.                                           s~~~~adtued for otfteres  Icgiha of proasry edu-tioca Idr  -orioronailo
Year sttoasosr  pultcanreached - The penr okra  tetiocary                                       -,..IoCo  Idovs'a  ..vaio  cerc,lln  nay enced 1 pb pert co  t-o  vot  upolt
0ccsbee  r-ahe.                                                                     or  e ilo   orapcte  f               ho.. soil age
D.ua .io   ionch                                                                     S-tdar  sohol - tOtel sale ore fe-le - C-pottd  -0  1, -ot  -ccosry
P-o cc. On. - Mid-yen pooaiopriuo-alstr1CC  dcotre   of-dqta                                              - ctrec  1  -ea- to   pears of appecod pvine-,totutin
totai area                                                                               proides ge...rsa  -tn-ato,, or tearber or-ling hastr-stao. -Ir  Pupils
Per so  a, agrhoulturl lord - Ceuteco  above fr-  grtcl,.tovl lano                          ueualyI f 12 to iT pear  o: age; dr-rep-d-ece --trC  Or g-,nroliy
Idly.                                                                                     eccIuded.
Penulatius Age StrucItur - eret Ihidc  (0-iL peara,   okn-g                                  ooiclcrlse   ccroe-loioe--           o ... osdro)- ioaonidatitatlo-c  rtt...
i15-tI yeare   sot retire         er   n  oorj as percentagesof old-yet-                   tevoraoal, aiourlal', to-LAer ororan-  hioh operate touepenor-tiy or as
popuI.tiaaa; 19it, 19l0, cod 1977 dat.,                                        -            at- i.ot  of- senory ielotos
Pamalatioc troh Pate I-reton            tota   - un-on  re-sti rates of otatl oil-          Pt,,a-tcoaerticoren'- cd  --oodav   - Total . eadect  e-eo1ld Or.
pe  ar   Gr aiosfr19-6,1507,ad 1970-7                                                        ear   n   codr   roeh  oi-oiue  op cuere of te-hersI itroorr-
acu,latbc  GrcT~h Pa1te_1.1 (p et)    ra  -  nnalgrct  rates of ta-oa                         ep-odig  tool.
popsilatiss foe 150-60, lPb-To, an   10-TO                                     Adltlitracy rae   p et    literate  odu1ti (silt to reor co   -ilt I n
CdecO  Oo  hate 1rteeobodean    A-,Otai livebht,rt   per th-usan  o,f oa.aorrog i total cdiii'  popttatioo aged 15 pes'  -n  ove.
yerocu,tioc; 1960, 1970, 000 1977, onto.
franc Daeath Rate (per th-oacdd  - Mtldeacho Per ttoooanc oi a-a-Pe                    fNStiN5TSSoi,
touato t100   90,I   ant 177 data.bactr -. a' ,per thcasod .                                                     too. aoit     Passeoger oar  odopre s-tar r
Orot  epedutia Ots.  ocrgrtiber oi dogoteroscos-  till ten-augls   hncaoprca e- cides                                                  Lao,ilooc. hearses-n   alt
is her coesal repronu-oi-       I peid  f scvprvtspeciae                                -oci-le.
ape-ifio fertility rLtes;  -snallY fv-eroes    codig, Ic10, ]?O.itOo rocavers  per thoutord  -opalatio ~ - All typpe  ofreivs
1970, an  1975.                                                                          trudoctoslo g-eo.ro  polIoI Ier  hu       In f popuiloot.; co ldesopIoae
Ftsly P1500m  . A`doetloro  oo,A-l  thio--ou  - A-Pocus  cnbor of                           ce -cree   o Co-it-z  ad to Y yeas o etrgniorotot of esoit cci  ani
aroptora of birth-ocero1  -ei-e  o_e  s_pavec of cto    fnlo                            offot t.ot  for rocco..     er t  op-- -' vot -he     l copri  tIoc  o.-ooaae
F-Il  Plannid- User  (per-et of ta irrid sneer       Peetgof merrie                      7P Pttc:tes       r ti.oisan  population)- To reco-ar, foe brtanuuo-t ti . pees's
_oaEc  f olaild-_b;earin  age (14-4l ye-re  oho     PIe  thIropcotet  ootoc               pubItj e  thou-ad popolatio-o  concOctni-oelsd TVrcivr   ooscrc
to all m-ri.o onet  saeage gro-                                                          and  yt ear  cOe. regtratit  of  o1 tes  a t o  feot -
Ocapapr ivolotonper tou...d o tiatloe            h- ho  theI..  , ocracoro....t:oa
'OCt ADli NbTPTTION                                                                          a!dail  g-eera   iterret venoee  ',  eficed no n period2oti p4hli-cl...
feed so  :s 00aeoder pear oais.   Caai Ie Oor  poa-ary gooofnn  oa.    teiencorCpl teOe     osd0   h   uneo   lso
e.g. angaroare ttsoeod  f cager  oototereediOlo  oo Conicir. otoroctot  ol] ow- au Un  year, A ooldnMig at.tat io- o  to- dra e-ic oihee-MbarC ott tO
e.g.ooffe asdoeareooa "ooaa       ` igregeor          ..doto  ofb rao- 0000o-c    ta-it
ashae  o  ctaslcoraePrtAice  rio  cri-hot.
Pe  roiespl   f esloar I- pr  t   froirsei--lsutofo                              nyo-
eXporto, and -hange, it otoch.  Not :;,ppivt  -ociode coozal fed_eo.                       Orcc tr-tye  cr  oCt tooparobie.
quancoisdsd  tofoo  frceoIoI0. .  c  toot   tiamto-Paur.                       caa  myrec I          ..  -   IPsl   I Ic.r.t orI so .eo .tgr of to-os  1o-c forc-
seols serI eatioted tby FA0 I-r  to plo,- ...it   -osto-trs -gro-ooe  oocor                                  .  co   -ro  tooeig  forestry. h-tolg and
ortillty and ocalti onl.. dveragw etaorea   vper-oir, cody oegto                         oho,,, to perceoage ot  es,sto   foOte.
age  oo  cm  tot' Ootici-f populott-7, co -d  co  1J per-et I-r-              1tdstry  perocoo,  -bdreo-ririii.ooroOo,ocfotr-urgco
satsooaol    ..t..                                                            vico---oiy, .51cr coo ga-s  p-ec-tageC  tota  loboror.
er- ospota oucoip of crooco    rn  prop.  eta  toet.o.   P- pe                         P-rtoototi-t Pt  porreto   . tota, mee, co   cole . aretoi-patiot or
-cpite net otpply of food percy 1.c  Coo.ply of toro ii non s                           -toicny rates are -otead or total, male, and feenle  oboe forte as pr-
sasn. -nRoqirenets for ate1 vo- -ic   -ltlibeo  by USiA  p-oootOo a.                    c-aages of -totl, talc sc f-elrooI taio    f cii ages reapctcl
ieh~iss  socno   ft  gran  of tota  pr-tes  per o.Yan  20 gran  of                     1501. 1970, sod 197, dots -Thete are  Old' parot-pststrorrefP               coe
sonal"  and pulse prooc-c  of  thoICgectudhesls.prot-a.                                  ge.... .ttruvuv   of thc pop..iouo, and long tin   otal..  A fee. ectisate
These stanoro  aelos  tha  los  t70  rao                total cr000i0 coo              art On   otoa.sove
23 gras  of" adOa   eti  so P_eI--Ur for the  -trid, propoecd cy  17C                 ErcolaDotdr    Ratio    Oct00o  popltiac  -oole  15 cod bP and corts'0
on toe Thir  Wrld  0000 Iae-telro'oo'    age getoP of 1-opal
Poe caao  orolpteec socc    from sinai cou ou,se.  Protospply of food
Ocriod feo  orheal  cod peul.stttg..         c  ooo-.                              flOe  DISTRIBUTION
Child ages 1-s~ Mortalitp Rat    crlo-         ol   Actal leatha per Othucord             P-eretage of 'coaeIcoon   Lbon  to cas  an1 d Oiod  - PeIedby  Itobest
:0  gegrop  --yea's  00ciioec  o  ta  ag  goup  fr  020ded-peroonl, riChest -17 peo.t  porcan 20pecet, sad porzu=                           prcn
opig   yocrichasorice  fro Il lIfe tolet -             p                                ofrbousedio.do.
IFAlLTH                                                                                   P0V797! TApRr IRO7fS
life tooctorvo- atOaraO  oe,rc  . doeauc ouecc'-fycare.f .ife            aosc  omtooLe.A . e 1- eo  Ios  trod  .0  poe caite) - urban a    rural
bofant WortlIty  Aaepo-.c.I(.  on  deaths of safoto  adcc ave                                aoicoLo orqus   -lec lo-  --otiel oc-food  -eqdte,enect  to out
pear of ag   e  oosclr   irttso                                                           affordable 
Acesto lopAoepreto   oosicI-ooluban  and rurl                                         lot  _ted peoto  Pce   ncm  level (01$ St r I -Pis -ranad rurl 
Musher of  eople  tota, armor, sd rural -  itt. racoosble  oct05 to          ((oral Ie-tl-o poserty loose Iro   ~atoe--trd   f  veag  per capita
safe  -a-e  ouRply  itl et-eted ow-fore caers or  nrete-   cut                           peest   ooeo  o  ooa                 rban !-oe  a  de-io-d. frmtoe rual leve
ucooconlonoo ceoc'  co  os-.dt fro. orotcod hrehoIct  cp-oags,                      oath  o oetfiotrobgerco--  Il iioi     it urbarten
and sanitary eeIo   oPerC-tageo of oteir rs-astilor pcpalo;iye   in                    ftiasted Populetiot belo-heht Ab oo te,       y          "cIo , le   peectt -  rba   n
an uban ares a  sai  f-tos   or ot-dpos- locted ,coMore thancu,   -roobt' of pooliitura  an   irlco   r   oroltopor
200 antera feces ors  sap be otosidered an color  _athib reanonoble
areeo  teal hris-   In Ioral areas reasoahi  a__e  coud caply
tOhat 0cc tasenife or sicere of toe h-uebald 00 .00 har  to spend                                                                E Tocol  and Socia  fats Dhi,,ioi
diepccpoetloaate pan  of toe day t- fetooitog the feanny's eate  needs                                                      E.oto.,o  nApalsi and  Poco eDepar-tca
ho-goat L979



-29 -
ANINEX I
Acua                       Eat1mcd            1960-   1965-    1973-            16-    947   977
AV. 1967-69  1921al73  1974/75   1976/77            197 7/78         19653   197-0      1978            97617/517(8
ATI(LACCOMM
Tx Constant 1972-1973, Prices & Eccbaga   ts              Average AnnuaJl Grovci, Bases        As Percenit of GDY
irosE lomestlc ?rodact            6.Ut      3,533j    6,54        /.225             7,`%              4.7      33         .198.3   101.8   101.1
Gains from Terms orTadf      .        89         -     -117        -148                -88                                              1.5    -1.8    -1.1
Groj~ Inmestic :nconae             6T101    5,833    6.397   ~ ,0                     .4              5.6      2.5       5.8          100.0   100.0   100.
Import (Incl. NFyS)                  879      747       703         506                791           20.6      6.8       0.7           14.4    11.0    10.2
E;rnorts   l    imoort capacity)    398        369       197        243                315           12.3   -14.6       -3.2            9.8      3.1      4.1
Resou.rce Gap                       2E1       378       50O6        2-63              Z-4%                                             4.6      7.9        7
Consusption Fxcpenditures          5,668    5,817    6,404        6,764              7.521            5.7      3.6       5.2           92.9   100.1    97.1
Investment       (mde. stocks)    714         394       499         660                700           1.3.3     8.8      12.2           12.9      7.8      9.0
Domestic Savings                     433        16       46         343                2/1            4.3    10.0       72.0            6.8    -.0.1      2.9
MaLtlonal Savings                   416         32       10         378                279            8.7    20.5       56.3            7.1      0.2      3.6
MERCHANISE TRADE                             Annual. Data at Current Prices                                                             sPreto    oa
Tmports
-           C~~~~~apital goods                  ..       100       135         227               318               ,       ..     22.9              ..    16.8    23.5
IntermediAte goods (s2fua2.s)    ..         176       384         270                459                      ..      21.9             ..     30.4    34.1
Puels and related miLtntersl
of which: Petrolemi.                       23       155         141                166             .         .     48.5                     10.9
.CL-    tgon ROOA  ~428                   22             j406                                      .      -3442.8    __'
,ot  Mrd7 Impots tcif)         ~       ~         1,L.2         865             1T3r9                              12.2                   100.0   100.0
Exports
prs ry  oscbts 6ol. fus2s)     ..       145       119         220               203              .        .       7.0             ..     40.9    40.8
Fuesal and related materials
of whsich:  Petroleum
,Maofct,sred goods               _..        195       239         240               294               .       .       8.5             ..
Ttl/rh.Exports (rb)         1!93_ 7                                                                              .                    100.0   100.0
Tourism. ard Boraer  Trade
Merchandise Trade Indices                      A erae197;2-73 1-
Export Prict index              --1         10         3          118               137               .       ..      6.5
ImPort Price Index                 52       100       215         169               18               .       .       12.5
Terms of Trade Index              I18       100        62          62                76              ..       ..      5.6
Exports Volume index             1I8        100        80         115               107              .        .       1.5
VALLM ADED B3Y SECTOP              Annual Data at 1972-73 Prices and Exchange Rates                Average kanu.al ZGrowth Rates       Ai Percent of Total
Agricultsure                    3,542    3,403    3,712        4.020              4,318              .        ..      4.8             59        59      57
Industryv ano Mining              420      412       466         582                642              .       ..       9.2              7        7        a
Ser,nise                        2 050    1 840     2  146      Z..                                           ..L      7.4            34        34       35
Total                  ~~~~6,01.2    5,663    6,324    7,044              7,609                               6.1            100      100      100
PTh1IC FINANCE                                                                                                                           As Perc  -
(Central Government)
-".it       s                317       250       469         563                665             .         .      34.2           5.3       7.2      M.5
Ixpeonitures      ~~365      364      419         464                553              .       ..      16.8           6.1       6.4      7.1
U7;5Og5.4                                84        50          9                                                                ..8        08       1.4
Ot c -.tlic Sector             .         .        .            ..                                .       .
!u.c  tor Investmont         421       2i9       248         516,               514             .         .     10.'3'          7.0       3.8      6.6
us $ mIllion "l
CREIITM DCPENDITURE DSETAILS                            Ac tuaLl               hstimated       DETAIL ON                            Atc AV. --1977/78 P and ER
As 0 Total Current Expend.)              1969/70 19727    ZL5ZL.               ]ij8          PITLIC SECTR                       Tw-YH       51n       of Total
Education                                  ..        5.5    14.      1.          1.          II9VSTMT PROGRAM                          819879- 1979/80)
Ott-.r ."iocal Serv-Ic--.                           4.5      3.6      4.2         4.9       Social Sectors                              287        13.2
Agriculture  End                                                                            Agriculture                                 600        27.6
Other Economic Services                  .         5.0    12.5      6.6         7.0        industry and Mining                        380        17.5
Adminiatration and Defense                 .       70.4    571.1    61.5         61.2        Power                                      314        14.4
Irtber                                     .        4.6    12.3    15-3          13.9       Transpor-t and comsnicatlons                387        17.8
Tota.l Current Expenditures                       100.0   100.0   100.0         100.0       GIther                                      206         9.5
_________ ________ ________ ________ _________ ________ ________ ________ ________ Total     Expenditurea       2,174        100.0
SELECTED -,I-:ATORS                                 1960-      1965-        1973-              FIHANCINO
(Ca.lrulated from 3-yeaLr averaged daLta)           1965       1970        1976
Average ICOF.                                          ..      17T-x       V.-89                  Pailic S,ctor Savinogs                  557        25.6
lIport Elasticity                                      .       1.29        1.11                   PrograLm aid counterpart                838        34.6
Marginal Do.Astlc sarings Rate                         .       0.22        0.05                   Foreixn Project Aid                     605        27.8
Marginal National Saving  Rate                         .       0.35        0.05                  oth-  (inn l. 6om. borrowing)            174         8.0
Total Financing                      2,174       100.0
:A20  FORCE AND                                  Total Labor Force                                  Vale Ade Pr lrke  17-  73  Prices & 12xc. BaLtes)
OUTPUTE PER WORSEP                 In Millions         % of Tot-al          1-961 - 73         I   ..1las          Preto  Avertge              19 70 - 73
1960/61    l97/19~j 606         927  Growth Rate              19 69/70   19 72/73    19 69/70   19 72/73   Growth Bate
Agriculture                        16.1        20.5      85        78          2.0                          I"16         .           76
Industry                            1.0         1.8       5         7          5.0               ..         229         ..         105
Service                             1.8         3.9      10        15          6.7                --        484         --         222
Total                              18.9,       76-      100       10-0         2.8              248         -2717      100          10-0       -4.9
not applicable         -  ill or negligible
not available         -- less than half the smallest unit shomn
Note: Figures aer on fiscal year basis (JulY I-.8.Qa 90).Oats prior to 1972/73 pertain to erstwhile East Pakistan.
/1     Plan targaet.



ANNEX I
- 30 -
8LlAIES 01     NDO Pf     U AILL ASSLSTANCE AND OW
(em t  in Uilli4             N n  LI. does at ctrent pricee)
Actu.   7atlisted                                !rolctd         A-ere An-I 
27           1914175       1910!''    1977/78          1978/79                   1974 - 1978
S3 W(8   6IA52CE OF PAOTS
-orts ('inc. WS)                             515           369           358           529           568             648                        13.7
N-6"         -747        -1,402          -957        -1,427          _1,779                         9.8
R766urc7 0i042.n47-N)                       -126          -378        -1,044          -428           _            -1,1                          7.4
interest (et)I
'Iriect Thflb04ent Inane.   t
orkers' Rlendtt-se            I                ..           45              7           66             83              93
cva-sn,.5rla ter(,urrmt)      I .__
OI4uoe or.Oorre1itAucn,ants                     .         Il           Tf7          -'              1,07           77-.33 1.
Private Dire7ct 7nvaet nt                                                 37           29441.
Official Capital l    nt.                                  482            397          229            3              400                       13.6
ffbiurc e Olt                                ..           76           527           273           411             695                        5.2
-Repa t  _   -25         -16            -(              -54i
Disbor.-lnt.
Ot-ceeytB L.___
Net Disbutsnts                                 ..
Capital Transactions cat.                      ..         -205           334           -44             16            -33
4  25                                ~~~~~~~Actual Lend Period              EstIute
Cban9e in Net Rassrsa 5- iucr.a.e)  ..       -25          -196           -90             24251                                            11977
Gross Reserves (end p riod)                    ..          107           263           293            269        DET       DE    SERVI7/73   1974/7    1975/7    176/77    1977/7
Pablic Debt Out. 6 Disbursed         228      1,366      1,812       2,065       2,556
Atficiaj Grants & Grunt-like                   *-          314            368          338            452           mbterect on Publc Deit               -         10         21          25          27
Ripa.ymotN -o Public Dibt            -         25          78         17          51
publ   MbLT (cone                                                                                                  Total Public Debt Serrios             -         35         99         42           78
78RD                                                      -9 150                      50           2             Othbo  Debt Ser-ice (net)
mDA                                                       60           150                           7420        Total Grit bc-ibo    (rvt) 
ltber ?tstilstsral                                      11             87           b4             74
Covcr,n05t                                  ..           204           678           200           376         B-da  on 7baport i-rciac04  (9)
Suppliers                                    *.           55            17             2            11
FiLnciel Ititatioss                          ..                           -            5             13          Publio DGbt Service                          9.0         22.4        7.9        13.7
nds                                                                                    -              -         Tot.l Debt S-rvi-e                   ..        ..           ..
public Lo ns n.i.                                        -             _                                         TDSoDirect fnvost. 7nc.
TOtal Public hbLT ro.s                         .           338            932          341 Ti
-        -          ~~~~~-               -                    Avera.ge Tere af Pbio Debt
Actul Debt ott-tacdis  on Juce 30. 1978                               Int. as r P7'icr Tsar DIMn           *-      2.0          1.5        1.4          1.3
38T7117LL DEbET                                                                    Peroect                            Asiort. us % Prior Tear 7JOhD                5.0          5.7        0.9         2.5
klos-d Bank                                      at"21
nD                                                      55.4                       21.7                          701D DGbt Ont. & Ditborsed
Oth4r KUtillatera.                                        64                         2.5                               us S Public Debt OhD              -       4.0          3.0        2.7         2.2
kovenrnentS                                           1,746                        68.4                               as 9 Public DGbt Se-vita           -         -          1.6        7.5         4.4
umnolierq                                               111                         4.3
FioAeoiul Oustitonione                    ~~~~~26                     1.0                          MADbGrt Cbt. & Dsiursa.d
rinsncio l 7u utidutiono                                 26                         L.O                          1+ as 9 Pablic Debt O&D               7.1      18.7        21.0       22.7         21.7
Publi c  obit t .e.i                                      -                            -                             u         Public DGbt Sesoice       -       2.3         2.0         7.5         4.9
Total Public M6LT DGbt                                =' 3                        190.0
Other -ALT DGbts
Short-term Debt (diAsb. onL4)
not applicable                                                        e  staff estim te
ot uvuiSble                                                           -      nil or segligible
..ot available asperstiy                                             --  1ees thin huLf the
bot included So tatl                                                    snllet unit bh--n
SNnecber 109708



- 31 -                    ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS - BANGLADESH
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of January 31, 1980)
US$ Million       /a
Amount
Loan or                                                       (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                         Un-
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                  Bank      IDA   disbursed
One loan and 12 credits fully disbursed                     54.9    428.28        -
339    1972   Bangladesh   Cyclone Area Reconstruc-
tion (replaces Credit
No. 228-PAK of 1971)                   25.00     1.39
340    1972   Bangladesh   Chandpur Irrigation II
(replaces Credit No.
184-PAK of 1970)                      13.00      0.36
341    1972   Bangladesh   Tubewells (replaces
Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                               14.00     1.72
343    1972   Bangladesh   Telecommunications (re-
places part of Credit
No. 145-PAK of 1969)                    7.30     0.16
407    1973   Bangladesh   Education (replaces
Credit Nos. 49-PAK
and 87-PAK of 1964 and
1966)                                 21.00      3.57
408    1973   Bangladesh   Highways (replaces Credit
No. 53-PAK of 1964)                    25.00     5.05
410    1973   Bangladesh   Cereal Seeds                                7.50      4.17
424    1973   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport
Rehabilitation                          8.70     0.34
487    1974   Bangladesh   Second Telecommunications                  20.00      9.75
527    1975   Bangladesh   Ashuganj Fertilizer                        62.00    24.23
533    1975   Bangladesh   Population                                 15.00      9.67
542    1975   Bangladesh   Barisal Irrigation                         27.00    19.13
605    1976   Bangladesh   Karnafuli Irrigation                       22.00    13.22
621    1976   Bangladesh   Agricultural and Rural Training            12.00      7.61
622    1976   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance II                     7.50      3.69
631    1976   Bangladesh   Rural Development                          16.00    13.83
632    1976   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank                     25.00      9.45



- 32 -                    ANNEX II
A.   Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (Cont'd)
US$ Million       /a
Amount
Loan or                                                       (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                         Un-
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                  Bank      IDA  disbursed
724    1977   Bangladesh   Shallow Tubewells                         16.00   14.61
725    1977   Bangladesh   Muhuri Irrigation                         21.00   18.96
729    1977   Bangladesh   Extension and Research                    10.00    8.96
735    1977   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport II                  5.00    3.95
752    1977   Bangladesh   Imports Program VI                        75.00    4.61
765    1978   Bangladesh   Jute                                      21.00   18.50
787    1978   Bangladesh   Foodgrain Storage II                      25.00   24.97
825    1978   Bangladesh   Small Scale Industry II                    7.00    6.99
828    1978   Bangladesh   Agricultural Research                      6.00    5.74
864    1978   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood Control                19.00   18.05
866    1978   Bangladesh   Imports Program VII                       75.00   17.05
872    1978   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance III                  10.00    9.94
890    1979   Bangladesh   Oxbow Lakes Fisheries                      6.00    6.00 /c
912    1979   Bangladesh   Vocational Training                       25.00   25.00
921    1979   Bangladesh   Second Population &
Family Health                          32.00   32.00 /b
934    1979   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Greater Khulna
District                               28.00   28.00
941    1979   Bangladesh   Bangladesh 2nd Dacca Water
Supply & Sewerage                      22.00   22.00
944    1979   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Fertilizer Imports             25.00   21.19
955    1979   Bangladesh   Small Scale Drainage and
Flood Control                          25.00   25.00 /b
964    1979   Bangladesh   Second Highway Project                    10.00   10.00 lb
Total,                                                      54.9  1,219.28  448.88
of which has been repaid                                  0         0.40    -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                             54.9  1,218.88
Total undisbursed                                           0       448.88  448.88
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.
lb   Not effective.
/7c   Became effective in February.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
B.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Mult:i-Sector Project
Cr. No. 339    Cyclone Area Reconstruction Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit
of October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
After a very difficult start, the project is expected to be com-
pleted by early 1980, about four years behind schedule. Parts A, F, and G
(Inland Water Transport, Coastal Fisheries, and Cyclone Warning System) have
been completed for some time. IDA financed portions of Parts D and E (Primary
and Feeder Roads) have been substantially completed. Some feeder roads
originally scheduled *to be financed under the Credit have been financed by
World Food Program as part of an agreed program to meet cost escalation. The
Government has requested WFP finance for additional feeder roads. This request
is currently under consideration. Work on the completion of Part B and C
(Telecommunications and Cyclone Shelters) appears to be proceeding generally
satisfactorily. Most equipment under the sub-project is now installed. Com-
missioning and takeover of all VHF base stations and PCO sets at 68 locations
has taken place. Delivery for operation of microwave and UHF systems is sub-
ject to corrective measures, and was due to be completed by end December 79.
Government and TTB have stated that physical transfer of the assets under the
sub--project from Cyclone Reconstruction Board (CRB) to TTB was made as from
July 1, 1979, when action to dissolve CRB was undertaken.  Formal transfer
of these assets will take place through the issuance of an Executive Order,
which has been furnished to IDA for review. TTB indicated that measures are
being taken to complete all works and arrangements for full operation by the
end of December 1979. A detailed report on the actual operational status of
the assets transferred, together with details of TTB/GOB action required to
ensure their full operational use was due to be submitted by December 15, 1979.
Agricultural Projects
Cr. No. 340    Chandpur Irrigation II Project:  US$13.0 Million Credit of
October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project has now been completed three years behind schedule.
Delays have been due to major flooding, labor problems, shortages of materials,
equipment breakdowns and rebuilding the embankment as a result of rapid river
erosion during the construction phase. Major agricultural development started
in 1978 will continue for four years. A seven month extension of the Closing
Date is under consideration to allow time for the arrival of some remaining
orders of maintenance equipment.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 34 -                      ANNEX II
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
All 3,000 deep tubewells have now been drilled and will be commis-
sioned by early 1980. Approximately $1.2 million from the project and $0.7
million from the Extension and Research Project (Credit 729-BD) will be con-
solidated to fund the Command Area Development (CAD) of the deep tubewells in
the Northwest of Bangladesh.
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1979
There has been little improvement in project implementation in the
past six months. Key constraints continue to be: Taka shortage, and civil
work construction difficulties. A revised work programme has been finalized
and an extension of the closing date to June 30, 1981 would be considered on
condition that adequate ADP Taka provision is made available by GOB. The main
positive aspect of the project continues to be the success of the contract
grower scheme. Wheat seed sales remain good, but paddy seed sales are well
below appraisal targets. The main problem preventing increased paddy sales
are poor marketing arrangements and lack of suitable improved seeds for multi-
plication. Improvements in seed distribution and marketing are in hand and
marketing consultants have been engaged for this purpose. The Seed Certifica-
tion Agency continues to be weak, however, and an intensive training programme
is currently under preparation. Future prospects have improved as a result
of GOB's recent strong committments to stimulate foodgrain production and sup-
port intensive seed production efforts.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project:  US$27 Million Credit of April 29,
1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Project civil works continue to make good progress and are expected
to be completed within six months of schedule. Poor quality work is being
remedied by contractors at no cost to the project. The 60 primary pump units
are in various stages of arrival and about 30 are expected to be operational
by the year-end. 2,500 secondary pumps are in store and ready for issue, the
target for the 79/80 boro season is 1,100 pumps in the field or 44,000 acres
planted.
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project:  US$22 Million Credit of
January 28, 1976; Effective Date: February 24, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project had been behind schedule due to initial delays in
hiring project consultants. The consultants for the irrigation portion of the
project began work in September 1976, but their effectiveness was limited by



- 35 -IANNEX II
delays in procurement of vehicles and equipment and in the assignment of local
consultants to assist in the design work. This has been resolved. After a
period of good progress, project civil works have again slowed down due to
shortages of local Taka and a payment dispute with the contractors.
Cr. No. 631    Rural Development Project:  US$16.0 million Credit of
June 3 1976; Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project was designed as a pilot application of the rural devel-
opment approach pioneered at the Comilla Academy in the mid-sixties. It
aims at introducing accelerated agriculture and rural development in seven
thanas in Bogra and Mymensingh Districts. It provides financing inter alia
for rural roads, minor irrigation, buildings, storage, rural credit and
strengthening of rural cooperatives. The project became effective on
August 3, 1976. Initially, despite some teething problems, the project was
progressing satisfactorily. But by June 1977, the following weaknesses
became apparent: (i) lack of cooperation between the various ministries and
agencies involved; (ii) lack of effective organization and ineffective super-
vision of the project by the implementing agency, the Integrated Rural Devel-
opment Program (IRDP); (iii) basic deficiencies in the cooperative system
(complex regulations and procedures); (iv) inadequate training of project
personnel; and (v) conflicting government policies in the field of rural
credit. In November/December 1977, IDA, in association with IRDP, undertook
a comprehensive review of the project, and an Aide Memoire, setting out an
action program to overcome these problems, was presented to the Government
in December 1977.
The Government has made a concerted effort to implement the recom-
mendations of the Aide Memoire prepared in December 1977. A full-time Project
Manager has been appointed who is assisted by three assistants responsible for
credit, cooperatives and training, respectively. International recruitment
is being used to obtain for IRDP technical assistance in project management,
supervision, and monitoring. At the field, two district managers, for Bogra
and Mymensingh, have been appointed to work full time on project activities.
Budgetary and procedural changes have been introduced to enable participating
government agencies to be fully responsible for the implementation of the
project's subcomponents. This, together with a revitalized coordinating
committee of Secretaries of the Ministries concerned has greatly improved
cooperation. Implementation of the physical aspects of the project such as
rural works is proceeding satisfactorily but project beneficiaries are, so
far, yet to receive tangible benefits in the form of increased farm inputs or
farm equipment. A proposal has recently been approved to amend the Credit
Agreement to finance incremental fertilizer needs for the project instead of
incremental credit for fertilizer.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Cr. No. 724    Shallow Tubewells Project:  US$16 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
There has been satisfactory progress in procurement of engines and
pumps, tools and equipment, office equipment and part of the transports.
Sales of shallow tubewells will be to both individuals and groups. The
project will procure in its first phase 2,050 pumpsets which will be distri-
buted by January 1980. Procurement for the second order of about 5,000
shallow tubewells will be based on farmers' preference system. The construc-
tion of workshops is proceeding with only minor delays.
Cr. No. 725    Muhuri Irrigation Project: US$21.0 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983
Overall progress, judged by the progress of construction of the Feni
Regulator which is the single most important component of the project, is about
18 months behind schedule due to delays in recruiting the Implementation Assis-
tance Team (for the contractor) and weak project management (Water Development
Board and its Consultants). After many attempts to remove bottlenecks and
improve the management, the performance is beginning to improve. The contrac-
tor has resumed the construction and expects to place a substantial quantity
of concrete for the regulator this season. The revised cost estimate indicates
possibility of higher project cost than given in the Appraisal Reports due
mainly to necessary design changes and additional access roads as well as
price escalation.
Cr. No. 729    Extension and Research Project:  US$10 Million Credit of
July 1, 1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date:
April 30, 1981.
Project implementation has improved. Most of the vehicles have been
procured and Phase I civil works const:.iction is nearing completion.  Contact
farmer attendance has increased by 600 to 100% in most areas. Main achieve-
ment of the extension service has been in expanding wheat cultivation through-
out Northwest. Key problem remaining is the revision of Project Proforma (PP)
to provide adequate funds for completing remaining civil works. The Ministry
of Agriculture has prepared a draft Project Proforma (PP) for Ministry of
Planning approval.
Cr. No. 765    Jute Project:  US$21 Million Credit of February 8, 1978;
Effective Date:  April 14, 1978; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
The Jute Project has been very successful in getting the project
farmers to use higher quantities of fertilizer, resulting in higher yields.
Partly as a result of this, raw jute stocks are high, but the price of deshi
(white) jute variety (70% of area) is low. Even then, the average project
farmer would make a profit, but non project jute farmers would not, and some
of latter are expected to switch to paddy production as was envisaged in the
project. To maintain jute production levels, further intensification of the



- 37 -
ANNEX II
production in the project area will be necessary. Steps for ensuring such
intensification was discussed and agreed with GOB.
Cr. No. 787    Foodgrain Storage II Project:  US$25 Million Credit of April 12,
1978; Effective Date: September 29, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Project actions are proceeding steadily: the first batch of con-
struction contracts, out of a total of possibly 10 batches, have been awarded;
equipment procurement is well underway and the project construction, implemen-
tation and monitoring units have been established. Improvements in the system
for domestic food procurement were identified for implementation in 1979 aman
season. A pilot project for paddy marketing by farmer cooperatives is doing
well in its early stages. However, delays in full staffing and in land
acquisition, and inadequate financial allocations for the project in GOB
Annual Development Plans could slow down progress in the future.
Cr. No. 828    Agricultural Research Project:  US$6 million Credit of
June 16, 1978; Effective Date: November 15, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The overall progress of the project is satisfactory and all par-
ticipating institutions are cooperating fully. The revised plans for
Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council (BARC) headquarters building and
the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute (BARI) research stations
have been approved by IDA and prequalification of contractors has been com-
pleted. The BARC Technical Working Groups are progressing satisfactorily.
Progress has been made in selecting the candidates for the PhD training
scheme. Action is needed to (i) fill positions of BARDC Executive Vice
Chairman and two other Board members; (ii) complete PhD overseas training
arrangements and initiate M.Sc. training arrangements in Bangladesh;
(iii) recruit consultants; and (iv) prepare National Research Plan.
Cr. No. 864    Drainage and Flood Control Project:  US$19.0 million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: October 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Effectiveness had been delayed primarily due to delays by the
Government in approval of the project budget and staffing plan. In Chenchuri
Beel (CCB) and Kolabashakhali (KBK) two regulators have been completed and
in Brahmaputra Right Bank (BRE) a large program of contracts has been prepared,
which are scheduled to start by end 1979.
Cr. No. 890    Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project:  US$6 million Credit of April 3,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This credit is not yet effective due to delays in appointment of
consultants. Negotiations with one consulting firm broke down. Negotiations
with a second consultant firm are in progress.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Cr. No. 955    Small Scale Drainage & Flood Control Project; US$25.0
Million Credit of October 30, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
This credit is not yet effective.
Industry and Imports Program Credits
Cr. No. 527    Ashuganj Fertilizer Project:  US$62.0 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975, as amended by Amending Agreement of June 18,
1979; Original Credit Effective Date:  December 19, 1975;
Supplementary Credit Effective Date: August 1, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
EEC, IFAD, the OPEC Special Fund, and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland, UK
and US, providing a total of about US$190 million equivalent in addition to
the IDA credit. Site preparation work including the necessary dredging and
filling was completed on schedule. However, based on the soil analyses under-
taken by two specialist consulting firms, further preparation of the site
was undertaken to protect the plant against earthquake risks. Currently the
project is about 32 months behind schedule due primarily to the additional
site preparation and initial slow progress in (a) placing orders for time-
critical items and (b) planning for construction. Due to the need for
additional site work, the delays and currency fluctuations, supplemental
financing was required. The required financing has now been obtained. The
soil compaction and foundation work has been completed and plant construc-
tion is now progressing satisfactory. Some additional delays are being
encountered due to delays in the manufacture and delivery of some materials,
but these delays are still within the margin for contingencies provided
in the schedule shown at the time of IDA supplementary financing.
Cr. No. 632    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
As of December 31, 1979, Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB) has committed
about US$24.4 million from the credit, for 122 subprojects. Disbursements
were about US$15.0 million and Qualified Agreements to Reimburse letters
of credit (QAR) had been approved for US$3.6 million.
Cr. No. 752    Sixth Imports Program:  US$75 Million Credit of November 30,
1977; Effective Date: December 13, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1980
As of December 31, 1979 disbursements were US$66.8 million and QAR
had been approved for US$5.6 million.



-39 -
ANNEX II
Cr. No. 825    Small Scale Industry II Project:  US$7 million of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
There has been good progress in training commercial bank staff, dis-
tributing circulars to commercial bank branches describing project procedures,
and advertising the availability of funds for small industry loans. The
Project appraisal and processing capabilities of the implementing Banks have
developed rapidly, and the Project is expected to be completed ahead of
schedule. Staff of the Small and Cottage Industries Corporation have begun
preparation of subsector and area studies for small industry promotion.
Cr. No. 866    Seventh Imports Program:  US$75.0 million Credit of
December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 8, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
As of December 31, 1979 disbursements were about $55.9 million and
QAR had been approved for $16.6 million.
Cr. No. 944    Fertilizer Imports Project:  US$25 million Credit of June 29,
1979; Effective Date: August 29, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1980
As agreed, fertilizer prices have been increased by an average
of about 28%. A staffing plan and administrative authorizations have been
completed for the provision of staff for the secretariate of the fertilizer
coordinating committee.
Education Projects
Cr. No. 407    Education Project:  US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project finances completion of the construction of the Bangla-
desh Agricultural University (BAU), building of five new and equipping of
eight existing technical institutes (polytechnics). The BAU component is
now 80% complete and is expected to be completed by December 1980. However,
construction has stopped since March 1979 due to lack of funds. The External
Affairs Division of the Ministry of Planning informed the mission that a
decision on the allocation of the required funds is expected soon. If funds
are made available by mid-December 1979, the project could be completed by the
current closing date, December 31, 1980. The fellowship program is nearly
complete. Civil works associated with the technical education component,
although 30 months behind schedule are virtually complete and the polytechnics
are now operating. About 75% of all equipment (in dollar terms) are close to
appraisal estimates due to currency devaluation. Most local cost overruns are
caused by taxes imposed on imported goods. Disbursement as of December 31,
1979 is $18.9 million (90% of the Credit).



- 40 -                     ANNEX II
Cr. No. 621    Agricultural and Rural Training Project:  US$12.0 Million
Credit of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Implementation of civil works is about three months ahead of sched-
ule but has slowed recently due to shortage of local funds. Completion is
progressing satisfactorily. Training of teachers for the Agricultural
Training Institutes (ATI's) has been set back by a recent transfer of
instructors to the extension staff to benefit from a recent upgrading of
positions, which was not extended to the ATI staff.  Little progress has
been made on the recruitment of technical assistance experts, the development
of revised curriculum, or the in-service training of extension staff.
Cr. No. 912    Vocational Training Project:  US$25.0 million Credit of
May 31, 1979; Effective Date: November 2, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This project has only recently been declared effective. The Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) is presently understaffed and have only the project
architect and an acting project coordinator. The Project Manager (consultant)
has already been selected. The furniture and equipment for the PIU office
would be purchased in the near future. The PIU was scheduled to be fully
staffed by December 1979.
Population Project
Cr. No. 533    Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of March 10,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project is being cofinanced by six co-lenders providing a total
of US$25 million equivalent in addition to IDA credit. Program performance,
which declined during the three months preceding the parliamentary elections
in February 1979, has improved again. The internal reorganization of the
Population Control and Family Planning Division (PCFPD), as recommended by
the management study, is underway. This reorganization will not be effective
in improving program implementation unless the PCFPD is able to: (a) fill
its large number of vacant technical, managerial and supervisory positions;
and (b) simplify the administrative, financial and recruitment procedures.
Actions have been assured by the Government on both counts. A program has
been started for the retraining of field workers which should improve their
performance. While the pace and quality of construction of 80 Family Welfare
Centers, built through community participation, has been encouraging, the
progress on other buildings in the project has been slower than expected by
the last mission. Due to the slow pace of construction, disbursement of the
credit has also shown less than expected improvements.



- 41 -                        ANNEX II
Cr. No. 921    Second Population and Family health Project:  US$32.0
million; Credit of May 31, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
This Credit is not yet effective.
Transport Projects
Cr. No. 408    Highways Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: August 7, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Feni bypass was opened to public traffic on July 1, 1979. Some
shoulder damage occurred during the 1979 monsoon, particularly in areas
where shoulder compaction was incomplete. Work has commenced on shoulder
reinstatement and and was due to be completed by end-Decemaber 1979. Iso-
lated pavement failures have occurred, and the reasons for these failures
are currently being investigated. Progress on the RHD headquarters building
is satisfactory and now consists primarily of finishing works. The draft
final report on the Surma River Crossing Study has been reviewed by RHD and
IDA, and the consultant is at present making the required amendments to the
Report. Arbitration is proceeding on the contractor's claims on the Sitalakhya
bridge contract.  Due to delays in completion of this arbitration, IDA recently
agreed to extend the closing date from December 31, 1979 to June 30, 1980.
Aside from minor finishing works on the RHD buiulding, all project work is
reported to be completed.
Cr. No. 424    Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project:  US$8.7 Million
Credit of August 10, 1973, as amended by Amending Agreement
of October 17, 1975; Original Credit Effective Date:
September 27, 1973; Supplementary Credit Effective Date:
March 19, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Procurement of spare parts and equipment under the original credit
has been completed. Under the Supplementary Credit, two used lighterage
tankers and the new pontoon berth are being utilized for unloading of crude
oil at Chittagong for the Eastern Refinery.
The oil transfer operations have continued to show a marked improve-
ment over previous operations, due to the sustained drive and initiative of
the new BSC Technical Director, the tankers' crews efforts, the improved co-
operation between the respective agencies and the effective utilization of
the two mechanical engineers provided under technical assistance.
The total amount disbursed to date is US$7.7 million (88% of the
Credit). Processing of bills and submission of withdrawal applications for
the remaining balance of the credit are currently underway.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Cr. No 735      Inland Water Transport II Project:  US$5.0 Million Credit of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date:  March 13, 1978;
Closing Date June 30, 1980
The Credit became effective on March 13, 1978 three and a half
months behind the original schedule. Lists of spare parts for BIWTA vessels,
navigation aids and for hydrographic equipment, and for BIWTC cargo vessels
have already been prepared and most items agreed. The selection of con-
sultants required for the execution of the project has proceeded very slowly.
However, all consultants contracts have now been signed and work is underway.
Cr. No 964      Second Highway Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit of December 21,
1979; Closing Date June 30, 1984.
This Credit is not yet effective.
Telecommunications Projects
Cr. No. 343    First Telecommunications Project:  US$7.3 Million Credit of
November 15, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Of the four microwave systems provided for under the project three
are completed and in operation. The fourth system required rebidding due to
price changes during the period when the project was interrupted by Bangladesh's
independence war. Thereafter there were delays due to building construction
and tower erection difficulties; it was due to be commissioned by December
1979, completing the project about four and a half years behind schedule. The
closing date was extended until June 30, 1980 to allow for retention payments.
Cr. No. 487    Second Telecommunications Project:  US$20.0 Million Credit of
June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
The project is behind schedule largely due to delays in procurement,
civil works, and reduced output of the domestic switching equipment factory,
combined with difficulties in ordering such equipment and in completing local
construction/installation works due to budgetary difficulties. About two-
thirds of the Credit was committed up to October 1979. The remaining corres-
ponds to national trunk and international automatic switching equipment still
to be procured. TTB and Government have now decided on the technique to be
adopted for such equipment (not manufactured locally) and corresponding commit-
ment could be taken in 1980 for delivery only by mid-1982. The rate of physical
installations during FY1979 was about 13,000 lines, showing no improvement from
the previous year. A new ordinance for the Telegraph and Telephone Board (TTB)
was issued in February 1979 and the board was re-instated to function as a
"Government Board" effective from April 1979. The regulations governing the
functioning of the Board, its powers and responsibilities and relations with
the Government, have recently been drafted, and are being reviewed. Government



- 43 -
ANNEX II
has stated that the decisions in this matter are being worked out actively and
should be taken and made effective in early 1980. In the absence of satis-
factory accounts, it is difficult to assess the financial positions of the
beneficiary, but estimates indicate it may have to be improved, in particular
in consideration of TTB's present and future development requirements.
Technical Assistance Credit
Cr. No. 622    Second Technical Assistance Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit
of April 8, 1976; Effective Date April 14, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Twenty subprojects have been approved for financing under this
credit thus committing the total amount of the credit. However, due to the
extremely slow rate of commitments during the early years of the credit, an
extension of the Closing Date will have to be considered to complete the
agreed subprojects. The subprojects financed are expected to have a signi-
ficant beneficial impact on strengthening IDA's lending program to Bangladesh.
Cr. No. 872    Third Technical Assistance Project:  US$10.0 million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Implementation of this project has just begun, with 12 subprojects
totaling about $5.7 million having been approved. Seven further subprojects
totaling about $3 million have been approved in principle, and would be
expected to be committed before the end of this fiscal year. The project is
progressing well with no major problems.
Power Projects
Cr. No. 934    Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project:  US$28.0 Million
Credit of June 18, 1979; Effective Date: November 20, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This Credit has only recently been declared effective. Consultants
have been appointed as scheduled to begin design work.
Water Supply and Sewerage Projects
Cr. No. 941    Second Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$22.0 Million
Credit of June 29, 1979; Effective Date: November 30, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
This Credit has only recently been declared effective.  Consultants
have been engaged to begin design work as scheduled.



ANNEX III
- 44 -
BANGLADESH
LOW LIFT PUMP PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
SECTION I:   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 2/28/78 - 7/10/78
(b) Agency which prepared project: GOB/FAO/IDA
(c) Project first presented to IDA: 11/10/77
(d) First IDA mission to review project: 11/10/77
(e) Departure of Appraisal Mission: 11/17/78
(f) Completion of negotiations: 1/16/80
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: 5/13/80
SECTION II:  SPECIAL IDA IMPLEMENTATION ACTIONS
None
SECTION III: SPECIAL CONDITIONS
(a) BADC's rental rates for LLPs would be doubled by
September 30, 1981 (para 79);
(b) A credit program for pump purchases by farmers'
groups would be established (para 63);
(c) Not later than June 30, 1980, the sales program
and subsidy level specified would be established
(para 80);
(d) Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(i) the approval of the Project Proforma by the
Borrower (para 72);
(ii) approval by the Borrower of a work program for
the training component providing details of civil
works, vehicles and equipment procurement, and
technical assistance (para 66);



- 45 -                             ANNEX III
(iii) approved by the Borrower of the terms of reference
and work program for the review of institutional
requirements for the minor irrigation sector
(para 68).






O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IR 141 = X    S4
NA
-- - - - -
kt



