Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2345 GH
                                                       (Second Amendment)
                         Second Agreement Amending
                       Development Credit Agreement
                  (Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit)
                                  between
                             REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          Dated January 12, 1995
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2345 GH
                                                       (Second Amendment)
                         SECOND AGREEMENT AMENDING
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated January 12, 1995, between the REPUBLIC OF
GHANA (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered
into a Development Credit Agreement (Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Credit), dated April 22, 1992, (the Development
Credit Agreement) for the purpose of assisting in the financing
of the program referred to in Recital (A) of the Preamble to
the Development Credit Agreement (the Program);
      (B)   the Borrower and the Association have entered into an
agreement dated April 11, 1994 (the First Amending Agreement)
amending the Development Credit Agreement for the purpose of
providing the Borrower with additional assistance in the
financing of the Program;
      (C)   the Borrower has requested the Association to provide
further additional assistance towards the financing of the
Program by increasing the amount made available under the
Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies
Page  2
equivalent to three million six hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 3,600,000); and
      (D)   the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to provide such additional assistance to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                       Amendments to the Development
                             Credit Agreement
      Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit
Agreement is amended by the deletion of the word "and" at the
end of Subsection (c); the deletion of the punctuation mark "."
at the end of Subsection (d); and the substitution therefor of
the word and punctuation mark "; and", and by the addition of
a new Sub- section (e) as follows:
            "(e) "Second Amending Agreement" means the Second
      Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement
      (Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit) between the
      Borrower and the Association, dated January 12, 1995."
      Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit
Agreement is amended to read as follows:
            "Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to sixty-four million seven hundred and
thirty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 64,730,000) (the
Credit), which includes an original amount in various
currencies equivalent to fifty-seven million Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 57,000,000), an additional amount in various
currencies equivalent to four million one hundred and thirty
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,130,000) (the Additional
Financing) and a further additional amount in various
currencies equivalent to three million six hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,600,000) (the Second Additional
Financing)."
      Section 1.03. An additional proviso is added at the end of
Section 2.04 (a) of the Development Credit Agreement reading as
follows:
            "; provided, however, that any commitment charge on
      the Second Additional Financing shall accrue from a date
      sixty (60) days after the date of the Second Amending
      Agreement."
      Section 1.04. Paragraph 4 (b) of Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement is amended by the deletion
therefrom of the amount "SDR 46,830,000" and the substitution
therefor of the amount "SDR 50,430,000".
      Section 1.05. The following paragraph is added at the end
of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement:
            "7.  After a date twelve months from the date of the
      Second Amending Agreement, no withdrawals shall be made
      and no commitment shall be entered into to pay amounts to,
      or on the order of, the Borrower in respect of
      expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the
      Second Additional Financing. At any time after such date,
      the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the
      unwithdrawn amount of the Second Additional Financing from
      the Credit Account or any part thereof."
Page  3
                                ARTICLE II
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 2.01. This Agreement shall not become effective
until evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been
furnished to the Association that the execution and delivery of
this Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
      Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pur-
suant to Section 2.01 of this Agreement, there shall be
furnished to the Association an opinion or opinions
satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the
Association showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that this
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed
and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding
upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
      Section 2.03. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Association shall dispatch to
the Borrower notice of its acceptance of the evidence required
by Section 2.01 of this Agreement.
      Section 2.04. If this Agreement shall not have come into
force and effect by a date sixty (60) days after the date of
this Agreement, this Agreement and all obligations of the
parties hereunder shall terminate unless the Association
establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. If
this Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this
Section, the Development Credit Agreement shall continue in
full force and effect as if this Agreement had not been
executed.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                  By /s/ Ekow S. Garbrah
                                                Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
