Document of
The World Bank
FOR GiFIclAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. P- 5804-ZA Type: (PR)
DAFFERN, E/ X34507 / J11097/ AF6IE                      RoitNo. P-5804-ZA
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$10 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR A
PRIVATIZATION AND INDUSTRIAL REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
JUNE 3, 1992
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipient only in the performance of
their official duies. Its contents msy nOt otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



CURRENY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Zambian Kwacha (K)
US$1 = 130K (May 1992)
1 million K = $7,700
ABBREBATIONS
BOZ          -      Reserve Bank of Zambia
EEC          -      European Economic Community
ERC          -      Economic Recovery Credit
GIZ          -      Deutsche Geses t Fur Technische Zusanmmenarbeit
MMD          -      Movement for Multi-Party Democracy
NORAD        -      Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
PFP          -      Policy Framework Paper
PIRC         -      Prdvazation and Industrial Reform Credit
SDR          -      Special Drawing Rights
UNDP         -      United Nations Development Program
USAID        -      United States Agency for bnternational Development
zCCM         -      Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines
ZESCO        -      Zambia Electric Supply Corporation
zIMCO        -      Zambia Idustrial and Mining Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
Government                 lamnary to December
Zimco Parastatals          April to March



FOR OFMCL USE ONLY
ZEBIA
PRIVATIZATION AND INDUTTRIAL 1111K TSECUNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUI4ARY
Borrovers                      Republic of Zambia
Beneficiary:                   Republic of Zambia
Credit Amount:                 SDR 7.3 million (US$10 million
equivalent)
Terms:                         Standard IDA terms with a 40-year
maturity, including 10 years of
grace.
-Fiancing Plan:                IDA         US$10 million
Government US$ 1 million
Economic Rate of Return:       Not applicable
Staff APpraisal Report:       None
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performane j
of thett official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Word Bank authorizatjn.



MEMDRAUDUM AND RECOW MENDATION OF TIE PRESIDENT
OF TEE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO ZAMBIA
POR A PRIVATIZATION AND INDUSTRIAL REFORM TECENICAL aSSISTANCE CREDIT
1.          I  submit  for  your  approval  the  following  memorandum  and
recommendation on a development credit to the Government of Zambia for SDR7.3
million, the equivalent of US$10 million, on standard IDA terms with a maturity
of 40 years to help finance a project for Privatization and industrial Reform
Technical Assistance. This project provides support for the implementation of
policies and activities that the Government of Zambia has pledged to undertake,
in its Letter of Development Policy to the Bank of May 28, 1992, and that form
the object of the Privatization and Industrial Reform Adjustment Credit (PIRC)
that is beitg processed concurrently.
2.          Background.  Zambia's economy suffers from severe distortions that
will require a major adjustment effort over an extended period.   Its major
characteristic is heavy dependence on copper, and the dualistic structure that
has grown up around this dependence. In addition, as a legacy of its past policy
of nationalization, the economy is now dominated by parastatals. For the first
decade after independence rising copper prices helped the economy to grow at an
average rate of four percent.   Since 1975 however, falling copper prices,
deterioration in the terms of trade, and failure to develop a diversified economy
caused overall economic decline.   Attempts to support continued consumption
through borrowing failed to contribute to economic growth and created an
exceptionally severe debt problem. Per capita GDP is now more than a third below
its 1978 level.
3.          After several unsuccessful efforts, in the late 1970's and early
1980's, at reforming the economy, Zambia adopted a comprehensive adjustment
program in 1985 with Bank and IUF support. This too ran into difficulties. In
1987 Government abandoned it and reversed many of the reforms undertaken in the
previous two years; continued economic decline and foreign exchange shortages led
Government to stop most external debt service; consequently the Bank suspended
disbursements to Zambia. After a hiatus, dialogue with the IMF and the Bank
resumed in late 1988, and in a major shift in policy, Government in June 1989
abolished all price controls except those on mealie meal, maize, fertilizers,
petroleum and public utilities. Agreement with the Bank and IMF on a PFP (for
1989-91), and a Fund monitored program for 1990, followed. A second PFP (for
1991-93) was reviewed by the Conmittee of the Whole in March 1991 when Bank
arrears were cleared. A new Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) for US$210 million
was approved on March 5, 1991. Also, Zambia began a rights accumulation program
that was approved by the IMF Board in April 1991.   In response to public
pressure, a new constitution was introduced allowing for multi-party elections.
However, in the run-up to the elections, Government adherence to the agreed
economic reforms began to slacken. Informal price controls were introduced and
public expenditure got out of control. Because of poor performance donor support
for Zambia was delayed, Government defaulted on its payments to the Bank and as
a result disbursements were again suspended in September 1991.
4.          In the October 1991 elections, the opposition MMD party (Movement for
Multi-party Democracy) was elected to office with a strong mandate for a reform
program that includes moving to a market economy, privatization of virtually the
entire parastatal sector and restructuring the utilities that will remain in



-2-
public ownership. The new Government has made a dei -mined start in the 1992
budgets comprehensive reforms have been adopted aimed a   'inging the budget into
balance, encouraging exports, liberalizing the economy, :utting back the civil
service and privatizing most of the parastatal sector. As a result donor support
for Zambia has resumed: arrears to the Bank have been cleared, the suspension
lifted and the second tranche of the ERC disbursed.
5.          Rationalization of the parastatal sector, through a comprehensive
program of reforms and privatization, and the development of a dynamic private
sector, through restricting Government's role in the economy to the provision of
essential services and the creation of an appropriate enabling environment, are
the key parts of the Government's economic strategy. Zambia's industrial and
commercial sector is dominated by parastatals; they account for 50 percent of
industrial (non-mining) output. Many are inefficient, quasi-monopolies. The
Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation (ZIMCO), the state holding company, is
responsible for some 120 parastatals, ranging from the giant mining company
Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines (ZCCM) to small enterprises. There are also
parastatals outside ZIMCO, but none is significant.   Most ZIMCO parastatals
became profitable after the 1985 reforms but then their performance deteriorated;
between 1985 and 1989 the ZIMCO group received hidden subsidies of about US$455
million, compared with dividends paid to the Government of US$22 million.
Government's strategy for rationalizing the sector is to divest itself of those
activities which the private sector can do at least as well and to limit
parastatals to a core of about six public utilities, together with some copper
interests, and to take measures to improve their performance. Government's plans
for privatization are well advanced. A privatization law, to be presented to
Parliament before effectiveness of the proposed Credit, establishes a
Privatization Agency to be responsible for the sale of companies; the Agency
would operate independently but under Government supervision.   A technical
committee has been at work for several months preparing companies for sale.
Also, some parastatals have started to reduce staff and two of the non-viable
companies have been liquidated.   The state mon,jpoly in insurance has been
partially abolished; those in pensions and housing loans will be abolished soon.
6.          Zambia has a sizeable private sector which, with proper support,
could be vibrant. The Government recognizes that to reinvigorate the economy,
it needs to improve the environment for the private sector. First priority is
to modernize business-related laws, curb monopolies, and implement new investment
laws that define clearly the rights and obligations of investors and limit
Government's role to issues of providing essential infrastructure and services,
safety, environment and social safeguards. Export promotion activities require
effective implementation. While Zambia has a relatively well functioning banking
system, it is important that the financial sector be deepened and that a stronger
capital market, that can mobilize term investment resources, be developed.
7.          Lessons Learned from Previous Bank/IDA Experience.  To date there
have been three freestanding Technical Assistance Projects in Zambia. The first
(Cr. 873 approved in December 1978 for US$5.0 million) aimed to strengthen
Government's planning and project preparation capability; this was expanded
during project implementation to assist improve general economic management.
After a slow start, project implementation picked up and the project was
completed in 1987. The second TA Credit (Cr. 1679 approved in April 1986 for
SDR7.3 million) was designed to assist Government enhance its capacity to carry



- 3 -
out macro-economic analysis, and to strengthen its planning and budgeting system
and its management and accounting skills. Project scope was later broadened to
include assistance in parastatal reform. While TA II provided critical support
to Government in all the intended areas, its implementation suffered from the
repeated suspensions in disbursements. Funds under this Credit are now almost
fully committed. A Technical Assistance Credit to the mining sector, approved
in June 1991, aimed at improving efficiency of ZCCM.  The lessons of these
operations reveal that there i4 a needt (i) to focus the scope on a limited
number of related areas; (ii) to ascertain Government's commitment to project
objectives and design; and (iii) to agree at the outset on clear arrangements for
responsibility  for  implementation.    The  experience  of  other  countries,
incorporated in the proposed project, also indicates that comprehensive
privatization programs take a long time to implement successfully, that they
require highly specialized skills and expartise, often depending on the specific
companies being privatized, and that this needs to be taken into account in the
design and costing of these projects.
8.          Project Objectives. The proposed Privatization and Industrial Reform
Technical Assistance Credit (PIRTC) provides complementary support for the
reforms to be undertaken under the PIRC, by strengthening rhe capabilities of the
ministries and other institutions responsible for the parastatal reforms and
privatization program, and for the macro-economic and institutional reforms
needed to improve the environment for a thriving private sector, and by assisting
in training Zambians in these areas.
9.          Prolect Description. The proposed Credit would finance consultants'
services, training, equipment and services for the following components:
(i)   technical assistance and equipment for the development and implementation
of a program of privatization of about 105 parastatals; this includes for
preparation and restructuring of companies to be sold, valuation and
establishing a realistic sale price; and negotiations for sale;
(ii)  technical assistance and eqiipment to introduce measures for development
of the private sector in the country; including introduction of new laws,
policies and programs and the establisbment of new, and strengthening of
existing, institutions and improvements of the legal system;
(iii) technical assistance and equipment to develop and implement reforms in the
six utilities which will remain in the public sector;
(iv) technical assistance and equipment to formulate and carry out a Social
Action Plan to provide a safety net for those affected by the reforms
under PIRC; and
(v)   training of Zambian officials in the relevant aspects of this program.
Detailed descriptions of the project components are provided in Annexes IA
and B.
10.         A breakdown of costs and the financing plan is shown in Schedule A.
Amounts and the method of procurement, and the categories and schedule of
disbursements are shown in Schedule B. A timetable of key project processing



- 4 -
events and the status of Bank Group Operations in Zambia are given in Schedules
C and D, respectively.
11.         Proect Implementation.   The Ministry of Finance,  through the
Economic Analysis and Reports Unit, will have the overall responsibility for
administering the Credit and coordinating activities supported by it and by the
PIRC: the agreement of Government to strengthen the unit by an internationally
recruited advisor was confirmed at negotiations. The Ministry of Commerce, Trade
'md Industry will be in charge of the aspects relating to parastatal reform and
will oversee the Technical Committee for Privatization which, pending the
establishment of the Privatization Agency, will have primary responsibility for
all work on privatization.   A cross-ministerial task force, including the
Ministry of Commerce, Tradie and Industry and the Ministry of Legal Affairs, has
been established to coordinate the work on legal reform. These arrangements, as
well as draft TORs for the main tasks supported by the Credit, were confirmed and
agreed upon at negotiations.
12.         Project Sustainabillty.   The project provides limited long term
assistance and training to Government to support its program of privatization
(which is expected to take about five years to accomplish) and parastatal reform,
and for t'he reforms necessary for private sector development. The bulk of the
funds out of the Credit however are expected to be used to hire short-term
specialist expertise for the valuation and sale of individual companies.
13.         Rationale for IDA Involvement.  The PIRC provides critical support
to the main thrust o. the Government's economic strategy, i.e., the need to curb
sharply and redefine Government's role in the economy, and spur efficiency in the
productive sector, by a compiehensive program of privatIzation and parastatal
reform. The proposed Credit will enable Government to obtain the expertise and
assistance required to implement this program effectively and to prepare for the
following phases of the economic restructuring plan.   The project design
incorporates lessons from past experience to ensure that transfer of know-how
takes place.  Together with the training and studies, this will provide the
foundation for the development of efficient institutions and capable management
in Zambia. Finally. IDA's involvement will help ensure consistency between the
objective of the PIRC program and the technicail assistance program.
14.         Actions Agreed.  At negotiations agreements were reached/confirmed
on the following:  (a) administrative arrangements for the proposed project,
including the hiring of an internationally recruited advisor to the Economic
Analysis and Reports Unit; (b) draft TORs for the main studies and the long-term
consultants proposed to be financed out of the project; (c) procurement of
technical assistance and related equipment required to implement project
components, accounting, disbursement and reporting requirements for the Credit;
(d) regular (yearly) reviews of progress in implementing the privatization
program and on targets set for the next year; (e) assignment of counterpart staff
to every long term consultant employed under the project; and (f) Conditions of
Effectiveness--the recruitment of the advisor to the Economic Analysis and
Reports Unit of the Ministry of Finance and enactment of the Privatization Act.
A mid-term review would be held by end-1993 to assess progress in achieving
project objectives; this would also review (i) progress in implementing the
privatization program; (ii) the effectiveness, and ability of the Privatization
Agency to operate independently and with transparency; (iii) the status of the



- 5 -
various legal reforms initiated under the PIRC; and (iv) the achievements in
transferring knowhow from the long term consultants to local counterparts.
15          Environmental Aspects. Preparation of each company for privatization
would include an assessment of its potential environmental impact; funds out of
the Project could be used to finance such studies. The Project itself has no
direct environmental impact.
16.         Program Oblective Categories.  The project provides critical support
for parastatal reform and privatization, to enhance efficiency and reduce the
burden on Government, and for private sector development. These are the key
elements of the Government's strategy for stabilizing the economy and reviving
growth.
17.         Justification and Risks.    The project will help  improve  the
Government's capacity to manage complex economic reforms and assist in
implementing a comprehensive program of restructuring and privatization of a
large  parastatal  sector.    Without  the  project,  on-time  satisfactory
implementation of PIRC would face difficulties. The operation faces some risks
given Zambia's history of weakness in program implementation and the enormous
burden PIRC will place on Government's limited resources.   These risks are
mitigated by the steps Government is taking to strengthen its central
coordination, and monitoring and implementation review process. Regular meetings
are being set-up and the technical and other steering committees are being
strengthened considerably. Organizational arrangements are being put in place
in the implementing agencies to ensure that Zambia can benefit fully from the
technical assistance to be provided under the project.
18.         Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the
Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington D.C.
June 3, 1992



-6-
SCHEDULE A
PRIVATIATZOR AND INDUST9X&L  BFOR TUCWNUCAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
ESINT3  COSTS AND IRRUCING PL&W
Forelgn     Local
A. Project Costs:                   Cost         Cost        Total
-     (s5$ min.)   -
Private Sector Development          0.9           0.3         1.2
Privatization                        7.5          1.0         8.5
Parastatal Reforms                  0.6           0.3         0.9
social Action Program               0.2           0.2         0.4
Total Costs                     1*%
D. FinancPS Plans                   foreiqu      Local       Total
IDA                           9.2          0.8         10.0
Government                    0.0           1.0        11.0



-7-
8CHEDULE B
Page 1 of 2
2-ZA
PRSV3TIXSTZO  AND MM         RM01 TSCUICAL MSSISTANC  PROJ3CT
iaoc_uSmm ImEQD AIID D18USNUTs1
A. Procturent
Projet CaLtegries                                             e ethod
ICDN  LCDc1  le     Other        Total
Technical Assistance                                  10.0      10.0
(9.0)     (9.0)
Vehicles, Services
and Iquipment                0.3   0.3   0.4                   1.0
10.3) (0.3) (0.4)                (1.0)
TOAL                    0.3   0.3   0.4        10.0      11.0
(0.3) (0.3) (0.4)      (9.0)    (10.0)
11    IDA contribution shown in parentheses
2/    Figures have been rounded.
8t    International Competitive Bidding
t/   Local Competitive Bidding
6/    International Shopping
6J    Local Shopping



8CIEULD B
Page 2 of 2
a-IA
PRXVATS&!TIOSI AND RUt1!IA   1M4 TUCBWIOAL ASSISTANOE PROJ3C1T
D. Disbursements
Amount of Credit  Percentage of xpenditures
(Us$ ailion)        to be f.nacd
Technical AssLitance
and TraLning                  9.0              100% of expenditures
Vehicles, Equipment
& Services                   1.0              100% of expenditures
Total Credit Amoun;.   10.0
Estimted IDA Disburmeints                       IDA Fiscal Year
1993 1994  1995  1996  1997
-, (S$ mn) .)
Annual                                          2.0   3.0   2.5    1.5   1.0
Cumulative                                      2.0   5.0   7.5    9.0  10.0



-9-
SCHEDULE C
Timetable of key Project Processing Events
(a)   Time taken to prepares               Nine months
(b)   First IDA Mission:                   August 1991
(c)   Appraisal Mission Departures         March 1992
(d)   Negotiations:                        May 1992
(e)   Planned Date of Effectiveness:       July 1992
(f)   List of Relevant PCRs and PPARas    Technical Assistance Project -
PCR - 9702
The Project was prepared bys
Mr. Eric Daffern, Principal Energy/Ind. Specialist
Task Manager
Mr. Victor Agius, Principal Financial Specialist
Mr. S. Al Habsy, Counsel
Mr. J. Xaruga, Consultant



-  10 -                                     SCHEDULE D (a)
ZNWA
Statw Of Bnk Graw Oprttomn   In ZABIA
PFOfR25 - Suury Statent Of Leaos an  IDA Credits
(LA data as of 4/30/92 - MIS data as of 06/03/92)
.................................................. ........................................................
By Cmtry
Country:   ZWBIA
Amont in US millicn
(tless caellatim)
Lowm or       Fiscal                                                                                    tkdis-  Closing
Credit No.      Year  Sorrower                         Purpse                      B.n          IDA      bwsed   Date
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ........ ....  ......  .... ....  .......   .....                           ......  .......
Credits
19 Credits(s) clse                                                                            46.76
C14370-ZAN     1984    ZIAIIA                          FORESTRY III                            22.40       7.79  09130/92(3)
C15290-ZAN     198S    ZAVIA                           FISNERIES                                7.10       7.73  12/31/91(R)
C15SO-ZAW      19S    ZAMBIA                          RUWS.IV                                20.00       23.8S 063O0/92(t)
C16790-ZAN     1986   ZA1BIA                           TAS it                                  8.00        6.96  12/31/92
C17430-ZA      1987   ZAMBIA                           WFFEE It                               20.40       22.48  06/30/95
Ci?460.ZAN     1987   ZAKBIA                           AGt. RES.& EXT.                         13.00      13.29  12V31/95
C17530-ZAN     1987   ZAK9IA                          D0Z III                                  10.00      11.37 06/30/92
C22690-ZAN     1991    Z4MBIA                          MIHING TAS                             21.00       20.37 06/30/97
C22730-ZAN     1991    ZAMBIA                          SOCIAL RE!CERT PNW                     20.00       16.16  07/31/97
TOTAL neatrw Credits u    9                                                                     141.90     130.00
Lou
28 Lout(s) cLosed                                                                 5S2.13
All closed     for    ZAMBIA
TOTAL nseatr Lu t       0
TOTAL"*                                                           582.13      609.66
of WAich repaid                                                 355.58        1.06
TOTAL held by Sai* & IDA                                          22.55       608.60
Armmt sold               28.5S8
of tidch repaid        28.58
TOTAL undisbwlas                                                                          130.00
Notes:
.....................
* Not yet offectiwe
lNot yet sined
Total Aproaed, Repamts, ad Wutstandifg blt  rqeent both  ctive ad Inactive Lom  ad Cred .s.
(3) fndicates for.lty rwised Closing Date.
CS) indicat SALISECAL Loa s d Credits.
The not Aprovd ed SaB  R         _p)wut are historical wlvue,  ll othws am   rket valtu.
The Stping, Effective, wd Closing dates  e        d u pn the Lao   epawUnt offical dat ad  re rat tam
from th Task Budet file.



-  11. -                               SCHEDULE D  (b)
ZAMBIA
Statement of IFC Irvestnrnts
as of March 31. 1992
Invest                                     Type of
Number       FY               Obligor    Business          Loan  Equity   Total
..........................U.................... US$ Million . ---.-
216.ZA     1972
250-ZA     1973     Zambia Bata Shoe            Shoes      2.1      0.2      2.3
307-ZA     1975
394-ZA     1978 Century Products Ltd    Plastic Wrap       0.9      0.2       1.1
324-ZA     1976 Dev't Bank of Zembia   Dev't Finance                0.5      0.5
483-ZA     1980
600-ZA     1982               Z C C N          Mining    53.2               53.2
527-ZA     1980
721-ZA     1985        Kafue Textiles        Textiles     10.7              10.7
632-ZA     1982 Ethanol Co of Zambia  Chem/Petrochem       3.7      0.6      4.3
1984
1991    Zasbfa Hotel Prop          Tourism    22.4               22.4
743-zA     1985     Mpongwe Dev't Co   Food/Food Proc      1.8      0.3      2.1
1001-ZA     1988   Gweabe Valley Dev't  Food4Food Proc      3.7      0.8      4.5
1132-ZA     1989    Hasetock (Zeabia)  Food/Food Proc       8.2               8.2
Total Gross Commitments                  106.7      2.6   109.3
Less: Cancellat1ins, terminatons,
exchange adjustments. repaynents,
write-offs, and sales              63.7       1.6    65.3
Total commitments held by IFC             43.0      1.0    44.0
Total Undisbursed                          6.5      0.0      6.5
Total DIsbursed                           36.5      1.0    37.5



- 12 -
ANNEX S
Page 1 of 7
TECUNICAL ANMEXES TO THE MEMORANDUM AND RECOMM4NDATION
OF THE PRMSIMIET FOR A PRIVATIZATION AND INDUSTRIAL
R$FOXM TICCNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Section A. Detailed Project DescriDtiol
1.          The Government of Zambia has embarked on an ambitious program of
public  enterprise  reform,  including  privatization  of  most  of  its
industriallcommercial portfolio (about 105 companies) with the aim of
reducing the fiscal and management burden of Government and of enhancing
overall sector efficiency and competition.   As a corollary,  Government
recognizes the urgent need to improve the general business environment, to
attract new investment, spur exports and in general improve the performance
of the industrial sector.  This will necessitate modernizing much of the
existing laws relating to business, strengthening and deepening the financial
markets and developing the necessary institutional infrastructure. Given its
limited capacity, Government has requested the support of IDA and other
donors for assistance in the areas outlined below:
Parastatal Reforms
2.          Government has clearly stated its intention to reduce sharply its
involvement in business activities; thus, except for essential utilities, all
existing parastatals eventually would be privatized or liquidated. In the
interim, only essential repair type investments in these would be sanctioned.
Considerable work on the parastatal reform program is either already underway
or about to commence. A review of the relationship between ZIHCO and its
subsidiaries is now almost complete. The study's main recommendation calls
for liquidation of ZIMCO and its subsidiaries as parastatals, except for the
six utilities which would be retained in the public sector. The proposed
project will support the implementation of these recommendations. Studies
for restructuring the Post and Telecommunications Corporation and Zambia
Railway are being financed under other existing IDA Credits. A study for
strengthening Zambia Electricity Supply Corporation (ZESCO), financed by
HORAD, is expected to conmmence by mid-1992. The on-going activities under
the parastatal reform program would be supplemented under the Credit by
provision of technical assistance to help prepare business plans and
performance standards for the six utilities. The Credit would also provide
funds for preparing an overview, and a plan of action, for dealing with non-
ZIMCO parastatals.   The Government of Zambia would provide the resources
needed for revaluation of assets of the utilities. One of the major reforms
supported under PIRC is the establishment of a public utilities regulatory
commission and systems of automatic price adjustment for the utilities. The
proposed TA Credit will finance the necessary studies and the foreign
exchange costs of establishing the commission.



- 13 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 7
Privatization
3.          Preparation for the privatization program has been underway for
sometime.   To manage the program,  the Government has established  two
committees; a Steering Committee responsible for formulating, directing and
overseeing the implementation of the privatization program, and a Technical
Ccmmittee which essentially constitutes the management team responsible for
day to day activities of the program.  These interim arrangements will be
replaced with an organizational setup to be provided through legislation in
the form of a Privatization Act. The Act would provide, inter alia, for a
new agency which would be fully responsible for undertaking all activities
related to the process of privatizing state-owned enterprises.   It is
expected that this legislation would be enacted in June 1992. (At negotiation
it was confirmed that the enactment of the Privatization Bill would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit.) When established, the
new agency will replace the Steering Committee and, at that time, the
Technical Committee would be given a new identity.
4.          ZIMCO is to be transformed into an investment holding company
whose task would be to prepare the companies for sale by reducing, and if
necessary cleaning-up, the contractual, financial and legal obligations of
the  companies  to  be  privatized.    Pending  establishment  of  the  new
privatization agency, ZIMCO will provide funding and other support to the
existing committees.
5.          The process of privatization will  demand large amounts of
financial and manpower resources.   Based on the expected privatization
timetable (some 105 enterprises to be privatized over a five-year period)
estimates of manpower resources required to carry out the privatization
activities have been made. These estimates also reflect the analysis of the
privatization process into various functions and divisions.
6.          The starting point for the privatization program will be the
establisbment of plans and timetables for the privatization (or possibly
liquidation) of individual companies. Once a company has been identified for
sale it would need to be prepared for divestment; this would involve
establishment of a fair value and, in some cases, financial restructuring
and/or division into operating units that may be sold separately. The sale
process itself would be handled in a variety of ways; (i) through flotation
of shares on the stock exchange; (ii) by direct negotiations to a single or
a group of individuals or an organization; (iii) through management buyouts;
and (iv) sale to employees or other individuals. All of these activities
would require expert knowledge in many different areas of management,
technical, and support services.
7.          The technical assistance package would include provision for long
term advisors, and short term experts, as follows:
(i)   an advisor to the Economic Analysis and Reports Unit, which is
responsible for overseeing the coordination and implementation of



- 14 -
ANNEX x
Page 3 of 7
all aspects of the PIRC and the PIRTC; this advisor would provide
the assistance needed to ensure timely implementation, follow-up
and reporting on all aspects;
(ii) a privatization Manager/Advisor to guide and direct the program;
(iii) a Corporate Finance/Merchant Banker to assist in financial
restructuring of companies to be sold and advising on appropriate
method of sale;
(iv) an accounting and valuation specialist who would be responsible
for arranging company valuations, preparing prospectuses and
evaluating bids received; and
(v)   short term experts and consultancy for company  (and asset)
valuation, sale negotiations and public flotations, legal
affairs, management/employee buyouts, publicity and other fields
related to privatization implementation.
8.          In addition to the funds earmarked under the Credit, several
donors are also providing parallel funding for diverse aspects of the
privatization effort.  UNDP would finance some of the local staff support to
the Privatization Agency. GTZ has undertaken to prepare 15 companies for
divestment.  UK and EC are providing technical assistance for restructuring
Zambia Airways. USAID is contributing towards expert services and equipment
for preparing and restructuring companies for sale, for valuation of their
assets and for securing the advisory services of an Investment Bank as
needed.
Private Sector Development
9.          The overall business environment in Zambia in the years following
independence has been quite inimical to the development of the private
sector. The new Government is aware that much needs to be done in this area,
to ensure the development of a thriving and vibrant private sector and that
this will require many changes in the relevant policy and institutional
framework.  The Credit would provide funds for the followings
(a)   most of Zambia's commercial laws are outdated and have little
relevance to present-day commercial needs. Thus it is necessary
to review the existing laws and recommend suitable changes based
on current business practices and requirements.   Consultant
services are being provided under the Credit to review applicable
laws including the Companies Act, the Exchange Control Act,
Taxation Act and the Banking Act, and recommend suitable
modifications;
(b)   consultants would be engaged to determine the extent to which the
business community is receiving Government cooperation and
support, and based on experience elsewhere, recommend a suitable



- 15 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 7
program of action to bring about improvements in the capacity of
Government to meet the legitimate needs of the business
community;
(c)   some work has already been done to define the objective and scope
of a possible competition law. Further support is being provided
under the Credit to engage consult%nts to conclude this work.
Specifically, the consultants would (i) identify existing
monopolies and recommend actions for their removal: and (ii) if
considered appropriate, recommend the establishment of a
monopolies commission; and (iii) identify the staffing and
equipment needs of such a commission;
(d)   a sound banking and financial system will be critical for the
development of the private sector and of the newly privatized
companies. The Credit would provide for technical assistance to
assist in redrafting the Bank of Zambia (BOZ) Act to give BOZ the
necessary authority in the area of prudential regulation and
supervision of all the banking and other financial institutions.
Technical assistance would also be provided to strengthen BOZ's
own capability to undertake effectively its enhanced supervision
and monitoring role. There is also a need to review the extent
to which the non-bank financial sector should be regulated and
controlled. Funds are being provided for a study of the non-bank
financial sector. drafting of new laws as necessary, and to
design and recommend an appropriate regulatory framework;
(e) Government intends to promote the development of a Stock Exchange
as early as possible. However it is unlikely that this will be
in place in time to handle the first public issue of shares.
Thus, an interim arrangement to meet the immediate needs is
necessary. Under the Credit expert assistance would be provided
for the establishment of arrangements for the sale and purchase
of shares; it is expected that initially this would be through
commercial banks. Technical assistance would be needed also to
foster the development of money markets and capital markets and
prepare a *rule book*, to provide guidance on matters such as
rights  of  investors   (particularly  minorities),   role  of
stockbrokers and provide for supervision by BOZ.
10.         In addition to the technical assistance being provided under the
Credit, donor financing is being made available for technical assistance to:
(i)   make  the  Investment  Center,  established  in  1991,  fully
operational to enable it to handle effectively investment
licenses and carry out investment activities;
(ii)  prepare laws, rules and regulations for establishment of a stock
exchange;



- 16
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 7
(iii) introduce measures to promote small-scale enterprises; this
includes by strengthening the Small Industries Development
Organization and improving credit accessibility to a wider
section of small entrepreneurs;
(iv) identify the causes for poor performance of the Export Board and
determine what, if anything, can be done to make its operations
more successful; and
(v)   develop options for further compression of tariffs, with the
objective of eliminating protection ultimately, and to examine
alternative sources of revenue.
Social Action Program
11.         One of the critical aspects of privatization and other reforms
envisaged under PIRC is the effect the program will have initially on
vulnerable groups. The Credit would therefore fund consultant services to
reinforce and assist in implementing a social action plan to provide an
adequate safety net for those affected by the reforms. It would also finance
the design and provide initial materials for counselling guidance and re-
orientation associated with the redundancy programs.
Section D. Proiect Administration and Implementation
12.          Administration.   The Ministry of Finance, through the Economic
Analysis and Reports Unit, will have overall responsibility for the
administration of the Credit and for coordinating all activities supported by
it and also by the PIRC; the agreement of Government to strengthen this unit
by an internationally recruited advisor was confirmed at negotiations. The
Technical Committee for Privatization, pending the establishment of the
Privatization Agency, will be in charge of drawing up detailed terms of
reference for the consultants, shortlists and, as necessary, the preparation
of bid documents for the consultant services related to privatization. The
Ministry of Commerce and Industry (which oversees the Technical Committee)
will also be in charge of those aspects relatirg to parastatal reform (in
collaboration with ZIMCO). This Ministry will also work closely with the
Ministry of Legal Affairs for the assistance relating to changes in the legal
framework.  A cross-ministerial task force has been established for this
purpose. These arrangements will be confirmed at negotiations. Draft TORs
for the main studies to be supported under the Credit were reviewed and
agreed at negotiations. These are attached.
13.         Procurement.  Consultants and consulting firms will be recruited
internationally  on  the  basis  of  shortlisting.          Their  selection,
qualifications, experience and terms of employment will be subject to
standard IDA review procedures dS set out in World Bank Guidelines.



- 17 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 7
Vehicles, equipment and services are xpected to cost, in the aggregate,
about US$1 million. Of these the vehicles (US$0.3 million) will be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
At least US$0.3 million of the equipment and services would be packaged and
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Local Competitive Bidding
and the rest ($0.4 million) on the basis of International Shopping (where
comparison of price quotations will be obtained from at least three suppliers
from not less than two countries)   or alternatively, for contracts below
US$50,000, on the basis of Local Shopping.  The method of procurement is
shown in Schedule B.    All terms of reference,  short lists, consultant
contracts, and contracts with a value of US$100,000 or more will be subject
to prior IDA review and approval. Items not subject to prior review will be
subject to selective post-review during supervision missions.  Post award
procurement documentation for all contracts will be forwarded to IDA, as set
out in the Guidelines, prior to disbursement. A total of about 90 percent of
procurement would be subject to prior IDA review.
14.         Disbursements.  Disbursement will be mnde against standard Bank
documentation.   The proceeds of the Credit will be disbursed against 100
percent of foreign expenditures for experts and consultant services,
training, equipment and supplies. Up to US$0.8 million of the Credit would
be available for disbursement against 100 percent of local expenditures for
the local costs of experts and for locally procured supplies and services.
In order to ensure the timely provision of funds available to finance the
costs of services and goods to be procured under the project, the Ministry of
Finance will open a Special Account in a banking institution acceptable to
IDA in the smount of US$500,000.   Funds in the special account will be
available to finance only eligible expenditures under the project.   The
Special Account would be replenished regularly on the basis of documentary
evidence as to payments made from the account for goods and services required
for the proposed project.   Expenditures for less than US$25,000 would be
based on statements of expenditures. These arrangements were confirmed at
negotiations. The estimated schedule of disbursements is shown in Schedule
B. The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997. The closing
date is set for December 31, 1997.
15.         Advance Contracting and Retroactive Financing.  Initial costs,
for preparation of the privatization program, have been funded out of a PPF
approved in 1991; these costs will be reimbursed out of the proceeds of the
proposed Credit. Retroactive financing is not anticipated under this Credit.
16.         Accounting, Auditing and Reporting.  Auditing would be required
on a yearly basis for expenditures related to the Project with particular
attention to expenditures reimbursed against statements of expenditures.
Audits would be performed by qualified auditors acceptable to IDA and would
be sent to IDA within six months of the end of each financial year.
Furthermore, the Ministry of Finance will submit quarterly reports on project
implementation progress, and a final evaluation report on implementation



-18 -
ANNEX I
Page 7 of 7
experience and project results within six months of the Credit closing. These
arrangements were confirmed at negotiations.
17.         Aareements  Reached.         At  negotiations  agreements  were
reached/confirmed on the following: (a) administrative arrangements for the
proposed project, including the hiring of an internationally recruited
advisor to the Economic Analysis and Reports Unit; (b) draft TORs for the
main studies and the long-term consultants proposed to be financed out of the
project; (c) procurement of technical assistance and related equipme:.t
required to implement project components, accounting, disbursement and
reporting requirements for the Credit; (d) regular (yearly) reviews of
progress in implementing the privatization program and on targets set for the
next year; (e) assignment of counterpart staff to every long term consultant
employed under the project; and (f) Conditions of Effectiveness--the actual
engagement of the advisor to the Economic Analysis and Reports Unit of the
Ministry of Finance and enactment of the Privatization Act.   A mid-term
review would be held by end-1993 to assess progress in achieving project
objectives;   this would also review  (i) progress  in implementing the
privatization  program;  (ii)  the  effectiveness,  and  ability  of  the
Privatization Agency to operate independently and with transparency; (iii)
the status of the various legal reforms initiated under the PIRC; and (iv)
the achievements in transferring knowhow from the long term consultants to
local counterparts.



- 19 -
Annex I-C(i)
Terms of Reference for Privatization Manager/Advisor
The Privatization Manager/Advisor would occupy a key position in the
privatization unit, respons±ble for planning, guiding, and implementing the
privatization program. He would work closely with, and report directly to,
the Head of the Privatization Unit (or Agency). He would also be responsible
for directing the work of about         subordinates--as well as for their
training. The role and main responsibilities of the Privatization
Manager/Advisor would be the followings
- Setting the overall objectives, and policies governing, the
privatization program. Identification of key issues to be addressed
in privatization legislation and policy issues to be included.
Adjustment of program according to the progress achieved.
- Developing the divestiture sequencing plan (including selection of
companies to be privatized, sequencing, identification of tasks to be
undertaken prior to divestiture and establishing a timetable for
privatization.
- Budgeting and Staffing Requirements.
- Decisions as to Methodology and Procedures to be followed (including
development of guidelines on Tender packages and prospectus
documentation, tender evaluation rules, bid management procedures,
sales agreement document and negotiations.
-Organization for diagnosis for each particular enterprise for
privatization (this includes indentification of a project leader for
each company to be privatized, and oversight of the work.
- Oversight preparation of organization for sale.
- oversight of negotiations and final agreements.
- Overall reporting on progress of program, including of budgets, costs,
and revenues.
The Privatization Manager/Advisor should have wide business experience,
including in Privatization Programs in developing countries, to have
university training in Economics and Finance or related areas, and to be
familiar with Africa.



-20                         Annex I-C(ii)
Tetms of Reference for an Advisor to the Economic Analysis
and Reports Unit (EARI)
The Government of Zambia, as part of its economic adjustment program, is
embarking on ambitious reforms of the public sector, including privatiz.ation
of most of its industrial/commercial portfolio (of about 105 companies) and of
policy refoms to improve the environment for private sector development.
This program has been prepared with the assistance of, and is being supported
by, a number of multilateral and bilateral donors. IDA, in particular is
providing a Structural Adjustment Credit, and a related Technical Assistance
Credit (for $10 million) in direct support of the program. The Government of
Zambia now wants to strengthen the Economic Analysis and Reports Unit of the
Ministry of Finance (MOF) which is responsible for monitoring, coordinating,
and reporting of all aspects of the adjustment program, by an internationally
recruited expert advisor who would report directly to the Read of the NARV.
The position would be financed out of the abovementioned IDA Credit. The
initial contract would be for two years with the possibility of extension.
The role, and main responsibilities of the advisor wontld be to provide advice
and hands on assistance int
- monitoring and coordinating progress on all aspects of the adjustment
program (i.e. on (i) macro-economic policy initiatives, studies, etc.
regarding the exchange regime, trade policy, taxation, etc.; (ii)
parastatal reform and privatization; (iii) the legal reforms being
undertaken - in banking, companies law, stock exchange, etc. - to
improve the outlook for the development of the private sector; (iv)
the social action plan being designed to mitigate the impact of the
adjustment program on the more vulnerable sections of society). The
incumbent is expected to take the lead in identifying potential
conflicts, areas of duplication and/or of lacunae, and to initiate the
appropriate action;
- development of reporting systems, and preparation of reports (on a
regular basis) on progress on all aspects of the program for the use
of Government and of the donors supporting the program;
- maintaining regular contact with donors supporting the program (and
potential donors) to inform them on progress on the program, to ensure
consistency of objectives between donor assistance and Government
objectives, to ensure that assistance is not duplicative or not
germane to the program and also to solicit assistance for areas not
covered;
- providing assistance in drafting terms of reference ( for studies,
consultancies, hiring of expertise, etc.), selection of consultants,
and in drawing up of shortlists and identification of needed
expertise;
- developing a central database on studies, TA, and other activities
(existing, underway, or planned) that relate to the program.
It is expected that the advisor would be a self-starter who can
demonstrate a very high level of initiative. He should have university
training in Economics and/or Finance or a related field, and significant
business experience including preferably of privatization. Knouledge of
Zambia would be a plus.



- 21                        Annex 1-C(iii)
Terns of Reference for a Corporate PFinnce AIrchant Ba.kZAg Specialist
The Corporate Finance/Merchant banking specialist would report directly
to the Read of the Privatization Unit (Agency). This is a line position and
the incumbent would be responsible for managing a team of         persons and
for training of his subordinates in relevant areas of expertise.
Role and Resgonsibilities
The Corporate FinanceMlerchant Banking Unit would be responsible for
drawing up, and supervising the implementation of, plans for the financial
restructuring of companies to be privatized and advising on the appropriate
method of sale. Specifically these tasks would include:
- compilation and analysis of financial, operational, and related
information (including identification of outstanding liabilities,
contingent liabilities, assets and any encumbrances). On the basis
of this reconmendations would be made as to provisions and asset
write downs, privatization potential and modalities thereof.
- preparation of organization for privatization including development
of recommendations for balance sheet restructuring, debt
restructuring or write downs, liquidation of specific operations and
for dealing with redundancy and pension liability issues.
- development of recommendations on modalities of sale with the
objective of securing the best price--this would include review of
possibility of breaking up company prior to sale, private sale,
public flotation, etc. and assistance in implementation.
- advising on, and assisting in, negotiation process.
The Specialist is expected to have university training in Finance or in
a related field. He should have at least 15 years business experience
acquired preferably in the corporate finance department of a merchant bank, or
in an international business consulting company, and to have had previous
experience in the field of privatization. Knowledge of Africa would be an
advantage.



- 22 -                        Annex I-C(iv)
Tegms of keference For an Accounting and Valuation Specialist
The Accounting and Valuation Specialist would report directly to the
Head of the Privatization Unit (Agency). This is a line position and the
incumbent would oversee the work of three subordinates. He would also be
responsible for training these staff in relevant areas of expertise.
Role and Rescosibilities
The Specialist would have overall responsibility for all matters
pertaining to the valuation of parastatals to be sold, preparation of
prospectus and valuations of bids received. The main objective should be to
help Government secure the best price for each company sold while ensuring
satisfactory implementation of the privatization program. The specific tasks
of the specialist would includes
for asset and company valuations -
- drafting of detailed TORs for, and selection of, consultants for
doing the detailed valuation of assets/companies (as ongoing
concern);
-assessment of competence base for valuations within Zambia;
-recommendations as to methodology (company specific);
-identification of issues that will affect valuations with
recommendations for accepted methodologies--this will include inter
alia (i) requirements for commitments by the private employer to
maintain employee levels; (ii) asset specific factors, e.g., age,
technology, condition, etc.; (iii) liabilities; (iv) operating and
legal agreements; (v) investor needs;
- price setting including (i) methodology for pricing of public
issues; (ii) minimum bid price for private sales; (iii) assessment
of extent of discount for management buyouts and employee
participation schemes; (iv) assessment of potential investor
interest;
- oversight of preparation of information/prospectus for investors;
- responsibility for sale process, including: for private sale-
prequalification, tender issue, investor profile, evaluation of
bids, negotiation and conclusion of sale; for public flotation--
prospectus, price setting, allocation, underwriters, transfer of
shares;
- final negotiations and conclusion of sales.
The specialist is expected to have university training in Finance and/or
a related field, to have significant corporate finance experience (preferably
a merchant banking background) and to have prior exposure to privatization
programs. Knowledge of Africa, and of Zambia in particular would be a plus.



- 23 -                            Annex I-C(v)
TORs for Study on Financing Arrangements for Privatizatlon
1.   The Government of Zambia has launched a comprehensive
program of economic reforms designed to move the economy to an
open market system, and thus stimulate private initiative,
efficiency and qrowth. A key element of this program is the
privatization of parastatals which have hitherto dominated the
commercial and industrial sectors (over So percent of
industrial non-mining output is accounted for by parastatals).
Government has already in place a well thought out strategy
and action plan for privttization and it is now putting in
place the necessary legislation to permit the start of actual
sales. A technical committee has prepared a prioritized list
of enterprises, each of which has been reviewed in some
detail.
2.   It is Government's strongly held view that it wishes to
encourage wide participation by Zambian national investors;
both institutional (as pension funds) and individuals across
the country (managers, entrepreneurs, employees and other
citizens eto). The active involvement of this latter group is
important both for the political sustainability of the program
and for helping reorient the mind-set from that of a centrally
influenced economy to a market based system. For these
-reasons Governrent is preparing detailed revisions of the
stock exchange and banking legislation to allow existing
institutions to buy and sell shares. The Companies Act too is



- 24 -
being modernized and amended to provide, axong other, the
necessary disclosure and protection of minority rights
safequard.
3.  However, many individual potential investors may not be
in a position to participate i$mediately in the process for
several reasons, chief of-vhich is the low level of personal
disposable income. The financial system in Zambia is not yet
Veil equipped to allocate the resouces necessary for
financing the initial phase of privatization. Yet it is
imortant that financinq mechanisms would need to take into
account the strict limits on credit creation that are
necoary as part of the overall plan to fight inflation. The
type and extent of financing would deped mainly an the size
and financial condition, of each entepis. The object of
the propose study which would be in two phases would be to
review the alterntive options and recomme  the specific
administrative arrangements, legal changes, and time pase
action plane necessary to implement the recomendations.
4. Soecifically, the first phase of the study would focus on
(i) a review of potential demand from individual
invetors inluding an              of interet In
uanagement/euployeebuycuts and potential demmnd frc
amll individual investors for participation (eithe



- 25 -
through direct share purchase or through equity based
mutual funds/unit trusts) over the period of five years.
(ii) the alternative options available including employee
and/or management buyouts on deferred payment basis,
partly paid share schemes, credit schemes for small
investors and privatization trust funds. The study
should include a brief review of the main lessons to be
learned from other countries with each of these
(iii) identification of the most suitable option for each
broad class of enterprise to be privatized, and for each
option the administrative and operational modalities and
the legal changes and safequards necessary both to
protect small investors and to ensure that the objectives
of the scheme are not thwarted (e.g. to allow large
investors to displace small ones, or abuse of the scheme
so as to allow development of monopoly positions).
(iv) the study should focus in particular on the role
that could be played by trust funds (as mezzanine
arrangements to warehouse shares for gradual sale to
small Zambian investors at a rate dictated by the
market's absorptive capacity). Specific recommendations
should be made regarding (a) the amount of shares
(percentage) to be allocated for sale to such trust funds
:3



- 26 -
(b) the time frame allowed for sale of these shares and
todalities for disposal of unsold shares (c) modalities
for selection of managers of trust funds and details on
the role and responsibilities of such management (d)
modalities for ensuring trust funds can reach all
interested small investors (e) relationship between trust
fund (and trust fund allocation) and sales of unit
trusts/shares in mutual funds to small investors (f)
relationship between trust funds and
company/boards/management/and between Trust Funds and
Government/Privatization Agency (g) basis for
remuneration of trust fund management (h) modalities for
valuation of shares sold by trust funds until stock
market develops and deepens (1) safeguards.
It is envisaged that the second part of the study
would focus on drawing detailed TORS.
4



- 27 _                 Annex I-C(vi)
MINISTRY OF COOIRCE TRADE AND INDUSTRY
TECHNICAL COMMITTIE ON PRIVATISATION IN ZAMBIA
TERMS  OF  REFERENCE  FOR  ZAMBIAN  PARTICIPATION  STUTDY  IN  THE
PRIVATISATION PROGRAL49E
1.   INTRODUCTION
It has been realised that for the Privatisation Programme to
have support of the Zambian people they must be encouraged to
participate. There are genuine fears by the members of the
public that Privatisation of parastatals in Zambia will lead
to the ownership of the economy by foreigners and by a small
group of wealthy Zambians.   This  is due to the limited
capacity of the general members of the public to invest. For
this reason it is important that various schemes aimed at
promoting public participation in the Privatisation Programme
are devised.
It has also become apparent that the qeneral absorptive
capacity of the Zambian economy is limited. This will result
in the failure to invest by deserving Zambiaai entrepreneurs in
the companies to be privatised. Appropriate schemes, will have
to  be  developed  that  encourage  Zambian  entrepreneur
participation.
2.  POSSIBLB SCHM2s
There are a number of ways in which the public and local
entrepreneurs can be made to participate in the Privatisation
Programme. These include;
2.1 Credit creation for small investors where payment for
shares is done in instalments.
2.2 Credit creation through Commercial banks
2.3 Setting up of Mutual Funds where investors may purchase
small units in a portfolio of equity investment. This
has the advantage of allowing the public to purchase
small amounts of shares while spreading the risk.
2.4 offering discounts to investors who purchase small
numbers of shares.
2.5 Retention of a portion of shares by the Government in
certain companies with the aim of offering them to the
public at a later date.



- 28 -
These and many other innovative ways can be devised to promote
public participation in the purchasinq of shares. For these
schemes   to  be   Implemented   appropriate   institutional
arrangements need to be developed.
3.                AARANGEMET
3.1 Privatisation Trust Fund
A Privatisation Trust Fund may be established whose
function would be to hold portzons of shares of
privatised companies on behalf of the Government pending
their sale to Zambian institutional investors and
individuals. This arrangement w,ll make it possible
for the Government to reserve shares for the public and
to make a gradual sale of the shares over a period of
time. The Trust Fund has to be managed by a private
company contracted by the Government.
3.2 Mutual Funds
These funds which l1re privately managed and operated will
purchase shares ot privatised companies for sale to small
investors. An a':rangement can be made where the Mutual
Fund can purchase various portfolios of shares from the
privatisation Trust Fund on credit . It is Important to
note however, that Mutual Funds should evolve on the
market place.
3.3 Venture CaPital Funds
As a means of supporting local entrepreneurs there will
be a need for Venture Capital Funds. These will help
provide seed money for small businessmen who may not have
the financial capacity to Invest.  Given the monetary
limitations in the country the most likely source of
venture Capital would be through donor funding.
3.4 Capital Market Development
in .tb absence of a Stock Market in the country it is
important that interim measures to enable the trade in
sbares are developed. There are possibilities of puttinq
in place   financial  market  arrangements  within  the
ftommrk of existing financial institutions. This will
mae it possible to make public offers of snares while
the Stock gxchanqe is being developed.



- 29 -
4.   N^iN TAmS
The proposed study on public participation should investigate
the institutional options available and prov:de an action plan
on how such institutions can be set up in Zambia. This should
include identifyinq all issues related to their operations and
making appropriate recommendations on how best they can be
addressed.   The  specific tasks  related to each of the
institutions mentioned above are as follows:
4.1  Privatlsation Trust Fund
-    Define the role of the Trust Fund
-    Recommend the best way of managing the Trust Fund;
-    Propose the best relationships that should exist between
the fund and the Government;
-    Identify ways of financing the operations of the fund;
-    Outline procedures for the Trust Fund's operations;
-    Design sample operational documentation of the Trust Fund
such as share certificates or any other forms of share
transaction documentation;
identify major players in the operations of the Trust
Fund especially institutional purchasers of shares held
by the Trust Fund;
-    Define the rules that must govern the operations of the
Trust Fund such as share purchase conditionalities,
limits, options and any privileges to accrue to some
classes of shares;
-    In general, outline the principles of the Privatisation
Trust Fund including the need to have competing Trust
Funds.
4.2  Mutual Funds
-    Specify the role of mutual Funds in Zambia;
-    Outline the process of setting up Mutual Funds including
registration and certification requirements;
Define rules and requlations that should govern Mutual
rund operations;
-.   identify areas that may require special leqal provisions
governing the operation of Mutual funds:



- 30 -
outline general operational procedures of a Mutual Fund;
Recommend ways of protecting small shareholders and
avoiding amassing of block8 of shares by large investors;
Design guidelines on how the Mutual Funds should generate
their Incomes;
Identify the roles of any other players in the activities
of Mutual Funds including financial institutions and
share brokers;
Design any relevant documentation necessary for Mutual
Fund operation;
Identify possible sources of finance for Mutual runds.
4.3  Venture Capital Funds
-    Advise on the institutional arrangement for establishing
and managing Venture Capital Funds;
-    identify sources of Venture Capital Funds;
- Design quidelines oan how venture Capital Funds are to be
managed;
-    identify existizg institutions that may play the role of
managing Venture Capital Funds;
-    Define any roles and principles that will govern the'
operation of Venture Capital Funds in Zambia.
4.4  CA;ital Market Develogment
-    Outline a plan of action for establishment of a share
trading mechanism;
-    Identify institutions to participate in share trading;
-    Define rules and procedures for the operations of Capital
Markets;£
-     tRecommend measures  for protecting small shareholders;
-    Design sJbare flotation arranseaents including sample
documentation and transaction processing.
-    identify areas requiring special legal provisions aimed
at regulating financial markets.
27th March 1992



