Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20226
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(LOAN 24060)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 10 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR PRIVATIZATION AND INDUSTRIAL REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
March 22, 2000
Private Sector Development Group
AFTPS
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 1992)
Currency Unit = Kwacha
Kwacha I= US$ 0.0007692
US$ 1 = 130
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOZ           Reserve Bank of Zambia
ERB           Electricity Regulatory Board
EU (EEC)      European Union
ERC           Economic Recovery Credit
GTZ           Deutsche gesellschaft Technische Zusamrnmenarbeit
GRZ           Government of the Republic of Zambia
LuSE          Lusaka Stock Exchange
MMD           Movement for Multi-Party Democracy
MoFED                Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
MoLA          Ministry of Legal Affairs
MCTI          Ministry of Commerce, Trade and Industry
NSSN          National Social Safety Net
NORAD         Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
ODA           Overseas Development Administration (now Department for International Development)
PIA           Pension and Insurance Authority
PFP           Policy Framework Paper
PIRC          Privatization and Industrial Reform Credit
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
SEC           Securities Exchange Commnission
TAZAMA        Tanzania Zambia ...... Authority
TAZARA        Tanzania Zambia Railway Authority
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
ZAMTEL        Zambia Telecommunication Company
ZCC           Zambia Communication Commission
ZCCM          Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines
ZESCO         Zambia Electricity Supply Corporation
ZIMCO         Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation
ZPA           Zambia Privatization Agency
ZPTF          Zambia Privatization Trust Fund
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:    Michael N. Sarris
Sector Manager/Director:    Demba Ba
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Oliver Campbell White



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
CONTENTS
Page No
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              2
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                7
6. Sustainability                                                                    7
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     8
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   9
9. Partner Comments                                                                  9
10. Additional Information                                                          10
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                11
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                13
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                15
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                16
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 18
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   19
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               20
This document has a restricted distfibution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authoiozation.






Project ID: P003251                                       Proiect Name: PIRC TECHNICAL ASSIS
Team Leader: Oliver C. Campbell White                     TL Unit: AFTPS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: March 14, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: PIRC TECHNICAL ASSIS                              LIC Number: 24060
Country/Department: ZAMBIA                                               Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: BP - Privatization
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  03130190                                 Effective:  10(23/92          10123/92
Appraisal:  05/08/92                                  MTR: 12/27193              09121/95
Approval:  06/30/92                                 Closing: 12131197            12/31/99
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/ZPA and others
Other Partners: USAID, GTZ, ODA (DFID), NORAD who also provided support to ZPA
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto Madavo                            Edward Jaycox
Country Manager:     Michael N. Sarris
Sector Manager:       Demba Ba                                  David Cook
Team Leader at ICR:   Oliver Campbell White                     Eric Dafferm
ICR Primary Author:   Oliver C. Campbell White; Lucy
Fye
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development SU
Impact:
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Privatization & Industrial Reform Technical Assistance Credit (PIRTA) was designed against a
background of years of a one party system and a heavily State-controlled economy. Public enterprises
were dominant in virtually all sectors of the economy. There were some 130 public enterprises managed
under the Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation (ZIMCO), a holding company with investments
ranging from the largest commercial concern, Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines (ZCCM), to small
governrnent service shops. There were also an additional 30 parastatals, including important utilities, not
under the ZIMCO umbrella. Between the years 1980 and 1986, the public enterprise sector consistently
accounted for around 30% of GDP and 50% of domestic investment. As Zambia entered the 1990s, the
Government could no longer sustain the inefficiencies and cost of the public enterprise sector and this was
reflected in low or negligible reinvestment in most parastatals. This prompted the adoption of a
privatization program which, at the time, focused on the ZIMCO companies excluding ZCCM. The
objectives of the privatization program were to:
(a)  scale down the Government's direct initiative in economic activities and correspondingly its
administrative load;
(b)  reduce Government budgetary costs arising from subsidies;
(c)  promote competition and improve the efficiency of enterprise operations;
(d)  encourage wide ownership of shares;
(e)  promote the growth of capital markets;
(f)   minimize the involvement of Government bureaucracy in enterprise operations;
(g)  stimulate both local and foreign investment;
(h)  promote new capital investment; and
(i)  derive capital incomes for the Treasury.
At the same time, reforms were planned for those parastatals not then included in the privatization
program.
PIRTA was designed to provide complementary support for the reforms which were undertaken under the
Privatization & Industrial Reform Credits (PIRCs), by strengthening the capabilities of the ministries and
other institutions responsible for the parastatal reform and privatization programs, and for the
macro-economic and institutional reforms needed to improve the environment for a thriving private sector,
and by assisting in training Zambian nationals in these areas.
The project objectives, with respect to privatization and parastatal reforms, were realistic and attainable
within the project's timeframe of seven years. Objectives to strengthen capacity in Government ministries
and other institutions were realistic enough although resource limitations might have indicated a longer
development period. The pace of implementation of the project was slow at the beginning of the project,
due principally to the slow pace of the privatization program. As a result, the project's closing date was
extended twice to ensure appropriate usage of funds available under the Credit and that the project
objectives were achieved. Objectives to support the macroeconomic reforms were also supported by
monitorable tranche release activities for the PIRCs. The project provided support to improve the
managerial and financial performance of the public utilities including sector policy, regulatory reforms and
competition.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised.
-2-



3.3 Original Components:
1.    Privatization - to provide finance for technical assistance and equipment for the development and
implementation of a program of privatization of about 105 parastatals. This included studying options for
privatization, the preparation of companies to be sold, valuations and establishing realistic sale prices, and
negotiations for sale.
2.    Parastatal Reforms - to provide finance for technical assistance and equipment to develop and
implement reforms in the six utilities which were to remain in the public sector.
3.    Private Sector Development - to provide finance for technical assistance and equipment to
introduce measures for development of the private sector in the country, including the introduction of new
and revised laws, policies and programs and the establishment of new regulatory institutions.
4.    Social Action Program - to provide finance for technical assistance and equipment to formulate
and carry out a social action plan to provide a safety net for those affected by the reforms under the PIRCs.
It is important to draw attention to the prevailing environment in which the above components were to be
implemented since it meant introducing fundamental changes in structure, attitude, and behaviour. The
actions to be supported by the PIRTA project components were therefore highly challenging in terms of:
entering the unknown, the scale of the changes, capacity demands, and institutional developments needed to
create a new business environment in Zambia.
3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry was not assessed by QAG at the time of project preparation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Satisfactory: The project achieved all its objectives. The main objective of the PIRTA project
was to facilitate achievement of the PIRC I and II objectives by supporting the parastatal reform
and privatization programs and other economic reform measures to move from a State-dominated
economy to create a conducive environment for the development of the private sector.
The Zambia Privatization Agency (ZPA) was able to recruit suitably qualified staff and
consultants who implemented the privatization program. The project financed some of ZPA's long
term personnel, consultant services, training, valuation of assets and companies, advertisements
offering companies for sale, studies to determine the privatization modalities, and other goods and
equipment. Appropriate policies and procedures were put in place from the outset to ensure that
recruited consultants were of the best quality. As a result, by end December 1999, ZPA had
privatized some 85% of the original list of 158 companies drawn up in 1993. Implementation
appeared slow at the beginning of the project mainly due to the privatization component where
considerable preparatory work was required and ZPA staff had to gain experience of the process.
With the extensions of the project closing date, the project's privatization objective was achieved.
-3 -



The project facilitated parastatal reforms by providing finance for: (i) the preparation of business
plans and performance standards for the Zambia Electicity Supply Corporation, the Posts &
Telecomminications Corporation, ZIMOIL (ZNOC) and Zambia Railways Corporation; (ii)
assisting the creation of regulatory bodies for the energy and telecommunications sectors in which
parastatals continued during the lifetime of the project to be the dominant force; and (iii) work to
prepare for the commercialization and eventual privatization of some 48 Government agencies and
departments.
The project also supported private sector development generally through: (i) technical assistance to
the Ministry of Legal Affairs (training and consulting services) which enabled the drafting of 26
pieces of legislation designed to help create an enabling environment for business; and (ii)
assistance to newly created regulatory institutions: the Securities and Exchange Commision (SEC)
and the Lusaka Stock Exchange (LuSE), the Zambia Competition Commission (ZCC), and the
Pension and Insurance Authority (PIA).
4.2 Outputs by components:
1. Privatization: Implementation of the privatization program was carried out by the Zambia Privatization
Agency (ZPA) which was established with the assistance of the project in early 1993 following enactment
of the Privatization Act. ZPA was equipped with high calibre staff and was able to provide a stable
environment under which the privatization program was accelerated. Initially, implementation was slow as
ZPA staff and the Government gained experience of the process. However, the major factor which
inhibited progress was the Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation (ZIMCO). Virtually all of the
companies to be privatized were subsidiaries of ZIMCO, which was to have assisted in the privatization
process by undertaking prepratory work including identifying and resolving financial issues and
safeguarding assets. In the event, ZIMCO became a major obstacle to privatization as its personnel
withheld information from ZPA and increased the costs and contingent liabilities of companies to be
privatized. To remove this obstacle to progress, ZIMCO was dissolved in March 1995.
From the second quarter of 1995, the privatization program moved quickly and by the project closing date
(end of December 1999) 238 companies or units had been privatized. In addition, ZPA had sold 176 trade
sector and other properties of GRZ. Of ZPA's work portfolio at the closing date, 10 companies had been
advertised for sale, and advertisements had also been placed internationally inviting expressions of interest
in acquiring a core equity stake in ZAMTEL. Only TAZARA and TAZAMA remained on the deferred list
awaiting discussions with the co-owner (Government of the United Republic of Tanzania). GRZ has been
able to reduce substantially the size of the parastatal sector and has thus achieved its objective of
disengaging from direct participation in commercial activities.
Privatization has played a crucial role in capital market development. The Privatization Trust Fund (PTF)
was established to warehouse minority equity interests and, via the Lusaka Stock Exchange, to on-sell the
shares to the Zambian public. Some 9,000 persons subscribed to the five public offerings of shares sold by
the PTF. Even accounting for individuals who subscribed to more than one offering, there were over 6,000
first-time Zambian equity investors through privatization. Of the companies and units sold by ZPA, it is
estimated that some 64% of the privatized businesses were sold to indigenous Zambians.
During the latter part of the project, the pace of privatization slowed down, partly as a result of the delays
in the privatization of ZCCM which affected investor confidence. It is therefore possible that, but for
ZCCM, more privatization would have been achieved under this project. However, it should be noted that
the privatization of ZCCM was not envisaged at the design stage of this project and that, subsequently, the
- 4 -



separate ERIPTA project was designed for and has provided technical assistance for the privatization of
ZCCM.
2. Parastatal Reforms: Through legislation enacted by Parliament, regulatory bodies were created for the
energy and telecommunications sectors in which parastatals continued during the lifetime of the project to
be the dominant force.
The Energy Regulation Board (ERB): ERB was created under the Energy Regulation Act No.16 of April
1995 under chapter 436 of the Laws of Zambia. ERB became operational in 1998 and at the project
closing date was fully staffed. However, only four persons were appointed to the seven Board Member
positions, one of whom recently resigned leaving the ERB without a quorum (a minimum of four Board
Members) to conduct its business. The project provided training to staff who were able to acquire valuable
knowledge from in-house training conducted through the project on Utility and Monopoly Regulatory
Framework and hands-on experience in the operations of regulatory agencies overseas. As a result, the
ERB has: (i) developed its operational manual for regulatory decision-making and implementation process;
(ii) finalized and issued licenses to various regulated undertakings including 70 licenses for petroleum, 5 for
electricity and 8 for other forms of energy (such as coal and solar power); and (iii) drafted proposals for the
amendment of the energy sector legislation to entrench the independence of the ERB. ERB has recently
developed a buiness plan with technical assistance provided by the project. In addition, ERB has succeeded
in formulating standards for the different subsectors including automotive gasoil, leaded petrol for motor
vehicles, road tank vehicles, transportation of petroleum products, and carbon steel welded horizontal
cylindrical storage tanks. ERB has completed four electricity and four petroleum tariff reviews and, very
recently, has issued the first four licences to private companies in the petroleum sector. ERB has released
draft electricity standards (covering both quality of supply and quality of service) for the general public and
interested parties to comment upon.
The Communications Authority of Zambia (CAZ): CAZ was established in 1995 by the
Telecommunications Act No.23 of 1994. This Act removed the monopoly of ZAMTEL under the Postal
and Telecommunications Act of 1987, as well as other privileges enjoyed by ZAMTEL. CAZ was created
to regulate the provision of telecommunication services in Zambia and is empowered to prescribe rules and
regulations for the operations of licensees and suppliers of telecommunications equipment. The project
provided finance for capacity building activities of CAZ, including six courses on the regulation of
telecommunications sector activities for the staff and its board members. Unfbrtunately, following the
appointment of a new Minister in 1997, all the Board Members were replaced. However, training under
the project did form the basis for the regulatory rules that were developed and adopted. Up to the date of
project closure, the Authority had issued licences for: (i) 3 cellular operators; (ii) 4 internet providers; (iii)
2 public payphone operators; (iv) some 8,000 private radio communication stations (including 8 private
networks); (v) ZNBC; and (vi) 8 private FM broadcasting stations (including 4 community broadcasting
stations). CAZ has also established four committees charged with the development of national
telecommunication standards, national number planning, design websites and licensing and consumer
affairs. Hence a new licensing structure has been adopted and ZAMTEL has successfully implemented a
new billing system.
Hiving off of Government departments: Commercialization/privatization of Government
departments/agencies has been somewhat slow with only about 45% of the target institutions addressed and
decisions taken. The project provided financing for 48 studies to determine the viability of the
departments/agencies to be either commercialized and/or privatized. Of the 48 bodies studied, decisions
have been taken on 22: merger (1), commercialization (3), abolition (1) and status quo (17). In the last six
months of the project, four important bodies were hived off and set up as autonomous units; (i) the
-5 -



Registrar of Companies; (ii) the Zambia Wildlife Authority; (iii) the National Institute for Public
Administration; and (iv) the Technical Education, Vocational and Entrepreneurship Training Authority.
Preparation of Business Plans for Zambia Railways, PTC, ZIMOIL and ZESCO: The project provided
financing for the preparation of business plans and performance standards for ZESCO, PTC, ZIMOIL
(ZNOC) and Zambia Railways Corporation. External consultants were contracted for the preparation of
the performance standards for ZESCO and ZAMTEL (PTC). The performance contract and standards for
Zambia Railways were not deemed ideal because of the parastatal's considerable financial and operational
difficulties. The project also provided financing for the petroleum sector studies including the pricing of
petroleum products, the oil sector and the leasing of the Ndola Oil Terminal facility.
3. Private Sector Development: The Goverrnment institutions most directly concerned with private sector
development (Ministry of Commerce, Trade and Industry, Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
, Bank of Zambia, and Ministry of Legal Affairs) have achieved substantial progress in creating an
environment conducive to business. Measures have been taken to revise, amend and enact new laws which
are helping to created an enabling environment for business and commercial transactions. Legislation
which was passed by or in process at the project closing date included: Competition and Fair Trading Act,
Privatization Act, Banking and Financial Services Act, Small Enterprises Development Act, Companies
(Amendment) Bill, Investment (Amendment) Bill, Central Securities Depository Bill, Development Bank of
Zambia Bill, and various other amendments. In total, 26 laws have been enacted, some of which are new
while others are an overhaul of existing laws to bring them in line with the liberalized economy and private
sector led growth.
In order to establish a greater dialogue between the Government and the business community, the Ministry
of Commerce, Trade and Industry created a Business Forum which brings together all stakeholders in the
future of Zambia's economy. Three such forums have been held to discuss policy issues of concern to the
stakeholders, including Government's budget allocation.
The Securities and Exchange Comnmsion (SEC): SEC was established under the Securities Act No.38
of 1993 to regulate and oversee market activities and to provide operation of securities exchange and paved
the way for the establishment of the Lusaka Stock Exchange (LuSE). LuSE became operational in
February 1994 through technical assistance from IFC and with support from UNDP and GRZ. Between
1995 and 1998 the Privatization Trust Fund floated shares in five companies on the Lusaka Stock
Exchange (Chilanga Cement, Zambia Sugar, Zambia Breweries, National Breweries, and Rothmans) and
three companies listed shares (including ZCCM (B) Shares). However, LuSE has not yet reached the
desired level of sustainability, as its market capitalization at $0.7 billion remains below the minimum target
of $1 billlion. Also, it has I I listed companies and a market capitalization/GDP ratio of 25% compared
with its minimum targets of 20 listed companies and a market capitalization/GDP ratio of 30%.
In order to give the market and investors additional security and protection, and in line with worldwide
trends, the LuSE has incorporated a Central Share Depository as a separate entity.
SEC has demonstrated its ability to provide effective investor protection by intervening to suspend the
operations of two broking firms (following the collapse of the firms' parent companies) and by completing
the realization and distribution of proceeds from the sale of investments in a collective investment scheme
(wound down following the collapse of Meridien Bank BIAO in 1995).
Whilst SEC has managed to maintain its technical capacity, it faces difficulties because of its very tight
financial position. When SEC was established, it had been anticipated that economic growth would result
- 6-



in more companies coming to the market. In the event, the number of members of the Lusaka Stock
Exchange has fallen since 1997 (from 6 to 4), SEC has had to reduce its registration fees in order to be in
line with other capital markets in the region, and no new companies have been listed since 1998. The
downturn in the economy and its impact on capital market development is illustrated by the reduction in the
number of active institutional investors from 8 in 1995 to 2 by end 1998. SEC is therefore dependent on
Government financial support and is unable at present to tackle the steps it has identified to resolve the
impediments to capital market development.
Zambia Compelition Comnission (ZCC): ZCC was established in 1995 with the mandate to regulate
monopolies and to ensure fair trading practices in Zambia. ZCC has four divisions: Economics, Consumer
Welfare, Legal, and Accounts & Administration. Three of the four divisions (all but the Legal Division)
are headed up by a director but, due to the funding constraint, only Consumer Affairs has any (one)
technical staff. The Board of Commissioners of ZCC comprises persons nominated by 13 specified
institutions. So far, 11 persons have been appointed Commissioners.
From its inception in March 1998 to the project closing date ZCC received 837 inquiries. These resulted in
104 cases, 9 of which were referred to other regulatory bodies. ZCC has completed 81 cases and 14 cases
are in progress. The majority of cases are related to trade practices, and mergers and acquisitions. ZCC is
currently receiving some 36 cases per months, of which about 5 are leading to cases. However, the degree
of complexity of the cases is increasing.
A notable feature of ZCC's work has been its introduction of a signed compliance programme when
concluding an acquisition or merger case. Copies of ZCC's decisions are filed with UNCTAD, which has
suggested that ZCC should become the centre of excellence in Eastern and Southern Africa for competition
regulation.
ZCC's effectiveness is constrained by insufficient funding; and there is fear that, as a result, it may lose
some of its key staff to a proposed regional competition authority. ZCC is currently unable to fill 9 of its
technical staff vacancies and cannot afford to print and circulate pamphlets regarding consumer rights and
ZCC's work. In an effort to meet the shortfall in government funding, ZCC has resorted to charging fees in
connection with its work on acquisitions and mergers but this poses a question about ZCC's objectivity in
deciding priorities.
Pension and Insurance Authority (PA): PIA was established after the enactment of the Pensions
Scheme Regulation Act No.28 of 1996 and the Insurance Act No.27 of 1997 to provide regulation and
supervision of pension and insurance schemes. Under these Acts, all insurance companies, brokers and
pension fund managers must be licensed. The project provided funds for the purchase of essential office
equipment and provided training of PIA staff. At the present time, PIA still lacks a Board of Directors and
this situation will prevail until a proposed Pensions and Insurance Authority Act is passed. Although there
are some 300 pension schemes to be registered (and have been for some time), registration is still not
possible because Section 7 of the Pensions Scheme Regulation Act, 1996, which sets out the functions of
the Authority, refers only to multi-employer trusts, whereas in practice the existing schemes were set up as
sole employer trusts (however, PIA is able to register pensions scheme fund managers, mostly insurance
companies but there are a few others). With the introduction of the National Pension Scheme on February
1, 2000 it is possible that some employers/employees will decide to terminate company schemes rather than
pay into two schemes. PIA has attempted to take an inventory of pensions schemes but only about 200
responded. Without legal registration, PIA is currently unable legally to demand information from those
who have failed to respond.
7-



4. Social Action Program: TheNational Social Safety Net Coordinating Committee (NSSN), established
in 1993 as the apex institution to coordinate safety net programs, has been an important component of
PIRTA to provide a safety valve to enable reforms and privatization. The project assisted the NSSN with
staff training, study tours, training programs for displaced workers, an NSSN media campaign, and office
equipment.
The NSSN has recently prepared a report for Government which evaluates the policy, institutional, and
program framework over the period 1993-1999. Between 1990-1998 some 12,500 job losses per annum
were attributed to the economic reform program. Over that same period some 17,200 persons received
counseling and 9,752 persons received training, of which 2,320 are known to have secured gainful
employment.
The NSSN was charged with the responsibility of coordinating and developing strategies and modalities for
alleviating the negative impact of the economic reform program. As a result, GRZ was able to train the
staff ofNSSN and Future Search in order to handle training programs developed for the retrenched
workers. These training programmes were able to reach 330 retrenched workers through the NSSN and
18,000 retrenched workers through the Future Search. The NSSN training provided included hands-on
training in (i) automotive/mechanic skills combined with business entreprenuership skills (40); (ii) basic
finance workshops including preparartion of bankable business plans (121) and, (iii) start your business
(169). The project also provided finance for promotional materials including brochure, radio and television
spots in different languages. Under the Future Search Program the following services were provided to
retrenced workers: (i) counselling given to each person during a one-day session explaining and preparing
them for their changed circumstances. 11,509 people received this type of councelling; (ii) training in job
search which included a proactive job search process. 2,287 received job search assistance; and (iii)
training in entreprenuership/business development skills. 4, 350 people received this type of training.
Evaluation of the Future Search Program activities revealed that 68% of the participants in its various
services found employment. Graduates of the entreprenuership training experienced an average of 63%
increase in sales volume and the number of businesses created after the workshop increased by 51%.
Participants were able to create both full time and part time employment. In order to be more effective,
Future Search Program training materials have been translated into seven local languages and has gained
its recognition as a reputable institution for training of dispalced workers in Zambia.
In addition, GRZ was able to increase its budget allocations to the social sector by 38% in 1997.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project resulted in substantial institutional development impact. The improvement in institutional
capability was achieved in both GRZ and the newly created regulatory institutions. Some 150 government
and parastatal officials received training in various areas of specialization necessary for the implementation
of the reforms. The Ministry of Finance and Economic Development (MoFED) through the Economic and
Reports Unit was responsible for the administration of the project and coordination of activities supported
by it. To strengthen the unit, an international advisor was appointed and the project coordinating staff were
maintained throughout the project's life. This created stability in project management.
- 8 -



Responsibility for monitoring the privatization program was vested in the MCTI. A Technical Committee
for Privatization was responsible for preparing terms of reference for consultants, short lists and
preparation of bid documents for consultant services related to privatization until the establishment of ZPA.
ZPA built a very good reputation for its capacity to manage the privatization process professionally,
efficiently, and transparently, and corresponding agencies in several other African countries have visited
ZPA to gain knowledge of its policies and procedures.
The MOLA was responsible for dealing with issues related to the legal framework for private sector
development. Whereas the MOLA had only one draftsman at the beginning of the project, today it has 6
draftmen, thus enabling the Ministry to significantly reduce its backlog of legislative drafting work. The
importance of MOLA's work is illustrated by the The Bank of Zambia Act which strengthened the role and
authority of BOZ over the supervision and regulation of commercial banks and non-bank financial
institutions.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There were three main factors outside the Government's or implementing agencies' control that affected
both implementation and outcorne: (i) limited capacities at the beginning of the economic reform program
(ii) the severe drought of 1992 that affected the Southern region of Sub-Saharan Africa and which affected
the Government's ability to achieve its macroeconomic targets; and (iii) the knock-on ewffects of the East
Asian financial crisis (which affected world commodity prices including copper and therefore, in turn,
affected the privatization of ZCCM and investor confidence, and slowed down the pace of privatization).
Capacity limitations were recognized at the project design stage. Hence training of Zambian officals to
handle the various activities necessary under the reform program and the retraining of those affected by the
reform program were given high priority and was a key feature of the project.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Factors subject to government control included: (i) the negative influences of the holding company,
ZIMCO, which not only failed to support the privatization process but also failed to cooperate with the
ZPA, increased the liabilities of enterprises to be divested, and fuelled the resentment towards privatization.
The Government dealt effectively with this by dissolving ZIMCO in March 1995. This removed many
obstacles from ZPA's work and the privatization program was able to proceed smoothly, (ii) delays in
decisions on the commercialization and hiving-off of Government departments and agencies. Decisions
were made on only 45% of the departnents listed; and (iii) delays in budget allocations to the newly
established regulatory institutions (ZAC, ERB, ZCC, etc. ). Whilst the amounts of budget allocations have
necessarily been restricted by the levels of Governent revenues, actual allocations have been delayed and
erratic.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
There were no problems subject to implementing agency control.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
There were no problems related to project cost and financing.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
-9-



Project sustainability is likely. The reform process, which this project has supported, is now irreversible.
The project anticipated that advisory services would be effectively and efficiently used so that the
Government would be adequately equipped to continue with its economic recovery efforts after project
closing. The Government has continued to show strong commitment towards its economic recovery
program despite experiencing problems, due principally to extraneous causes, in providing adequate
budgetary resources to support the institutions created under the project. So far, GRZ has not been able to
meet all its macroeconomic targets but continues to implement a tight budgetary and fiscal policy. A large
number of parastatals have been privatized and most of those remaining (including all those of economic
significance) are now in ZPA's work portfolio. Given the sustained benefits of improved corporate
governance and efficiency, and, in many cases, new investment, the privatization program and parastatal
reforms have taken deep roots and have achieved substantial results which are very likely irreversible.
The parastatal reform component has been key to establishing an effective regulatory framework. The new
regulatory agencies and capital market institutions, which are now firmly established, are - wherever
possible without prejudice to their independence - seeking to achieve financial self-sufficiency through fees
levied on the institutions in the sector that they administer.
The capacity building efforts through the project's four components have produced substantial results for
both the public and private sectors. The project can be considered to have achieved its overarching
objective of institution/capacity building for the Government's privatization program, legal framework for
private sector development, and capital market development including stock exchange operations. The
expertise built over the project's life is now able, with limited ongoing technical assistance inputs, to
complete the remaining economic reform activities.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The transition to a without-project situation should be smooth. Continued assistance will be needed to
finance the cost of consultants and merchant banks for the privatization of the remaining parastatals, some
of which are large and complex. Assistance to ZPA is being provided under the ongoing ERIPTA project
and will be continued under the proposed PSCAP. However, ZPA was created only as a temporary
institution to manage the privatization process. It has already begun to scale down its level of operations
and is expected to self-liquidate within a few years and to hand over residual post-privatization monitoring
to another body.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
The Bank prepared this project in full consultation and collaboration with the Borrower. There were no
delays in project processing, it took nine months from identification to effectiveness.
7.2 Supervision:
During project implementation, semi-annual supervision missions were conducted. There was no need for
intensive supervision as the project implementation unit was adequately staffed to administer the project.
The project was supervised on a continuous basis by the Task Manager. During supervision missions, the
project was rated "satisfactory" throughout its implementation period. The implementing agencies
recognized the value of a disciplined framework of regular progress review, accompanied by short-term,
time-bound action plans and fully collaborated with Bank supervision missions. Working relations with the
- 10-



Zambian staff were cordial and highly productive.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's performance was satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
From the outset, it was recognized that implementing the reforms stipulated under the First Privatization
and Industrial Reform Credit (PIRC I - 1992) and Second Privatization and Industrial Reform Credit
(PIRC II - 1994) would require special capacity building efforts through technical assistance, training etc.
PIRTA provided this assistance. The borrower participated fully in all stages of project preparation to
ensure that emphasis was placed on expediting implementation of its economic recovery program in the
areas of privatization, parastatal reform, private sector development, and associated capacity and
institutional building.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government's performance during project execution was satisfactory. Some delays arose from problems
related to the sensitive issues of ZIMCO and the privatization of ZCCM; given the circumstances, the
Government dealt effectively with these issues. The implementation delays were largely resolved through
constant dialogue, consultation and interaction between Bank and GRZ staff.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementation agency - Economic Analysis and Reports Unit, was highly
satisfactory in the execution of the project. Procurement, financial management and reporting functions
were performed well throughout the project period. The EARU ensured compliance with all project
covenants and submission of progress and audit reports on a timely basis. The Project Coordinator and his
entire team  were in place throughout the project.  This management continuity ensured stable
administrative and financial capacity throughout project implementation. The experience gained by the
team in the execution of this project has made it possible for GRZ to prepare future IDA funded projects.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The performance of the imnplementing agency was satisfactory. Key staff of implementing agencies showed
commitment to the objectives of the project and worked hard to improve their own skills. The complex
nature of the project demanded a high level of coordination and attention to details. Procurement
procedures were adhered to with a high standard of reporting which was maintained throughout the project.
The Bank was kept informed of all critical developments of project activities. It is noteworthy that, in
addition to a fully comprehensive implementation completion report prepared by the Government, several
beneficary institutions also prepared their own implementation completion reports. These reports greatly
facilitated the preparation of this ICR.
8. Lessons Learned
1. Strong and consistent Government commitment to meeting project objectives - in particular on
privatization - is crucial to a successful outcome.
2. Political realities should be assessed and taken account of in project preparation. In this project
the negative influence of the holding company, ZIMCO, was underestimated at the project desing stage.
Once ZIMCO was dissolved, most of the day-to-day obstacles to privatization disappeared and ZPA
was able to proceed smoothly with its work.
-1 1



3. A highly professional approach to piivatization, with emphasis on transparency and
dissemination of information, greatly facilitates this complex and sensitive process. Timely
interventions in the provision of appropriate technical and financial assistance increases the chance of
successful outcomes.
4. Involvement of the private sector facilitates reform, especially privatization. A temporary
institution (ZPA) directed predominantly by the private sector is more likely to push the pace of reform
than a public institution.
5. Greater attention should be given to monitoring and reporting on the impact of parastatal reform
and privatization. This is necessary to demonstrate that the processes are delivering the benefits
promised and thereby maintain consensus to keep up the momentum of reforms.
6. Institutional capacity building is a slow process. Hence, in addition to recruiting appropriate
personnel, it is important that managers and staff are provided with appropriate incentives to ensure
continuity and development.
7. Knowledge of lDA procurement and disbursement procedures greatly facilitates smooth project
implementation. Hence, early training on IDA procurement and disbursement procedures for key
personnel in the project coordination unit and beneficiary/implementing agencies is a worthwhile
investment.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Government prepared its own Implementation Completion Report for the project based on interviews
with and reports of the beneficiary institutions, discussions with Government officials, project progress
reports, and other materials from project files in Zambia. In addition to the Government's ICR, the
following institutions, who were beneficiaries under the project, also prepared and submitted to the Bank
their own implementation completion reports: (i) Securities and Exchange Commission; (ii) Lusaka Stock
Exchange; (iii) the National Social Safety Net; and (iv) the Zambia Competition Commission. The
comments from Government and these beneficiay institutions are reflected in this ICR.
The executive summary of the Government's implementation completion report, which rated the project as
satisfactory, is reproduced below:
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
PRIVATISATION AND INDUSTRIAL REFORM TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT 2406-ZA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The main objective of the Technical Assistance Credit was to assist the Government of the
Republic of Zambia to implement the parastatal reform and privatisation programme and carry
out other economic reform measures which would enable the Government create a conducive
environment for the development of the private sector.
- 12 -



The credit was to finance consultants' services, training, payment of salaries for critical long
term personnel, evaluation and valuation of companies and assets, advertisements of
company sales, studies to determine privatisation modalities, vehicles and equipment. The
project consisted of five broad components namely:
(i)  the development and implementation of the privatisation programme;
(ii)  promotion of the development of the private sector;
(iii)  reform of the remaining utilities in the public sector;
(iv)  carrying out a Social Action Plan to provide a safety net for those affected by
the economic           reforms; and
(v)  training of Zambian officials to handle the various activities required under the
reform programme             and the retraining of those affected by the
reform/restructuring exercise.
ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
Achievement of objectives of the technical assistance has been impressive.
Implementation of the Privatisation programme by the Zambia Privatisation Agency (ZPA).
With the facilitation of the technical assistance credit, ZPA was able to recruit appropriate top
level staff who oversaw the institutions activities. Technical assistance also meant that right
from the start suitable policies and procedures were established through the use of consultants
thereby putting the institution on the right footing. As at 31st July, 1999, 241 companieslunits
had been privatised out of a working portfolio of 280 units. The only factor marring this
otherwise good performance is the continued stalling in the sale of the ZCCM assets. At the
time of this ICR negotiations between Government, Anglo American Corporation and
COLDECO of Chile had broken down.
Privatisation of ZCCM assets is done by an independent negotiating team outside ZPA. This
is probably the reason in the delays in the privatisation of the mines.
Good progress has also been reported from those institutions charged with the responsibility of
creating conditions for the development of the private sector. Measures were taken to revise,
amend and enact new laws which had a bearing on business and commercial transactions.
Thus such laws as the Company Law, the Investment Act , the Securities Act, the Bank of
Zambia Act, the Competition and Fair Trading Act, Banking and Financial Services Act, Trades
Licencing (Amendment) Act, the Privatisation Act and amendments thereof and many others
have been enacted and are fully operational. Laws to create regulatory institutions to enable
the Govemment deal at arms length with business and commercial institutions have also been
enacted examples of which are the Telecommunications Act No. 23 of 1994, the Postal
Services Act 24 of 1994, Energy Regulations Act No. 16 of 1995, the Pension Scheme Act No.
28 of 1996 and Zambia Revenue Authority Act No. 28 of 1993 to name but a few. As a result
of the enactment of these laws regulatory boards such as the ERB, CAZ, PIA and SEC and a
monopolies commission (ZCC) have been established and are operational. In all a total of
over 26 laws have been enacted some of which are new and others are an overhaul of existing
laws to bring them in line with the operations of a liberalised economy with the private sector
driving economic development.
Hiving off Government departments for commercialisation/privatisation has been slow.
- 13 -



Decisions have been made on about 45% of the cases while the other 55% are still under
consideration.
On the Social Sector Govemment has established the National Social Safety Net Coordinating
Committee (NSSN) through which Government has trained its staff and Future Search Staff to
handle training programmes for displaced workers. These programmes have facilitated the
training of 330 displaced workers through NSSN and over 1 8000 displaced workers through
the Future Search Programme. In addition Government budget allocation to the social sector
in 1998 was 38% of Govemment non-interest expenditure an increase of four percentage
points from 34% achieved in 1997.
Capacity building saw over 150 govemment and parastatal officials receiving training in
various areas of specialisation to facilitate institutional building and implementation of the
reforms.
However some of the institutions created are operating under a difficult financial environment
due to limited budgetary support from the Goveriment. It must therefore be stressed that in
the long-term success of the programme depend on the continued Government financial
support to the programme. To date the Government has shown commitment to the
programme through budgetary support to the institutions created by the reform process though
actual amounts allocated to these institutions are below what is needed to make these
institutions operate effectively and efficiently. This underscores the need to implement the
whole reform programme with renewed determination if the Government is to be able to give
adequate budgetary allocations to these institutions.
LESSONS FROM THE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT:
Lessons from the technical assistance project are: (i) timely intervention by provision of
technical and financial assistance to a programme greatly facilitates implementation of a
programme as the technical assistance makes acquisition of critical expertise and procurement
of necessary equipment, vehicles and training possible; (ii) establishment of new institutions
can take longer than is expected, therefore it is important that adequate allowance for a
leaming period is made; (iii) careful selection of key management staff can make a difference
between success and failure of a programme and so is stabiiity of staff in a project; and (iv)
beneficiaries of a project should be involved in pre-assistance identification of activities to be
performed as this facilitates quick implementation of a project/programme and improves
sustainability.
(b) Cofinanciers:
None
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None
10. Additional Information
A high level of dialogue was maintained between Bank staff and the project coordination team and
beneficiary institutions. The excellent working relations that were established have helped to ensure
smooth implementation of the successor ERIPTA project.
- 14 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impzact Indicators:
Not induded in project report
Output Indicators:
1. Privatization:
(a) EstabUshment of a new privatization  Privatization Act (No.21 of 1992).  Act passed.
agency through a Privatization Act
(b) ZIMCO is to be transformed into a  Transformed into a holdring company.  ZIMCO was dissolved on 31 March 1995
holding company whose task will be to                                      following which the privatization process
prepare companies for sale by reducing,                                    proceeded much more smoothly.
cleaning up the contractual, financial and
legal obtigations of companies to be
pnvatized.
(c) Privatization of 105 parastatals by the end                            By the project closing date (after 7 years),
of 5 years.                                                                238 companies had been completely
privatized, including 135 of the original 1993
working portfolio of 158 companies (i.e. 85%
of the original list have been completely
privatized). In addition: (i) some 176 trade
sector and other Govemment properties have
been sold; (ii) Of ZPA's current work
portfolio, 10 companies had been advertised
for sale and advertisements had also been
placed iternationatly inviting expressions of
interest in acquiring a 20% equity stake in
ZAMTEL; and (iii) Government had given
ZPA the go-ahead to prepare ZANACO,
ZAMPOST, and ZESCO for privatization.
2. Parastatal Reform:
(a) Reduction of govemment involvement in                                  Ongoing (see also above note)
business activities except for essential
utilities companies.
(b) Review of ZIMCO and its subsidieries.
(c) Studies for Post and             A communications authority to be created to Studies ongoing in context of Govemment's
Telecommunications.                   regulate sector.                      recent decision to privatize postal and
telecommunicaitons services. The Zambia
Communications Athority was established.
(d) Studies for Zambia Electricity Supply                                  Various sector studies were carried out.
Corporation.                                                               ZPA is about to undertake a study in the
context of Govemment's recent decision to
privatize ZESCO.
- 15 -



3. Private Sector Development:
(a) Review of existing comnmercial laws  New laws and amendments to be drafted.   26 laws were reviewed, redrafted and
including Companies Act, the Exchange                                      enacted.
Control Act, Taxation Act and Banking Act
(b) Establishment of a dialogue between    Annual Business Forum to be established.  Done.
govermnent and the business community.
(c) Define the objectives and scope of  A compeition commission to be created to   Competition and Fair Trading Act passed in
competition laws.                    regulate competition and trading practices.  1994 and became effective in 1995. The
Zambia Competition Commission, which was
established the Act, became operational in
April 1998.
(d) Strengthening of Bank of Zambia by                                    Done
redrafting of the Bank of Zambia' s Act to
give authority for regulation and supervision
of banking and financial inst.itutions.
(e) Review of non-bank financial institutions                              Done
sector and develop new laws necessary for
an appropriate regulatory frame*rk.
(f Promote the development of a stock  A securities and exchange commission and  Securities Act 1993 enacted. The securities
exchange through establishment of    a stock exchange to be established    law is adrministered by the Securities and
arrangements for the sale and purchase of                                  Exchange Conmmission established under
shares; development of money and capital                                   the Act. The Lusaka Stock Exchange was
markets and prepare a " rule boolk to provide                              also established in 1993 and opened for
guidance on matters such as rights of                                      trading on 21 February 1994.
investors, role of stockbrokers and provide
guidance to Bank of Zambia .
(g) Preparation of Stock Exchange Laws,   Done                             Done
rules and regulations.
4. Social Action Program
(a) Support to reinforce the implementation
of a social action plan to provide an adequate
safety net for those affected by the  ?????????
privatization and other reforms.
Done
NSSN and Future Search program were    Done
used to implement tasks
End of project
- 16 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million e uivalent)
--Appraisal    Actual/Latest  Pentage
Estimate       Estimate    of Appraisal
_ Project,CostBy omponent               US$ million    US$ million
Private Sector Development                              1,20           2.04         146
Privatization                                           8.50           5.68          67
Parastatal Reforms                                     0.90            1.92         213
Social Action Program                                  0.40            0.69         173
Total Baseline Cost                                    11.00          10.33
Total Project Costs               11.00           10.33
Total Financing Required                11.00          10.33
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB                            2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
NCB         Other                  _____
1. Works                     0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.30         0.30          0.40         0.00          1.00
(0.30)       (0.30)       (0.40)       (0.00)        (1.00)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         0.00         10.00        10.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (9.00)        (9.00)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
. ______________________    (0.00)    (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                     0.30          0.30         0.40         10.00         11.00
(0.30)       (0.30)       (0.40)       (9.00)        (10.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActualLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      CsNCB                    ON..F.                   Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                     1.02          0.38         0.00         0.00          1.40
.        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                  7.51          0.00         0.00    J   0.00           7.51
._______________________    (0.00)   (0.00)       (0.00)   1   (0.00)        (0.00)
- 17 -



4. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.98           0.00           0.98
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.14           0.00           0.14
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.02           0.00           0.02
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
Total                         8.53            0.38           1.14           0.00           10.05
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Co   oet (in US$ million equivaent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component              AippilEstimate                ActuaVlatest Estimate        -       -      -
Bank      Govt.      CoF.      Bank      Govt.      CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
Private sector Development   1.20                        2.04       0.00               170.0   0.0    0.0
Privatization             8.50                            5.68      0.26               66.8   0.0    0.0
Parastatal Reforms        0.90                            1.92      0.00               213.3   0.0    0.0
Social Action Program     0.40                            0.69      0.00               172.5   0.0    0.0
TOTAL                     11.00                          10.33      0.26               93.9   0.0    0.0
- 18 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable
-19 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)      Implementation       Development
Month/Year    Count         Specialty                          Progress           Objective
Ildentification/Preparationn
9dntfiato/Preparati1 n    3    Principal Energy/Industrial
Specialist, Principal Financial
Specialist, Consultant
AppraisallNegotiation
03/1992                   3    Principal Energy/Industrial                                          i
Specialist, Principal
Financial Specialist,
Consultant
5/1992                    4    Principal Energy/Industrial
Specialist, Principal Financial
Specialist, Consultant, Counsel
Supervision
11/1992                    I   Financial Analyst                      S                   S
11/1993                    I   Financial Analyst                      S                   S
03/1994                    1   Financial Analyst                      HS                 HS
10/1994                    1   Financial Analyst                      S                   S
03/1995                    1  Financial Analyst                        S                  S
9/1995                     2   IFinancial Analyst,            .                           S
Disbursement Officer
05/1996                    1  Financial Analyst                        S                  S
05/1997                    I  Principal Private Sector                 S                  S
Specialist, Senior Financial
Analyst, Principal Minerals
Economist
08/1997                   I i Principal Private Sector                S         I        S
I Specialist
02/1998                    2   Principal Private Sector                S                  S
Specialist, Mining Advisor
07/1999                    3   Principal Private Sector                S                  S
Specialist, Senior Public
Enterprise & Privatization
Specialist, Senior Financial
>                             | ~~~~~~~~~~~Specialist
ICR
01/2000                   1   Senior Public Enterprise &
Privatization Specialist
(bj Staff:
- 20 -



Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __   _ _ _ _ _ _ __No .    S taff_ w eek s  u s $   (c O O O)
Identification/Preparation                  30
AppraisaVNegotiation                         1
Supervision                   ____16
ICR                          1                6
Total                                        64 
- 21 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N-Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
C3 Macro policies
M Sector Policies                         OH  *SUOM  ON  ONA
O Physical
F Financial                               OH  OSUOM  ON  ONA
O Institutional Development               O H  O SU O M  O N  O NA
O Environmental
Social
Poverty Reduction                  OH  *SUOM  ON  ONA
O Gender
MOther (Please specify)             OH  *SUOM  ON  ONA
Broadening of Ownership
O Private sector development              O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
O Public sector management                O H  O SUO M  O N  O NA
O Other (Please specify)
-22 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6. 1 Bank performance                              Rating
3 Lending                                          OHS OS  OU  OHU
3 Supervision                                      OHS OS  OU  OHU
Z Overall                                          OHS OS O u O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
3 Preparation                                      OHS OS  O U  O HU
G Government implementation performance            O HS O S  0 U  0 HU
I Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS  O U  0 HU
Z Overall                                          OHS OS  0 U  O HU
- 23 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. List of Studies included in Project
2. ICR Mission Aide Memoire
3. Implementation Completion Report prepared by the Borrower
4. Implementation Completion Report prepared by the Lusaka Stock Exchange
5. Implementation Completion Report prepared by the Securities and Exchange Commission
6. Implementation Completion Report prepared by the Zambia Competition Commission
7. Implementation Completion Report prepared by the National Social Safety Net
8. Zambia Privatisation Agency progress reports.
- 24 -



PRIVATIZATION AND INDUSTRIAL REFORM
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE (PIRTA) CREDIT N 2406-ZA
AIDE-MEMO)RE
I. Introduction
1.  A World Bank mission consisting of Messrs. Oliver Campbell White (Senior
Public Enterprise & Privatization Specialist - AFTPS) and Emile Sawaya (Consultant)
visited Zambia between January 18 and February 17, 2000 to undertake an
implementation completion review of and the Privatization and Industrial Reform
Technical Assistance (PIRTA) Credit No. 2406-ZA. This credit closed on December 31,
1999. The mission had earlier received a copy of a comprehensive report prepared by the
Government as its contribution to the ICR. The purpose of this mission was to follow up
on points arising from that report and to confirm the beneficiaries' acceptance of the
report's findings and to obtain their views on the lessons learned. The mission would like
to thank the Government and other officials that assisted it in its work during this visit.
2.  The mission met with representatives of the main beneficiary institutions. The
main points that were raised are noted below and will be reflected in the Implementation
Completion Report. A key issue which arose in the cases of agencies funded from the
Government's budget is the threat to their sustainability due to inadequate funding. Each
of these agencies reported receiving a budget allocation well below what it had requested
and only intermittent payments from Treasury.
Zambia Privatisation Agency (ZPA)
3.  ZPA officials confirmed their agreement with the Government's contribution to the
ICR and the table of divestitures which will be included in the ICR.
4.  A problem has arisen over the acquisition of vehicles under PIRTA in the third
quarter of 1999. Although the vehicles were imported, the documentation sent to the
Bank's loans department led them to assume that not all the costs were foreign and hence
would only approve 85% of the purchase cost. The Project Co-ordinator will take up this
matter with the Bank's disbursements department. Meanwhile the vehicles have not been
released.
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
5.  PIRTA helped establish SEC as the securities regulatory agency. Whilst SEC has
managed to maintain its capacity, it faces difficulties because of its very tight financial
position. When SEC was established, it had been anticipated that economic growth
would result in more companies coming to the market. In the event, the number of
members of the Lusaka Stock Exchange has fallen since 1997 (from 6 to 4), SEC has had



to reduce its registration fees in order to be in line with other capital markets in the
region, and no new companies have been listed since 1998. SEC is therefore dependent
on Government financial support and is unable at present to tackle the steps it has
identified to resolve the impediments to capital market development.
Energy Regulation Board (ERB)
6.   ERB is very positive about the benefits of assistance provided under PIRTA. It is
now an accepted regulatory agency, operates without any government intervention, and is
financially self-sufficient. ERB has completed four electricity and four petroleum tariff
reviews and, very recently, has issued the first four licences to private companies in the
petroleum sector.
7.   Only four Board Members were appointed (the minimum required to form a
quorum) but one member resigned on taking up a post in a company which comes under
the ERB's aegis. At the present time, therefore, the ERB does not have a quorum to
conduct its business. The mission drew this matter to Government's attention.
8.   ERR has released draft electricity standards (covering both quality of supply and
quality of service) for the general public and interested parties to comment on them.
Zambia Competition Commission (ZCC)
9.   PIRTA supported the setting up of ZCC which, following the appointment of its
Executive Director in August 1997, began its work in March 1998. Today, the
Comnnission has four divisions: Economics, Consumer Welfare, Legal, and Accounts
& Administration. Three of the four divisions (all but the Legal Division) are headed
up by a director but, due to the funding constraint, only Consumer Affairs has any
(one) technical staff.  The Board of Commissioners of ZCC comprises persons
nominated by 13 specified institutions.  So far, 11 persons have been appointed
Commissioners.
10. Since its inception in March 1998, ZCC received 837 inquiries, to the end of
December 1999; 211 by telephone, 541 through physical visits, and 185 by
correspondence. Telephone and physical visits are fast track resolution processes,
handled by ZCC's Complaints Desk in the reception area. Letters include those that are
to be followed up by Positive Community action; the remainder are logged as new ZCC
cases. Of the 104 cases logged up to end December 1999, ZCC had referred 9 to other
regulatory bodies, had completed 81 cases, and had 14 cases in progress. The majority of
cases are related to trade practices, and mergers and acquisitions:



CompetWton Commission Activity: March 1998-December 1999
Cases       Cases        Total
Cases     referred to   Carried    Number of
Completed   other bodies   Over        Cases
Violations under Section 7 (restrictive  25        9           4          38
trade practices)
Investigations  under  Section  8    26            0           8          34
(mergers and acquisitions)
Investigations under Section 9 (trade  13          0           0          13
agreemnents)
Investigations under Section 10 (anti-  2          0           0           2
compeOtive  trade  practices  by
associations)
Investigations under Section 12 (unfair  13        1           2          16
trade practces)
Consumer tights                       2            0           1           3
TOTAL                                81           10          1 5         104
ZCC is currently receiving some 36 cases per months, of which about 5 are leading to
cases. However, the degree of complexity of the cases is increasing.
11. A notable feature of ZCC's work has been its introduction of a signed compliance
programme when concluding an acquisition or merger case. Copies of ZCC's decisions
are filed with UNCTAD, which has suggested that ZCC should become the centre of
excellence in Eastern and Southern Africa for competition regulation.
12. ZCC's effectiveness is constrained by insufficient funding; and there is fear that,
as a result, it may lose some of its key staff to the proposed regional competition
authority. ZCC is currently unable to fill 9 of its technical staff vacancies and cannot
afford to print and circulate pamphlets regarding consumer rights and ZCC's work. In
an effort to meet the shortfall in government funding, ZCC has resorted to charging
fees in connection with its work on acquisitions and mergers but this poses a question
about ZCC's objectivity in deciding priorities.
National Social Safety Net (NSSN)
13. The NSSN was an important component of PIRC to provide a safety valve to
enable reforms and privatization. The NSSN provided the mission with a PIRC
completion report which it had prepared. The report sets out details of the assistance to
staff training, study tours, training programs for displaced workers, an NSSN media
campaign, and equipment provided under PIRC.
14. The NSSN is an apex institution which coordinates safety net programs. The
mission was provided with a copy of a report which evaluated the policy, institutional,
and program framework over the period 1993-1999. This shows that over that period
some 17,200 persons received counseling and 9,752 persons were trained, of which 2,320
are known to have secured gainful employment.



Communications Authority
15. Board and some staff training were funded under PIRC. Unfortunately, following
the appointment of a new Minister, all the Board members were replaced. However, that
training did form the basis for the rules that have been developed and adopted. The
Authority has issued licences for: (i) 3 cellular operators; (ii) 4 internet providers; (iii) 2
public payphone operators; (iv) some 8,000 private radio communication stations
(including 8 private networks); (v) ZNBC; and (vi) 8 private FM broadcasting stations
(including 4 community broadcasting stations).
16. The Authority is responsible for monitoring and evaluating the perfornance of
ZAMTEL under a signed performance contract (which has since expired). In the event,
ZAMTEL did not achieve its performance targets and, if a new contract is to be
negotiated the Authority is considering relaxing the targets to make them realistically
achievable. However, the real reasons for ZAMTEL's failure to perform are not clear.
For the moment, no work is being undertaken to prepare a new performance contract
because of the intended sale of ZAMTEL shares to a core investor. The Authority
informed the mission that it has not been consulted over the sale of ZAMTEL shares and
the mission accordingly recommended that ZPA and the Communications Authority
should coordinate over this important transaction.
17. The Authority informed the mission that is has been operating at a deficit over the
past three years. It is currently able to meet its ongoing operational costs from licence fee
revenues but it does not have the capital to invest in monitoring equipment which it needs
to discharge its monitoring function.
Ministry of Legal Affairs
18. The Legal Drafting Department (LDD) had been hamnpered by a high staff turnover
rate and the difficulty of recruiting an intemational advisor. MOLA staff were trained
under PIRTA during 1998 and, since then, have been able to retain all staff; and a senior
parliamentary draftsman has been recruited internationally under the ongoing project
(ERIPTA). Today, the LDD is much better place to handle the heavy load of legislative
instruments and regulations needed to improve the business environment.
Pensions and Insurance Authority
19. Although not included in the original project design, the project did provide support
to establish the Pensions and Insurance Authority (PIA). At the present time, PIA still
lacks a Board of Directors and this situation will prevail until a proposed Pensions and
Insurance Authority Act is passed. Although there are some 300 pension schemes to be
registered (and have been for some time), registration is still not possible because Section
7 of the Pensions Scheme Regulation Act, 1996, which sets out the functions of the
Authority, refers only to multi-employer trusts, whereas in practice the existing schemes
were set up as sole employer trusts (however, PIA is able to register pensions scheme
fund managers, mostly insurance companies but there are a few others). With the
introduction of the National Pension Scheme on February 1, 2000 it is possible that some
employers/employees will decide to terminate company schemes rather than pay into two



schemes. A redrafted Pensions Scheme Regulation Amendment Bill was submitted to
MOLA in September 1999 but no response has yet been received. PIA has attempted to
take an inventory of pensions schemes but only about 200 responded. Without legal
registration, PIA is currently unable legally to demand information from those who have
failed to respond.
20. PIA has licensed 7 insurance firms and 35 insurance brokers. PIA has carried out
an inspection of the premises of Lusaka-based brokers and, on the basis of its findings,
will demote some brokers to agency status. PIA will shortly inspect the premises of
brokers outside Lusaka.
21. PIA's administrative costs have to be fully funded by Government. Although PIA
does levy fees from insurance licensing, those fees are, in accordance with legislation,
paid into a Policy Holders' Protection Fund, which is to be used to protect policy
holders in the event of the collapse of a firm. There are currently no licence fees for
registering pension funds.  Due to a minimal budget with funding only on an
intermittent basis, PIA is unable to pay the rent and has had to relocate staff back to the
former NCDP premises. The Registrar and Legal Counsel have not yet relocated due
to lack of office space. Due to the financial constraints, PIA is living hand-to-mouth.
This has impacted on staff morale and inhibited PIA's recruitment drive. Added to
this, the staff have become further demoralised by learning that their Government
remuneration packages are inferior to those of other regulatory bodies. In order to
improve staff morale and bring PIA up to strength and improve its performance, the
Government should look again at the issue of PIA's financial sustainability and
reconsider the possibility of PIA becoming self-financing through levies/fees from the
pensions and insurance industry. Again, it is difficult to forecast what will happen to
existing private pensions funds now that the National Pension Scheme has come into
force.
Lusaka, 17 February 2000






24-                                                                                                 Toogoo      - o-
/9t4< 9 ~~~~~~~T A N Z A N I A
Z  A   M    Bbolo XTMTo
TRUNK AND MAIN ROADS        RIVERS           %                           o_ )enXe    
RAILROADS                   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
o  SELECTED CITIES             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                 k                            kO
o   PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                          KASA\A
*   NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                          N   0   R  T          R
DEM. REP OF CONGO                                                                                                             Look
/ / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M A L AW I
tA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EY
mONGU  nsL USAKA                                                               t U         mpiD kREPOFCONT6
A6 N                     2SOUTHEttttT   or        0   L  A                                                                                                  L.. BX 
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OP4
~~~~~~~~~~~~--y   4SO5                                         0  5  0  5KILOMETRS.  p  
kuu                                                       NAL                                                                  M I  B  I       AFRICA
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ =R gWANDA                                                                                                                                  K6 a cEptNYefuhAadre >. ;_.... .



