Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2406 ZA
               (Privatization and Industrial Reform
                   Technical Assistance Project)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated July 13, 1992
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2406 ZA
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 13, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
Page  2
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a)   "Public Utilities" means Posts and Telecommunications
Corporation Limited, Zambia Railways Limited, Zambia Electricity
Supply Corporation Limited, Zimoil, Tazama Pipelines Limited, Indeni
Petroleum Refinery Company Limited, and other public utilities
corporations;
      (b)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated September 10, 1991, and
September 11, 1991, between the Borrower and the Association; and
      (c)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
      (d)   "ZIMCO" means the Zambia Industrial and Mining
Corporation Limited, a holding company established under the laws of
the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to seven
million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 7,300,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in US Dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
Page  3
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each January 1 and July 1 commencing
July 2002, and ending January 1, 2032. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on January 1, 2012, shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due con-
sideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
Page  4
required for the Project.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
      (a)   at the beginning of each year with effect from 1993
until 1997 submit to the Association for review its updated annual
privatization plan satisfactory to the Association; and
      (b)   implement the said privatization plan taking into
account the views of the Association.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall assign counterpart staff to
every consultant employed under the Project and shall ensure that
consultants train counterpart staff assigned to them.
      Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall, not
later than December 31, 1993, carry out a mid-term Project imple-
mentation review to: (i) monitor progress in carrying out the
Project; (ii) review the number and size of companies privatized;
(iii) draw up a privatization plan for 1994 to 1997; (iv) review the
role, performance and independence of the Privatization Agency; (v)
review the performance of consultants employed under the Project and
consultant training of counterpart staff; and (vi) review progress
in enacting amendments to business-related laws.
      (b)   Not later than four weeks prior to such review, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its review and
comments a report in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request including: (i) an evaluation of progress achieved by the
Borrower in Project implementation, with particular emphasis on the
number and size of companies privatized; (ii) a draft privatization
action plan to be carried out until completion of the Project; and
(iii) appointment of local counterpart staff.
      (c)   Promptly after carrying out the mid-term review, the
Borrower shall implement the recommendations arising out of said
review.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than six
                   months after the end of each such year, a
                   certified copy of the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Association such other
Page  5
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
                   Association has received the audit report for
                   the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                   from the Credit Account or payment out of the
                   Special Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
          (iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effectiveness; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   a Project Coordinator with qualifications and terms of
reference acceptable to the Association has been appointed and has
taken up his post; and
      (b)   the Borrower has enacted the Privatization Act
acceptable to the Association.
      Section 5.02. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            P.O. Box 50062
            Lusaka, Zambia
            Cable address:                 Telex:
Page  6
                   MINFIN                    42221
                   Lusaka
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
                         By /s/ Lazarus Kapambwe
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                           SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Consultants'              6,000,000        100%
     Services
(2)  Training                    210,000        100%
(3)  Equipment and               500,000        100% of foreign
     Other Services                             expenditures and
                                                80% of local
                                                expenditures
(4)  Vehicles and                210,000        100% of foreign
     spare parts                                expenditures and
                                                80% of local
                                                expenditures
(5)  Refunding of                380,000        Amounts due pur-
Page  7
     Project                                    suant to Section
     Preparation                                2.02 (c) of this
     Advance                                    Agreement
                              __________
         TOTAL                 7,300,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   the term "other services" includes costs of advertising,
printing and related services.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The main objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
implementing its parastatal reform privatization program and other
economic reform measures needed to improve the environment for a
thriving private sector.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Parastatal Reforms
1.    Preparing a plan for the transformation of ZIMCO and its
subsidiaries.
2.    Preparing a plan for the transformation of non-ZIMCO
parastatals.
3.    Preparing business plans and performance standards for the
public utilities.
4.    Carrying out studies for the adoption of an automatic price
adjustment mechanism for the public utilities.
5.    Establishment of a Public Utilities Commission.
6.    Acquisition of vehicles and equipment.
Part B:     Privatization Program
1.    Development and implementation of a program of divestiture and
privatization of parastatals, including preparation and restruc-
turing of companies to be sold, valuation, negotiations for sale,
and preparation of sale documents, advertising and related
activities.
2.    Preparing a plan of action for the privatization of non-ZIMCO
parastatals.
Part C:    Private Sector Development
1.    (a)   Preparation and introduction of measures for the
development of the private sector.
Page  8
      (b)   Carrying out a review of business and commercial laws
and recommend appropriate changes to support the development of the
private sector.
      (c)   Preparation and drafting of new laws and amending
existing laws.
2.    Preparation of an action plan of cooperation between the
Borrower and the business community.
3.    Carrying out a review of all monopolies and recommend actions
for their removal.
4.    Establishment of a Monopolies Commission.
5.    (a)   Carrying out a review of the functions and powers of the
Bank of Zambia.
      (b)   Strengthening the capacity of the Bank of Zambia in
regulating, supervising and monitoring commercial bank activities.
      (c)   Carrying out a review of the non-bank financial sector.
6.    (a)   Establishment of arrangements to facilitate the sale and
purchase of shares.
      (b)   Development and establishment of a Stock Exchange.
Part D:     Social Action Program
      The implementation of a social action plan to provide a safety
net for vulnerable groups, including those made redundant by the
government services and parastatals.
Part E:    Training
1.    Training for officials in methods of privatization of state-
owned companies, parastatal reforms, legal reforms, legal drafting,
banking and finance.
2.    Developing a training program for the vulnerable groups.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part B hereof, vehicles shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for vehicles shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more.
Part B:     Other Procurement Procedures
      Equipment up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $300,000 may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
Page  9
2.    Office and other equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $300,000 may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited
from a list of at least three qualified suppliers within Zambia
eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association or from a list of at least three
suppliers from at least two different countries eligible under the
Guidelines, and in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
3.    Printing, advertising and other services estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of $100,000 may be procured directly from
suppliers of such services in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Association.
Part C:    Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for vehicles and equipment
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall
be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
Page  10
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   requests for deposits into the Special Account
                   at such intervals as the Association shall
                   specify.
           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required
                   pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
                   such request, the Association shall, on behalf
                   of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
                   Account and deposit into the Special Account
                   such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
                   and as shall have been shown by said documents
                   and other evidence to have been paid out of the
                   Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Page  11
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request, or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
