Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H355-RW 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Fourth Poverty Reduction Support Grant) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated March 7, 2008
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H355-RW
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated March 7, 2008, entered into between REPUBLIC OF RWANDA 
(
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for 
the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this 
Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
(a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and which are described 
in Section I of the Schedule to this Agreement, and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an 
appropriate macroeconomic policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore 
hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to forty four million one 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 44,100,000
)
(“Financing”).   
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of the Schedule to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Un-withdrawn 
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.  
 
2.05.  
The Payment Currency is the Dollar.   
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action 
to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing which would have the effect 
of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under 
the Program, including any action specified in Section I of the Schedule to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following; a situation has arisen 
which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be carried 
out. 
ARTICLE V 
—
TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement. 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is the Recipient’s minister at the time responsible for 
finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning 
P. O. Box 158 
Kigali 
Rwanda 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(250) 57 75 81 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Kigali, Rwanda, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA 
 
By /s/ James Musoni 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By /s/ Colin Bruce 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following: 
A. Health
Submission 
to the Recipient’s Parliament of a law, satisfactory to the 
Association, regulating health insurance in the Recipient’s territory. 
B. Education
Completion of an assessment, satisfactory to the Association, of newly 
established lower secondary schools to identify the resource needs of these 
schools. 
C. Energy
Submission to the Recipient’s Parliament of legislation, satisfactory to the 
Association, establishing separate water and electricity utilities designed to 
improve the management and performance of the water and electricity sectors. 
D. Water
Mainstreaming of the Water and Sanitation Strategy and Integrated Water 
Resources Management National Program in the Recipient’s 2008 budget 
through the allocation of funds to strengthen implementation and monitoring 
capacity at central and regional level. 
E. Agriculture
Allocation of increased resources in the Recipient’s 2008 budget, satisfactory to 
the Association, for water harvesting and irrigation in the Bugesera and Kirehe 
regions of the Recipient’s territory. 
F. Financial 
Sector
Submission to the Recipient’s Parliament of a micro-finance law, satisfactory to 
the Association.  
Page  7
6
G. 
Public Expenditure Management
Introduction and application in each of the Recipient’s Districts of a software 
program, satisfactory to the Association, designed to assist the Districts in the 
management and monitoring of their budgets. 
H. Public 
Procurement
Adoption of public procurement regulations, standards, and standard bidding 
documents, satisfactory to the Association, and publication of the aforementioned 
on the website of the Recipient’s National Tender Board. 
I. Fiscal 
Decentralization
Publication on the Recipient’s website, in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association, of: (a) a District budget execution report, satisfactory to the 
Association, for the period from January through June 2007; and (b) an 
evaluation, satisfactory to the Association, of performance for the period January 
to September 2007 under the District Imihigo System.  
J. 
Civil Service Reform
Completion, in a manner satisfactory to the Association, of functional reviews of 
the following ministries: (i) Ministry of Education; (ii) Ministry of Finance and 
Economic Planning; (iii) Ministry of Health; (iv) Ministry of Infrastructure; 
(v) 
Ministry of Lands, Environment, Forestry, Water, and Mines; and 
(vi) Ministry of Public Service, Skills Development, Vocational Training, and 
Labor. 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may 
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a single 
tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table 
below: 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
 
Single Tranche 
44,100,000  
TOTAL AMOUNT 
44,100,000 
Page  8
7
C. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:   
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the Association into an 
account designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the Association; and 
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing into this 
account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient
’s budget management 
system, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
D. Audit.
 
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
1. 
have the account referred to in Section II.C.1 of the Schedule to this Agreement audited 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance with consistently 
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association; 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than  
four (4) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy 
of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request; and  
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such account and its audit 
as the Association shall reasonably request.
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures.
 
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing 
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures.  If the Association determines at any 
time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded 
Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the 
Association upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2008. 
Page  9
8
APPENDIX 
Section I.  Definitions 
1. 
“District” means an administrative area of the Recipient, established pursuant to the 
Recipient’s Law No. 29/2005 of December 31, 2005, representing a designated area and 
population within the territory of the Recipient. 
2. 
“District Imihigo System” means the performance contracts signed between the 
Recipient’s President and each of the District mayors for the implementation of key 
programs in their mayors’ respective Districts. 
3. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the 
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or loan; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient: 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
Page  10
9
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which 
the Recipient is a party; 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the Recipient (or 
other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to 
the Association to address such practices when they occur. 
4. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
5. 
“Integrated Water Resources Management National Program” means the Recipient’s 
program designed to assure sustainable and integrated water resources management and 
development for multipurpose use and set forth or referred to in the following documents: 
(a) the water law; (b) the human resources development program; (c) the database 
management; and (d) the technical studies document. 
6. 
“National Tender Board” means the Recipient’s entity established and operating under its 
prime minister’s order of December 31, 2002 and responsible for the organization and 
management of public procurement policy. 
7. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives, and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the 
letter dated December 21, 2007 from the Recipient to the Association declaring the 
Page  11
10
Recipient
’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from 
the Association in support of the Program during its execution. 
8. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of the Schedule to this 
Agreement. 
9. 
“Water and Sanitation Strategy” means the Recipient’s strategy designed to implement 
priorities of water and sanitation policy adopted by the Recipient’s Cabinet in  
March 2004. 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for Credits 
and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing 
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
Page  12
11
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association 
of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing.” 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in support 
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
Financing Agreement.” 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support 
of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these 
General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”. 
__________
 
