Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3556 
Operation Name 
Fourth Poverty Reduction Strategy Grant 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Energy transport and water (45%); General Public Administration 
(20%); Education and Health (20%); General Agriculture (15%) 
Project ID 
P104990 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND ECONOMIC PLANNING 
Date PID Prepared 
January 9, 2008 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
December 12, 2007 
Date of Board Approval 
February 12, 2008 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
The consolidation of the reforms in the social sectors is needed to improve the skills of the labor 
force, which the Country Economic Memorandum (CEM) noted will be critical to sustained 
long-term growth.  The CEM also found that the low infrastructure base, coupled with the high 
cost of delivering related services, currently pose the most immediate constraints to growth and 
poverty reduction.  Therefore, the PRSG is focused on supporting measures to ease the 
constraints to growth. 
The first series of Poverty Reduction Support Grants (PRSG 1 to 3) focused on supporting the 
efforts of the Government of Rwanda (GoR) to reduce poverty by improving the delivery of 
basic services.  PRSG 1 to 3 supported Rwanda뭩 first Poverty Reduction Strategy Program 
(PRSP) to lay the foundation for improved service delivery for human development and growth.  
Overall, the series supported: (a) policy measures to improve the investment climate and 
development of the private sector, with a focus on export promotion; (b) improvements in the 
quality, coverage, and equity of basic service delivery to support human development, with a 
focus on outcome-oriented spending; and (c) an enhanced overall public expenditure 
management and economic governance process, with emphasis on results and expanding the 
voice and participation of citizens.  
Implementation over the course of PRSG 1 to 3 has been satisfactory, and has resulted in 
substantial achievements in the following areas:  According to the two household surveys 
(EICV), primary school net enrollment rose from 72 in 2002 to 95 percent in 2006, and 
completion rates increased from 30 to 52 percent. Immunization rates have improved 
considerably with a coverage rate of 85 percent for DPT3, over the period, which is now among 
the highest in Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). The use of insecticide-treated bed nets increased from 
4
to 40 percent of the population between 2004 and 2006, and is expected to reach 60 percent by 
end-2007.  Access to health insurance was scaled up from 7 to 55 percent of the population 
between 2003 and 2006, leading to increased use of health services (e.g., assisted deliveries have 
increased, and under five mortality decreased by 25 percent from 2000 to 2005, bringing rates 
back to pre-genocide levels).  Infrastructure services are also making gains: through local-level 
and private operator schemes, an additional 600,000 people in rural areas gained access to 
Page  2
potable water in 2005; and over the past three years, an additional one million people (14 percent 
of the population) gained access to safe water.  In the energy sector, the GoR was able to pass 
through the cost of oil price increases in 2005, and is now aggressively pursuing the development 
of Lake Kivu gas to ease energy costs and increase supply and access for the population in the 
future. 
The post-conflict economic growth rebound effect is over as GDP growth was in the range of 4-6 
percent during the period 2004-06.  In contrast, the average annual growth rate was 9.3 percent 
between 1996 and 2001, and declined to an average growth rate of 5 percent between 1998 and 
2006.  Prospects are for average growth rates to continue in the range of 4 to 6 percent for the 
foreseeable future, which will likely to be too low to meet the GoR뭩 2020 poverty reduction 
targets.  In addition, the recent poverty assessment suggests there has been a marginal reduction 
in national poverty rates, and some increase in rural-urban inequality over the period 2001 to 
2005
1
.
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
Given the above context, the next series of PRSGs (PRSG-4 to 6) will focus on the following 
areas:  (i) reforms and adoption of policies to improve the infrastructure base of the economy and 
increase access to infrastructure services while continuing to consolidate the gains made in the 
social sectors with the aim of increasing the supply of skilled labor; (ii) improve efficiency of 
spending; (iii) strengthen capacity to implement through the adoption of civil service reforms to 
improve ministerial structures and provide incentives to staff, increase skills of the civil service, 
and reduce turn-over.  Specifically, the operation will support the following areas under PRSG-4:   

Higher transfers per capita per year to health centers to support Performance Based 
Financing (PBF) with a focus on improving assisted deliveries 

Submission to Parliament of a Law on health insurance (including financing framework 
and regulation) to help improve the affordability of healthcare 

Development of a teacher management policy to provide a framework for improving the 
supply of well trained and qualified teachers 

Establishment of two laws to separate the water and electricity utilities (that is designed 
to improve performance and transparency in the cost-structure) 

Adoption of measures to develop a water and sanitation strategy and an integrated water 
resources management program with the aim of improving access to potable water and 
sanitation services 

Establishment of a micro-finance law  

Adoption of a budget management software in the Districts to facilitate budget 
preparation and monitoring 

Adoption of regulation, standards and bidding documents along with their use by 
procuring agencies, and posting these on the National Tender Board website 

Support to strengthening the District Reporting of spending and making this readily 
available on the Government website  
1
It is important to note that these trends were influenced by the large influx of population following the genocide.  Many of the 
people who returned moved to rural areas and were relatively poor.
 
Page  3

Completion of functional reviews for 6 key ministries (Ministry of Finance, Ministry of 
Public Service and Labor, Ministry of Education, Ministry of Infrastructure, Ministry of 
Land and Environment, Ministry of Health) to inform plans for staffing levels and 
ministerial structures. 
 
To this end, the series builds upon the successes of the first series of the PRSGs, particularly the 
transfer of resources for performance-based contracting of high-impact health services via local 
health centers.  The second PRSG series will also aim to support GoR in its attempt to replicate 
this success in the infrastructure and agriculture sectors.  The objective is to develop a basis for 
sustained growth through supporting measures to improve the efficiency of spending and use of 
aid funds.  PRSG-4 preparation capitalizes on the much improved, fully government-led donor 
coordination, a direct result of the budget support program in Rwanda.  It will also support the 
development of a Common Performance Assessment Framework (CPAF) for monitoring the 
EDPRS that will also help to reduce the transaction costs to Government related to their 
reporting on the use of aid funds, to donors. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
This PRSG series supports
 the GoR뭩 increased focus on growth as outlined in the EDPRS while 
consolidating the progress made in the social sectors under the first PRSP.  The aim is support 
measures to ease the infrastructure constraints to growth and build the human capital and skills 
base required to transform the economy to be export based and service oriented. Starting with the 
proposed PRSG 4, for an amount of SDR 44.1 (equivalent to USD 70 million), and continuing 
with PRSG 5 and 6, each for an amount of SDR 38.4 million (equivalent to USD 60 million), 
there will be continued support to decentralized service delivery, particularly in education, 
health, and water, and an increased emphasis on improving access to infrastructure services (i.e. 
in the transport and energy sectors), as well as in the agriculture sector.  In close collaboration 
with the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the PRSG will continue to support the maintenance 
of a stable macro-environment through policies to promote appropriate monetary policy and 
exchange rates.  Ongoing decentralization reforms and capacity at the central and district levels 
will be needed to ensure effective implementation of policies.  Support for fiscal decentralization 
reforms will focus on improving monitoring and reporting on district spending, to ensure 
alignment of fiscal and monetary policies.  PRSG 4 will also support ongoing reforms to increase 
the results orientation of the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF), at both the 
national and district level while integrating it more strongly in the budget process.  Overall, the 
operation will emphasize support for reforms that will promote increased spending efficiency, 
with the aim of laying the foundation for increased absorption of higher aid inflows to support 
growth.  This series of PRSGs will also continue to build on Rwanda뭩 progress in good 
governance since 1994, particularly in regard to building institutional capacity in the areas of 
procurement and public financial management. 
 
4. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower/Recipient 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
70 
 Total 
70 
Page  4
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
Given the nature of the operation, institutional and implementation arrangements will rely on 
Government processes and will also be aimed toward building capacity.  In particular, 
monitoring and evaluation arrangements will continue to rely on government arrangements with 
the aim of strengthening government capacity and institutions.
 
MINECOFIN뭩 Strategic 
Planning Unit is responsible for overall monitoring of the EDPRS.  In addition, the Budget 
Monitoring and Reporting team report on spending of the budget and related outputs.  This team 
also ensures that the sector spending plans are incorporated into the macro-MTEF, and budget.  
The Bank will work closely with these two units to monitor spending and outputs achieved under 
the next series of PRSGs 
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
Expected benefits are as follows:  (i) increased access to infrastructure services while continuing 
to consolidate and improve access to education and health services to increase the supply of 
skilled labor in the workforce; (ii) improved efficiency of spending by supporting reforms to 
strengthen the MTEF and public procurement process; (iii) strengthened capacity to implement 
through support to civil service reforms to improve ministerial structures and provide incentives 
to staff, increase skills of the civil service, and reduce turn-over.  The series builds upon the 
successes of the first series of PRSGs, particularly the performance-based contracting of high-
impact health services via local health centers and per student transfers in the education sector to 
support increased hiring and incentives for teachers at the District level.  The second PRSG 
series will also aim to support GoR in its attempt to replicate this success in the infrastructure 
and agriculture sectors.  The objective is to develop a basis for sustained growth through 
supporting measures to improve the efficiency of spending and use of aid funds.  PRSG-4 
preparation capitalizes on the much improved, fully government-led donor coordination, a direct 
result of the budget support program in Rwanda.  It will also support the development of a 
Common Performance Assessment Framework (CPAF) for monitoring the EDPRS that will help 
to reduce the transaction costs to Government related to their reporting on the use of aid funds, to 
donors. 
 
Though international and regional efforts to mitigate instability continue, the risk of flare ups in 
the region Congo is not negligible. The Bank supports efforts aimed at fostering peace and 
security between Rwanda and its neighbors.  Internally Rwanda뭩 security and political situation 
remains stable.  Predictability of donor financing, particularly the size of World Bank 
disbursements, is an issue, though alignment of donor disbursements with the GoR뭩 budget 
cycle has improved. Risks associated with weaknesses in the country뭩 fiduciary framework, 
particularly at decentralized levels, is a concern.  However, the second PRSG series, beginning 
with PRSG-4, will support the GoR뭩 capacity building efforts in the above areas, which would 
help to mitigate this risk. 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
This operation is governed by Operational Policy (OP) 8.60, 
Development Policy Lending, 
and 
therefore is not subject to OP 4.01, 
Environmental Assessment.  
In the current PRSG series 
environmental aspects are likely to arise through measures to support irrigation and marshland 
Page  5
development, and the development of certain export areas such as mining activities.  In the case 
of irrigation and marshland development Government has developed the environmental 
framework for marshland development.  The development of irrigation schemes will require 
adequate resources to control the incidence of water-borne diseases, pollution of surface and 
groundwater by agrochemicals, water-logging and salinization of soils, and population 
resettlement.  Similarly, it will be important to address the potential environmental impacts from 
preparation of the mining strategy. 
 
The PRSG series will adopt a two-phase approach to helping the Government address the 
potential environmental impacts that may arise in the course of the operation.  In cases where 
involve direct investment to occur immediately, PRSG-4 will rely on the on-going IDA 
operations in water, agriculture, private sector development, and on small grants for 
environmental capacity building provided by UNEP to implement such measures.  The second 
phase of support takes a much longer view, and will seek to mainstream improved environmental 
stewardship into the medium-term expenditure framework of MINITERE.  Appropriate 
resources will need to be allocated to well-targeted capacity building activities at the central and 
district level, and to cross-sectoral technical support aimed at addressing the environmental 
management needs of the second and subsequent series of PRSGs.  The integration of 
environmental mitigation aspects into the irrigation master plan, and the mining strategy will be 
the important actions under this second phase.  The approach will focus on a long-term sustained 
support to building capacity to address environmental concerns in the implementation of the 
EDPRS
 
8. Contact point 
Contact: Kene Ezemenari 
Title: Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-5559 
Fax:  
Email: KEzemenari@worldbank.org 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
