      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      3A-W Africa Transp. & Transit Facilitat (P079749)



                                                                                                              Report Number : ICRR0020127


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                            Project Name
 P079749                                               3A-W Africa Transp. & Transit Facilitat

 Country                                               Practice Area(Lead)
 Western Africa                                        Transport & ICT



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                    Closing Date (Original)                                     Total Project Cost (USD)
  IDA-44350,IDA-44380,IDA-44390                       31-Mar-2014                                                            197,200,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                  Closing Date (Actual)
  19-Jun-2008                                         30-Jun-2015

                                                            IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                  Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                         190,000,000.00                                                          0.00

  Revised Commitment                                          188,250,077.79                                                          0.00

  Actual                                                      175,559,173.76                                                          0.00




 Sector(s)
 Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways(81%):Central government administration(10%):General transportation sector(7%):Other social
 services(1%):Health(1%)

 Theme(s)
 Regional integration(67%):Trade facilitation and market access(33%)

 Prepared by                        Reviewed by                          ICR Review Coordinator           Group
 Ranga Rajan Krishnamani            Peter Nigel Freeman                  Christopher David Nelson         IEGSD (Unit 4)




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives
    The project development objectives as stated in the Financing Agreements of Burkina Faso (Schedule 1, page 6), Mali (Schedule 1, page 6),
    Ghana (Schedule 1, page 6) and in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, page ix) were:
    (1) To improve access by Burkina Faso and Mali to the ports in Ghana and port operations. (2) To facilitate the efficient movement
    of traffic along the Tema- Ougadougou- Bamako road transport corridor ("the Corridor").
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          3A-W Africa Transp. & Transit Facilitat (P079749)




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     No



c.   Components
     This project with three participating countries - Burkina Faso, Mali and Ghana - was the first pilot phase of the West Africa Economic and
     Monetary Union (WAEMU) / Ghana Road Program (RP-1). WAMEU is a regional economic organization with member countries, Benin,
     Togo, Burkina Faso, Guinea Bissau, Mali, Niger, Senegal and Cote d'Ivoire. This phase focused on rehabilitation of roads along the port of
     Tema (Ghana) - Ouagadougou (Burkina Faso) - Bamako (Mali) road transport corridor.
     Component One. Corridor road infrastructure improvement. The total estimated cost at appraisal was US$162.70 million. (This
     included the appraisal estimate of US$60.80 million for Burkina Faso, US$29.90 million for Mali and US$72.00 million for
     Ghana).The actual total cost at closure was US151.39 million. (This included actual cost of US$51.39 million for Burkina Faso, US$27.60
     million for Mali and US$72.00 million for Ghana). This component aimed at rehabilitating the key sections of the Corridor.
     Sub component activities included: (1) Rehabilitation of 54 kilometers (Km) of roads in Burkina Faso, 103 km in Ghana and 154 km in Mali.
     (ii) Construction of two rest stops in each country. (iii) Implementation of social and environmental mitigation measures (including
     Environmental Impact Assessments (EIA) and Environmental Mitigation Plans (EMP) in the three countries and an Abbreviated
     Resettlement Action Plan (ARAP) for Burkina Faso. (According to Operations Policies (OP 4.12), ARAP are expected to cover the
     following elements: (a) Census survey of displaced persons and valuation of their assets. (b) Description of compensation and other
     resettlement assistance to be provided. (c) Consultations with displaced people about acceptable alternatives. (d)
     Implementing procedures for grievance redress. (e) Arrangements for monitoring, and, (f) A timetable and budget). The ICR does not
     provide details on when ARAP is used. and, (iv), implementing corridor- specific Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired
     Immunodeficiency Syndrome (HIV/AIDS) action plans for mitigating the propagation of HIV/AIDS among high risk groups, such as truck
     drivers. and, (v) implementing corridor-specific road safety action plans and support for monitoring and evaluation.
     Component Two. Corridor transport and transit facilitation measures. The total estimated cost at appraisal was US$28.70 million.
     (including US$6.80 million for Burkina Faso, US$11.30 million for Mali and US$10.60 million for Ghana). The total actual cost at closure
     was US$21.93 million. (including US$3.40 million for Burkina Faso, US$7.93 million for Mali and US$10.60 million for Ghana). This
     component aimed at strengthening the capacity of customs and transport authorities of the project countries to manage transit traffic along
     the Corridor.
     Sub-component activities included: (i) Construction of a Satellite Truck Transit Village (STTV) adjacent to Tema port for transit trucks and
     truckers.(ii) Rehabilitation of the multidimensional platform at the dry port of Faladie (Bamako). (iii) Upgrading customs-related Information
     and Communications Technology (ICT) (including extension of the Automated System for Customs data (ASYCUDA ++) systems in
     Burkina Faso and Mali and connection between the ASYCDA system of Burkina Faso and the customs management system of
     Ghana) and introducing a cargo tracking system for monitoring transit traffic on the Burkina Faso and Mali section of the Corridor. (iv)
     Capacity building, technical assistance and training to the customs and transport authorities of the countries.
     Component Three. Project Management, monitoring and evaluation. The total estimated cost at appraisal was US$3.10 million.
     (including US$1.20 million for Burkina Faso, US$1.00 million for Mali and US$0.90 million for Ghana). The total project cost at closure was
     US$4.59 million. (including US$3.10 million for Burkina Faso, US$0.59 million for Mali and US$0.90 million for Ghana). This component
     financed activities associated with project management and Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E).




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
     Project Cost. The total estimated cost at appraisal was US$197.20 million (This included the baseline cost and a Project Preparation
     Finance (PPF) advance of US$2.70 million). The actual cost at closure was US$180.87 million, 92% of the appraisal estimate.
     Project Financing. The project was financed by a total IDA Grant of US$190.00 million. (This included, US$70.00 million for Burkina
     Faso, US$40.00 million for Mali and US$80.00 million for Ghana). At closure, US$173.54 million of the grant was disbursed. (US$70.00
     million for Burkina Faso, US$29.79 million for Mali and US$73.75 million for Ghana). There was parallel financing for complementary
     transport and transit infrastructure-related activities in the three countries from the African Development Bank (AfDB), the European
     Union (EU), The Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (BADEA), the West African Development Bank (Banque Ouest Africaine
     de Developpement (West African Development Bank, BOAD) and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID).
     Borrower Contribution. At appraisal, the borrower contribution was estimated at US$7.20 million (including US$2.20 million from Mali
     and US$5.00 million for Ghana). None was planned for Burkina Faso. The ICR does not provide reasons as to why no counterpart
     funding was planned for Burkina Faso). At project closure, the counterpart funding was US$7.33 million (Mali contributed more than
     planned at US$6.33 million and Ghana contributed less than planned at US$20.00 million).
     Dates. There were two Level 2 restructurings. The first, on March 28, 2013, reallocated grant proceeds between components in Ghana
     due to the delays in release of counterpart funding from the Government. This reallocation did not affect the implementation of
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       3A-W Africa Transp. & Transit Facilitat (P079749)



    other project components in view of savings from lower roadwork costs. The second restructuring on March 10, 2014, extended the
    project closing date from March 31,2014 to June 30, 2016 for a combination of factors including, completion of ongoing activities in
    Ghana and Mali (activities in Mali had been suspended for about 11 months in the aftermath of the political crisis in March
    2012), implementing the interface/interconnection of the customs management and cargo tracking systems on the Mali and Burkina
    Faso portions of the corridor and addressing the disbursement delays that the project had incurred against the PAD disbursement
    projections in the initial years of the project.
    The project closed 13 months beyond schedule on June 30, 2015.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

   Burkina Faso and Mali are landlocked and dependent on the transport and transit services of neighboring countries for exporting and importing
   goods. Historically, the Abidjan (Cote d'Ivoire) -Ouagadougou - Bamako corridor was the main sea access corridor for Burkina Faso and an
   important corridor for Mali. The deteriorating security situation in Cote d'Ivoire for more than a decade had resulted in a shift in regional transit
   patterns, with transit trade from the two landlocked countries increasingly routed through other regional gateway ports, such as Tema port in
   Ghana. The transit cargo from Mali through Ghana increased by about 650 percent (from 38,000 to about 427,800 metric tons) and for Burkina
   Faso by 488 percent (from 78,000 to 428,000 metric tons), during 2001-2005. This increase, besides contributing to deterioration of roads in
   parts of the Corridor, had contributed to increasing port congestion in and around Tema. Movement of cargo along the corridor was
   characterized by high transports costs and transit times, due to a combination of factors, including poor condition of roads, incomplete
   implementation of regional transit arrangements and poor interconnectivity between the customs systems of the three countries.
   Given expectations at the appraisal stage that Tema would continue to remain a major access gateway in the coming years for Mali and
   Burkina Faso, the project objectives of improving access to Burkina Faso and Mali to the port and improving port facilities at Tema were highly
   relevant to the countries.
   The project objectives continue to be relevant to the government strategies of the three countries. At the appraisal stage, the third pillar of
   Mali's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) highlighted the need for improving transportation infrastructure and expanding domestic and
   international transport links. The first pillar of Burkina Faso's PRSP identified the need for upgrading and maintaining the priority road
   network. The first pillar of Ghana's PRSP highlighted the objective of improving private sector competitiveness. Burkina Faso's development
   strategy articulated in the Accelerated Growth and Sustainable Development Strategy for the 2011-2015 period had the objective of
   accelerating economic growth for sustained poverty reduction and creation of jobs. The new development strategy for Mali was yet to be
   prepared, since its post conflict focus had been on national reconciliation and peace consolidation. However, the government's short term
   Sustainable Recovery Development Plan for the 2013-2014 period identified the need for increasing food production through lowering
   transport costs. Of the seven pillars identified in Ghana's development plan for the 2010-2013 period (Ghana:Shared Growth and
   Development Agenda), the project objective was consistent with the pillar of increasing infrastructure spending for modernizing the existing
   main corridors linking major regional centers of the country with the capital and with neighboring countries.
   The project development objectives were relevant in the context of the Regional Transport Program of the Economic Community of West
   African States (ECOWAS). (ECOWAS was a regional institution of 15 countries in West Africa, including in addition to the three
   project countries, Benin, Cape Verde, Cote d'Ivoire, Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Niger, Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra Leone and
   Togo). This program highlighted the need for rehabilitating the missing sections of the existing deteriorated road corridors linking landlocked
   countries with West African ports. The project development objectives also supported the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD)
   Action plan to improve transport and transit facilities along corridors serving landlocked countries. The project development objective was also
   consistent with the Almaty Action Program of the United Nations for landlocked countries.
   The development objectives continue to be relevant to the Bank strategy for the participating countries. While the Country Assistance Strategy
   (CAS) for Burkina Faso (2006-2009) period highlighted the need for pursuing a long term vision based on regional economic integration for
   addressing the constraints associated with its landlocked location, the CAS for Mali (2008-2011) supported the development of basic road
   infrastructure for fostering regional economic integration and the CAS for Ghana (2008-2011) supported the creation of a stronger
   infrastructure asset base to achieve its development strategy. The current Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Burkina Faso (2013-2016)
   highlighted the need for accelerating growth through creating value chains and improving access to transport. The Bank's Interim Strategy
   Note for Mali (2014-2015) identified the need for laying the foundations for long term accountability and stability. The CPS for Ghana ( 2013-
   2016) highlighted the need for improving competitiveness and job creation through improved delivery of infrastructure services. The project
   objectives were relevant to the Bank's Regional Integration Assistance Strategy (RIAS 2001), continent wide RIAS endorsed by the Board in
   April 2008 and with the Bank's Africa Action Plan which supported regional integration and partnerships across Sub-Saharan Africa.




   Rating
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               3A-W Africa Transp. & Transit Facilitat (P079749)



       High


   b. Relevance of Design

       The project development objectives were clear and the causal links between activities, components and outcomes were logical. And the
       intended outcomes were in principle, measurable. Component one activities such as rehabilitating key sections of the corridor, constructing rest
       stops and implementing road safety action plans, can be expected to improve the condition of the corridor, and this in turn can be expected to
       contribute to improving accessibility of Burkina Faso and Mali to the gateway port at Tema. Component two activities such as constructing a
       Satellite Transit Truck Village at Tema, rehabilitating the Faladie dry port, implementing interconnectivity of the national customs management
       systems and cargo tracking systems, and capacity building to the customs and transport authorities for monitoring transit traffic, can be
       expected to facilitate the efficient movement of transit traffic along the corridor. The combination of these activities can be expected to
       contribute to the higher level objective of corridor diversification strategies of Burkina Faso and Mali.

           • The design did not address the issue of symmetry of interests of the three participating countries and there were no activities aimed at
           sensitizing Ghana about the project's potential economic spinoffs (such as increase in port and transit revenue). While the project
           objective were important to the landlocked countries, Ghana did not perceive symmetrical benefits from the project and this in turn
           contributed to the weak ownership of the project by Ghana.




       Rating
       Substantial




   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     There were two objectives.

     (1) To improve access by Burkina Faso and Mali to ports in Ghana and port operations.
     (2) To facilitate the efficient movement of traffic along the corridor.




    Rationale
    Objective One. To improve access by Burkina Faso and Mali to the ports in Ghana and port operations. Substantial.
    Outputs.

        • 311 kilometers (Kms) of roads in key sections of the Corridor were rehabilitated as targeted (including 54 km in Burkina Faso, 103 km
        in Mali and 154 in Ghana). At project closure, about three-quarters of the roads in the Tema-Ouagadougou section of the Corridor were
        reported to be in good condition as targeted and 85 percent of the roads in the Bamako section of the Corridor were in good condition.
        This exceeded the target of 60 percent.
        • Two rest stops were constructed as targeted in Mali. The rest stops had been constructed at Burkina Faso but had not commenced
        operations at project closure. The construction of two rest stops and the truck transit yard was not complete at project closure. The ICR
        (page 13) notes that the construction of the Satellite Transit Truck Village (STTV) as envisaged required additional financing that the
        Government was not able to raise. Hence, it was decided to upgrade the existing truck transit yard adjacent to the port.
        • The HIV/AIDS action plan was implemented on their respective sections of the corridor by the three countries.
        • A road safety plan was designed and implemented by the countries, as targeted.


    Outcomes.
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               3A-W Africa Transp. & Transit Facilitat (P079749)




        • Average transit time taken (for containerized cargo) from exit at Tema port to Burkina Faso reduced from seven days at the baseline
        to about five and half days at project closure, as targeted.
        • Average transit time from exit at Tema port to Bamako reduced from 15 days at the baseline to about five and half days at project
        closure. This exceeded the target of 12 days.
        • Variation in transit time from Tema port to Burkina Faso reduced from three days at the baseline to about two and half days at project
        closure, as targeted.
        • Variation in transit time from Tema port to Bamako reduced from six days at the baseline to three days at project closure. This
        exceeded the target of about four and half days.
        • Truck dwell time at the Tema port reduced from 48 hours at the baseline to 24 hours as targeted.


    While it is difficult to assess the extent to which this project contributed to the project development outcome given the complementary
    transport and transit facilitation activities in the corridor by other development partners, it is reasonable to conclude that the project activities
    contributed to improving the condition of the road corridor and thereby significantly contributed to improving accessibility from Burkina Faso
    and Bamako to the Tema port.


    Rating
    Substantial

PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 2

    Objective

     Objective 2. To facilitate the efficient movement of traffic along the corridor.

    Rationale
    Objective 2. To facilitate the efficient movement of traffic along the corridor. Modest.
    Output

        • The number of fixed customs check points in Ghana reduced from six at the base line to five at project closure, as compared to the
        target of two and the number of fixed customs check points in Mali did not decrease but increased from four at the baseline to six at
        project closure. This was due to the non-completion of transit facilitation activities at closure.
        • Although the three countries had completed the activities associated with interconnection of the customs systems of the three
        countries, exchange of real time data between countries had not commenced at project closure.
        • A self-financing cargo tracking system was operational in the Ghana section of the corridor at project closure as targeted. Burkina
        Faso opted for a different system than Ghana and so the systems of the two countries are not compatible. The system for Mali was not
        operational at project closure.


    Outcome.

        • Border crossing time at Ghana/ Burkina Faso border posts reduced from five hours at the baseline to approximately an hour and a
        half at project closure. This exceeded the target of four hours.
        • Border crossing time on the Mali/Burking Faso did not decrease as targeted but increased from four hours at the baseline to about
        four and half hours at project closure, due to the non-completion of transit facilitation activities at project closure.


    A beneficiary survey was carried with the road users. The main conclusions of the survey are as follows.

        • Prior to the project, an average of 35 percent of the transport operators were able to travel from Tema to Burkina Faso within five
        days. After the project, over 90 percent of the transport operators could travel on this section of the corridor within two to five days. In the
        same way, while an average of about 65 percent of transport operators could move from Ouagadougou to Bamako within eight days,
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         3A-W Africa Transp. & Transit Facilitat (P079749)



    after the project this had increased to 90 percent.
    • Annual average daily traffic of heavy trucks increased from 516 in 2011 to 685 in 2015, representing a 25 percent increase.


 The ICR provides no details on the methodology followed in administering the beneficiary survey (such as in terms of the number of
 beneficiaries who were surveyed). In the absence of the methodology, it is difficult to determine the robustness of the results of the
 survey. Given that most of the facilitation activities were not complete, it is reasonable to conclude that the project made a modest
 contribution to realizing the objective of facilitating efficient movement of traffic along the Corridor.


 Rating
 Modest



5. Efficiency

 Economic Analysis.
 An economic analysis was conducted for the road rehabilitation activities, at appraisal stage and at closure, using the Highway Design Model
 (HDM- 4). This component accounted for about 84 percent of the project cost. The benefits associated with road rehabilitation activities were
 assumed to come through savings in Vehicle Operating Costs (VOC's), savings in road maintenance costs and travel time savings. The ex
 post Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) at 12 percent discount rate was 12 percent for Burkina Faso, 13 percent for Ghana and
 14 percent for Mali, as compared to the ex ante EIRR of 21 percent, 15 percent and 31 percent respectively for the three countries. The
 average ex post EIRR for the three countries was 13 percent as compared to the average ex ante EIRR of 22 percent. Traffic volumes along
 the corridor had grown faster than originally forecasted during the implementation period and while the increase in traffic increased time
 saving, the increase in traffic maintenance costs to levels that offset the incremental benefits and this resulted in reduction of project economic
 efficiency.
 An economic analysis was conducted at the appraisal stage for the economic benefits associated with facilitation measures. The benefits
 were assumed to come through the time savings due to simplified transit procedures in Ghana and Burkina Faso. The ex ante EIRR at 12
 percent discount rate was 26 percent. Given that most of the transport facilitation activities was not complete at project closure, the economic
 analysis was not conducted at closure for the transit facilitation activities.
 Administrative and Operational Inefficiencies.
 Although the concept note had been cleared in 2003, the project was only approved four and a half years later in June 2008 because
 of implementation delays in the early years of the project.The delays were exacerbated by the effective suspension of project activities in the
 aftermath of the political crisis in Mali in 2012 and sociopolitical uprising in Burkina Faso in 2014, over which the Bank had no control. Despite
 the extension to the project closing date of over two years (27 months) some component One activities (such as commencement of rest stop
 operations in Burkina Faso and Ghana) and component two activities (facilitation activities) were either not complete or functional to date, due
 to delays in the implementation phase.




Efficiency Rating
Modest


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                               Rate Available?             Point value (%)                    *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                              83.00
 Appraisal                                                                23.00
                                                                                                              Not Applicable

                                                                                                              84.00
 ICR Estimate                                                             13.00
                                                                                                              Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.
        Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
        3A-W Africa Transp. & Transit Facilitat (P079749)




6. Outcome

Relevance of Objective was rated as High and design was rated as Substantial. Efficacy of the dominant objective - to improve access to
Burkina Faso and Mali to Tema port - was rated as Substantial. Efficacy of the second objective - to facilitate efficient movement of traffic along
the corridor - was rated as Modest. Efficiency was rated as Modest. There were administrative and operational inefficiencies and despite the
extension to the project closing date, some activities have to date not been completed.



a.     Outcome Rating
       Moderately Satisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

Government Commitment. There is a modest risk to ongoing benefits from this project, since it is not clear if sufficient funding would be
provided for maintenance of the rehabilitated road assets, rest stop facilities or the customs modernization equipment in the three countries. This
is particularly so, given that none of the participating countries had made a clear commitment towards allocating funding for maintenance of the
assets. The team clarified that since the remote rest stop facilities and the Satellite Truck Transit Village (STTV) as part of the customs
modernization equipment are operated by a private operator, the operator has the incentive to adequately provide for maintenance of these
facilities for financial considerations. And since the rehabilitated road sections were part of a major transit corridor in West Africa and crucial to
the land locked countries of Mali and Burkina Faso and a key source of transit income for Ghana, providing for maintenance of these
rehabilitated roads would be a priority for the respective countries.
Technical Risk. Given that Burkina Faso opted for a different tracking technology than Ghana, there is significant risk that the use of different
technologies could obstruct the smooth working of the system through the length of the corridor.
Political Risk. Given that both Burkina Faso and Mali had experienced political and social unrest in recent years, future breakups of unrest
could disrupt movement of traffic along the corridor.




a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Modest


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     The project design was based on the lessons from prior Bank financed regional projects both in Sub-Saharan Africa (East Africa Trade and
     Transport Facilitation Project) and (Economic Community of Central African States (CEMAC) Transit and Trade Facilitation Project) and in
     other regions of the world (Trade and Transport Facilitation project in South Europe) and Greater Mekong Area Regional Integration Program
     in East Asia. Several risks were identified and mitigation measures were adopted and the overall risk of the project was rated as
     Moderate. At appraisal, appropriate arrangements were made for M&E (discussed in section 10) and compliance with safeguards and
     fiduciary (financial management and procurement) aspects (discussed in section 11).
     The project design underestimated the issues associated with the following issues.

       • Symmetry of countries' interests in multi-country operations. An evaluation of multi country operations by the Independent Evaluation
       Group (IEG), " An Evaluation of World Bank Support of Multi-Country operations." published in December 19, 2006, noted that multi
       country programs/projects that addressed symmetry of countries' interests were generally more successful than projects that did not
       address these issues. In the case of this project, while access to the gateway port in Ghana was important to the landlocked countries and
       the governments of these countries were committed to the project, the same level of ownership was not demonstrated by Ghana, being a
       coastal country and not much dependent on the corridor. Enough provisions were not made to sensitize Ghana to the potential benefits
       that could accrue to the coastal countries from providing transit arrangements (such as transit revenue).
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       3A-W Africa Transp. & Transit Facilitat (P079749)



      • The linguistic and institutional disparities between participating countries. A more homogenous set of participating countries would have
      helped for testing the feasibility of a pilot project which entailed regional facilitation activities (such as the interconnection of custom
      systems and exchange of information, the corridor tracking system and harmonized transit procedures and documents). These activities
      required extensive coordination and coordinated action among the three countries, for which language proved to be a barrier.
      • The combination of project activities which entailed both road rehabilitation component and transit facilitation component. While the
      former set of activities could be executed with a shorter implementation span, the latter activities were both politically (security threat) and
      financially sensitive (customs revenue accounting for a major part of fiscal revenue in developing countries), and hence required longer
      implementation time frames. This contributed to the implementation delays, extension of project closing date and even with the extended
      closing date, non completion of facilitation activities at project closure.



   Quality-at-Entry Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
   The supervision missions (17 over a eight year span) were as per the norm (twice a year). The missions were thorough and candid in reporting
   implementation progress and the supervision team was responsive in providing help and advice as and when requested and in closely
   monitoring progress. There was compliance with social safeguards and fiduciary issues (discussed in section 11).




   Quality of Supervision Rating
   Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
   Although the three participating countries demonstrated high project ownership and commitment at the preparation stage, the commitment
   to facilitation activities where political commitment was most needed was mixed across countries during the implementation phase. Both
   Burkina Faso and Mali complied with the loan covenants. In the case of Burkina Faso, although road rehabilitation was completed with a
   one year delay by mid 2013 due to the late mobilization of the contractor on site, the government enforced contractual delay penalty toward
   the end of the contract original closing date and this proved effective in improving the contractor's performance and in expediting the works
   implementation (ICR, page 12). Despite the unrest in Mali that delayed project activities, Mali was able to implement the activities in the
   latter years of the project and their contribution by way of counterpart funding was more than planned. In the case of Ghana, release of
   counterpart funding was a cause for delays in implementing project activities and their contribution was less than planned at the appraisal
   stage.



   Government Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
   The project was implemented by a regional agency and by the participating countries. At the regional level, the Department of Community
   Territorial Development, Information, Transport and Telecommunications of the West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU) and
   a joint technical committee made up of the implementing agencies of the participating countries was in overall charge of project
   coordination. At the national level, the project activities were implemented by a Project Coordination Unit in the case of Burkina Faso and
   Mali and by existing government structures in the Ministry of Transport in Ghana. The ICR claims there was compliance with fiduciary and
   safeguards policies by the participating countries (discussed in section 11).
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       3A-W Africa Transp. & Transit Facilitat (P079749)




   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
    Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   The two key M&E outcome indicators (the average transit time and the variance in transit time for containerized imports from exit at the Tema
   port to final distribution centers in Ouagadougou and Bamako) and the five intermediate indicators (percentage of roads in the corridor good
   condition, number of fixed customs checkpoints (excluding at borders) in the Ghanaian and Malian sections of the corridor, border crossing time,
   truck tracking system operating over the entire length of the corridor and truck dwell time at the Satellite Transit Truck Village (STTV) in Tema,
   were appropriate (dwell time refers to the time cargo spends within the port, before it is loaded onto the ships in the case of exports from
   landlocked countries or released for onward movement to final destinations in landlocked countries in the case of imports).




b. M&E Implementation
   The monitoring of the project was done at the regional level by WAMEU and at the national level by the participating countries. Data collection
   for the monitoring indicators relied on robust sources such as the data collected by customs and Ghana Ports and Harbors Authority (GPHA)
   for the port and border transit data, the three countries' roads and highway authorities for traffic data, road surveys for road conditions, the
   police patrol for accident and fatalities data, data from the three countries' Ministry of Transport, USAID's West Africa Transit Hub for transit
   time, ECOWAS and WAMEU transport office and freight forwarders associations for the user surveys.




c. M&E Utilization
   The indicators were mainly project specific. The ICR (page 17) notes that since M&E was funded through project resources and hence it is
   unclear if the recipient countries will continue to use it beyond the project closure date.




   M&E Quality Rating
   Substantial


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   The project was classified as a Category B project for environmental purposes. Two safeguard policies were triggered: (i) Environmental
   Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01). (ii) Involuntary Resettlement ()P/BP 4.12). At the appraisal stage, Environmental and Social Impact
   Assessments (ESIA) were conducted and Environmental and Social Management Frameworks (ESMF) and Resettlement Action
   Plans were prepared and publicly disclosed, by the participating countries, as required (PAD, pages 25-26). The ICR (page 18) notes that
   there was compliance with the safeguards at project closure, albeit with delays in the case of Burkina Faso. In the case of Mali
   resettlements were made for seven households and compensations in all countries were made by counterpart funding.
             Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                           Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
             3A-W Africa Transp. & Transit Facilitat (P079749)




b. Fiduciary Compliance
     The implementing agencies in the three countries had executed prior Bank financed projects and were familiar with the Bank's procurement and
     financial management policies and procedures. (PAD, page 23) . At the preparation stage, an assessment of the financial management
     capabilities of the implementing agencies was made and these were deemed to be satisfactory. The ICR (page 18) reports that there were no
     major fiduciary issues during the project execution phase. The ICR however provides no details on financial audits and procurement aspects
     during the project implementation phase.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
       ---



d. Other
       ---




12. Ratings
                                                                                                               Reason for
Ratings                                   ICR                                IEG
                                                                                                               Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                   Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory            ---
Risk to Development Outcome               Modest                            Modest                             ---
                                                                                                               There were shortcomings at
Bank Performance                          Satisfactory                      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                                                                               Quality of Entry.
Borrower Performance                      Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory            ---
Quality of ICR                                                              Substantial                        ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons

The ICR draws the following main lessons from the experience of implementing this project.
(1). Careful design of regional projects is required to avoid a disconnect between the hard infrastructure components (road rehabilitation) and
soft infrastructure (facilitation components). While a shorter implementation time span might suffice for the former set of activities, longer time
span might be required to allow for the implementation of latter set of activities which entail behavioral and work practice change.
(2) The design of regional project needs to take into account the symmetry of countries' interests for getting the commitment of countries.
(3) The design should include provisions for maintenance of the assets created by the project. in the case of this project, the maintenance of the
constructed physical assets was not part of the project scope. Given this, it is not clear if sufficient resources would be provided for
sustainability of the development outcome.




14. Assessment Recommended?

No
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       3A-W Africa Transp. & Transit Facilitat (P079749)




15. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR is concise and provides a candid description of the problems encountered while implementing this project.
The ICR does not discuss auditing or procurement issues. The ICR could have provided more details on the methodology followed in
administering the beneficiary survey and why an Abbreviated Resettlement Action Plan was used for Burkina Faso.




a.   Quality of ICR Rating
     Substantial
