Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14331-GUB
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
TRANSPORT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
NAY 31, 1995
Infrastructure Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Guinean Peso / US$1=PG16,168
(As of March 1, 1995)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                        African Development Bank
AFRICATIP                  Association of African AGETIP Agencies
AGEOPPE                    Agencia Guineense de Execusao de Obras de Interesse Publico e Promo,co de Emprago
(Guinean Executing Agency for Public Works and Employment Creation)
AGETIP                     Agence dExecution de Travaux dTnteret Public
(Public Works Executing Agency)
BCGB                        Banco Central da Guind-Bissau
(Central Bank of Guinea-Bissau)
DNMIP                       Direq,ao National de Marinha e Portos
(National Directorate of the Navy and Ports)
DICOL                       Empresa de ImportaQao e DistribuQao de Combustiveis Liquidos
(Petroleum Products Import and Distribution Company)
ESAF                       Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ESW                        Economic and Sector Work
EU                         European Union
GDP                        Gross Domestic Product
GUIIPORT                   Bissau Port Authority
ICB                        International Competitive Bidding
ICOR                       Incremental Capital Output Ratio
IEC                        Information, Education, Communication
INEC                       Instituto Nacional de Estatistica e Censo
(National Statistics and Census Institute)
IRP                        Infrastructure Rehabilitation Program
JAPG                        Junta Aut6noma dos Portos de Guine-Bissau
(Maritime Port services)
MOPW                        Ministry of Public Works
MES                        Ministerio do Equipamento Social
(Ministry of Social Equipment)
NCB                        National Competitive Bidding
PFP                         Policy Framework Paper
PIP                         Public Investment Program
PPF                         Project Preparation Facility
RODOFLUVIAL                 Empresa Pfiblica de Transportes Rodoviarios e Fluviais
(Road and River Transport Public Company)
SAC                         Structural Adjustmnent Credit
SILO DIATA                 Urban Bus Company
SIP                         Sector Investment Program
SME                         Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises
SSA                         Sub-Saharan Africa
TAGB                        Transporte aero da Guine-Bissau
(Airline of Guinea-Bissau)
TRANSTER                   Urban Bus Company (successor to SILO DIATA)
UGAB                        Unidade de Gestao e Apoio ao Balan,o de Pagamentos
(Balance of Payment Management Unit)
UGREP                       Unitade de Gestao e Reforma das Empresas Publicas
(Management Unit for the Reform of Public Enterprises)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
TRANSPORT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. INTRODUCTION ..........................................                                                                      1
H. COUNTRY AND SECTORAL CONTEXT ..........................................                                                      1
A. OVERVIEW ..........................................1
B. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE .......................................... 2
C. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE ..........................................                                                3
D. IDA's INVOLVEMENT AND LESSONS LEARNED ..........................................                                             7
E. RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT .......................................... 8
ILL THE PROJECT ..........................................                                                                     10
A. OBJECTIVES ..........................................                                                                       10
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION ......................1.................... 1
C. COSTS ANDFINANCING ..........................................                                                               16
IV. IMPLEMENTATION ..........................................                                                                  17
A. PREPARATION AND READINESS .......................................... 17
B. IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES .......................................... 17
C. PROCUREMENT ..........................................                                                                      19
D. DISBURSEMENTS ...........................................................................................................................  21
E. ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ................................. 22
F. MONITORING/EVALUATION AND REPORTING .................................                                                       22
6. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT .................................                                                           :           23
H. POVERTY CATEGORY .................................                                                                          23
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS .................................                                                                        23
A. BENEFITS ......................................................................................................................................................... 23
B. RISKS ........24
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .................................................                                    25
This report was prepared'as a joint effort by a team including Messrs. Bemard Abeille (AF5DR) and Leslie Pean (AF51N) who
were the Task Managers, Mr. Matar Fall, Ms. Isabelle Denervaud (AF51N); Mr. Pierre Morin (AF5IE); Messrs. Mario Antao
(Consultant, Economist), Lamine Ben Barka (Consultant, Highway Engineer), Seydou Idani (Consultant, EconomistVAGETIP
Specialist) and Lubomir Ficinski-Dunin (Consultant, Architect); Messrs. Birger Fredriksen and Marcelo Andrade, and Mrs.
Jennifer Edwards (AF5CO). Messrs. Jean-Louis Sarbib and Mr. Alberto Harth are the Departnent Director and the managing
Division Chief, respectively, for the operation. Peer reviewers include Mr. Ephim Shluger (EDINU) and Mr. Jean-Marie
Lantran (AF5IN) and the Lead Advisor is Mr. Hasan Tuluy (AF5CO). Mrs. JoAnne Nickerson (Program Assistant) provided
research and editorial support. Mrs. Fanny Barrett was responsible for the Costab, and Mines. Caroline Moisson and Barbara
Machado provided technical support.



ii
TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONT'D)
ANNEXES
1.   Key Economic Indicators
2.   Social Indicators
3.   Basic Sector Data
4.   Status of Bank Group Operations in Guinea-Bissau and Portfolio Status
5.   Sector-specific Policy Matrix
6.   Letter of Sector Development Policy
7.   Key Performance Indicators
8.  Inventory of Transport and Urban Infrastructure Programs
8A. Roads and Ports Infrastructure Component
8B. Urban Infrastructure Component
9.   Institutional Setup of AGEOPPE (The procedures manual is available as a self-contained document
in the project file.)
10.  Eligibility Criteria for the Selection of Subprojects
11.  Detailed Project Cost Tables
12.  Summary of Consulting Services
13.  Procurement Arrangements (Schedule, Thresholds, and List of Contracts)
14.  Supervision Plan
15.  Disbursement Schedule
MAP IBRD 27003
TABLES
Table I    Project Cost Estimates
Table 2    Summary of Procurement Arrangements
Table 3    Disbursements



iii
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
TRANSPORT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Republic of Guinea-Bissau
Implementing Agencies:  Ministry of Social Equipment (MES) and the Guinean Executing Agency for
Public Works and Employment Creation (AGEOPPE)
Beneficiaries:          Ministry of Social Equipment, Ministry of Natural Resources, Ministries of
Health and Education, Municipalities, Communities, Enterprises and
Professionals in the construction industry
Poverty:                Program of Targeted Interventions
Amount:                 SDR 14.0 million (US$22.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Map:                    IBRD 26867
Project Objectives:     The long-term development objectives are to assist the Government in
implementing its sector development program for the period 1996-2000 which
aims: (a) to enhance the efficiency of country-wide transport and transit,
particularly for the movement of agricultural products; (b) to improve living
conditions in urban areas; (c) to generate employment; and (d) to improve the
labor skills and competitiveness of local construction, road maintenance and
transport enterprises. The project objectives are: (a) to improve the
management of public sector resources devoted to economic and urban social
infrastructure; (b) to rehabilitate transport and urban infrastructure; and (c) to
efficiently execute works by private small- and medium-sized enterprises by
delegating contract management to an AGETIP-type agency.
Project Description:    To achieve these objectives, the project would support development and
implementation of a sector-specific policy framework and three investment
components. The policy agenda is designed: (a) to increase sector resource
mobilization and efficiency of resource use; (b) to further strengthen the
institutional environment and disengage the Government from public
enterprises in the transport sector; (c) to improve the management of road
rehabilitation and maintenance; (d) to promote the use of the private sector;
and (e) to increase the efficiency and competitiveness of the contracting of
works. The three investment components include a time slice of:



iv
A Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Program (US$14.7 million or
49% of total base costs) consisting of: (a) a rehabilitation and maintenance
program to consolidate the priority network of roads, by providing for: (i)
rehabilitation of about 150 km of roads; (ii) periodic maintenance of about 90
km of roads; and (iii) regular maintenance of the priority network of roads
(about 1,042 km out of the 3,436 km network); and (b) improvement of two
ports, by providing for the rehabilitation of the maritime port of Bubaque in
the archipelago and at the tidal estuary port of Cacheu including quays and
berthing structures and low cost storage facilities.
An Urban Infrastructure Rehabilitation Program (US$10.5 million or 35%
of total base costs) including water/sanitation, street paving and drainage and
small social infrastructure. The project will provide: (a) in Bissau for: (i)
rehabilitation of the primary network of the water distribution system; (ii)
rehabilitation and construction of critical earth and concrete drainage; and
(iii) implementation of a pilot solid waste collection and disposal program;
and (b) in Bissau and seven secondary market towns (Bafata, Bissora, Buba,
Canchungo, Catio, Farim and Gabu) for: (i) street improvements, paving and
drainage; and (ii) rehabilitation and construction of small economic and social
infrastructure such as primary schools, basic health centers, neighborhood
markets, slaughter houses and small terminals for inter-city transport.
A Capacity Building Program (US$4.1 million or 13% of total base costs)
aiming at: (a) strengthening capacity in policy-making, sector management,
planning and regulation through: (i) local in-service training sessions and
short-term training in "Highway Design Maintenance" for MES staff; (ii)
consulting services; (iii) studies and preparation of a future sector investment
projects; (iv) remodeling of existing facilities in the MES complex; and (v)
purchase of office equipment including computers, supplies and vehicles for
the three departments of MES; (b) strengthening the capacity of contractors,
engineers and architects having won contracts through the project; and (c)
increasing community participation.
The use of an AGETIP-type contract management agency will address the
lack of competition in construction, inefficient procurement and payment
delays, and will create employment in urban areas through labor-intensive
techniques.
Benefits:                Improved sector spending patterns and strengthened investment management
are expected to ensure maintenance of economic infrastructure. The project
will have direct social, health-related, economic, fiscal and participatory
benefits. Social benefits include job creation for unskilled workers through
the use of labor-intensive techniques; 20% to 30% of the value of the works
contracts will go toward wages resulting in at least 6,000 person-years of
employment. Health-related benefits include improved health and sanitary
conditions resulting from the provision of potable water and improved
drainage in poor neighborhoods. Economic benefits include lower transport
costs through the reduction of vehicle operating costs by 40% to 45%;



v
improved access to agricultural areas, which, following project completion,
will no longer be cut off during the rainy season; economic returns (with an
average of 38%) from priority infrastructure rehabilitation operations; and
increased private sector participation in infrastructure rehabilitation and
maintenance. Fiscal benefits include improved sector resource mobilization
and efficiency, thus enhancing the sustainability of future investments. Finally
the participation of municipalities, communities and the private sector would
be a major change for Guinea-Bissau since it will ensure ownership and thus
sustainability of investment.
Risks:                   There are three main risks which include counterpart funding, political and
institutional arrangements and cofinancing.
Regarding counterpart funds, the new Government may encounter difficulties
making its payments. To address this risk, the Government decided to use the
Road Fund resources for the provision of counterpart fund. To assist the
Government, a study on the Road Fund's administration will be undertaken
and a plan of action will be established to ensure the Road Fund's
independence, autonomy and management.
On the political and institutional side, the risk is the politically sensitive
reform measures, particularly for the privatization of public companies, and
reluctance of ministries, agencies, and local governments to delegate the
management of works contracting to the AGETIP-type agency. This has been
the case with other projects with a policy framework and with other AGETIP-
type projects at the start. Five features of the proposed project seek to address
this risk: (i) most of the more difficult reforms will be completed or initiated
prior to project effectiveness; (ii) the proposed project emphasizes improving
living conditions of the most vulnerable and focuses on employment creation
through labor-intensive works; (iii) a presentation of the AGETIP-type
agency was made in public and was well received by key decision-makers; and
(iv) a pilot works program will also be implemented before project
effectiveness to demonstrate the efficiency of contracting and payments; and
Cofinancing is expected to be confirmed before credit effectiveness. Strong
interest has been demonstrated by donors such as The Netherlands,
Switzerland and Japan. However, to address any risk of any shortfall in
cofinancing, the project components have been sliced to allow for the water
sub-component to be implemented once cofinancing is made available.
Furthermore, the phased, time-slice approach to small works would allow
IDA's contribution to be front loaded. The experience in other AGETIP-type
operations has been that many donors cnthusiastically buy in after the initial
demonstration phase.



vi
Project Cost Summary
(US$ million net of taxes and duties)
Project Components                   Local.  Foreign.  Total    % of Base
:_:_:_:___ ::     Costs
A. Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Program   3.3      11.4      14.7       49%
1. Rehabilitation of roads                           1.3      5.9       7.2       24%
2. Periodic road maintenance                         0.3       2.4      2.7         9%
3. Routine road maintenance                          1.1       1.8      2.9        10%
4. Ports (Bubague and Cacheu)                        0.6       1.3      1.9         6%
B. Urban Infrastructure Rehabilitation Program       2.8       7.7      10.5       35%
1. Water/sanitation                                  1.4      2.7       4.1        14%
2. Street paving and drainage                        0.9       4.0      4.9        16%
3. Social infrastructure                             0.5       1.0      1.5         5%
C. Capacity Building Program                          1.6      2.5       4.1       13%
1. Sector Management + studies                       0.5      1.0       1.5        4%
2. Support to contractors/ professionals /communities  0.4    0.2       0.6         2%
3. AGEOPPE                                           0.7       1.3      2.0         7%
D. Refinancing of PPFs I and lI                      0.4       0.5       0.9        3%
Total Base Costs                    8.1      22.1      30.2      100%
Physical Contingencies                             0.3      0.9       1.2        4%
Price Contingencies                                1.0      1.1       2.1        7%
Total Project Costs                  9.4      24.1      33.5      111%
Financine Plan
(U-S$ million)
: :        7 7 7  77   7          tTotal                       Project Cost
IDA                                      22.0                                66%
Government                                2.5                                 7%
Other donors                              9.0                                27%
Total Cost                               33.5                               100%
Estimated IDA Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
IFY96         FY97           FY98          FYqq9          FY00
Period         .       5.0            6.0            5.0           5.0           1.0
Cumulative             5.0           11.0           16.0          21.0          22.0



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
TRANSPORT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I.     INTRODUCTION
1.1    The Government of Guinea-Bissau has requested IDA's assistance in financing a time-slice of its
development program for economic and social infrastructure. The proposed project's principal objectives
are to assist Guinea-Bissau in enhancing the efficiency of country-wide road and river transport and transit,
particularly for the movement of agricultural products, and in improving social infrastructure in urban
areas. The development objectives include creating new employment in urban areas through labor-intensive
works.
1.2    The proposed project builds on, and is an extension of, the sector development program
implemented under the ongoing successful Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2074-GW, US$23.6
million, FY90) and the contract management model of AGETIP-type agency under implementation in
several West African countries. The policy measures and associated investment program were developed
through dialogue with the Government and stakeholders, based on pre-investment studies financed under a
PPF, which led to the preparation of a draft Letter of Sector Development Policy (Annex 6) and related
investment components.
II.     COUNTRY AND SECTORAL CONTEXT
A.      Overview
2.1     Situated on the West African coast, Guinea-Bissau is a small country both in terms of land mass
with 36,125km2, which includes some 30 islands forming the Bijagos archipelago, and in terms of
population, with an estimated one million inhabitants. It is one of the poorest countries in the world with a
per capita income of roughly US$220 (1992 dollars). Other social indicators reflect a dismal picture of
pervasive poverty. They include a life expectancy of 39 years at birth, the lowest in the world; an under-
five mortality rate of 236 per 1000 live births (40% higher than the Sub-Saharan African (SSA) average);
a fertility rate of about six; and an adult illiteracy rate of 64%. About 80% of the population lives in rural
areas, most making a living from subsistence fanming. The agriculture sector accounts for almost 45% of
GDP producing mainly export crops, 80% of which are cashews.
2.2     Politically and economically speaking, Guinea-Bissau is in the midst of a radical transition. After
20 years of single party rule, Guinea-Bissau came under the rule of a democratically elected government in
the fall of 1994, for the first time since independence in 1974. On the economic side, progress towards
building a market-based economy has shown promise in recent years, although much remains to be done to
dismantle a well entrenched command economy.



2
B.      Economic Performance
2.3     After false starts in the mid-1980s, the Government launched a far-reaching macro-economic
reform program in 1987, supported by the first Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 1798-GUB/A-26-GUB)
approved in May 1987, and the Second Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2019-GUB) approved in May
1989. These Credits have supported a wide range of economic policy reforms which have notably
increased the role of market forces in the economy. They have helped stabilize the economy through
appropriate fiscal, monetary, and exchange rate policies; introduced price, trade, and financial reforms; and
improved public sector management. Their ultimate objective was to increase the competitiveness of the
economy and lay the foundation for the sustained longer-term growth without which raising the standard of
living and reducing poverty would be impossible.
2.4     Up until late 1992, the implementation of these two SACs was uneven, with policy slippages
characterizing the early 1990s. Since late 1992, however, the Government has shown renewed commitment
to adjustment which continued into the first half of 1994, allowing the release of the much delayed third
tranche of SAC II in July 1993, and the preparation of a third Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for 1994-97.
The PFP forms the basis for a three-year ESAF arrangement, approved in January 1995, with the IMF.
2.5     Progress was made toward restoring macro-economic equilibria during the period 1987-1993.
The fiscal deficit, excluding official transfers, has declined from 33% to 28% of GDP, primarily due to
significant restraint in government expenditures. This helped to check broad money expansion (annual
growth down from 138% to 41%) and inflation (from 87% to 48%). The ratio of external current
accounts to GDP fell from about 35% to 28%. Moreover, the Guinea-Bissau peso depreciated significantly
vis--vis the US dollar, thereby reducing the spread between the official and parallel exchange market rates
to 3.7% at the end of 1993. The debt burden, however, remains extremely high, with the debt service ratio
(before rescheduling) at almost 195% at the end of 1993. Despite the distractions linked to the
preparations for the country's first multi-party elections, preliminary data indicate that progress on
stabilization was maintained during most of 1994 allowing inflation to decline further to about 15%; the
exchange rate was unified earlier in the year. However late in 1994, there were slippages in policy
implementation in the fiscal and monetary areas.
2.6     Market forces are playing a greater role in determining economic outcomes, and key bottlenecks
to private sector participation in the economy have been removed. Prices have been liberalized, except
those for petroleum products and public utilities which are adjusted periodically to reflect changes in costs.
Trade distortions have been virtually eliminated with state monopolies abolished and import restrictions
limited to a negative list of goods for security and health. Banking has been overhauled with the separation
of the central, commercial, and development banking functions of the former National Bank. Privately
owned banks have started to operate. Export taxes have been reduced. Agriculture has been the most
responsive sector to policy reforms and is the main engine of growth, with production rising at an annual
average of 5.7% during the period 1987-93.
2.7     Notwithstanding the above progress, public sector management continues to be weak. In 1993,
tax revenues represented only 5% of GDP and total current revenues represented only about 10.4% of GDP
(the latter is only about one-half the average for Sub-S aharan African countries). Government spending is
still excessive, (slightly above one-third of GDP in 1993), and not well targeted. The public investment
program (24% of GDP) is excessively large, given the country's weak absorptive capacity. It is inefficient
as reflected in an average Incremental Capital Output Ratio (ICOR) of about 9 for 1991-93. It needs to be
brought in line with the country's overall development strategy, and requires more rigorous economic
justification. Budget comprehensiveness and transparency require that the public investment program



3
(PIP), autonomous funds, and donor assistance be consolidated. Current government spending patterns,
analyzed in a recent Public Expenditure Review, indicate that the social sectors and infrastructure
maintenance continue to be underfunded and poorly managed, contributing to poor social indicators and a
deterioration in the quality of services provided to the population. Domestic savings have been consistently
negative over most of the period from 1987 to 1992, ranging between 6% and 18% of GDP, but showing
some improvement in 1993. Budget consolidation has not been achieved. Of a total of 46 public
enterprises (PEs), only five have been privatized, two have been liquidated, and eight put under private
management.
2.8     The Government is currently planning the divestiture of nine of the remaining 31 PEs. It has
initiated the bidding process leading to the privatization of four PEs. Also, recommendations to liquidate
TAGB and SILO DIATA and to privatize RODOFLUVIAL will be submitted to the Council of Ministers
shortly. On civil service reform, progress has been negligible with the ratio of public servants still at 12.5
per 1,000 inhabitants. Finally, the regulatory and incentive framework for private sector development
needs to be improved further, namely in the areas of land tenure and the financing of small and medium-
sized enterprises (SMEs). These issues will be addressed through refomns agreed upon in the context of the
1994-97 PFP.
2.9     External Financing Requirements. The Government's adjustment effort will require substantial
extemal assistance over the next four years. For the 1994-97 period, total requirements for extemal
financing, including arrears, are projected to be approximately US$941 million. Exports of goods and non-
factor services are expected to be on the order of US$223 million for the same period, while net
disbursements from existing and expected new projects, food aid commitments and the use of IMF
resources, could account for US$232 million. This would imply a financing gap, before rescheduling, of
approximately US$486 million over the period. This gap will be financed by a combination of debt relief,
additional quick-disbursing assistance from IDA, and SPA-related cofinancing and coordinated financing.
Debt relief consisting of eliminating arrears by the end of 1994, the rescheduling of pre-cutoff debt
amounts due in the period 1995-97 and at remaining current with the country's debt service due on
multilaterals, official bilateral debt and short-term debt, is estimated at approximately US$321 million
leaving a residual gap of some US$165 million for the four years 1994-97.
C.      Economic and Social Infrastructure
1.      Background
2.10    Constraints in the management of social and economic infrastructure are particularly evident,
even though significant resources have been invested in rehabilitation and modernization (on average about
45% of total PIP during the period 1990-93). Basic infrastructure remains inadequate due largely to
inefficient public resource management, institutional weaknesses, and a lack of transparency and
competitiveness in the contracting of works. As a result, important and productive parts of the country are
isolated during the rainy season, and transport costs are very high. Furthermore, only about 25% of the
population has access to safe water (well below the African average of 41%), and only 21 % have access to
sanitation. Water-bome diseases are common, especially during the rainy season, due to almost non-
existent drainage and solid waste collection. Endemic diseases, such as malaria and diarrhea, account for
more than 90% of the demand on the health system. Social infrastructure such as health and education
facilities are not adequately rehabilitated or maintained.



4
2.11    Guinea-Bissau is a low-lying country, drained by seven major rivers, fed by a network of
tributaries. Several modes of transportation are employed to move goods and passengers, the most
important being over-land transport employing a network of roads and ferry crossings, followed by river
and sea transport. Air transport is less important with one intemational airport and 17 domestic landing
strips of which five are operational. There are no railroads, nor are any foreseen.
2.12    Road haulage is the most frequently used mode of transportation both for goods and passengers.
In 1995, the number of vehicles was 5,241, including 3,898 private cars, 902 heavy vehicles (30% buses,
64% trucks and 6% tractors) and 441 motorcycles. Road haulage is entirely run by private companies
since the transport parastatal firm, RODOFLUVIAL, could not continue loss-making in this activity. The
road network, currently estimated at 3,436 km, is composed of 734 km (or 21 %) of paved roads and 307
km (or 9%) of laterite gravel, with the remainder 2,395 km (or 70%) being dirt roads. Paved roads are
generally composed of a laterite base and a double surface dressing which, if maintained, would be
sufficient for the current road traffic level -- about 150 vehicles per day on much of the road network. This
network represents a density of about 95 km per 1,000 km2 which is well above the regional average of 20
km/ 1,000 km2. While this would normally be considered largely adequate, if well maintained, to
accommodate the country's needs, the existing network needs urgent repair and does not cover economically
important agricultural areas which still lack reliable access, particularly in the south.
2.13    Port and river infrastructure consist of a new deep water port in Bissau which handles most of the
international shipping, plus 17 small river/coastal or estuary ports (seven of which are active). The present
capacity of ports is generally considered sufficient for the projected volume of traffic over the next decade.
Rehabilitation of ferryboat services is underway with the financing of a European Union program.
However, present publicly operated ferry services (comprising six major river crossing points) are
inefficient in delivering quality services and maintaining their equipment. Similarly, maritime and river
transportation run by RODOFLUVIAL cannot play its potentially significant role due to infrequent, unsafe
and poorly managed services. Since the publicly run company, JAPG, was dissolved, Bissau harbor has
been rented out for 25 years to a private company, GUIPORT; while the harbor moved from a non-
operational situation to a reasonable degree of efficiency, it could be more competitive if charges on
containers and merchandise were adjusted to better reflect the market. The shipping company, GUINE-
MAR, was abolished and there is now a significant number of private operators.
2.14    At present, one fifth of the population lives in urban centers. About 60% of the urban population
is concentrated in Bissau, the capital city, with the remainder living in 34 centers of 20,000 or less. Only
about 10% of the urban population in Bissau has access to safe drinking water by means of household
connections, and another 10% have access to public standpipes free of charge. For the remainder (80%),
water supplies are unreliable, unsafe or distant. They obtain their water from traditional dug wells which
tap superficial water tables exposed to contamination from poorly designed latrines. Less than a third of
the urban dwellers have access to basic sanitation services. Because Bissau is very low-lying, streets and
sidewalks are routinely subjected to flooding during the rains. In addition, existing infrastructure networks
provide unreliable service, are poorly maintained, and may soon deteriorate beyond repair. Many
community facilities, such as health centers, schools, markets and slaughter-houses do not meet minimum
hygienic and structural safety standards.



5
2.15    Several agencies are responsible for managing economic and social infrastructure. The Ministry
of Territorial Administration is responsible for local administration. The Ministry of Public Works and the
Ministry of Transport and Communications were recently merged into the Ministry of Social Equipment
(MES). This new ministry is responsible for roads, housing, building codes, urban issues, airports, civil
aviation, ports and maritime transport and transit. The Road Fund was created in 1984 under the Ministry
of Public Works to collect road user charges. Tolls and licenses collected by the Road Fund are used
exclusively for funding road works and maintenance. The Road Fund has a separate bank account
controlled by the admrinistrative body set up specially to manage the funds. The Ministry of Finance
collects urban property taxes, and the Ministry of Plan and International Cooperation manages the overall
Public Investment Program (PIP). Natural Resources is responsible for managing water and providing
energy to all urban centers. Education is responsible for building primary schools, and Health for basic
health centers. Solid waste collection and disposal in Bissau is theoretically the responsibility of the
mumcipality.
2.      Main Issues
2.16    Transport and transit bottlenecks. Agriculture is the backbone of the country's economy. Since
undertaking structural adjustment, policy reforms have been enacted to establish a more favorable incentive
framework in the agriculture sector. In particular, inappropriate pricing and marketing policies have been
removed. While the sector has responded well to the new incentive framework, the medium-and long-term
performance will depend on the reliability and cost of economic infrastructure: road and river transport
and transit. While the potential for competitive production of cashews, fruits, vegetables, rice, and timber
exists, the current state of the road network, its lack of maintenance, and the unreliable maritime and river
transportation do not allow the supply-side gains to materialize, especially in the southern part of the
country. Vehicle Operating Costs (VOC) are excessively high; better road conditions would reduce them
by 40-45%. Moreover, the heavy rainy season has a considerable impact on the country's geographic
integration and transportation costs which fluctuate between US$0.11 and US$0.23 per t/km. Road
network improvements, including feeder roads, along with timely river transport services, are critical to
increase the competitiveness of exports as well as import substitutes.
2.17    Deteriorating urban living conditions. A combination of rapid urban population growth, at
about 4.3% per year, and persistent lack of maintenance of most infrastructure has resulted in a further
deterioration of living conditions in urban centers. Today, in spite of the ongoing efforts supported by
donors, about 60-70% of urban residents do not have access to minimal sanitation infrastructure (para.
2.14). This results in endemic diseases and cholera outbreaks which affect productivity and constitute 90%
of demand on the health care system. The erosion of basic urban infrastructure has further exacerbated the
plight of the most vulnerable. Government has been unable to cope with the demand and to develop
sustainable solutions to reverse the continued deterioration of living conditions in urban areas, particularly
in Bissau. The existing education and health infrastructure is not only poorly maintained but also
insufficient to meet the growing demand. The primary school enrollment ratio is declining and, at 52%, is
well below the SSA average. The under five mortality rate is about 40% higher than the SSA average. In
parallel, the central government is unable financially to meet these needs. Thus the capacity of
municipalities, neighborhood and user associations to collect user charges is critical to secure minimum
funding or participation for the maintenance of existing urban infrastructure.
2.18    Weak institutional environment. The infrastructure sector has lacked a well-defined development
policy with clearly established objectives, responsibilities and resource mobilization. The institutional
framework inherited from the past was complex and fragile. Policy formulation and project management
need strengthening. Different government departments tend to plan and make decisions with little reference



6
either to each other or to a central policy. This is most evident in the areas of public works, transport and
communications, which play a major role in infrastructure. Until recently these areas were managed by
two different ministries (para. 2.15). Although the recent decision to merge two ministries into the MES
will improve coordination, the new Ministry still needs to proceed with further restructuring of departments
and definition of responsibilities. Skilled personnel are scarce in the public sector. Under the on-going
Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project (Cr.2074-GUB), some progress has been made in developing a broad
sector policy and project implementation through the provision of technical assistance, but sector
management capacity remains weak. In the past, the tendency has been to allocate scarce resources to new
capital investment and to neglect routine maintenance, particularly road infrastructure.
3.      Main Constraints
2.19    Insufficient and poorly maintained infrastructure. Only 20% of the required funding has been
allocated to periodic and routine road maintenance. This contributes not only to increasing inaccessibility
to different parts of the country, particularly the south, but also leads to increased vehicle operating costs
(para 2.16). Given the Government's limited capacity to maintain infrastructure, there is an urgent need to
increase revenues from users, and to involve local, small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) for routine
maintenance and repair of existing infrastructure. In urban areas, water supply, urban drainage, and
sanitation do not meet the country's growing needs. Bissau is supplied by nine tubewells which draw from
a deep water table, with an estimated potential output of 15,000 m3 per day. This would be sufficient,
however, the output is limited by the total storage capacity of 2,000 m3 which is far from adequate. The
distribution network consists in large part of small-diameter asbestos cement pipes, and its obsolete
condition causes losses of the order of 50%. The water distribution network is not correctly structured and
in some areas the water pressure is inadequate. Streets and sidewalks in Bissau are routinely subjected to
flooding during the rains, because storm drains need replacing or regular dredging. Outside Bissau, there is
little basic infrastructure and the lack of any institution to manage the water supply must be resolved prior
to initiate major projects in the area of water distribution. Community facilities like schools, basic health
centers, markets, slaughter-houses and small parks require urgent rehabilitation and maintenance to arrest
rapid deterioration.
2.20    Institutional bottlenecks. Government continues to be involved in commercial activities and
companies (such as river transportation with RODOFLUVIAL, road maintenance with brigades, air traffic
with TAGB, and ferry services run by the Road Fund) which could be better handled by the private sector.
Low domestic resource mobilization, particularly from road users, imposes severe constraints on
government spending, making more efficient allocation to priority needs all the more essential. Chronic
underfunding of infrastructure maintenance is further aggravated by insufficient cost recovery practices.
The Road Fund, set up to finance road maintenance through user contributions has administrative
capability, but road user charges actually collected represent only 30% of potential revenues of about
$600,000. This is essentially due to low rates of user charges (for example, private gasoline powered cars
pay $9 a year and diesel powered trucks $22 a year), and low coverage of charges. On the administrative
side, the Road Fund needs to be strengthened so that it is a separate legal entity governed by specific legal
provisions, managed by a board required to publish regular reports.
2.21    Inefficiency and lack of competitiveness in contracting. Guinea-Bissau's private sector has the
capacity to execute a range of public works between US$20,000-500,000 equivalent per contract. Besides
25 contracting firms in the formal sector, about 100 tradesmen in the informal sector execute small
contracts or act as subcontractors for formal enterprises. Only the largest three to five entrepreneurs have
access to the public works market, while the situation is more difficult for SMEs. First, they are affected
by the cumbersome administration of bid presentation and security requirements. Second, they are



7
handicapped by technical deficiencies such as work site planning, invoicing and stock and cash flow
management. These deficiencies are compounded by Government's cumbersome administrative
procedures: it takes about a year to enter into a contract from initiation of the procurement process to
contract signature. Problems are exacerbated by extensive payment delays to enterprises.
4.      Government's Infrastructure Strategy
2.22    The main objectives of the emerging sector strategy of the new Government are broadly to
remove the main sector constraints discussed above in order to provide services which would enhance the
competitiveness of the economy and improve living conditions of the population. The main principles of
sector development policy (Annex 6) to attain these objectives are: (i) maintenance and rehabilitation would
receive priority over new investments; (ii) labor-intensive techniques would be encouraged over capital-
intensive ones; (iii) privatization of industrial and commercial activities. In cases where that would not be
feasible, public-private partnerships might be considered provided that the private partner is put in charge
and given full responsibility for managing the business company; (iv) Government would focus its attention
on developing capacity in policy-making and sector regulation; (v) suitable pricing criteria linked with
strengthened cost recovery mechanisms from users would be established; and (vi) donor coordination would
be improved to ensure all investments fall within the overall sector policy and strategy. Concerning
maintenance of urban infrastructure, the Government's emerging strategy relies on the following principles:
(a) responsibility to secure minimum funding will be defined among municipalities, communities, user
groups, government and non-governmental organizations; (b) management will be enhanced at four levels:
(i) planning and monitoring of maintenance by the General Directorate for Housing and Urban Planning;
(ii) initiatives by municipalities; (iii) implementation of works by the private sector or communmty groups;
and (iv) quality control of works by private firms and municipal technicians; (c)financing will be collected
on a fee-for-service basis collected by municipalities and associations; and (d) ownership among
neighborhood facility users will be developed by involving their representatives in cost-recovery decisions.
D.      IDA's Involvement and Lessons Learned
2.23    IDA has supported the infrastructure sector in Guinea-Bissau with five operations: (i) in 1979,
the first Roads project (US$9 million); (ii) in 1984, a second Roads project (IDA/EEC US$8 million); and
the Port of Bissau project (US$16 million); (iv) in 1989, a Social and Infrastructure Relief project (US$5
million) with performance rated as highly satisfactory and fully disbursed in December 1994 ahead of
schedule; and (v) in 1990, an Infrastructure Rehabilitation project (US$23.6 million) with performance
rated satisfactory and with only US$0.3 million undisbursed as of May 1, 1995.
2.24    Over the past ten years, these projects have: (a) rehabilitated the Bissau wharf and four
secondary river ports; (b) upgraded half of the existing roads (paved and gravel) to a satisfactory or good
condition; (c) initiated labor-intensive, employment-generating community pilot works to rehabilitate city
streets, sidewalks, culverts, water supply and sanitation systems; (d) improved community services,
including about 270 classrooms, four high schools, three regional health centers, and four health clinics;
and (e) set up sites and services operation for about 200 low-income households. In addition to these
investrnents, the projects have laid the ground for improving the institutional framework, building capacity,
advancing divestiture of commercial enterprises and liberalizing transport.
2.25    Project implementation has been improving and five lessons can be drawn, including the need: (i)
to focus on a limited number of strategic objectives; (ii) to continue institutional reforms, particularly in the
privatization of industrial and commercial enterprises and in the development of public/private partnerships,
and build local capacity to promote and regulate sustained sector development; (iii) to rely less on ambitious



8
cofinancimg targets which may not materialize, thus necessitating project restructuring or the reallocation of
funds to complete components; (iv) to ensure that actions to provide expected domestic financing are taken
so that sufficient and timely counterpart funds are made available; and (v) to streamline procurement,
contracting and payment procedures which impede the participation of local SMEs.
2.26    Other lessons applicable to the proposed operation are drawn from the evolving experience of
AGETIP-type projects in Western Africa. Those projects are based on the creation of a commercial non-
governmental organization set up to carry out contract management services for the implementation of
well-selected, economic public works and services program using labor-intensive techniques -- which has
proved very efficient in providing employment and subsistence to unskilled workers and, at the same time,
achieving durable economic benefits. At the beginning of 1995, there were 11 projects completed or under
implementation (two in Senegal and one each in Mali, Mauritania, Burkina Faso, Niger, The Gambia,
Benin, Togo, Chad, and Madagascar). The lessons from the first Senegal Public Works and Employment
Project (Cr.2075-SE), incorporated into the design of the Senegal II operation (Cr.2369-SE), show the
importance of: (a) adequate dissemination and community participation for maintaining completed works;
(b) strong coordination of all actors through the preparation of a detailed annual work program; (c) an
agreed, detailed Procedures Manual to ensure effective and transparent implementation; (d) a regular,
standardized and reliable computerized management system for project reporting and monitoring; (e) a
strong covenant linking the review of subproject batches to the actual disbursement of counterpart funding;
and (g) application of commercial management methods and private sector staffing.
2.27    On the macro-economic side, SACs I & II have played a major role in helping the authorities to
carry out important reforms, and the reforms contemplated under these two operations have been
implemented, albeit with some delays. However, the adjustment process is far from complete. Further
actions are required in public resource management, domestic resource mobilization, public enterprise
reform, and legal and regulatory reforms. In designing the policy reform program, experience shows the
need to be selective given the weak institutional capacity and low skills available.
E.      Rationale for IDA Involvement
1.      Bank Group Assistance Strategy
2.28    A Country Assistance Strategy for Guinea-Bissau was presented to the Board together with the
Social Sectors Project (Cr.2465-GUB) in February 1993 before the new multi-party government was
installed. The thrust of the strategy is to support policies and expenditure patterns that promote efficient
and sustainable growth, while improving the provision of social services. The strategy focuses on: (i)
sound public sector management, particularly in public expenditure management and resource mobilization,
public enterprise reform and institutional building; (ii) privatization, to remove distortions to private sector
development, along with financial sector reform, and more efficient provision of infrastructure services;
(iii) poverty reduction and human resource development; and (iv) environmental protection.
2.29    The proposed project is the immediate next step in implementing this strategy. Getting the new
Government to develop the degree of ownership needed for their success will take time, as new institutions
re-tested and new political alignments take place. In the meantime, it is important to preserve the macro-
economic and project implementation gains so far achieved. In this operation the Bank would address
issues in resource mobilization and public expenditure management and allocation to relieve constraints in
economic and social infrastructure. On the expenditure side, the recently completed Public Expenditure
Review has led to a number of recommendations for improving public investment programming and public



9
expenditure management and for rationalizing the sectoral allocation of expenditure. This operation will
support implementation of these measures and recommendations.
2.30    Social and economic infrastructure provides an appropriate target for IDA assistance for four
major reasons:
(a)     The sector accounts for about 45% of the public investment budget, but only about 2%
of the public recurrent budget. Better targeting of resource use to provide for routine
and periodic infrastructure maintenance, encouraging a greater role for the private
sector in carrying out infrastructure projects, and strengthening the institutional and
policy framework will help reduce the costs of doing business, increase the
competitiveness of the economy and provide more efficient basic social services;
(b)     The present poor state of roads slows down the supply response in the agriculture
sector. For example, for cashew nuts (80% total export earnings), transport costs
amount to about 15% of total costs. Improving access to important and productive
parts of the country during the rainy season (June-October) will increase farmers
incomes and improve competitiveness of the sector;
(c)     Inefficient river transportation, ferry boats services, and road maintenance services will
be transferred to the private sector under the current operation. Ferries will be
privatized and road maintenance brigades will be dismantled to allow SMEs to
participate. Two existing PEs are slated for liquidation: TAGB (airline company) and
SILO DIATA (urban bus company which has ceased its activities) while
RODOFLUVIAL's road transport activities will be shut down and maritime transport
activities will be privatized. TRANSTER's exclusive right to operate bus service will
be reviewed under the current operation and the issue of State shareholding in
TRANSTER will also be addressed. The competitiveness of the BISSAU port also
needs to be addressed and current operation and taxes/charges need to be adjusted as to
ensure that there is no significant over/under charges in Bissau in comparison with
Dakar, Banjul, Praia and Conakry; and
(d)     Visible results in terms of employment creation and improvement in living conditions
through improved availability of potable water and sanitation facilities will build
political support for reform and encourage the authorities to address forcefully the
remainder of the adjustment agenda.
2.31    The proposed project would have a significant impact, but it is not designed to address all the
weaknesses in public sector management listed in para 2. 18. This is a conscious choice, justified by the
limited institutional and implementation capabilities of the Government. Rather than launching an
adjustment operations infrastructure/transport sector, with the risks of protracted implementation, the
project is designed to improve resource management and support reforms in a key sector, while undertaking
much needed investments using the AGETIP-type model which has demonstrated its efficiency elsewhere in
the sub-region. This would maximize the impact of the next stage in the adjustment process. To further
deepen the policy agenda supported through the present project, economy-wide structural reforms in private
sector development, agriculture, health, and education are required. The policy dialogue on such reforms is
ongoing and will be supported through planned future operations in these sectors.



10
2.      Rationale for a Sector-Specific Policy Framework
2.32    Despite the urgent nature of project interventions in priority road network and urban social
infrastructure, the Government wishes to establish sectoral development on a sound long-term policy
framework so as to address structural problems in a sector where the traditional intervention is investment
lending. The sector-specific policy framework promoted through this project in the planning, programming
and management of funds used for economic and social infrastructure would make a significant
contribution to better public resource management while eliminating key physical bottlenecks to the supply
response in agriculture. The investment would allow the Government to demonstrate the creation of jobs
rapidly, by emphasizing labor-intensive techniques and an increased use of local resources. This would
increase popular support for future reforms, a critical concem given the fragile, political and economic
situation of Guinea-Bissau. The synergy between sector-specific policy reforms and investments achieved
would increase the effectiveness of the operation.
2.33    In this evolving political and social climate, the challenge for IDA is to help Guinea-Bissau
maintain the reform momentum, without over-stretching the Government's capacity, rendered fragile by the
new institutional arrangements put in place since the elections. The proposed operation promotes the more
efficient use of public resources and increases access to, and the sustainabilty and quality of, basic
infrastructure. It will improve access to isolated geographic areas of economic importance, increase the
competitiveness of exports, and address the need of the most vulnerable groups through employment
creation and the rehabilitation of social infrastructure. Its overarching objectives are to maintain the
promising results achieved in restoring macro-economic equilibria and to help translate these results into
sustained economic growth and visible improvement in the standard of living.
III.    THE PROJECT
A.      Objectives
3.1     The long-term development objectives are to assist the Government in implementing its sector
development program for the period 1996-2000 which aims: (a) to enhance the efficiency of country-wide
transport and transit, particularly for the movement of agricultural products; (b) to improve living
conditions in urban areas, particularly of the poor and shore up municipality participation; (c) to generate
employment; (d) to improve the labor skills and competitiveness of construction enterprises, road
maintenance and transport enterprises by developing their capacity to respond to opportunities for works
after project completion; and (e) to benefit children's health and education, sanitary conditions and quality
of environment in urban areas.
3.2     The project objectives are: (a) to improve the management of public sector resources devoted to
economic and urban social infrastructure; (b) to rehabilitate transport and urban infrastructure; and (c) to
efficiently execute works by delegating contract management to a contract management agency. To reach
these two objectives, the project aims to address the three main constraints: (a) insufficient and poorly
maintained infrastructure; (b) weak institutional environment; and (c) inefficiency and lack of
competitiveness in contracting.



11
B.     Project Description
3.3     The proposed project is designed to assist the Government, first, to establish a sector-specific
policy framework which is necessary to achieve the project objectives, and second, to implement a time-
slice of: (a) a rehabilitation and maintenance program of the priority network of roads and ports,
Component A (US$14.7 million of total base costs); (b) an urban infrastructure rehabilitation and
maintenance program, Component B (US$10.5 million of total base costs); and (c) a capacity building
program to strengthen sector management and planning functions, Component C (US$4.1 million of total
base costs). The use of an AGETIP-type contract management agency (para. 2.26) for implementation
would address the lack of competition in construction, inefficient procurement and payment delays, and
would create new employment in urban areas through the use of labor-intensive techniques.
Sector-Specific Policy Framework
3.4     The policy framework comprises a number of policy measures aiming: (a) to improve sector
resource allocation, mobilization and management; (b) to strengthen the institutional environment for
infrastructure and disengage the State from public enterprises in the transport sector; (c) to improve
management of road rehabilitation and maintenance; and (d) to increase efficiency and the competitiveness
of contracting of works. These measures are described below and summarized in a policy matrix in Annex
5. The Government provided IDA with a letter of sector development policy signed on May 15, 1995
(Annex 6 ). During negotiations. agreement was reached that Government will implement these policy
measures as part of the action plan which would be monitored during joint Government-IDA annual
reviews (6.3(a)).
3.5     Improve sector resource allocation, mobilization and management. The following measures
aim to increase sector resource mobilization, consolidate the budget, improve its comprehensiveness and
integration within the Public Investment Program (PIP), and allocating adequate resources to infrastructure
maintenance:
Sector Investment Program (SIP). To improve the efficiency of sector investments (para 2.20), the
Government will issue regulations: (a) to establish a three-year rolling SIP, to be updated yearly; (b) to
restructure and consolidate the budget to include all autonomous and donors funds; (c) to establish, by
region, budget line items to identify resources allocated for road, and urban social infrastructure
rehabilitation/maintenance; (d) to establish the responsibilities of all departments involved in the SIP,
including rules for investment approval and qualitative and quantitative criteria for public investment
selection; and (e) to adopt a minimum rate of return of 12% for a project to be included in the SIP, except
for social infrastructure. The regulations are part of the letter of sector development policy (Annex 6).
The action plan was discussed and agreement was reached during negotiations (para 6.3(a)).
3.6      Strengthen the institutional environment. The following measures aim at strengthening the
Government's capacity to manage the infrastructure sector, develop public/private partnerships, and scale
down the role of Government in the economy:
Sector Management. To enhance management and coordination of sectoral activities, Government will
define the organizational structure of the newly created MES, and assign clear responsibilities to each
department. The institutional framework and required related regulations was reviewed during
negotiations.



12
Divestiture of interest in publicly owned companies. As stated in the letter of sector development policy
(Annex 6) and in the PFP 1994-97, the Government agreed during negotiations that it will: (a) terminate
RODOFLUVIAL's road haulage activities not later than December 31, 1995 through the sale of its
equipment (para. 6.3(b)); (b) adopt not later than December 31, 1996, action plans with a time-table,
satisfactory to IDA, describing, inter alia, the modalities of privatization of the ferry services and the
maritime operations of RODOFLUVIAL respectively, and the fare and subsidy policies of the Government
in both activities, and thereafter implement such plans (para 6.3(c)); and (c) carry out a study to include an
action plan on the future privatization or liquidation of TAGB not later than March 31, 1996, and
implement such action plan not later than June 30, 1996 (para. 6.3(d)). Issuance of the Decree ordering the
liquidation of SILO DIATA and appointing the members of the liquidation commission responsible for
overseeing the liquidation of SILO DIATA is a condition of credit effectiveness (para 6.4(a)).
3.7     Improve the management of road rehabilitation and maintenance. The following measures
would establish the legal framework for private sector-led road maintenance and rehabilitation activities,
strengthen cost recovery practices and increase the allocation of public resources to road maintenance:
Use ofprivate enterprises for periodic and routine road maintenance. To improve the efficiency of road
maintenance, the Government will move from force account methods to contracting out road rehabilitation
to private enterprises and, where feasible, to community groups and users (para 2.20). Adoption of the
necessary legislation to dismantle the MES force account units carrving out road maintenance by offering
their equipment for sale or lease and redeploying their personnel is a condition of credit effectiveness (para
6.4(b)).
Revenue generation. To ensure the availability of the required funding for road maintenance (para 2.20),
the Government agreed during negotiations that it will: (a) take all measures required to increase the
annual revenues of the Road Fund from the current level in pesos equivalent to $555,000 in FY 1996,
$580,000 in FY 1997, $595,000 in FY 1998 and $600,000 in FY 1999), (b) ensure that the proceeds of the
Road Fund are used solely to defray the cost of road maintenance work programs acceptable to IDA, (c)
have the Road Fund accounts and records for each FY audited in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. (d) by March 31 of each year
submit the audit report to IDA for review and comment; and (e) by the end of each calendar year, submit to
IDA for review and comments a report on the collection and use of the Road Fund revenues (para. 6.3 (f)).
Adoption of revenue-generating regulations to adjust the rates of charges to be collected by the Road Fund
from the road users to ensure that revenues are at least US$555,000 equivalent in the first year of project
implementation is a condition of credit effectiveness (paras 6.4(c)). Evidence, satisfactory to IDA, that
revenue-generating measures have been implemented to ensure that they are satisfactorily collected will be
monitored at joint Government-IDA annual reviews.
3.8     Increase efficiency and the competitiveness of contracting. To implement the investment
component of the proposed project, the Government will: (a) delegate civil works contracting by setting up
an AGETIP-type agency (para 2.26); (b) streamline procurement procedures; (c) increase competition in
construction contracts; and (d) foster labor-intensive works. An AGETIP-type agency was created and its
Administrator appointed before negotiations (para. 6.2(b)).



13
Investment Program
Component A: Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program of the Priority Network of Roads and Ports
3.9     This component will help consolidate and maintain, in a sustainable manner, the priority network
of roads and ports by the year 2000 by supporting: (a) the remaining rehabilitation needs initiated under
the on-going Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project as well as other donors; (b) urgent periodic road
maintenance; (c) the introduction of routine road maintenance on a regular basis; and (d) essential
rehabilitation of the ports of Bubaque and Cacheu.
3.10    The road network is composed of 3,436 km of which 2,395 km are rural tracks. On the basis
of a study conducted in 1995 -- using the Highway Design Maintenance III (HDM III) method -- the
Government retained a priority network of 1,042 km which represents 40% of the classified network. Out
of 1,042 km of the priority network, 735 km (or 70%) are paved roads with the remainder composed of
307 km of dirt road. This network also includes river crossings and the maritime liaisons necessary to
transport agricultural products from production centers to market. As rehabilitation needs for ferryboats
and ramps are being covered under EU financing, the project concentrates on roads which have a high rate
of return -- between 20% and 61% with an average of 38%. The project provides for: (i) the
rehabilitation of about 150 km of roads (74 km paved and 76 km of earth roads), including all the
necessary engineering structures such as service bays, inverts, culverts or small bridges; (ii) the periodic
maintenance of about 91 km of roads (or about 68 km paved and about 23 km of dirt roads), including
improvement of road pavement by scarification, grading and shoulder regravelling, and engineering
structures; and (iii) rehabilitation of the island port of Bubaque, essential for linking the Bijagos
archipelago and the continental part of the country, and rehabilitation of the port of Cacheu on the Cacheu
river, including improvement of the quay and berthing structure and construction of low cost storage
facilities related to commercial, industrial and tourism development activities.
Funding under the capacity building component (para 3.18) is also provided for training and
technical support to local contractors and professionals of the construction industry (such as architects,
engineers, technicians, land surveyors and quantity surveyors) to increase the technical and managerial
capacity of small and medium-sized firms of the construction industry involved in the subprojects. Key
performance indicators are in Annex 7. The inventory of the first year program, acceptable to IDA, was
confirmed during appraisal (Annex 8A); its adoption by the Government is a condition of credit
effectiveness (para 6.4(d)).
3.11    Road maintenance will be carried out based on the following principles: (a) responsibility will
be defined by establishing clear assignments among different government departments and agencies; (b)
management would be enhanced at four levels: (i) planning and monitoring of maintenance by the
Directorate for roads; (ii) Road Fund administration; (iii) procedures for contracting out to the private
sector or community groups; and (iv) quality control of works; (c) financing would be collected on a fee-
for-service basis collected by the Road Fund; and (d) ownership among road users would be developed by
involving them in the cost-recovery discussions and management of the Road Fund established as a trust
fund and managed by SMEs. The management of the Road Fund is critical for the financing of periodic
and routine road maintenance. In the past, it has collected meager resources due to low charges and
exemptions of charges granted to a large number of users. A study on the Road Fund's administration will
be carried out no later than six months after credit effectiveness to ensure the Road Fund's autonomy,
transparency and management. Selection of consultants (with terms of reference and selection process
satisfactory to IDA) is a condition of credit effectiveness (para. 6.4(e)). On the basis of this
recommendations of the study, the Government agreed during negotiations that it will: (i) adopt, not later



14
recommendations of the study, the Government agreed during negotiations that it will: (i) adopt, not later
than one year after credit effectiveness an action plan with a time-table, satisfactory to IDA, describing,
inter alia, actions and measures to promote the participation of road users in the management of the Road
Fund and establish specific legal provisions; and (ii) thereafter promptly implement such action plan (para.
6.3 (e)). The road user charges would be set to cover all costs of maintaining main roads in the priority
network. The Government agreed during negotiations that Road Fund annual budgets presented on a
quarterly basis, and satisfactory to IDA, will be adopted as a condition of credit effectiveness (para 6.4(c))
and annual audits of its use will be carried out (para. 3.7 and 4.13). The project will provide for routine
maintenance of the priority network consisting of punctual interventions to proceed with cleaning out
ditches, filling potholes for paved roads, regravelling of dirt roads, grass clearance on shoulders, and wet
set barriers.
Component B: Urban Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program
3.12    The project will improve living conditions in urban areas by the year 2000 through three urgent
rehabilitation/construction programs: (a) a water and sanitation program; (b) a street paving and drainage
program; and (c) small-scale social infrastructure program. All programs will be based on the growing
involvement of and consultation with the community (municipalities and associations) and development of
SMEs using labor-intensive techniques, paying attention to gender issues in labor recruitment. Funding
under the capacity building component (para 3.18) includes measures to boost systematic community and
municipality consultation through technical assistance in the form of information campaigns (using local
media and Information, Education, Communication (IEC) methods) and support for preparing feasibility
studies and technical project proposals. It will also provide for training and technical support to
contractors and professionals to increase the technical and managerial capacity of SMEs of the
construction industry involved in the subprojects. Eligibility criteria for the selection of subprojects were
reviewed and agreed upon during appraisal (Annex 10). Key performance indicators are in Annex 7. The
inventory of the first year's program, acceptable to IDA, with the application of these criteria, was
reviewed and agreed upon during appraisal (Annex 8B); its adoption by the Government is a condition of
credit effectiveness (para. 6.4(d)).
3.13    Water/Sanitation. This subcomponent was added during appraisal and represents a critical pilot
operation for the next water and sanitation project under preparation. It addresses the most urgent
rehabilitation needs in Bissau, which possesses an acceptable management framework for the sector and
concentrates on the most disadvantaged urban and pern-urban areas. It comprises: (a) urgent rehabilitation
of the primary water distribution network including: (i) renovation over a length of seven kilometers of
obsolescent piping and ancillary equipment in order to stem the substantial water losses through the
network; (ii) rehabilitation of four existing reservoirs; (iii) network interconnection and redimensioning by
laying about 2.4 km of new 200-250 mm PVC water pipes to upgrade the performance and raise the output
of the water distribution; and (iv) strengthening of the supply conduits and upgrading supply flows and
pressures by strengthening the piping (200-250 mm) over a length of 4.5 km; (b) rehabilitation of dirt and
concrete drainage, including: (i) rehabilitation of four outlets; and (ii) clearing of existing and construction
of new essential dirt and concrete drainage over a length of 2.2 km; and (c) implementation of a pilot
program for testing adapted and sustainable methods for solid waste collection and disposal.
3.14    Street paving and drainage, and small infrastructure. This subcomponent would be
concentrated in Bissau, but after one year, similar operations would also be gradually undertaken in seven
secondary market towns (Bafata, Bissora, Canchungo, Farim, Bafata, Gabu and Catio). The project
supports: (a) street improvements, including: (i) street paving for motorized and non-motorized traffic,
and related necessary drainage; (ii) sidewalks and culvert repairs; and (iii) construction of neighborhood



15
access streets and intersections; (b) rehabilitation and construction of small economic and social
infrastructure, such as primary schools, basic health centers, neighborhood markets, slaughter houses and
small terminals for inter-city transport and other facilities; and (c) strategic studies to improve investment
planning and maintenance of social infrastructure in urban areas.
3.15    Principle to ensure sustainability of Urban Infrastructure. In the current context
characterized by the absence of local/municipal tax collection, the maintenance of urban/social
infrastructure relies on the Government's new sectoral strategy based on clear assignments among
municipalities, communities, user groups, government and non-governmental organizations, better
management, financing through fee-for-service basis collected by associations and by municipalities, and
ownership among users. User charges would be set to cover maintenance costs. Community participation
will also be developed during the project by using community associations and NGOs. The Government
and IDA will carry out annually a joint review of Government, municipalities and communities'
performance in the maintenance of urban infrastructure.
Component C: Capacity Building Program in Sector Management and Planning
3.16    This component supports the Government's objectives of reinforcing the MSE's capacity to
better plan and manage its program, staff and resources, promote the private sector and delegate contract
management to the AGETIP-type agency. This will strengthen: (a) capacity in policy-making, sector
management, planning and regulation, (b) capacity of contractors, engineers and architects taking part in
the execution of the project; and (c) community participation.
3.17    The ongoing Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project has financed staff training, technical assistance
(representing 33% of total project costs) and logistical support for the MES's directorates to carry out
simple studies and supervise of works. A significant number of staff (about 1,050) paid by the MES are
carrying out implementation functions but few have the necessary skills to address sectoral issues in a
conceptual manner. At the time where MES Directorates' role is moving from routine implementation of
works to the definition of strategies and programming, MES has decided to reduce the number of staff, in
particular through the privatization of public enterprises and road maintenance brigades (para. 3.6 and
3.7), and to delegate contract management functions to an AGETIP-type agency, in order to reduce cost
and to focus on the MES's main functions.
3.18    To strengthen the capacity of contractors and professionals having won contracts through the
project and to increase community participation, this component supports: (i) short-term workshops on
business administration, financial management, work organization and labor-intensive techniques, geared
towards contractors, architects and engineers; and (ii) information and technical guidance to communities
(municipalities, neighborhood and user associations) to carry out feasibility studies, submit technical
project proposals and secure minimum funding or participation for the maintenance of urban infrastructure.
As a condition of credit effectiveness (para 6.4(0), the AGETIP-type agency will select consultants (with
terms of reference and selection process satisfactory to IDA), to deliver such training and technical
assistance during the first project year.
3.19    Project funding will provide: (a) for sector management: (i) local in-service training sessions and
short-term training abroad in "Highway Design Maintenance" for MES staff; (ii) consulting services to
provide institutional support at the central level to the three MES Directorates and to the cabinet; (iii)
short-term consulting services for assisting MES in the privatization process, carrying out a study on the
management of the Road Fund, annual and mid-term reviews (including beneficiary and environmental
assessment and technical audits), and preparation of future sector investment projects; (iv) remodeling of



16
existing facilities in the MES complex; and (v) purchase of office equipment including computers, supplies
and vehicles for the three departments of MES; (b) for contractors and professionals of the construction
industry: short-term workshops on business administration, financial management, work organization and
labor-intensive techniques; (c) for municipalities, neighborhood and user associations: information
programs and technical support to prepare feasibility studies and technical project proposals; and (d) cost
of the AGETIP-type agency's services.
C.       Costs and Financing
3.20     Costs. The total cost of the project is estimated net of taxes at US$33.5 million, with a base cost
of US$30.2 million and a foreign exchange component of US$24.1 million. Price contingencies, estimated
at US$2. 1 million (or 7% of base costs) assume an annual domestic inflation rate of 10% in 1996, 8% in
1997, 6% in 1998 and 1999, and a foreign inflation rate of 2.5%; physical contingencies are estimated at
US$1.2 million or 4% of base costs. Table 1 below summarizes the project cost estimates. Detailed cost
tables are in Annex 11.
Table 1: Project Cost Estimate*
(US$ million)
Project Components               ;   :          :            :Local      Foreign  J  Totl   | % of Base
costs
A.      Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Program        3.3        11.4       14.7        49%0    |
B.      Rehabilitation of Urban Infrastructure Program         2.8        7.7        10.5        35%
C.      Capacity Building Program                              1.6        2.5        4.1         13%
|D.     PPF refinancing                                        0.4        0.5        0.9         3%
Total Base Cost                    8.1        22.1       30.2       100%
Physical Contingencies                             0.3        0.9         1.2        4%
Price Contingencies                                1.0        1.1        2.1         7%
Total Project Costs                  9.4       24.1       33.5        111%
* Net of direct and indirect taxes and duties
3.21     Financing Plan. IDA would provide US$22.0 million equivalent and the Government of
Guinea-Bissau US$2.5 million, with the remaining US$9.0 million covered by cofinancing. So far,
Japan and other donors such as The Netherlands and Switzerland have demonstrated a strong interest.
It is expected that these financing sources will be confirmed before credit effectiveness.
3.22     Government will contribute counterpart funding equivalent to US$2.5 million in half-yearly
tranches (Annex 15, page 2), between July 1996 and July 2000. Counterpart funding, as agreed during
negotiations, will be used for making payments of 5% on all civil works contracts (net of taxes and duties),
except for the routine road maintenance program for which the Government's contribution will be on an
increasing basis (5% during the first year, 15% the second year, 25% the third year, 40% the fourth year
and 100% the fifth year). Payment of a first tranche of US$190,000 to a commercial bank account opened
for the project counterparts is a condition of credit effectiveness (para 6.4(g)).



17
IV.     IMPLEMENTATION
A.      Preparation and Readiness
4.1     A local project preparation group, spearheaded by the former Ministry of Public Works and by
the newly created MES, was set up and was assisted by three IDA missions in 1994 and early 1995. The
project was discussed with the Prime Minister and with stakeholders in a workshop opened to the media, to
the ministries of Natural Resources/Energy/ Industry, Education, Finance, Planning and Cooperation, the
Municipality of Bissau, the Chamber of Commerce and the Transporters' Association. Agreement was
reached on the project objectives, scope, institutional reforms and implementation arrangements through an
AGETIP-type agency (confirmed by the MES in his letter No 104/GM/1995 of April 4, 1995). Sector-
specific reforms, consistent with the 1994-97 PFP, were drafted by the Government in a letter of sector
development policy and discussed with IDA. The public enterprise reforms were discussed with MES and
the Ministry of Finance. Project preparation was financed with a US$500,000 PPF approved in May
1994. A second PPF of US$400,000 has been established to set up the AGETIP-type agency, carry out
studies for the construction program of the first year, and finance the implementation of a small pilot
program. The creation of the AGETIP-type agency and the selection process of its Administrator were
completed before negotiations.
4.2     The project preparation group completed: (a) the inventory of subprojects for the first year's
portfolio (Annex 8- 8A and 8B) that meet the agreed criteria; (b) the selection of the pilot works to be
contracted after negotiations and; (c) draft statutes and manual of procedures of the AGETIP-type agency;
(d) the 1995-99 rehabilitation and maintenance program of the priority network of roads; and (e) a signed
letter of sector development policy dated May 15, 1995.
B.      Implementation and Management Responsibilities
4.3     Policy Agenda. Sector-specific reforms will be implemented by the MES, and monitored by the
Ministries of Finance and Planning and Cooperation. The MES will be responsible for reorganizing the
transport and urban sector while the privatization/liquidation of public enterprises in the transport sector
will be managed by the management unit for the Public Enterprises Reform (UGREP) in the Ministry of
Finance.
4.4     Components A, B and C. Implementation arrangements for effective fulfillment of the project's
objectives will be similar to those for members of AFRICATIP and will make use of delegated contract
management, while beneficiaries (Ministries, municipalities or communities) will have a key function in the
decision-making process through systematic client consultation. Works, goods and services will be
contracted out mainly to local private firms or consultants. All project components, except the
privatization program will be managed by the AGETIP-type executing agency. The agency will enter into
an agreement with beneficiaries to execute the specific subprojects. To facilitate implementation, the
project will provide funds under the capacity building component (para. 3.18) for: (a) focused training of
consultants and contractors executing subprojects to improve management, work organization, and
technical skills; and (b) information and technical support to beneficiaries. Government of Guinea-Bissau
has already participated in the annual meetings of AFRICATIP to exchange views on the AGETIP model
in the sub-region.
4.5     The executing agency. The Government has created the Agencia Guineense de Execusdo de
Obras de Interesse Putblico e Promo,cao de Emprago (AGEOPPE). The agency is independent, private



18
sector oriented and was initially set-up with the legal status of a not-for-profit company (see Annex 9). Its
board consists of an administrator and key stakeholder representatives (the Mayor of Bissau, the Chamber
of Commerce, the Transporters Association and a recognized civic leader). It will follow its own
procedures manual for bids and awarding contracts. The project finances 100% of AGEOPPE's start-up
costs which should not exceed 5% of the volume of works completed each year -- which is estimated at a
minimum of US$6.0 million during the three first years. The appointment of AGEOPPE's Administrator,
and transmittal of draft Statutes, By-laws, Manual of Procedures and Subsidiary Agreement between
Government and AGEOPPE, in a form and substance acceptable to IDA, were completed before
negotiations. Signature of the subsidiary agreement by an Administrator, acceptable to IDA, and
employment of AGEOPPE's technical, administrative and financial directors, with qualification acceptable
to IDA, is a condition of credit effectiveness (para 6.4(h)).
4.6     Operating procedures. AGEOPPE's operating procedures and internal organization include:
(i) eligibility criteria for selecting sub-projects submitted by local and central administrations for
implementation under the proposed project (Annex 10; (ii) procedures for calling for bids, selecting
contractors, consultants and vendors and awarding contracts; (iii) internal organization for supervision and
control of works; (iv) disbursement procedures; and (v) procedures for handing over completed works.
Based on the audits and performance indicators, the Board of the Agency as a commercial enterprise has
full authority to propose and implement any measure that will be deemed useful to ensure actual fulfillment
of the project's objectives, including the hiring and dismissal of the agency's management and staff.
4.7     Selection of subprojects. AGEOPPE will advertise widely the procedures contained in its
procedures manual especially as they pertain to the categories of works and services eligible to be financed
under the project. The agency will review the sub-projects that are presented by the ministries of the
central government and/or other beneficiaries such as municipalities or community organizations. It will
verify their eligibility based on agreed eligibility criteria (Annex 10) -- ensuring a rate of return of at least
12%, promoting intensive labor techniques and job creation, and having a positive impact on the
environment -- known and published in the Manual of Procedures, in order to assess their level of
compliance with the project objectives. After analysis, the portfolio to be executed for the coming year will
be identified. For the urban program, the batch of subprojects will generally comply with a breakdown
between subprojects submitted by Government and those submitted by local communities: (i) year one,
90%-10%; (ii) year two, 70/6.30%; (iii) year three, 50%-50%; and (iv) year four 40%-60%. The
Government agreed during negotiations that the portfolio of selected sub-projects will be submitted by
AGEOPPE to the Government and IDA for approval, in annual batches no later than June 30 of each year
(para. 6.3(g)). After that, consulting firms will be hired to prepare bidding and technical documents to call
for bids.
4.8     Payment to Contractors. Since the project seeks to encourage the participation of SMEs,
prompt payment (not exceeding one week) is central for the efficient development of contractors and
consultants for the works or services they execute. The procedures manual allows the agency to give an
advance of up to 20% against bank guarantees. The private status of AGEOPPE allows its Administrator
to order payments, by co-signing with the Financial Director checks and transferring orders, without being
submitted to numerous clearances. The Government agreed with IDA during negotiations on a draft
subsidiary agreement stating that AGEOPPE, being an independent non-profit organization, has tax exempt
status and, therefore, subprojects implemented by AGEOPPE are exempted from any direct or indirect
taxes and duties, as per the Investment Code of Guinea-Bissau (para. 4.13 and 6.2(c)).



19
C.        Procurement
4.9       Table 2 below summarizes project costs by disbursement category and procurement methods.
No special exemptions, permits or licenses need to be specified in credit documents for ICB, as Guinea-
Bissau, despite the absence of any procurement law, allows Bank procedures to take precedence over any
contrary local regulations or uses. For ICB, the Bank's standard bidding documents for goods and civil
works will be used. National Competitive Bidding advertised locally (NCB) will be carried out in
accordance with the AGEOPPE's Manual of Procedures which allows that: (a) any bidders are given
sufficient time to submit bids (three to four weeks for contracts exceeding US$20,000 equivalent); (b) bid
evaluation and bidder qualification are clearly specified; (c) no preference margin is granted to domestic
contractors or manufacturers; (d) eligible foreign firms are not precluded from participation; (e) contracts
provide for security in an amount sufficient to protect the Borrower in case of breach of contract (without
distinction or exception); (f) prior to issuing the first call for bids, draft standard bidding documents are
submitted to IDA and found acceptable; and (g) award will be made to the lowest evaluated bidder.
Detailed procurement arrangements are in Annex 13.
Table 2: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arraneements
(US$ million equivalent net of taxes and duties including contingencies)
US$ million
Project Element               ICB       NCB      Other    N.B.F.Y    Total
1. Civil Works
1.1 Civil Works(forRoads)                 2.50      7.72       -        3.39      13.61
(2.38)    (7.33)      -        (-)       (9.71)
1.2 Civil Works (for other works)                   4.96       -        5.30      10.26
l      (4.71)       -        (--)     (4.71)
1.3 Routine Road Maintenance                        2.59       -       0.70 /b     3.29
l   ~  (1.81)       -                 (1.81)
2. Goods
2. 1 Equipment, Supplies and Materials    0.36      0.20      0.10                 0.66
(0.36)    (0.20)    (0. 10)     -       (0.66)
3. Consultancies
3.1 Design/Supervision                                -       0.54      0.60       1.14
-         -      (0.54)     (--)      (0.54)
3.2 TA, Training, Studies and Audit        -         -        2.37        -        2.37
-         -      (2.37)       -       (2.37)
4. Miscellaneous
4.1 AGEOPPE's services                     -          -       1.29        -        1.29
-         -      (1.29)       -       (1.29)
4.2 PPF refinancing                        -          -       0.90        -        0.90
-         -      (0. 90)      -       (0.90)
Total Costs                2.86      15.47      5.20      9.99      33.52
Total Financed by the IDA credit    (        (14.06)   (5.20)      (        (22.00)
Note:      (a) N.B.F.: Not Bank-Financed.
(b) Entirely financed by Government during the fifth project year.
* Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IDA credit.
* Figures may not add up to rounding



20
4.10    Procurement of civil works, goods and consulting services would be managed by AGEOPPE
through specific delegation by ministries. The agency's procedures manual will detail procurement
procedures according to which the agency will select contractors and award contracts. They are similar to
procurement arrangements of AFRICATIP members and in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement under IDA credits. Civil works contracts of US$500,000 equivalent or more would be
through ICB in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits (January 1995). Procurement of civil works costing between US$20,000 and US$500,000
equivalent would be made through national competitive bidding (NCB) acceptable to IDA (para 4.9),
provided that the aggregate amount of such procurement does not exceed US$15.3 equivalent. For
contracts costing less than US$20,000 equivalent each, unit rates based on NCB for standard of small
works would be used. AGEOPPE will maintain a roster of contractors eligible for NCB, according to
procedures acceptable to IDA and spelled out in the AGEOPPE's Manual of Procedures. IDA will review
and approve the prequalification and ensure that procedures are consistent with the Manual of Procedures.
Goods costing US$150,000 equivalent or more would be procured through ICB in agreement
with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995). Goods
costing more than US$20,000 equivalent but less than US$150,000 would be procured through NCB
acceptable to IDA (para 4.9), provided the aggregate amount of such procurement does not exceed
US$200,000 equivalent. Goods costing US$20,000 equivalent or less would be procured through
international shopping, provided that the aggregate amount of such procurement does not exceed
US$100,000 equivalent.
Consulting services financed by IDA (US$2.9 million equivalent) would be awarded in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. AGEOPPE will maintain a roster of
consultants for the establishment of short-lists.
4.11    Review by IDA. IDA-financed contracts for works and goods above a threshold value of
US$150,000 equivalent will be subject to IDA's prior review procedures. Documentation for contracts
under this threshold will be maintained for ex-post review by auditors and by Bank supervision missions.
In addition, for all contracts for which there are less than five bidders or for any decision not to select the
lowest bid, the awarding committee will submit its proposal to IDA for approval prior to notifying the
winning bidder. Prior IDA review will not apply to consultant contracts with firms selected from a short-
list estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent, and to contracts with individuals estimated to cost
less than US$50,000 equivalent, respectively. However, the exception to prior review of consultant
contracts will not apply to the terms of reference (or standard terms of reference) for such contracts, to
single-source hiring of firms, to assignment of a critical nature (as determined by IDA), and to amendments
to contracts raising their value above these thresholds (US$100,000 and US$50,000 respectively). Details
of the review thresholds are in Annex 13.
4.12    Procurement Arrangements. A detailed implementation schedule for works, goods and services
to be procured under the project was prepared and will be updated on a regular basis. During
implementation, all bid evaluation reports transmitted to IDA for review will contain an updated copy of
the implementation schedule. AGEOPPE will take the necessary measures to ensure that procurement
phases do not exceed the following target time periods:



21
maximum number of weeks
* Preparation of bidding documents                    4
* Preparation of bids by bidders                      3-4 (6-8 for ICB)
* Bid evaluation and contract award                   2
* Signature of contracts                              1
* Payments                                            I
D.      Disbursements
4.13    The sectoral disbursement profiles for the region are eight years for urban projects and seven and
half years for transport projects. However, taking into account the results obtained in other projects using
AGETIP-type agencies in the sub-region, the project is expected to be completed over a four-year period,
with the IDA Credit disbursed over five years, according to the categories shown in Table 3 below. The
estimated disbursement profile is shown in Annex 15.
Table 3: Disbursements
(in US$ million)
Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit
Category of Expenditure           IDA Allocation             % of Expenditures
Financed by IDA
1. Civil Works (except for         14.0                            95%
routine maintenance)
2. Routine Road maintenance         1.4                  95% year one, 85% year two
75% year three, 60% year four
0% year five
3. Goods                            0.6                  100% of foreign expenditures
95% of local expenditures
4. Consultant Services              2.5                            100%
5. AGEOPPE's services               1.2                            100%
6. PPF Refinancing                  0.9                         Amount due
7. Unallocated                      1.4
Total                   22.0
With a minimum turn-over of US$6.0 million -- which is necessary to keep the agency's services at a
reasonable cost (up to 5%) -- the volume of works to be completed during the first year is reflecting this
constraint. For this reason, preparation of bidding documents for the portfolio of the first year will be
carried out under the PPF financing. The IDA participation rates for each category and the disbursement
schedule was agreed during appraisal and will be confirmed during negotiations. A Special Account will
be established in US dollars in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA and with an
authorized allocation of US$1.5 million equivalent representing eligible expenditures financed by IDA over
a four month period. Monthly requests for replenishment of the Special Account, along with the necessary
documentation on expenditures, would be prepared by AGEOPPE and submitted to IDA by the
Government. Disbursements will be made on the basis of expenditures free of direct or indirect taxes and
duties. Based on the provisions of the Investment Code (approved by Decreto-Lei No 4/91 of October 14,
1991) and the general policy for projects in Guinea-Bissau, the project is exempted from any direct or



22
indirect taxes and duties. IDA's share of the cost of project expenditures will be as follows: 95% for civil
works, and 100% of foreign expenditures and 95% of local expenditures for goods, and 100% for services.
IDA's contribution to routine road maintenance will be paid on a declining basis (95% the first year, 85%
the second year, 75% the third year, 60% the fourth year). If any change is made to the Investment Code
which has the effect of levying taxes or customs duties on goods and services, the percentage referred to
above will be decreased in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
applicable to IDA Development Credit Agreement. Disbursement of the Credit will be fully documented
except for expenditures valued at less than US$150,000 equivalent which will be made against Statements
of Expenditures (SOEs), certified by AGEOPPE with supporting documents retained for review by visiting
missions and for annual audits and semi-annual reviews by auditors. The minimum withdrawal application
size will be 20% of the value of the special account or US$300,000 equivalent.
4.14    Government's counterpart funds for civil works and routine road maintenance will be deposited
in a commercial bank account opened by Govenmment (see Annex 15). Government has decided to use the
Road Fund revenues for the provision of all or part of counterpart funds (para. 3.7). Payment by the
Government of the first tranche of US$190,000 is a condition of credit effectiveness (para. 6.4(g)).
E.      Accounting and Auditing
4.15    Consolidated project accounts, maintained by AGEOPPE following an accounting system based
on systems used in other AGETIP-type agencies, and the Road Fund accounts will be audited annually by
independent auditors, acceptable to IDA. Project accounts and audit reports (following intemational audit
standards and including management letters) will be submitted to IDA within three months after the end of
the period under review. Auditors will also: (i) express separate opinions on SOEs and the special
account every six months; and (ii) produce semi-annual reports on technical and management performance
of the agency not later than three months after the end of the period under review. The contracting of
auditors, on multi-year contract, acceptable to IDA, and certification by auditors that AGEOPPE's
accounting system is operational, is a condition of credit effectiveness (para. 6.4(i)).
F.      Monitoring/Evaluation and Reporting
4.16    Monitoring, Supervision and Mid-Term Review. Annex 7 gives the monitoring indicators for
transport and urban components to measure the project performance and AGEOPPE's management
efficiency. These indicators include the following: (a) number of agreements with beneficiaries; (b)
number of contracts signed with enterprises; (c) number of contracts completed; (d) percentage of
contracts completed on time and within the budget; (e) percentage of payments to contractors within 10
days of invoice of reception; (f) number of man-months of employment created; and (g) average time for
processing contracts. AGEOPPE will use the AGETIP computerized monitoring system developed for
other AGETIP-type operations. The project will be supervised every four months the first year, then every
six months thereafter. Supervision missions will consist of field trips to work sites to review financial and
management practices, bidding, and payments procedures, SMEs participation as well as maximization of
employment creation, the number of firms bidding and winning contracts and the number of firmns receiving
technical assistance. Supervision missions will also carefully monitor the environmental impact, as well as
the percentage of jobs offered to women. A mid-term review, including a full technical and financial audit
of the project, beneficiary and environmental assessments, will be conducted no later than two years after
project effectiveness. A detailed supervision plan is presented in Annex 14.
4.17    Reporting. AGEOPPE will submit: (i) semi-annual progress reports prepared by AGEOPPE;



23
(ii) a detailed progress report on technical and financial project activities prepared by AGEOPPE not later
than four weeks before the date of mid-term review; and (iii) an implementation completion report (ICR)
within three months of the closing date.
G.      Environmental Impact
4.18    The environmental category is B for this project, which involves exclusively small scale, mostly
rehabilitation works. Most of the eligible subprojects will have a net positive impact on the environment
(on-site and off-site building and/or repairing drainage systems, soil and water conservation, and solid
waste collection). To ensure that the sub-projects' possible impact on the environment has been assessed ex-
ante, evaluation criteria are included in the Procedures Manual. Environmental analyses of each subproject
will be conducted prior to its authorization (Annex 10, criteria f), as this has been done in other AGETIP-
type operations in West Africa. Environmental impact for subprojects will be reviewed by an IDA
environmental specialist in annual batches prior to any adoption of the portfolio for the next project year.
The road maintenance and rehabilitation works will have little impact on the environment. The present
road alignments will be maintained, hence there is no risk of deforestation, property disturbance, or
resettlement. Technical audits will be conducted on environmental impact of garbage collection and
disposal.
H.      Poverty Category
4.19    The project is part of the program of targeted interventions. Its poverty reduction benefits
include: (i) increased farmers incomes by improving transport of agricultural products to market areas;
(ii) an emphasis on labor-intensive construction practices, in order to generate employment (6,000 man-
years financed under the project); (iii) training for local small construction firms to build their capacity to
submit bids and better manage their business; and (iv) substantial improvements in sanitary and health
conditions resulting from better water supply and drainage. The project will also have a beneficial impact
on the poorest by improving urban living conditions of the most vulnerable groups, and developing
municipalities' responsibility in maintaining basic social infrastructure. The project will include client
consultation and representation in AGEOPPE, beneficiary assessment studies at mid-term review to
evaluate the project's impact on beneficiaries including women, and to update the client consultation
process.
V.       BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.      Benefits
5.1     Improved infrastructure spending patterns and strengthened investment management are expected
to contribute to a better balance between sectoral composition of investment, functional and regional
allocation, and ensure funding for maintenance of infrastructure. The project will also assist in
implementing the emerging infrastructure strategy and policies. Finally, the choice of a limited number of
well targeted and significant sector-specific measures should allow MES to launch reforms in a period of
political transition while staying within the bounds of its limited implementation capacity.



24
5.2      The project will have direct social, health-related, economic, fiscal and participatory benefits.
Social benefits include job creation for unskilled workers through the use of labor-intensive techniques;
20% to 30% of the value of the works contracts will go toward wages resulting in at least 6,000 person-
years of employment. Health-related benefits include improved health and sanitary conditions resulting
from the provision of potable water and improved drainage in poor neighborhoods. Economic benefits
include lower transport costs through the reduction of vehicle operating costs by 40% to 45%; improved
access to agricultural areas, which, following project completion, will no longer be cut off during the rainy
season; economic retums (with an average of 38%) from priority infrastructure rehabilitation operations;
and increased private sector participation in infrastructure rehabilitation and maintenance. Fiscal benefits
include improved sector resource mobilization and efficiency, thus enhancing the sustainability of future
investments. Finally the participation of municipalities, communities and the private sector would be a
major change for Guinea-Bissau since it will ensure ownership and thus greater sustainability of
investments.
5.3     Beneficiaries. Implementation will improve the efficiency of municipalities and communities and
allow them to better plan future investments and their maintenance. The population, in particular the
poorest, will benefit from better drainage, sanitation, and roads, all of which will have a positive impact on
sanitary and health conditions. The project will provide SMEs with works contracts helping them to move
to the formal sector. Professionals from the construction industry, engaged in the preparing of bidding
documents and supervision of works, will benefit through formation and technical guidance. Subprojects
will also have a positive impact on the education delivery system.
5.4      Economic Analysis. No formal economic rate of return has been calculated for the entire project.
However, economic analyses have been systematically carried out for the rehabilitation and maintenance
program of the priority network of roads which accounts for over 50% of the physical works under the
project. For road repair and maintenance, economic rates of return range between 20 percent and 61
percent with an average of 38%. The results of the economic analysis using the Highway Design
Maintenance (HDM) method are presented in Annex 8. A detailed economic analysis is available in the
project files. In addition, other benefits include better road safety, reduction in vehicle operating costs,
lower transport costs by reducing vehicle operating costs by 40-45%, improve access to agricultural areas,
and the extension of the economic life of the primary road network. For the other investment component of
the project, similar projects executed in Senegal have had average rates of return of 21% in the areas of
sidewalks stabilization, 19% in construction of building, and 19% in small drainage. Sensitivity analysis
using an investment differential of 10% indicates that the subprojects remain profitable since the rates of
return obtained are 18%, 16% and 15% respectively. High rates of return would also be expected for
sanitation and other environmental works since such maintenance-type investments are typically viable in
other similar projects. New employment opportunities and increases in urban income would also be created
by the project. Job creation would be substantial (about 5,000 person/year) as large numbers of unskilled
workers will be required at construction sites, for both road repair and infrastructure rehabilitation
dispersed in Bissau and in other cities.
B.      Risks
5.5     There are three main risks related to counterpart funding, political and institutional arrangements
and cofinancing:
(a)     Regarding counterpart funding, the new Govemment may encounter difficulties making
its payments. To address this risk, the Government decided to use the Road Fund
resources for the provision of counterpart fund (paras 3.7 and 4.12). To assist the



25
Govermnent, a study on the Road Fund administration will be undertaken and a plan of
action will be established to ensure the Road Fund's independence, user representation,
autonomy and management;
(b)     On the political and institutional side, the risk is the politically sensitive reform
measures, particularly for the privatization of public companies, and reluctance of
ministries, agencies, and local governments to delegate the management of works
contracting to AGEOPPE. This has been the case with other projects with a policy
framework and with other AGETIP-type projects at the start. Five features of the
proposed project address this risk: (i) most of the more difficult reforms will be
completed or initiated prior to project effectiveness; (ii) the emphasis of the proposed
project on improving living conditions of the most vulnerable and focuses on
employment creation through labor-intensive works; (iii) a presentation of AGEOPPE
was made in public and was well received by key decision makers; and (iv) an ongoing
pilot works program will be implemented before project effectiveness to demonstrate the
efficiency of contracting and payments; and
(c)     Cofinancing is expected to be confirmed before credit effectiveness. Donors such as
The Netherlands, Japan and Switzerland have demonstrated a strong interest in
cofinancing. However, to address any risk of any shortfall in cofinancing, the project
components have been phased to allow for the water sub-component to be implemented
once cofinancing is made available. Furthermore, the phased, time-slice approach to
small works would allow IDA's contribution to be front loaded. The experience in
other AGETIP-type operations has been that many donors enthusiastically buy in after
the initial demonstration phase.may not materialize. To address this issue, the project
components have been sliced to allow for the US$5.0 million water sub-component to
be implemented once cofinancing is made available. Furthermore, the phased, time-
slice approach to small works would allow the Bank's contribution to be front loaded.
The experience in other AGETIP-type operations has been that many donors
enthusiastically buy in after the initial demonstration phase.
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1     The following actions have already been taken by the Government: (a) merger of MOPW and
MTC into MES (para. 2.15); (b) a letter to IDA transmitted the draft letter of sector development policy
(para. 3.4) and confirmed its acceptance to set-up an AGETIP-type agency (para. 3.8 and 4.5); and (c) the
creation of AGEOPPE and recruitment of its Administrator were completed before negotiations.
6.2     Before negotiations, the Government provided IDA with all documents in connection with the
conditions of negotiations:
(a)  the letter of sector development policy signed on May 15, 1995 (para. 3.4);
(b)  the Decree creating AGEOPPE -- signed on May 12, 1995; the appointment of
AGEOPPE's Administrator; and the draft Statutes, Manual of Procedures and subsidiary
agreement (para. 4.1 and 4.2); and



26
(c ) the Investment Code (approved by Decree No 4/91 of October 14, 1991), and a draft
subsidiary agreement stating that AGEOPPE being a non-profit organization will have tax
exempt status and, therefore, subprojects implemented by AGEOPPE will be exempted
from any direct or indirect taxes and duties (para. 4.8 and 4.13).
6.3     During negotiations, the Government agreed that it will:
(a)  implement the contents of the letter of sector development policy including the action plan
contained therein (para. 3.4 and 3.5);
(b)  terminate RODOFLUVIAL's road haulage activities not later than December 31, 1995,
through the sale of its equipment (para. 3.6);
(c)  adopt not later than December 31, 1996, an action plan with a time-table, satisfactory to
IDA, describing, inter alia, the modalities of privatization of the ferry services and the
maritime operations of RODOFLUVIAL respectively, and the fare and subsidy policies of
the Government in both activities, and thereafter promptly implement such plan (para.
3.6);
(d)  carry out a study to include an action plan on the future privatization or liquidation of
TAGB not later than March 31, 1996, and implement such action plan not later than June
30, 1996 (para. 3.6);
(e)  on the basis of the recommendations of a study on the Road Fund administration, (i) adopt,
not later than one year after credit effectiveness an action plan with time-table, satisfactory
to IDA, describing, inter alia, actions and measures to promote the participation of road
users in the management of the Road Fund; and (ii) thereafter promptly implement such
action plan (para. 3.11);
(f)  (i) take all measures required to increase the annual revenues of the Road Fund from the
current level in pesos equivalent to: $555,000 in FY 1996, $580,000 in FY 1997,
$595,000 in FY 1998 and $600,000 in FY 1999), (ii) ensure that the proceeds of the Road
Fund shall be used solely to defray the cost of road maintenance work programs
acceptable to IDA; (iii) have the Road Fund accounts and records for each FY audited in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA; (iv) by March 31 of each year submit the audit report to IDA
for review and comment; and (v) by the end of each calendar year, submit to IDA for
review and comments a report on the collection and use of the Road Fund revenues (para.
3.7 and 3.11); and
(g) submit for approval the portfolio of selected sub-projects, in annual batches no later than
June 30 of each year (para. 4.7).
6.4     As conditions of credit effectiveness, the Government will have, in a manner satisfactory to
IDA:
(a)  Issued the Decree ordering the liquidation of SILO DIATA and appointing the members of
the liquidation commission responsible to oversee the liquidation of SILO DIATA (para.
3.6);
(b)  Dismantled the MES units carrying out road maintenance under force account by offering
their equipment for sale or lease and redeploying their staff (para.3.7);



27
(c)  Adopted revenue-generating regulations to adjust the rates of charges to be collected by the
Road Fund from the road users to ensure that revenues are at least US$555,000 equivalent
in the first year of project implementation (pam. 3.7);
(d)  Agreed with IDA on the AGEOPPE's portfolio of subprojects for the first year of
implementation (para. 3.10 and 3.12);
(e) AGEOPPE has selected consultants (with TORs and selection process satisfactory to
IDA) to carry out a study on Road Fund administration not later than six months after
credit effectiveness to ensure Road Fund's autonomy, transparency and management
(para. 3.11);
(f)  AGEOPPE has selected consultants and adopted a program for implementation, during the
first project year of: (i) short-term workshops on business administration, financial
management, work organization and labor-intensive techniques, geared towards
contractors, architects and engineers; (ii) strengthening of the capacity of the
municipalities, neighborhood and user associations to carry out feasibility studies, submit
technical project proposals and secure minimum funding or participation for the
maintenance of urban infrastructure (para. 3.18);
(g)  Deposited a first tranche of US$190,000 corresponding to the counterparts fund for the
first six months of the project in an account opened in a commercial bank (para. 3.22 and
4.14);
(h)  Signed the subsidiary agreement with AGEOPPE's Administrator, acceptable to IDA, and
employed AGEOPPE's staff (technical, administrative and financial directors) (para. 4.5);
and
(i)  Signed a multi-year contract with auditors acceptable to IDA and furnished certification
established by said auditors that AGEOPPE's accounting system is operational (para.
4.15).
6.5      Recommendation. Subject to the above terms and conditions, the proposed project is suitable
for a Credit of SDR 14.0 million (US$22.0 million equivalent) to the Republic of Guinea-Bissau on
standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity.



28
Annex 1
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA - BISSAU
TRANSPORT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996   1997
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (%GDP at Current Market Prbe)  Percentages
Gross Domestc Product                        100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0  100.0
Agriculture                                  50.2    44.7    43.9    44.0    44.0    43.8    44.8    45.4    46.3    46.9   48.0
Industry                                     12.7    14.0    17.3    18.0    16.6    19.1    19.0    18.7    18.4    18.1   17.7
Services                                     37.1    41.3    38.8    38.0    39.3    37.1    36.2    35.8    35.3    35.0   34.3
Consumption                                   99.2   110.3   111.6   106.6   105.7   118.0   100.3   103.2   103.7   102.9  101.0
Gross Investment                              33.0    34.0    33.8    24.5    26.9    30.3    25.6    24.6    23.3    24.7   24.8
Private investment                            4.0     2.0     1.7     2.3      1.0     0.0     1.4     1.9     3.3      2.4    3.7
Government investment                        29.0    32.0    32.1    22.2    25.9    30.3    24.1    22.7    19.9    21.3   21.0
Imports GNFS/a                                44.8    58.2    55.6    42.2    46.7    56.4    36.5    44.0    42.1    43.1   42.3
ExportsGNFS/a                                 12.6    13.9    10.3    11.0    14.1      8.1    10.6    16.1    15.1    15.5   16.6
Gross domestic savings                         0.5   -10.8   -11.6    -6.6    -5.7   -18.0    -0.3    -3.2    -3.7    -2.9   -1.0
Gross national savings                        -2.0   -12.6   -14.3    -1.0      8.9    -0.4    15.3    14.7    10.2      9.4   10.9
Memorandum items
GDP(million USS atcurrentprices)             167.8   158.1   201.2   236.4   237.4   222.4   241.4   231.3   246.8   253.6  271.8
GDPpercapita(USS million)                    182.2   168.4   209.8   241.2   237.2   217.7   231.5   216.4   225.2   225.7  236.1
Real annual growth rates (% calculated from 1986 prices)
GDP at market prices                           6.0     8.0      5.4     4.3     3.0     2.8     2.7      2.6     3.3     3.8    4.1
GDI                                            7.2      7.1     5.0     3.9     5.2     5.5     3.7      3.7     3.8     4.7    5.0
Real annual per capita growth rates (% 1986 prices)
GDP at market prices                           3.9     5.9      3.2     2.1     2.3     1.6     1.5      1.7     0.7     2.6    2.3
Total consumption                              -2.8    4.3      3.0    -1.2    -4.7     4.1   -10.2      0.5     2.9     4.0    1.3
Prvate consumption                            -3.7     3.8      2.1    -1.5    -6.0     3.8   -10.8      0.5     3.8     5.1    1.8
Balance of Payments (USS millions)
Exports (GNFS)la                              21.1    22.0    20.6    26.1    33.5    18.0    25.7    37.2    37.3    39.4   45.1
Merchandise f.o.b.                           15.4    15.9    14.2    19.3    20.4      6.5    16.0    27.1    24.7    28.3   32.6
Imports (GNFS)/a                              75.3    92.0   112.0    99.7   110.7   125.4    88.1   101.7   103.9   109.3  115.1
Merchandise f.o.b.                           44.7    58.9    68.9    68.1    67.5    83.5    53.8    65.2    70.0    71.5   74.4
Resource Balance                              -54.1   -70.0   -91.4   -73.6   -77.2  -107.4   -62.4   -64.5   -66.6   -69.9  -70.0
Net current transfers                         43.6    45.5    59.4    45.1    38.1    38.8    42.0    39.5    38.6    42.9   45.4
(including official transfers)
Current Account Balance                      -58.5   -72.9   -96.9   -60.4   -84.9  -107.8   -68.5   -64.4   -68.8   -79.5  -80.6
(excluding official transfers)
Current Account Balance                      -12.8   -28.9   -38.7   -15.3   -42.7   -68.3   -24.8   -23.0   -32.2   -38.8  -37.6
(including official transfers)
MLT loans (net)                               18.6    18.2      9.3    12.5     7.3    11.1   -12.6    -9.2   -59.8    -5.3   -2.1
Other capital (net, inc eors)                 -7.9      3.5   -11.6    -1.3   -15.7    21.7   -16.5    -5.0      6.6     2.0    2.0
Change in reserves/b                         -11.1   -12.5      8.8   -17.6     8.6    -5.0     8.6      3.7    -2.8    -5.7   -6.3
Memorandum items (as % of GDP at Curr. Mkt.)
Resource balance                              -32.2   -44.3    45.3   -31.1   -32.6   -48.3   -25.8   -27.9   -27.0   -27.6  -25.7
Current account balance                       -34.8   -46.1   -48.2   -25.5   -35.8   -48.5   -28.4   -27.8   -27.9   -31.4  -29.7
(excluding official transfers)
Real Annual growth rates (volume)
Merchandise imports (f.o.b.)                 -14.6    19.6    13.1    -6.0      0.5    21.3   -32.6      7.4     8.7     2.6    2.6
Merchandise Exports (c.it.)                   19.7    17.7    -6.8    41.7      5.4   -70.2   163.9    81.1    -5.2    17.1   11.8



29                                                     Annex  1
Page 2 of 2
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996   1997
Public Finance (as % of GDP at Curr. Mkt. P.)
Current Revenues                              13.4    13.3    11.7    19.3    13.4    12.1    10.4    14.2    14.6    15.2   15.7
Current expenditures                          17.7    16.3    19.6    16.5    18.9    16.3    13.1    14.1    17.0    19.9   20.4
Interest payments on Debt                      4.9     5.1     6.0      4.4     6.6     4.7     4.7     5.5      7.9    11.1   11.1
Primary Balance                                0.7     2.0    -1.9      7.3     0.2     0.6     2.0     5.5      5.6     6.3    6.4
Capital Expenditures                          28.9    31.9    32.1    22.2    25.9    32.9    24.1    22.7    19.9    20.3   19.8
Overal Fiscal deficitVc                       -33.3   -43.7   -42.7   -25.4   -35.8   -38.1   -28.3   -22.3   -22.8   -25.9  -25.7
External Debt
Med. and L-T ext. public debt (USSmill.)     408.1   446.0   486.5   520.6   569.3   620.9   653.5   673.0   782.9   813.2  844.6
Total debt service (US$mill.)lf               22.8    25.2      40      29    48.3    46.5    50.3    41.9    96.0    52.1   50.9
Total Debt service/GDP (%)                    13.6    15.9    19.9    12.3    20.3    20.9    20.8    18.1    38.9    20.5   18.7
MLT Ext. public debtVGDP (%)                 243.2   282.0   241.8   220.2   239.8   279.1   270.7   291.0   317.3   320.7  310.7
Total DebtService/ExportsGNFS (%)/a          107.9   114.7   193.9   111.2   141.8   257.9   194.2   110.8   256.5   132.3  112.8
(USS millions)
Monetary Indicators
M2 (billions pescs)JGDP (at current market prices)  2.9  4.4    6.1    10.2    13.8    17.0    14.6    14.3    13.8    14.7   13.7
Growth of M2 (an.%growth)                    138.3    73.2    38.7    68.8    36.2   110.9    40.5    21.4    18.0    16.0   16.0
Privatesectorcreditgrowth                    125.6   107.4    96.2    24.1    16.0    10.6    46.3    17.9    32.0    33.4   35.1
(an.% growth)
Price indexes
Merchandise export price index(1987=100)     100.0    87.7    84.0    80.5    81.0    86.2    80.6    75.5    72.6    71.1   73.3
Merchandise import price index (1987=100)    100.0   131.9   154.3   152.5   151.1   187.0   120.5   145.9   156.9   160.0  166.0
Merchandise terms of trade index (1987=100)  100.0    79.6    73.6    67.1    68.6    71.6    69.9    58.1    56.5    55.7   56.5
Consumer price index( aver.% change) (1986=100)  86.7    60.3    80.8    33.0    57.6    69.6    48.1    17.2    15.5    10.0    8.0
a/ "GNFS"- 'Goods and non factor services
b/ Includes use of IMF resources
c/ Commitment basis, excluding grants
d/ Includes grants, changes in net external payments arrears
eI Includes changes in net domestic payments arrears
fi Before Rescheduling
g/ Market Prices



30
Annex 2
PaQe 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
TRANSPORT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Most                              Next
Indicator                                     Unit of        Latest single year  Recent   Same region/income group    Higher
Measure                         Estimate Sub-Saharan     Low-      Income
1970-75 1980-85  1987-92     Africa      Income     Group
RESOURCES AND EXPENDITURES
HUMAN RESOURCES
Population (mre= 1992)                 Thousands                627      886     1022      546,390   3,194,535   942,547
Age dependency ratio                   ratio                    0.75    0.87     0.87         0.95        0.67       0.66
Urban                                  % of pop.                15.9    18.1                   29.5       26.7       57.0
Population Growth rate                 annual %                  4.9     1.8      2.1           2.9        1.8        1.4
Urban                                annual %                  5.9     3.3      4.3           5.1         3.4       4.8
Labor force (15-64)                    Thousands                323      427      473          224   1,478,954
Agriculture                            % of labor force          83       82        ..
Industry                               % of labor force           3        4        ..
Female                                 % of labor force          43       42       40           37          33        36
Females per 100 males
Urban                                 number                     ..      ..       ..
Rural                                 number                    ..       ..       ..
NATURAL RESOURCES
Area                                   thou.sq.km              36.12   36.12    36.12     24274.03   38401.06  40697.37
Density                                pop.per sq.km            17.4    24.5     27.7          21.9       81.7       22.8
Agricultural land                      % of land area           48.5    49.8      50.5         52.7       50.9
Change in Agricultural land            annual %                  0.0     0.4      0.4           0.1        0.0
Agricultural land under irrigation     %                          ..      ..        ..          0.8        18.2
Forests and woodlands                 thou.sq. km                11       11       11
Deforestation (net)                    annual %                   ..      ..       1.0
INCOME
Household icome
Share of top 20% of households
Share of bottom 40% of households     % of income                ..      ..       59           ..          42
Share of bottom 20% of households     % of income                ..      ..        9            ..         19
% of income                ..      ..        2            ..          8
EXPENDITURE
Food                                   % of GDP                   ..      ..    36.9
Staples                               % of GDP                   ..      ..    12.0
Meat, Fish, Milk, Eggs                % of GDP                   ..      ..    13.7
Cereal Imports                        thou. metric tonnes        22       30       82        20311       46537     74924
Food aid in cereals                    thou. metric tonnes       11       31       16         4303        9008      4054
Food production per capita             1987 = 100               118      110      111           90         123
Fertilizer consumption                 kg/ha                     0.2     0.4      0.4           4.2       61.9
Share of agriculture in GDP            % of GDP                 47.8    42.5     45.1          18.6       29.6
Housing                                % of GDP                   ..      ..    11.9
Average household size                 persons per household      ..      ..       ..
Urban                                 persons per household
Fixes investment:housing               % of GDP                   ..      ..      5.8
Fuel and power                         % of GDP                   ..      ..      2.4
Energy consumption per capita          kg. of oil equiv.         46       37       37          258         335      1882
Households with electricity
Urban                                 % of households            ..      ..       ..
Rural                                 % of households            ..      ..       ..
Transport and communication            % of GDP                   ..      ..    14.1
Fixed investment:transport equipment   % of GDP                   ..      ..       1.4
Total road lenght                      thou. km                   ,.       4        ..
INVESTMENT IN HUMAN CAPITAL
Health
Population per physician               persons                17500    7262        ..
Population per nurse                   persons                 2821    1129        ..
Population per hospital bed            persons                  572      538       ..         1329        1050       516
Oral rehydyration Therapy (under-5    % of cases                 ..      ..        5           36          39
Education
Gross enrollment ratio
Secondary                              % of school-age pop.       3       11        7           18          41
Female                                % of school-age pop.       2        5        4           14          35



31
Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
Indicator                                        Unit of         Latest single year   Recent   Same region/income group    Higher
Measure                          Estimate Sub-Saharan       Low-       Income
1970-75  1980-85  1987-92      Africa       Income      Group
RESOURCES AND EXPENDITURES
Pupil-teacher ratio:primary              pupils per teacher          38       25        25            39           37         26
Pupil-teacher ratio:secondary            pupils per teacher           11      13         ..            ..          19
Pupil reaching grade 4                   % of cohort                  ..      64         ..
Repeater rate:primary                    % of total enroll            14      50        42
Illiteracy                               % of pop. (age 15+)           ..     70        64            51           39
Female                                  % of fem. (age1S+)           ..      82        76            62           52
Newspaper circulation                    per thou. pop.               10        7        6            14           ..        100
PRIORITY POVERTY INDICATORS
POVERTY
Upper poverty line                       local curr.                  ..       ..
Headcount index                         % of pop.                    ..       ..        ..            ..          19
Lower Poverty line                       local curr.                  ..       ..        ..
Headcount Index                           % of pop.                   ..       ..        ..
GNP per capita                           USS                         190     190       218           520          390
SHORT TERM INCOME INDICATORS
Unskilled urban wages                    loc. curr.                   ..       ..        ..
Unskilled rural wages                    loc. curr.                   ..       ..        ..
Rural Terms of trade                     loc. curr.                   ..       ..       ...
Consumer price index (period average)                                 ..       ..      64.6
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure on basic social services    % of GDP                ..       .       3.4
Gross enrollment ratio
Primary                                   %school age pop.            64      64       51.9           66          103
Male                                    %school age pop.            90       84      64.6            79          113
Female                                  %school age pop.            39       43      38.6            62           96
Mortality
Infant mortality                        per thou. live births    183.0   163.0    140.0            99.0         73.0       45.0
Under 5 mortality                       per thou. live births        ..       ..    236.4         169.0        108.0       59.0
Inmunization
Measles                                 % age group                  ..    35.0       60.0          54.0        72.7
DPT                                     % age group                  ..    18.0      56.0          54.6         80.6
Child malnutrition (under-5}              % age group                 ..    24.1         ..          28.4        38.3
Life expectancy
Total                                   years                       36       38        39            52           62         68
Female advantage                        years                       1.7      1.4       1.3           3.4         2.4        6.4
Total fertility rate                     births per woman            5.9      6.0       6.0           6.1         3.4        3.1
Maternal mortality rate                  per 100.000 live births      ..    760          ..            ..
SUPPLEMENTARY POVERTY INDICATORS
Expenditures on social security          % of total gov-t exp.         ..      ..        ..            ..
Social security coverage                 % econ. active pop.          ..       ..        ..            ..          ..
Access to safe water:total                % of pop.                   ..    21.0       25.0          41.1        68.4
Urban                                   % of pop.                    ..       ..        ..         77.8         78.9
Rural                                   % of pop.                    ..    22.0         ..         27.3         60.3
Access to health care                                                 ..    64.0       80.0            ..          ..
Source: WS Intemational Economics Department



32                                          Annex 3
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
TRANSPORT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
BASIC SECTOR DATA, 19941
URBAN
Urban population (% of total pop.)                             20.8
Urban population in capital city (%)                            60
No. urban centers                                               34
Growth rate, urban population                                  4.3
Labor force annual growth (%)                                   1.3
TRANSPORT
Total surface (km2)                                           36,125
Roads
Size of road network (km)                                     2,636
Paved roads (km)                                               710
Improved dirt roads (km)                                       1,926
Condition of network:
Good condition                                            35%
Fair condition                                            38%
Poor                                                      27%
Road density (per 1000 km2)                                     70
Traffic volume (vehicles per day), Bissau                       150
Traffic volume, rural areas                                     50
Annual expenditure on road maintenance (US$ million)           0.20
Ferries (major river crossing points)                           6
Ports
International deep water ports                                   1
Domestic ports                                                  17
of which are in good condition                                  6
Airports
International airports                                           1
Domestic landing strips                                         17
Railways                                                        0
'Sources: World Development Report, 1994; Consultant preparation reports, Fall 1994



3 3                                              Annex  4
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
TRANSPORT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
Summary Statement of Loans and IDA Credits
(LOA data as of March 31, 1995)
Amount in US$ million
(less cancellations)
_                                                Difference b/w
Credit No.    Fiscal           Purpose            IDA      Undis-   actual & expected    Closing        Last ARPP b/
Year                                        bursed    disbursements a/     Date         supervision rating
Develop.     Overall
Seventeen (17) Credits closed                      137.29                                            Objective      Status
C1914-GW        1988    Education                    4.30        .19                0.20   06/30/95                   S 5
C2074-GW        1990   Infrastucture Rehab          23.60      2.45                -0.82   12/31/95      S            S
C2237-GW        1991    Energy                      15.15      15.88               13.01   06/30/95      U            U
C2342-GW        1992    Economic Management/TA       7.20      4.85                 2.30   12/31/96     HS            S
C2465-GW       1993    Social                        8.80      7.49                 2.95   12/31/97     HS            S
Total number of Credits = five (5)                  59.05     30.87                17.64 1                       _
TOTAL including closed credits      196.34
of which held                 L.65
TOTAL held by IDA                   194.70
Undisbursed amount from SAC II                  1.30                0.40
TOTAL Undisbursed                              32.17               18.04
a/ Actual disbursments todate minus intended disbursements todate as prjected at appraisal
b/ Following the FY94 ARPP rating (HS = Highly Satisfactory; S = Satisfactory; U = Unsatisfactory)
LIST OF CLOSED SALs and SECALs
Loan or          Fiscal                                                                         Undis-   Closed
Credit No         Year                     Purpose                   Bank       IDA            bursed    Date
C15310-GW        1985                      Rehab. Imports                       10.00               .00     6/30/89(R)
CA0140-GW        1986                      Rehab. Imports                        5.00              .00      12/31/89(R)
CA0260-GW        1987                      Struct. Adj. Loan                     5.00               .00     7/31/90(R)
C17980-GW        1987                      Struc. Adj. Loan                     10.00              .00    7/31/90(R)
C20190-GW        1989                      SAC II **                            23.40              1.30     12/31/94(R)
** As of March 31, 1995 SAC U still has an undisbursed amount of US$1.3 million.
SUMMARY OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of March 31, 1995)
.  idub.
FY                  Obllgor                Type of       IFC     IFC    Pairic  Total   Hdd by    e}M by  Include.
_untess      Loan   Equ _y                    IFC     PFaroe    Palr
1990      a/ Anetibene Pctrol Exploration  Energy                  5.85           5.85
1992      a! Bissau Peace Ltd.         Food, agribusiness    _      .20            .20                              l -
1995      Agribissau, SARL             Food, agribusiness    .75   .09             .84      .84                 .75
Total gross commitments b/                      .75     6.14           6.89
Less cancellations, terminations,                 -     6.05           6.05               -
repayment & sales                                                _
Total conmnitments now held                     .75     .09             .84       .84                .75
Total connmitments held and
pending commitnents
Total undisbursed commitments                  .75                      .75                       . .
a/ Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written-off, sold, redeemed, or repaid.
b/ Gross commitments consist of approved and signed projects.



3 4                             Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
TRANSPORT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
NOTE ON PORTFOLIO IMPLEMENTATION ISSUES
1.     Overall portfolio perfornance is satisfactory and is expected to improve further during FY95. At
the end of FY94, key issues which adversely affected overall project implementation included: non-
compliance with legal covenants (Energy project); and policy issues (Economic Management, Energy
projects)--these led to the overall decrease in disbursements (US$10.96 million in FY94 compared to
US$15.4 million in FY93). IDA did not commit any new funds during the fiscal year 1994.
2.     As of March 31, 1995, IDA's portfolio in Guinea Bissau represented a total commitment of about
US$59 million with an undisbursed balance of US$32.17 million. Agricultural Services credit closed
during the first quarter of FY95, and SAC II also closed on December 31, 1994, leaving the portfolio (as
of March 31, 1995) with five projects (Education, Infrastructure Rehabilitation, Energy, Economic
Management, and Social Sector). Although closed in December 1994, SAC II still has an undisbursed
balance of USS1.3 million which is included in the total undisbursed amount. The November 94
supervision mission assisted the Government in collecting relevant documents for completing
disbursements under this credit (SAC II).
3.     Out of five credits in the portfolio, three (Economic Management, Energy, Infrastructure
Rehabilitation) have encountered policy and/or implementation difficulties. The projects' characteristics
as well as actions taken to address the issues are summarized below:
Economic Management Project/TA (Cr. 2342-GW). Disbursement: 41% (about US$2.96
million). The credit became effective on October 20, 1992. To date, only about US$2.96 million
out of US$7.2 million has been disbursed. Disbursement delays were due primarily to the
uncertain political climate resulting from the long electoral process. A mid-term review of the
project took place early March 1995. The Government and IDA agreed on a detailed work
program and a realistic implementation schedule which will strengthen the project's
implementation progress.
Energy Project (Cr. 2237-GW). Disbursement: 10% (about US$1.55 million). The credit
became effective on April 17, 1992; and so far, only about US$1.55 million has been disbursed
out of a total credit of US$15.15 million. This project which received a less-than satisfactory
performance rating at the end of FY94, was reviewed in April 1994, and an Action Plan to
restructure the project was agreed upon with Government authorities.  The pace of the
restructuring, however, fell victim to the political elections which were held shortly thereafter.
The Government has been notified, in a letter addressed to the Minister of Finance on December
1, 1994, of the danger and implications of allowing the project to deteriorate further A
supervision mission is planned for late May 1995 at which time the progress on fulfilling the
conditions for restructuring the project will be reviewed.
4.     Among actions taken to ensure smooth implementation of projects in the portfolio is the
Government's efforts in securing donor support to provide counterpart funds needed for the Social Sector
Project.
5.     There are no outstanding audit reports for the portfolio. Procurement issues are well managed,
with procurement seminars held in Bissau routinely as part of a project launch and are attended by Project
Implementation Units staff as well as other government officials involved in project management.



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
TRANSPORT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
SECTOR-SPECIFIC POLICY MATRIX
POLICY OBJECTIVES    MEASURES                        CONDITIONS OF                  ASSURANCES AT                CONDITIONS OF CREDIT                    COVENANTS
NEGOTIATIONS                   NEGOTIATIONS                     EFFECTIVENESS
1. To improve sector     Sector Development    Signed letter of Sector        To inplement the letter of Sector                                 To implement sector budgetary
resource mobilization and   Policy              Development Policy.           Development Policy and the action                                 reformis and action plan
management                                                                    plan contained therein.
2. To strengthen the     Sector Development     Signed letter of Sector       To adopt not later than December    Issued legislation ordering the  Terminate RODOFLUVIAL's road
institutional environment    Policy            Development Policy.            31, 1996 an action plan to       liquidation of SILODIATA and     haulage activities not later than
for infrastructure                                                            privatize ferry services and     appointing the members of the    December 31, 1995
RODOFLUVIAL's maritime and    liquidation commission responsible   Privatize ferry services and
river activites.                for overseeing its liquidation    RODOFLUVIAL, not later than
Divestiture policy                                   To carry out a study on the future                                December 31, 1996.
privatization or liquidation of                                   Dissolve TAGB, not later than
TAGB not later than March 31,                                     December 31, 1995.
1996 and implement such action
plan not later than June 30, 1996.
3. To improve            Road maintenance      Signed letter of Sector        To adopt Road Fund annual budget  Adopted regulations to adjust the    Implement revenue-generating
management of road       policy                 Development Policy.           consistent with routine road     rates of charges to be collected by    measures to ensure that Road Fund
rehabilitation and                                                            maintenance financing.           the Road Fund from the road users.  revenues for FY1996, FY1997,
maintenance                                                                                                    Deposited a furst tranche of     FY1998, and FY1999 are
Road Fund policy                                     To adopt not later than one year  US$190,000 corresponding to     equivalent to at least US$555,000,
after credit effectiveness an action    counterpart funding for the fuist six   USS580,000, and US$595,000, and
plan to promote the participation of  months.                     US$600,000 respectively.                   U,
road users in the management of  Dismantled the MES units carrying
the Road Fund.                   out road maintenance under force
account by offering their equipment
for sale or lease and redeploying
their staff.
4. To increase the       Delegation of contract   Full establishment of                                        Gov't has signed a subsidiary
efficiency and           management to an      AGEOPPE including approval                                      agreement with AGEOPPE whose
competitiveness of works    AGETIP-type agency    by Gov't of AGEOPPE's                                        Administrator is acceptable to IDA
contracting                                    Statutes, By-laws, Procedures                                   AGEOPPE's staff (technical,
Manual, Subsidiary Agreement                                   administrative and financial
(Convention), acceptable to                                    directors) has been employed.
IDA.                                                           Agreement on a batch of sub-
Appointment of AGEOPPE's                                       projects for unplementation during
administrator.                                                 the first year.
AGEOPPE has selected consultants
and adopted a program for training
contractors and technicians in the
construction industry, and TA
plans for municipalities,
neighborhoods and users
associations.                                                              ;J
Gov't has signed a contract with 
auditors acceptable to IDA and                                              X
fuimished certification that                                                 -
AGEOPPE's accounting system is
I operational.



3 6    ^                               Annex 6
Page 1 of 14
REPLIBLICA DA GUINE-BISSAU
MINISTERIO DO EQUIPAMENTO SOCIAL
Emo. Senhor
Edward V.K. Jaycox
Vice Presidente
Regilo Africa
Banco Mundial
Washington, D.C.
Carta de Politica de Desenvolvimento do Sector
dos Transportes e das Infraestruturas Urbanas
Em nome do Governo da Guine-Bissau, tenho a honra de vos apresentar a Carta
de Politica do Sector do Minist6rio do Equipamento Social que fixa os objectivos periodo
de 1996-2000, bem como o Plano de acgao e de imrplementaglo da estrategia para
prossecu,co destes objectivos aprovados pelo Governo.
Washington, 19 de Maio de 1995
Ar*do Napoco 
Ministro   Equipament  oc
/I



37                                      Annex 6
Page 2 of 14
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
MINISTRY OF SOCLL EQUIPMENT
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY FOR THE SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTOR
PREFACE
1.    After gaining independence in 1974, the Republic of Guinea-Bissau passed through a phase
characterized by a single-party system and a centralized command economy.
2.    In 1986 economic liberalization was proclaimed, under which the private sector enjoys more
privileges and is assigned greater priority in the development of the economy.
3.    In 1991 a multiparty system was introduced and, in mid-1994, the first multiparty election in the
history of the Republic was held, marking the commencement of a new stage in the consolidation of
democracy and the building of sustainable development, in which the State and the economy completely
open themselves to the private sector in a joint endeavor by all components of organized civil society to
achieve the common objectives of the entire Nation.
4.    In the present phase, two parallel efforts will have to be combined: namely the formulation and
implementation of integrated strategies and initiatives aimed at promoting sustainable development, in
conjunction with the means, mechanisms and instruments to ensure that this implementation takes place
with adequate efficiency and effectiveness. This, then, is the context of this Letter of Development Policy
for the Social Infrastructure Sector.
INTRODUCTION
5.    In recent years (1984/94) various projects have been carried out in the transport infrastructure
sector (roads, airports and ports), with funding from multilateral and bilateral cooperation sources. The
investments concemed have been in road, river and air transport infrastructure for the greater part, with
urban and social infrastructure accounting for the rest.
6.     These investments have provided Guinea-Bissau with transport infrastructure that is on average
qualitatively superior to that of other countries of the region.
7.     However, even though about 30% of the national general budget is allocated to the Ministry of
Social Infrastructure, there are still parts of the country where the road network is severely deteriorated and
deficient, especially in the south, where the roads are practically impassable in the wet season.
8.    This deterioration is due to the absence of maintenance policies, and establishment of such policies
is a priority for the Government that extends beyond routine maintenance of existing roads and the building
of new ones.



3 8                                    Annex 6
Page 3 of 14
I.     Overall Strategies
9.     The Government's overall strategies in the social infrastructure sector are the following:
(a) Increase the efficiency of the use of public resources by assigning priority to their allocation to
maintenance of existing infrastructure facilities;
(b) Reduce state involvement in the sector, primarily by harnessing private enterprise and by
privatization, promotion of initiatives and other measures that will foster free competition;
(c) Definition of sector policies and regulation of economic activity in the sector.
II.    Strate2ies at Institutional Level
10.    The Ministry of Social Equipment (MES) will give priority to activities entailing transferring
physical works to the private sector, while reserving for itself the role of regulatory agency through
its greater involvement in the defining and strengthening of the instruments for supervision of the
sector's activity. A policy of downsizing the MES's staff will accordingly be adopted, to which end
early retirement will be promoted together with transfers to the private sector, so as to prompt
creation of independent services and microenterprises.
11.    The necessary steps will be taken to redimension and reorganize the MES's departments so as to
establish the shortest possible lines of communication between central departments.
12.    As regards local government, there is presently only one municipal council, that of Bissau. In all
the other regions (eight in total, with 38 sectors), the Sector State Committees are currently
appointed by the Government.
13.    It is the Government's intention to proceed to organize local elections to be held in 1996, in which
the chairman of the committee will be elected by universal ballot, and will then perform the duties
of chairman of the municipal council that will subsequently be created.
14.    Between now and the elections the Government will draft legislation or set up a program for
transferring responsibility for managing social and urban infrastructure to the local authorities,
after which the Government's function at this level will be to provide general guidance and to define
policies and their implementing regulations.
15.    Since the country now has an infrastructure system that needs to be preserved, while the public and
private enterprises and NGOs propose to collaborate in the execution of new infrastructure
projects, the MES, when it prepares its budgets, will seek to allocate its current (public) revenues
to cover the maintenance costs of the existing infrastructure.
16.    Given the need for a system that can provide for the medium-term budgeting of MES activities, the
budget process will be reformed to enable implementation of a three-year budget that will be
prepared in conjunction with the ministry's operating and capital budgets.



Annex 6
Page 4 of 14
III.   Transport and Public Works Sector
17.   It is the Govemment's intention to foster development of the private sector, primarily by continuing
to divest itself of public enterprises. Guinemar and JAPG have already been dissolved.
18.   A decision will shortly be made concerning the other public enterprises under MES oversight, in
particular Silo Diata, TAGB and Rodofluvial.
19.   The Govemment will take steps with a view to developing and supporting private enterprise to
ensure the satisfactory provision of service in the transport sector.
The actions that will be taken and the way in which the transport and infrastructure policies will
be implemented are described in Annex 1.
III A. Road Transport and Hiehways
20.    There are presently 1,740 road passenger vehicles in Guinea-Bissau, which handle virtually the
entirety of the subsector's operations; 14 of these vehicles belong to a mixed enterprise and the rest
to private operators.
21.    The Government will shortly complete the formalities in progress for the winding up of Silo Diata,
which in practice ceased operations several years ago.
22.    The exclusive right to operate urban transport granted to TRANSTER will be revoked, in order to
establish a legal framework for competition in the urban transport market.
23.    Regarding Rodofluvial's land transport activities, the Government will give priority to winding up
the enterprise's road transport component in light of the privatization policy and if the response of
the private operators in the subsector is acceptable.
24.    The MES will carry out a set of actions aimed at meeting road maintenance costs from current
revenues. It will accordingly adjust tolls and charges so as to cover acceptable routine
maintenance costs of the road infrastructure and will only undertake actions with an acceptable
rate of return (not less than 12%) that will have the effect of opening up areas with significant
agricultural production.
25.    The road policy provides for rehabilitation and maintenance of the priority roads with a
demonstrated return and of strategic importance for the development of isolated areas and for
spurring economic activity.
26.    As of 1996, the revenues of the Road Fund should, as a minimum, be sufficient to ensure full
coverage of routine maintenance costs.



40                                Annex 6
Page 5 of 14
III B. River Transport
27.    River transport, currently virtually nonexistent, is one of the Government's concerns; it wants to
conclude agreements with private operators to provide transport services among the islands and
between them and the mainland.
28.   The Government will seek to mobilize national and foreign operators interested in investing in this
subsector so as to create competition in order to meet the sea and river transportation needs of
passengers and goods.
29.    Rodofluvial is currently the only enterprise providing minimum service between the mainland and
the islands; its operation will be rendered profitable by means of restructuring and a process of
gradual privatization with the awarding of concessions to national private operators and foreign
partners.
30.    The Government will take steps to ensure maintenance of the existing river transport infrastructure.
III C. Air Transport
31.    A study of the subsector and of its viability and regulation in the field of air transport.
32.    The future of the sole existing company (TAGB) will be decided in the near future, with opening of
its capital to participation by national and foreign private interests (TAP, Air Afrique, etc.) by the
end of 1996.
33.    Very recently, Guinea-Bissau's application to join Air Afrique was accepted and negotiations are in
progress on regional and long-haul services, assistance and the share payable in Air Afrique's
capital to be come a full member, after which the provisions of the Yaounde Treaty will apply.
III D. Communications (see Annex 1)
IV.   Urban subsector
34.    The national objectives of growth and socioeconomic development should be reflected in the urban
subsector through a gradual increase in the population's quality of life and enhanced efficiency and
effectiveness of urban management, both locally and nationally.
35.   The strategy for the urban subsector focuses on sustainability, and will be guided by an
appropriate population policy based on broad access to information that enables families to plan
and program their growth. In urban terms, such quantitative sustainability will be guided by the
ongoing effort to devise measures which, while not encouraging stepped up migration from rural
areas, will provide employment and housing opportunities to urban population groups.
36.   In qualitative terms, sustainable urban development will be attained through a process of steadily
improving families' access to basic and social infrastructure, with priority for the neediest segments
and vulnerable groups; information and awareness-raising campaigns to improve relations among



41                                     Annex 6
Page 6 of 14
the user population and the use they make of their immediate environment; strategies for cost
recovery of investments in infrastructure and equipment, so as to apply the proceeds of cost
recovery to finance new projects; and the formulation of strategies for involving all of organized
civil society in urban management.
Annex 2 provides a description of the measures that will be taken to implement the urban policy.
Bra, May 5, 1995
Is/ (illegible)
Ministry of Social Equipment
Office of the Minister
ANNEX 1 OF THE LETTER OF SECTOR POLICY
TARGETED MEASURES AT THE SUBSECTORAL LEVEL
Transport subsector
1.    Land transn,ortation
Updating and application without exception of road vehicle and compensation taxes and transport licenses
in order to carry out the 1996/99 program for the proceeds of the fund; review of the criteria for calculating
the rate schedule; reorganization of the urban transport routes and stops in Bissau; updating, by the end of
1996, of the criteria for determining the value of land transport concessions; construction of a passenger
terminal in Bissau; privatization of ferry services; fostering of traffic safety measures in the city of Bissau;
creation of a legal basis for removing abandoned vehicles left on public roads; liquidation of SILO DIATA
by August 1995.
2.     Maritime transport
Study on the competitiveness of the Port of Bissau and implementation of its findings by revising the
criteria for calculating rates and concession revenue; enhancing productivity; using the Pidjiguiti quay,
along with recovery and conversion of its operations; improving the port zone, dredging the Gela River bed
and the access channel to the Port of Bissau; removing sunken vessels; promoting private activity in river
and coastal transport of passengers and merchandize; restructuring and downsizing of DGMP;
reformulating the powers of the maritime police; revising and establishing maritime legislation. The
Government intends to carry out all these actions by the end of 1998. In tandem, the land transport
component of RODOFLUVIAL will be liquidated by the end of 1995 and its river transport component will
be reorganized and subsequently privatized.
Port infrastructure comprises: Bissau, Bubaque, Cacheu, Bolama, Cacine, Buba



42                                 Annex 6
Page 7 of 14
3.    Air transport
Existing airport infrastructure: Bissau (international), Gabu, Cufar, Bubaque.
Airport infrastructure to be opened for tourism development: Maio, Varela, also the opening of helicopter
ground facilities in tourism areas (Pecixe).
4.     Communications
(a)    Study on the desirability of competition for telecommunications and postal services and
implementation of its findings with regard to a review of the criteria to be used in calculating concession
leasing rates, improvement in productivity and provision of services;
(b)    Evaluation, in the short term, of the opportunity cost of investment and of the criteria for
calculating telecommunications and postal rates; and
(c)    Reorganization and privatization of postal services.
5.    Priority road network
(a)    Formulation of the national road code;
(b)    Formulation of the regulations governing the road network of the country until the end of 1997 in
terms of technical specifications and competencies with regard to its management and maintenance; and
(c)    The MES has already adopted the priority road network on which the Ministry's efforts will be
focused. The network is made up of the following segments:
5.1    Paved roads
Bissau-Airport 7km, Airport-Safim 9km, Safim-Nhacra 14km, Nhacra-Jugudul 26km, Jugudul-
Bambadinca 60 km, Bambadinca-Bafata 24km, Bafata-Gabu 52km, Gabu-Rio Cjum 46km, Safim-Joao
Landim 8km, Joao Landim-Bula  Ilkm, Bula-S. Vicente 18km, S. Vicente-M'Pack 73km, Buba-Mampata
30km, Mampata-Conabane 15km, RNI-Banbadinca 4km, Bambadinca-Xitole 34km, Xitole-Contabane
27km, Cacheu-Canchungo 32km, Canchungo-Bula 38km, Bula-Binar 10km, Mansoa-Mansaba 30km,
Mansaba-Farim 22km, Jugudul-Bissora 27 km, Bambadinca-Xime l1km, Bissau-Prabis 18km, Bissau-
Quinhamel 35km, Quinhamel-Biombo 21km, N'hacra-Cumere 8km, Catio-Rio Cumbuja 13km, Bubaqe-
Bruce 12km.
5.2    Earth roads
Enxude-Tite 6km, Tite-Buba 69km, Mampata-Guilege 30km, Guilege-Cacine 39km, Binar-
Bissora 24km, Buba-Bafata 28km, Bafata-RL35 26km, Nova Sintra-Sao Joao 13km, Sao Domingos-
Varela 49km, Bolama-Bolama 15km, Ilha das Galinhas 8km.
Is/ (illegible)
Ministry of Social Equipment
Office of the Minister



Annex 6
Page 8 of 14
ANNEX 2 OF THE LETTER OF SECTOR POLICY
TARGETED MEASURES FOR THE URBAN DEVELOPMENT SUBSECTOR
1.    Consolidation of the MES as national institutional promoter of the urban plan
Approval and implementation of an Organic Law of the MES.
Identification of a minimal technical corps for the MES and its training based on the objectives of the new
sectoral policy.
2.     Consolidation of the legal and institutional framework for urban manaeement
Approval, by the end of 1996, of a Law on Land Development and Urban Planning.
Approval and implementation, by the end of 1996, of regulations governing buildings and construction.
Preparation of a draft law on land management in conjunction with other Government departments. It is
the intention of the MES that this proposal be submitted to the Assembly.
Organization of a social and urban indicators program. This program will be implemented beginning in
1997.
3.     Local support to urban manazement in Bissau nlus four cities in the interior
Strengthening and creating of local urban management services in Bissau, Canchungo (north), Catio
(south) and Bafata and Gabu (east). These actions will be completed by the end of 1998.
Strengthening and evaluation of the studies and available alternatives, including the experiences of
PRI/PASI with institutional agreements between Government agencies and identification of enterprises
created in the sector. This work will be completed by the end of 1995.
Formulation, prior to the beginning of 1999, of the national strategies for each unit of the MES.
/s/ (illegible)
Ministry of Social Infrastructure
Office of the Minister



Annex 6
44                                  Page 9 of 14
ACTION PLAN
BUDGET REFORM
In order to assess objectively the policies adopted for the sector in terms of short-and-medium term
planning and their degree of implementation, this year (1995) the MES will undertake a budget reform.
This reform will draw on methods used in public accounting in Guinea-Bissau and will take into account
changes now under way.
The MES will organize its annual operating budget so as to allow for a more objective analysis of
the efficiency with which it monitors allocations of its revenues and covers its operating and investment
expenses. The expenses will be broken down by amount, time horizon in which they will be effective, type,
nature, geographic area of implementation, and source of financing (loan, donors or public revenues).
There will also be information on several aspects, including: the degree of geographic
decentralization of investments; and assessment of the potential for current infrastructure maintenance
expenses to be covered by current revenues; share of investment sponsored by the MES in the various areas
of intervention (health, education, etc.).
In view of the ever more pressing need to plan for the medium-term future, and taking into account
the importance of controlling the level of national investments to ensure success of the structural
adjustment program, the MES will prepare a forward-looking Investment Plan with a three-year time
horizon, updated annually (Triennial Plan-PIP), which will include all the investments to be made by the
Ministry, subdivided into their various components.
Adopting the same nomenclature in the Triennial Plan as is used in the annual budget will make
possible a full linkage these tow management instruments, while also creating a basis for evaluating the
degree of budgetary execution and for obtaining information relevant to identifying differences between the
sums executed and budgeted.
The annual budget and the PIP for each year will be prepared by the end of November of the
previous year. Each year the MES will render a report analyzing the previous financial year, which will
include evaluation of the level of execution of the Annual Budget and of the PIP for the previous year. This
report will be concluded by the end of March of the year after the one referred to. The 1996-1998
Triennial Plan and the 1996 Annual Budget will be prepared and submitted to IDA using the nomenclature
described in this document.
By May 1995 all the legislation needed for implementation of this reform will be in place. In
particular, all the actions to be carried out will be scheduled, and those in charge of their implementation
and the resources to be used will be identified.



45                                  Annex 6
Page 10 of 14
Description of the methodology
In order to respect the decisions of the Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Planning in relation to
public accounting and the triennial investment plan, and bearing in mind the evident need to monitor
implementation of the plan of the budget, the triennial plan should use the same general nomenclature as is
used in the public accounts. The degree of disaggregation used in this document is greater than that used in
drawing up the annual budget and seeks to address the information needs for developing infrastructure for
transportation, public works, urban development, and health and education, among others.
Therefore, for every action planned (rehabilitation of a road, or urban development of a
neighborhood, for example), an annualized budget will be drawn up based on the new economic
classification already published (circular series A, no. 1, of December 30, 1993, issued by the General
Directorate of Public Accounting). In addition to this classification, each of these "action budgets" will be
given a functional classification, in conformity with the plan of public accounts. This classification will
identify the respective geographic area of implementation and form of financing (public revenues, extemal
loans, intemal loans, or grants).
These procedures will yield the MES budget, obtained as the sum of the various "action budgets"
for a given year. The same logic will be followed in adopting the triennial investment plan, but taking into
consideration a three-year time horizon. Each action will have a global budget corresponding to the sum of
the various "action budgets" into which it was divided.
The dual classification (economic and functional) will provide a basis for aggregating the budgets
of the MSE into public budgets, plans, and accounts, and will also make it possible to ensure information is
available on the amount of investments made in each area (health, education, housing, roads, etc.). In
additional to these data, it will be possible to obtain information on the distribution of the investment, the
structure of ministry financing, and the area of intervention.
Another advantage of the budget reform now proposed is the potential for more objective
evaluation of the structural adjustment program. yet this evaluation will only be possible if there is also an
accounting, even if in suspense accounts, for all payments made, whether from public revenues or from
loan and grant funds. This rule will have to be respected without exceptions and is crucial for the proper
functioning of public accounting.
The methodology of the budget reformn described in this document should be supported by a data
base, which if possible should operate in a Windows environment. It will interrelate with the supporting
computer program(s) of the Plan, Budget, and Public Accounting either manually or by the use of
compatible dbase files.
This solution, given its versatility and simplicity once developed, also makes it possible, by
combining several pre-established criteria, to obtain a large amount of additional information.
The annex includes a basis for drawing up the "action budgets," which will be used in the annual
budgets and Triennial Plan of the MES.
Note: following are some examples of how to obtain the desired information from the data base:
The annual budget of the MES for year x will be obtained by consulting the base using as the criterion
(criterion 2) = 199X



46                                      Annex 6
Page 11 of 14
The Triennial Plan, based on an economic analysis of the MES from years x to x+3 will be obtained by
consulting the base using as the criterion (criterion 2) = 199X and 199X + I and 199X+2
The Triennial Plan of the MES in the health sector, northern zone, from years x to x+3 will be obtained by
consulting the base using as the criterion (criterion 2) = (199X and 199X+l and 199X+2) & (criteria 4) =
Health & (criterion 5) = N
(an output model will have to be defined for the various desired scenarios)
Annex
Reference Doc.              (criterion 1)                                       Year: (criterion 2)
Action:                                                       (criterion 3)
Brief description:
Funcional classification:                    (criterion 4)
Geographic Zone:            (criterion 5)                  North (N), Central
(C), East (E), South
(S), Bissau (B),
Archipelago (A)
Economic classification:    (criterion 6)
Expenditure according to                                Revenues (matching fund)
economic classification     Total      Public Revenues   Internal Loans    External Loand         Donors
10 3 PG       Value % subtotal  Value % subtotal   Value % subtotal   Value % subtotal
(economic classification
by nomenclature currently
used in Guinea-Bissau
with a breakdown to two or
three digits)



47
Annex 6
Page 12 of 14
ACTION PLAN
ROAD FUND
The road maintenance policy should be supported by revenues obtained from use of the
country's road network. Within this principle the Government is concerned to help strengthen the
capacity for collecting receipts from taxes levied directly on use of the country's road network,
almost all of which will be channeled to the Road Fund (RF).
With a view of improving efficiency of the Road Fund in collecting revenues form the road
vehicle tax, the MES proposes that the following set of measures be taken, which it is assumed
should be permanent:
*      Maintain the RF as an autonomous entity whose activity is merely financial.
*      Immediately implement all the measures identified under the PRI and approved by
the board of the RF and by the MES, for management procedures and internal
monitoring mechanisms.
*      Arrange accounting and management audits by firms internationally respected for
their auditing work; their selection shall be made by mutual agreement with IDA.
The frequency of the accounting audits will be at least annual; they shall be
completed by the end of March of the year following the year to be audited. The
management audits will be performed as deemed by IDA, with not regular
intervals defined.
-      Ensure that the Road Fund receives 75% of the revenues from licenses for
transportation of passengers and merchandise beginning July 1, 1995. At present
these revenues are earmarked in their entirely for the DNVT.
*      Updating the road vehicle and compensation taxes and fees for issuing licenses for
road passenger and freight transport in line with the rates in the table in this
document. The increases for the current year will take effect July 1, 1995.
*      Adjust the rates as well as compulsory application of the road and compensation
tax to all vehicles as of July 1, 1995, will be determined by joint order by the
Ministers of Social Equipment and Finance.
*      The Government shall promote any legislation needed for immediate
implementation of the measures identified in this document, as well as for meeting
the estimates of RF revenues shown in the following table.



48
Annex 6
Page 13 of 14
Estimate of Road Fund Revenues
1995      1996      1997      1998      1999       2000
AssumDtfons - Estimates
Rate of inflation of the peso                  15,5%     10,0%      8,0%      6,0%      6,0%       6,0%
Value of Peso in relations to the Dollar       14910     16401      17713     18953    19900      20600
Rate of increase, Road Tax                     70,0%     40,0%     18,0%      11,0%    10,0%      10,0%
Rate of increase, deflated, Road Tax           54,5%     30,0%     10,0%       5,0%     4,0%       4,0%
Rate of increase, vehicle fleet *               2,5%      2,5%      2,5%       2,5%     2,5%       2,5%
Rate of increase, Public Transportation Tax    47,0%     20,0%     18,0%      11,0%     6,0%       6,0%
Rate of increase, deflated, of Public Transportation  31,5%  10,0%  10,0%      5,0%     0,0%       0,0%
Tax
Rate of increase, number of transporter'        3,0%      3,0%      2,5%       2,0%     2,0%       2,0%
Rate on uncollectible Road                     25,0%     20,0%     15,0%      15,0%    10,0%      10.0%
tax
Rate of uncollectible Transportation Licenses  10,0%     10,0%      8,0%       8,0%     5,0%       5,0%
% of total of transportation licenses receipts for the  75,0%  75,0%  75,0%   75,0%    75,0%      75,0%
Road Fund
Road Fund Revenues(US$)
Road taxes (circ. + comp.)                   293611    620936    639763    664962   667651       719925
Licenses for Public Transportation            132970    295831    335281    352499   372423    388008
Total (US$)                                   426581    916768    975044   1017461  1040074   1107933
Total (110A3 PG)                             6360323  15035907  17270949  19283933 20697473  22823427
Current maintenance expenses
Total (constant prices in USS)                300000    535000    534000    594000   598000    600000
Total (current prices in USS)                 300000    553725    572034   658578   686219    712612
Total (1 0A3 PG)                            4473000   9081644  10132441  12482037 13655753  14679803
Coverage of road maintenance expenses by        142%      166%      170%      154%      152%       155%
revenues of the RF (%)                    I
Cunrent prices considering inflation of 3.5% annually in US$
* Note that if inflation and the peso/dollar ration are assumed, and as a result of the
structural adjustment program, the  Government will be  able  to  cover current
maintenance expenses with revenues from the RF, with a significant margin of
certainty.



Annex 6
Page 14 of 14
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
TRANSPORT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Ministry of Social Infrastructure
General Organization Chart
(as per Despacho No. 66/MES of May 10, 1995)
The Ministry of Social Infrastructure contains Regional and Central Units organized as
follows:
I.    Units providing direct support to the Minister and Secretary of State for
Transportation and Communications:
*     Office of the Minister and Secretary of State
-     Department of Administration and Finance
H.    Consultative bodies:
*     Consultative Council
*     Contractor Classification and Registration Committee
*     National Road Safety Committee
*     National Civil Aviation Committee
III.   Technical Planning and Support Units:
*     Studies and Planning Office
IV.   Operating Units:
*     Directorate of Transport Infrastructure (DGIT)
*     Directorate of Housing and Urban Planning (DGHU)
*     Cartographic and Cadastral Service Center (CCC)
*     National Engineering Laboratory of Guinea-Bissau (LEGUI)
*     National Marine and Ports Department (DSNMP)
*     National Land Transport and Transit Department (DSNVT)
*     National Meteorological Department (DSNM)
V.    Regional Units:
Regional Offices (North, South, East)



50
Annex 7
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
TRANSPORT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Transport Component
0 :W j :::i  :in 7 dicavtors;: 7:7X:: Year,11 Year 2| Year 3: Year 4
No. of delegated contract management agreements signed            3         3        3         3
No. of works contracts signed                                     13       13        13       13
No. of contracts completed (cumulative)                           10       22        32       42
Percentage of contracts completed within budget                   85       90       95        95
Percentage of contracts completed on time                        85        90       95        95
Percentage of payments made within 10 days of invoice receipt    100       100      100       100
Percentage of contracts awarded within 30 working days from bid  95        100      100       100
opening
Percentage of invitations to bid for which the time taken to prepare the
bid is:
Local call for bids (20 to 30 days)                              100       100      100       100
International call for bids (45 days minimum)                    100       100      100       100
Labor ratio for highway projects higher than                      15       15        15       15
No. of jobs created                                             9,000    12,700    8,000    5,000
Average amount (in S) of highway projects in the batch of projects  60,000   60,000   60,000   60,000
below
Training and technical assistance: No. of beneficiaries          30        30        30       30
Training and technical assistance: % of contractors benefitting  100       100      100       100
No. of prequalified contractors for highway maintenance (cumuL.)  10       15        1 5      15
Percentage of prequalified contractors pour highway maintenance   90       100       90       90
having won at least one contract with the Agency
No. of km of highway rehabilitated                               40        45       40        30
No. of km of periodic road maintenance                           110       40        75       20
No. of km of routine road maintenance                            530      530       600      600
Urban Component
l diicators                          Yearl1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4
No. of delegated contract nanagement ageements siged              I0       10        10        4
No. of works contracts signed                                    60        80       30        20
No. of contracts completed (cumulative)                           50       120      160       185
Percentage of contracts completed within budget                   85       90        95       95
Percentage of contracts completed on time                        85        90       95        95
Percentage of payments made within 10 days of invoice receipt    100       100      100       100
Percentage of contracts awarded within 15 working days from bid  95        100      100       100
opening
Percentage of invitations to bid for which the time taken to prepare the    100  100  100     100
bid is 20 to 30 days (local competitive bidding)                                I
Labor ratio for overall portfolio is higher than                 20        25       25        25
No. of jobs created                                             10,000   15,000   20,000*   10,000*
Operating ratio for the Agency is lower or equal to:              11       7         7        7
Average amount of a sub-project in a batch of sub-projects      60,000   60,000   60,000   60,000
Training and technical assistance: no. of persons benefitting    240      240       240      240
Trainnrg and technical assistance: % of contractors benefitting  50        60       60        60
No. of prequalified contractors (cumulative)                     100      150       180      200
Percentage of prequalified contractors having won at least one contract    50  50  30*       20* *
with the Agency
* = Starting the third year, other sources of financing should generate at least 2,000 jobs each year.
** = With the execution of sub-projects from other sources of financing, the number of contractors having
at least one contract will stabilize starting the third year.



51
Annex 8A
Page 1 of 7
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
TRANSPORT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
INVENTORY OF TRANSPORT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAMS
ROAD AND PORTS INFRASTRUCTURE COMPONENT
BREAKDOWN OF THE ROAD NETWORK
in 1986 and 1995
(km)
Paved Roads      Eng Dirt Roads       Dirt Roads            Total
Network in 1986  _
National roads*          297                158                593                1048
Regional roads*           182                50                294                526
Local roads*              65                 80                917                1062
Unclassified* *                                                800                800
TOTAL 1986               544                288                2604              3436
Network in 1995
Priority Network*        735                307                                   1042
Rural Network*                              154                871                1025
Unclassified**                                                 1369               1369
TOTAL 1995               735                461                2240               3436
* = Measured lengths
* * = Estimated lengths



REPUBIUC OF GULINEA BSSAU
TRANSPORTAND URBAN INFRASIUCRrE PROJEr
WORK PROGRAM FOR PRIORIrY NETWORK
(USS OO0)
CONDITION END 1996                     Costs of works, 1908         Costs of worls, 1927         Costs of works, 109s       Colts of works, 1999        Total Costs of works
la     c ~~~~~~~~~~~U                                    U                                                 
N- Roads                        E   g S        n         E      =       o             =      X      ti     i       i      @      T             :    |     o               r      r  
E ;  e  8  *                                                                  -       e          .       -       a             n
I  I                                              a ~~~~~~~~ E I        V Io                                      
r-                                                                                         r~~~~~~~~~~~r    r a    o  r a  i- w        E
1   BISSAU AEROPORT             7   5  P       G         3                      3                           3 3                                3                  3      12                      12    17.3
2   AEROPORT SAFIM              9 0     P      N          3                     3      3                    3      3                      3    3                   3     11                      11     40        Road Condda.
3   SAFIM NHACRA                14  4  P       N          4                     4      4                    4       4                    4    4                   4      17                      17     4            N-N.w
4   NHACRAJUJGUDUL              26  4  P       N          a                     9      A                    8       a                          a *                       31                      31     40           G _ Good
5   JUGU)ULAMaADINCA            60  4 P        N         10                    19    18                   1s      18                    Is   18                  19     72                      72     4         A-Acceptable
6   iBAMADINCA BAFATA           24  4  P       G         10                    10    10                    10      10                    10   10                  10     41                      41     4             B-B0d
7   BAFATA GAU                  52  3  P       a         16          1,500   1,16     18           636    664      16                    16   16                  16     63           2,138   2,201    26.1        D-D.tuoysd
8   GAEdU RIO CAIUU             46  2  P       A         32                    n2    14   700             714      14    768            702   14                  14     74   1,468           1,642    11.3
9   SAFIUJ DAO LA)N4            8   3  P       N          2                     2      2                    2       2                     2    2                   2      a                       9     40         T.sfl CIs.
10  MAO LANi HBULA              II  3  P       A         3    351             364      3                    3       3                    3    3                    3     13    351              364    233  lAwros doily trfffi/Ysa
II  ULA SVICENTE               18  3  P       A         10    192            202      7                    7      9                      0    9                   9     35    192              227    24.3           1-0-50
12  SVICENTEWPACK               73  3  P       G        32                     32    32                    32     32                     32   32                 32    127                      127     40          2-50-100
15  UBA MAUPATA                 30  3  P       N          9                     0      9                    9      12                    12   12                  12     42                      42     40          3 .100-200
18 MAMPATACONTABANE             15  3  P       N          5                     6      6                    6       6                     S    6                   6     21                      21     4o          4.200400
19 RN1IB.AMADINCA               4   3  P       N          I                     1      1                    1       2                     2    2                   2      6                       a     4o         5-400-1000                  tn
20  BAHMINCAXITOLE              34  3  P       N         10                    10    10                    10      13                    13   13                  1a     47                      47      40                                    r
21  XnTOLECONTABANE             27  3  P       N          a                     0      8                    I      11                   111   I1                  11     38                     3*       40
22  fACHEUCANCHUINGO            32  2  P       G         13                    13     13                   13      17                    17   17          96    113      61              06     167     U3
23  CANCHUNGO BULA              38  3  P       a         16           192    207    20                     20      20                    20   20                  20     76             192    267    87.0
24 BLA BINAR                    10  2 P        A          7                     7      7   319            326       3                     3    3                   3     20    319              S"    16.
26 MANSO MANSABA                30  3  P       G         12       '            12     12                   12      16           128    144   1e                   16     57             128     186    24.6
27  IANSABA FARI                22  3  P       a         12           287    299      12                   12      12                    12   12                  12     47             267     334    36.3
28  JUGUDUL BISSORA             27  2  P       N          a                     6      a                    I      8                      a    8                   9     32                      32     4o
32  BAMBADINCAXIUE              11  2  P       N         3                      3      3                    3      3                      3    3                   3     13                      13     4
33  BISSAU PRABIS               18 4 P         N          5                     6      5                    8       a                     a    8                   a     27                      27     40
34 BISSAUQUINHAMEL              35  3  P       N         11                    11    I                    11      14                    14   14                  14     49                             do 4
35  QUINHAMEL 81OeO            21  2  P       N         6                      0      6                    6      6                      I    6                  6      25                      26    4'
37  NHACRA CUMERE               8   2  P       G         6                      8      6                    6      6                      a    6                  6      23                      23     40
38 CATIO RIO CUMBUIA            13  2  P       N          4                     4      4                    4       4                    4    4                   4      16                      19    4*
39  BUBAaUEBRUCE                12  2  P       A         a              _              a 2                         a0                     I    a                         33                      33   0.46
Total                  267   .643  1A6ML IU6 ~                6 8 0 62 0 6 1                            ,II       2hII          267  1.137  2.330  2,640   0 3?    24
Totals Psvd Roat                Localcurancy            86      27    09    212    S1    51    32    164          87      38      6    132   87            5     62    341    117    142        J00
Foreign exchango       201    516  1,880   269"    1U    966   606  1,763    203    730    121  1,064  204               91    296    796   2,214   2,698   6,70B
13 ENXUDE TITE                 6   2  D/6,0  3           6                      9      6                           6                     6    6                   6      23                     23   $100
i4  TITE BUBA                  69  2  D/4,5  3          63                     63    66                    N      66                    U    68                  a      266                    266   >t00
16  AMPATAGULEGE               30  2  D04,5  B          28    132             tGO     29                   26     30                    30   30                  30    Ito    132              248   >I1o
17  GUILEGE CACINE             39  2  D04,5  D           4           1,000   1.004    45          950    998      46                   4U   46                   46    141            1,950 2061    30.0
25  BINAR BISSORA               24  2  DJ4,5  D         27                     27      2                    2     27           1,200  1,227   29                 29      o6           1,200   1,26t    294                                e
29  BUBA BEAFADA                28  2  D0 4,5   N       26                     26    27                    27     28                    26   28                  29    108                      106   >100                               I'   >
30  BEAFADA RL35                26  2  D/4,5   N        24                     24     25                   26     26                    2626                     26    100                      100   aICO                               OQ   >
31 NOVA SINTRA S.JOO            13  1  D/4.5             8 a                           1                    1      8                     9    8         850    on        25            650     876    10.0                               (D  (D
36  S-DOMINGO VARELA            49  2  D/5.0  B         47    187             234    49                    49     49                    49   49                  49    194    187               361   >100                                    x
40  BOLA BOLAMA                 15  1 0/6,0  A           7                      7      7                    7      8                     a    8                   *      31                      31   MOO                                     ODO
41ILHAOAS GALLNHAS             8   1  D06,0  A           4                      4      4                    4      4                     4    4                   4      16                      16   >t00                                  O  D
Total                  247    319  1,000   1,86611  26              O   1,216    303           1,200  1,603  307         660     b?7  1,117    319   3,900   6,23J    649 h.-
Totls Dlrt Rods                 Loa Ieunny_L_ 124 64 u200 17 632   _ 090    32                                   152 __         240_   394,4 _           130  _2      _8         64    760   ,2          _
______~~~~~~~ F-sxilan                    _12,4,,  _,55,__800,,,1JT_,_132_,_   760 ,,_2__152.5_ ,_,,t124,,,,_5,20  _6T4,_558__255   3040  _3084
_____        e~~~~~1~~.960  kII2   I .~~IM                      32---1
GRAND                          Total                   534    862  2,979   4,374   534  1,019  1,538  3.141    593    768  1,325  2,fSt   598           746   1,344   2,254   264    6,tl40  11,8643
TOTAL                          Lo   lucf ry           209       97t    2990  3,      213    81   222   466    239         38    246   M6  241            135    376    m       1N      902   1.062   37.t
PRIORITY NETWORK                Foegn exhangs,         324    771  2,880   3,776   321   968  1,366  26816    355    730  1,061  2.166  357             6ll    06    1.284  2.468   6,726 6.1



.ogroapNc Distribution of RhaWitwtion *nd Pwnodic Mint.nanco Work
IUSS'OOCI
REHABIUTATION                                                                                            PEBUODIC IAINTENANCE
CONDITION ENO 1995                               COST of PROGRAM                                          CONDITION END 1995                              COST of PROGRAM                Ul
W
N-                      Roads                                   e                                        N'                       Rtineraires,                         I       11                I
3 t      I                                                                                              3   t!      3
23                      CANCHUNGOBULA           38  P         6    192                           192      11                      BULA S.VICENTE           18  P        6   192                        192
27                      MANSABA FARIM           22  P         9    287                           287     10                       JAO LANDIM BULA          11  P       11   351                        351
28                      MANSOAMANSABA           30  P         4                   128            128     24                       BULA BINAR               10  P        5          319                 319
22                      CACHEJCANCHUNGO    32  P              3                            96     96     36                       S.DOMINGOVARELA          49  D       13   187                        187
25                      BINAR BISSORA           24  D        24                  1,200          1,200    TOTAL NORTH                                                   35   730   319                 1.049
TOTAL NORTH                                                  46    479           1,328     96  1,902     16                       MAMPATA GUILEGE          30  D       10   132                        132
17                      GUILEGE CACINE          39  D        39  1,000    950                  1,950     TOTAL SOUTH                                                   10   132                        132
31                      NOVA SINTRA S JOAO      13  D        13                           650    650     8                        GABU RIO CAIUM           46   P      46          700   768          1,468
TOTAL S0UTH                                                  52  1.00      950            650  2,600     TOTAL EAST                                                    46          700   76S          1468
7                       BAFATA GABU             52  P        52  1.500    638                  2.138     GRAND TOTAL                                                   91   362  1,019   76           2,649
TOTAL EAST                                                   52  1,500    638                  2U138
GRAND TOTAL                                                 150  2.979  1.5t8  1,328    746  S.640
03
M   M
O  >
N



REPUBUC OF CIJINLA BISSAU
TRANSPORT.AJL UBAlNIFRE E
Geographical Distribution of Routine Maintenance Works
(USVOOO)
PAVED ROADS                                                                    DIRT ROADS
CONDITION AS OF END 1996   COST of PROGRAM                                    CONDITION AS OF END 1996         COST of PROGRAM
*    0    a0 
N   Roads                                                                       N, Roads                            rn    0          2 1
1   BISSAU AEROPORT                7    3    3    3    3    12                 41  ILHA DAS GALINHAS           8    4    4    4    4    16
2   AEROPORT SAFIM                 9    3    3    3    3    11                 TOTAL CENTER                    8    4    4    4    4    16
3   SAFIM NHACRA                  14    4    4    4    4    17                 25  BINAR BISSORA              24   27    2   27   29    85
4   NHACRAJUGUDUL                 26    8    8    8    8    31                 36  S.DOMINGO VARELA           49   47   49   49   49   194                              tn
9    SAFIM JAO LANDIM              8    2    2    2    2        9              TOTAL NORTH                    73   74   51   76   78   279
33  BISSAU PRABIS                 18    5    5    8    8    27                 13  ENXUDE TITE                 6    6    6    6    6    23
34  BISSAU QUINHAMEL              35   11   11   14   14    49                 14  TITE BUSA                  69   63   66   68   68   268
35  QUINHAMEL BIOMBO              21    6    6    6    6    25                 16  MAMPATAGUILEGE             30   28   29   30   30   117
37  NHACRA CUMERE                  8    6    6    6    6    23                 17  GUILEGE CACINE             39    4   45   46   48   141
39  BUBAQUE BRUCE                 12    8    8    h    8    33                 29  BU8A BEAFADA               28   26   27   28   28   108
TOTAL CENTER                     168   68   56   62   62   237                 30  BEAFADA RL35               26   24   25   26   26   100
5   JUGUDUL BAMBADINCA            60   18   18   18   18    72                 31  NOVA SINTRA S.JOAO         13    8    1    8    8    25
6   BAMBAOINCA BAFATA             24   10   10   10   10   41                  40  BOLAMA BOLAMA              15    7    7    8    8    31
7   BAFATAGABU                    52   16   16   16   16    64                 TOTAL SOUTH                   226  166  206  219  220   810
8   GABU RIO CAIUM                48   32   14   14   14    74                 GRAND TOTAL                   307  244  260  299  302  1,106
19  RN1 BAMBADINCA                 4    1    1    2    2        6
32  BAMBADINCAXIME                11    3    3    3    3    13
TOTAL EAST                       197   81   63   63   63   270
10  JAO LANDIM BULA               11    3    3    3    3    12
11  BULA S.VICENTE                18   10    7    9    9    35
12  S.VICENTE M'PACK              73   32   32   32   32   127
22  CACHEU CANCHUNGO              32   13   13   17   17   61
23  CANCHUNGO BULA                38   16   20   20   20    76
24  BULABINAR                     10    7    7    3    3    20
26  MANSOA MANSABA                30   12   12   16   16    57                                                                                                      ,  >
27  MANSABA FARIM                 22   12   12   12   12    48                                                                                                      Pz D
28  JUGUDUL BISSORA               27    8    8      8    8    32                                                                                                    OQ 
TOTAL NORTH                      261  114  116  120  120   468                                     
15  BUBA MAMPATA                  30    9    9   12   12    42                                                                                                          o
18  MAMPATA CONTABANE             15    5    5    6    6    21                                                                                                        :X
20  BAMBADINCA XITOLE             34   10   10   13   13    47
21  XITOLE CONTABANE              27    8    8   11   11    38
38  CATIO RIO CUMBUJA             13    4    4    4    4    16
TOTAL SOUTH                      119   36   36   46   46   163
GRAND TOTAL                      736  287  270  291  291  1138



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
TRANSPORT AND URBAN RIFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
BREAKDOWN OF RESPONSIBILITIES
DGEPJAGEOPPE
TASK               ROUTINE MAINT.         PERIODIC MAINT.           REHABILITATION
DGEP      AGEOPPE       DGEP    AGEOPPE         DGEP    AGEOPPE
- Programing                 _                       _                  _
- Studies             _    O
- Prep. bidding docs   _ ___           o_                      O             _         o
- Invitation to bid    _                                        _                   _
- Opening of bids       _ __                        ______                                 _
- Contract award       __              _                      Om_  _         _       _Om
- Contract signing         ___                            _                 __        _
- Monitoring of works      __  _Om_                                        _
- Work site meetings   ______) o_ ___
- Work site reports         __            __                               _
- Signing of checks    ____w      __    __                                   _       _
- Settling of accounts    _                                            _             _
- Handover of works          _           _           _           _           _       _
Ke to tasks                                                      _    _
Full responsibility   ___     _____
Partial responsibility         M_ 
Approval/Information           >_ _                                    ao
Visa/information          o       _           _
_,



56
Annex 8A
Page 6 of 7
REPUBLlC OF GUIMA-B3SSAU
TRANSPORT ADURBAN         UCTUR 1Ctl/ll
Program of Works
Year One
(US$OOO)
CONDMTION END 1995                    Costs of Works 1996
U
No Roads                       E             g 8
1.a      8a                                        KEY
1  BISSAU AEROPORT             7  5  P       G         3                     3
2  AEROPORT SAFIM              9  4  P       N         3                     3        Road Condlidons
3  SAFIM NHACRA                14 4  P       N         4                     4            N=New
4  NHACRAJUGUDUL               26 4  P       N         8                     8            G = Good
5  JUGUDUL BAMBADINCA          60 4  P       N        18                    18         A=Acceptable
6  BAMBADINCA BAFATA           24 4  P       G        10                    10            B=Bad
7  BAFATA GABU                 52 3  P       B        16          1,500   1,516         D-Destroyed
8  GABU RIO CAIUM              46 2  P       A        32                    32
9   SAFIM JAO LANDIM           8  3  P       N         2                     2          Traffic Class
10 JAO LANDIM BULA             11 3  P       A         3    351            354   (Average daily traffic/Year)
11 BULA S.VICENTE              18 3  P       A        10    192            202            1 =0-50
12 S.VICENTE M'PACK            73 3  P       G        32                    32           2=50-100
15 BUBA MAMPATA                30 3  P       N         9                     9          3 = 100-200
18 MAMPATA CONTABANE           15 3  P       N         5                     5          4-200-400
19 RN1 BAMBADINCA              4  3  P       N         1                     1         5=400-1000
20 BAMBADINCA XITOLE           34 3  P       N        10                    10
21 XITOLE CONTABANE            27 3  P       N         8                     8
22 CACHEU CANCHUNGO            32 2  P       G        13                    13
23 CANCHUNGO BULA              38 3  P       G        16            192    207
24 BULA BINAR                  10 2  P       A         7                     7
26 MANSOA MANSABA              30 3  P       G        12                    12
27 MANSABA FARIM               22 3  P       G        12            287    299
28 JUGUDUL BISSORA             27 2  P       N         8                     8
32 BAMBADINCA XIME             11 2  P       N         3                     3
33 BISSAU PRABIS               18 4  P       N         5                     5
34 BISSAU QUINHAMEL            35 3  P       N        11                    11
35 QUINHAMEL BIOMBO            21 2  P       N         6                     6
37 NHACRA CUMERE               8  2  P       G         6                     6
38 CATIO RIO CUMBUJA           13 2  P       N         4                     4
39 BUBAQUE BRUCE               12 2  P       A         8                     8
Total                 287    543  1,979  2,808
Totals Paved Roads             Local currency         86      27     99    212
Foreign exchange      201    516  1,880  2,596
13 ENXUDE TITE                 6  2  D/6,0  G          6                     6
14 TITE BUBA                   69 2  D14,5  G         63                    63
16 MAMPATA GUILEGE             30 2  D/4,5  B         28    132            160
17 GUILEGE CACINE              39 2  D/4,5  D          4          1,000   1,004
25 BINAR BISSORA               24 2  D/4,5  D         27                    27
29 BUBA BEAFADA                28 2  D/4,5  N         26                    26
30 BEAFADA RL35                26 2  Dl4,5  N         24                    24
31 NOVA SINTRA S.JOAO          13 1  D/4,5  D          8                     8
36 S.DOMINGO VARELA            49 2  D/5,0  B         47    187            234
40 BOLAMA BOLAMA               15 1  D/6,0  A          7                     7
41 ILHA DAS GALINHAS           8  1  Dl6,0  A          4                     4
Total                 247    319  1,000   1,586
Totals Dirt Roads              Local currency        124     64    200    387
Foreign exchange      124    255    800   1,179
GRAND                          Total                 534    862  2,979  4,374
TOTAL                          Local currency        209      91    299    599
PRIORITY NETWORK               Foreign exchange      324    771  2,680   3,775



57
Annex 8A
Page 7 of 7
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
TRANSPORT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Packaging of Procurement for Works in the First Year
(US$'000)
n                   eE        ~    ~ ~        ~ ~~~~~E fIe
0~~
E
o                            u         X          E~~~S 
u   X     O         ,         ~    ~ ~        ~ ~~~~~E E42
o~~~~~
E~~
A        Al        North       1           468       114   LCB
A2       North       2           279        74   LCB
A3       South       1           163        36   LCB
A4       South       2           410        83   LCB
A5       South       2           400        83   LCB
A6       East        1           270        81   LCB
A7      Center      1,2          253        60   LCB
2243       531
B        Bi        North       3           543       543   LCB
B2       North       5           479       479   LCB
1022      1022
C        C1        North       4           187       187   LCB
C2       South       4           132       132   LCB
319       319
E        El       South        6          1950      1000   ICB
1950      1000
F        Fl        East        5          2138      1500   ICB
2138      1500
Totals                                        7672      4372



58
Annex 8B
Page 1 of 9
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSSAU
TRANSPORT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE COMPONENT
WATER AND SANITATION SUB-COMPONENT
I.     Status of the Sector
A.    Water Supply
The urban water supply subsector in Guinea-Bissau is characterized by mediocre services
in a situation of strong urban growth, inadequate operating resources and marked dependence on
external financial aid. The weakness of the institutional and regulatory structure and in particular
the absence of state-management in the secondary centers is also a major constraint on the
subsector's development.
At Bissau, out of a total rural population of nearly 250,000, less than 25,000 people (only
10 percent of the population) have direct access to potable water by means of household
connections. Nearly 30,000 more people obtain their water from public standpipes, free of charge.
The great majority of the population (78 percent) obtain their water from traditional dub wells
which tap superficial water tables exposed to contamination from poorly designed latrines. The
city is supplied by nine tubewells which draw from the Maestrichtien deep water table, with an
estimated total daily output of 15,000 m3. The total storage capacity of 2,000 m3 (11 percent of
daily production) is far from adequate, having regard to the frequent stoppages noted at the
pumping centers. The distribution network consists in large part of small-diameter asbestos
cement pipes, and its obsolescent condition causes losses of the order of 50 percent. The network
is not correctly structured and in some areas the water pressure is very inadequate.
As at Bissau, the water supply situation in the secondary cities is precarious. Only eight
secondary cities possess networks--which are old and rudimentary--and only two of these meet the
minimum criteria for an acceptable public water supply service. At Gabu (Programa de A~cao
Social e de Infraestrutura-PASI) has carried out limited expansion projects: 1 tubewell, 2.5 km of
distribution piping, I 60m3 reservoir and 18 standpipes at Bafata, and 1.2 km of distribution
piping and 10 standpipes at Gabu. In all secondary cities, the water distribution systems are under
the responsibility of the local authorities. In the case of subscribers that have water and electricity
connections, water is paid for at a flat rate based on the amount of the electricity bill. For all
others it is free of charge, but distribution is limited to a few hours a day.
B.    Sanitation
The sanitation subsection is characterized by lack of the necessary resources for project
execution and a certain amount of confusion in the responsibilities of the various entities involved
(several ministries, affiliated projects, municipalities and private promoters).
Only the city center of Bissau possesses a sewage network--a rudimentary one dating from
the colonial era with an offshore raw sewage outfall. Although this network serves only the



59
Annex 8B
Page 2 of 9
hospital, a number of clandcstinc connections to it arc known. Operation and maintcnancc of this
nctwork arc the rcsponsibility of the municipality, which rcccivcs no rcmuneration for this scrvice.
Nearly all residents of Guinea-Bissau's urban centers possess individual sanitation systems: trench
latrines, ccsspits, and scptic tanks in the case of the better-off residents. Unfortunately, thesc
faeilities are generally poorly designed and do not comply with hygiene, health and environmental
protection requirements. The superficial water tables from which most urban dwellers obtain their
water, by means of wells, are contaminated, a situation that represents a public health danger.
Rainwater discharge also poses enormous problems in the urban areas owing to the
inadequacv of the resources available for operation and maintenance of the existing works, the
chaotic development of urban housing and the lack of coordination among the many entities
involved (public works agencies, housing agencies, municipalities, and private promoters). Other
technilcal constraints associated with heavy rainfall, sanding-up of the works and the defective
household garbage collection systcm (dumping of solid waste into open canals) also contribute to
the poor performance of the system. Evcry rainy season witnesses frequent floods which cause
scrious environmental damage (stagnant water, road erosion and gullying) and somctimes
substantial properly losses. Durable improvcment of the system calls for an ovcrall strategic study
aimed at controlling runoff throughiout the watcrshed areas.
The urban garbagc collcction systems are inefficicnt. With PASI financing, the
Municipality of Bissau concluded a contract with a private firm to pick up household trash, but
this pick-up service cxtended to only 50 percent of the population and was halted for lack of
durabic financing. The lack of grassroots involvement in the design and financing of the system
u*doubtcdly contributed to the failure of the operation. The Municipality, which posscsses only a
single tractor and 5 trailers, is currcntly financing a very sporadic and localized garbage pick-up
service provided by a private carrier.
The sector's devclopment is hampered by a number of constraints, including the following:
-      The people arc not involved in the planning, management and financing of the
urban services, which explains their lack of commitment to the comprehensive
resolution of the urban environmental problems.
-      Their low income levels limit the capacity of households to share financially in
urban services cost recovery.
-      The limited taxation possibilities.
-      The water and sanitation network arc obsolescent. Action to rehabilitate and
optimize their operation should therefore take priority over any expansion of the
scrvicc.
There arc ncvcrthelcss a number of factors favorable to the successful implementation of a
water and sanitation projcct:
-      A water supply and sanitation master plan exists on the basis of which the
Government of Buinea-Bissau has determined its priorities and clarified
institutional rcsponsibilitics.



60
Annex 8B
Page 3 of 9
The authorities have officially accepted the principle of private-sector
participation. Moreover, management of urban water and sanitation services has
improved, thanks in particular to the involvement of the private sector in the he
provision of water services and trash collections.
The principle of recovery of the cost of the services from the users is recognized
by the authorities and accepted by the users. It will, however, be implemented in
stages, having regard to the level of living of the people and to acquired habits.
H.    Background to the Operation
The World Bank is assisting the Government of Guinea-Bissau in preparing a Water
Supply and Sanitation Improvement Program in Bissau and the Secondary Centers with the
ollowing main components: (a) development of national skills and training; (b) improvement of
institutional management of the sector, and (c) widening urban water supply and sanitation service
coverage by dcveloping infrastructure tailored to user demand and local socioeconomic conditions.
The present operation comprises the Water and Sanitation component of the multisectoral
Transport and Urban Infrastructure Project. The proposed activities comprise emergency
measures designcd to alleviate the situation of urban residents pending implementation of the
program referred to in the following paragraph. They are aimed essentially at upgrading the urban
environment through rehabilitation of potable water distribution networks and urban drainage
works, together with a pilot household trash collection and disposal project. These actions will be
supported by a campaign to make the people aware of the role they need to play in improving their
living environment. In accordance with the guidelines of the multisector project, the works will be
executed using the AGEOPPE method, in close collaboration with the administrations concerned.
111.   Description of the Water and Sanitation Component.
A.    Program Identification Criteria
In light of the program setting, selection of the activities comprising the emergency water
and sanitation program was based on the following assessment criteria:
TThe proposed operations should not place constraints on the development strategy
options of the sector.
Priority will be given to simple operations of rehabilitation and operational
improvement of existing works that are easy to implement and/or for which a well-
defined institutional frarnework exists. They must also meet an urgent demand
expressed on the Guinea-Bissau side.
Use of the AGEOPPE method of execution requires that (I) so far as possible, the
operations are within the capacity of local enterprises, in terms of both the nature
of the works and the size of the execution lots; (ii) the works are carried out using
highly labor-intensive methods, in order to achieve wide income redistribution, and
(iii) the execution costs are acceptable.



61
Annex 8B
Page 4 of 9
The total cost of the emergency program (basic costs and contingencies) is limited
to US$5 million. The planning calls for implementation of the "water supply and
urban drainage" operations over two years and of the pilot "solid waste" project
over three years.
B.    Action Program
The program comprises activities in three categories: (I) upgrading of water supply; (ii)
upgrading of urban drainage, and (iii) a pilot solid waste collection and disposal project. The
proposed activities, cost estimates and investment program are detailed in the annexed tables.
Water Supply Subcomponent
This operation relates to the city of Bissau, which possess and acceptable management
framework for the sector but whose water supply situation continues to be cause for concern.
It comprises three types of activities, with a total cost of US$2.04 million:
(a)    Rehabilitation of existing network: (I) renovating obsolescent piping and
ancillary equipment in order to stem the substantial water losses through the network,
estimated at nearly 50 percent of total production volume, and (ii) remaking existing
reservoirs.
(b)    Network interconnection and redimensioning: Laying new 200-mm and 250-
mm PVC pipes over a total length of 10.4 km to upgrade the functioning and raise the
output of the Bissau water distribution network.
(c)    Strengthening of supply conduits: Upgrading supply flows and pressures in
certain neighborhoods by strengthening the piping (200- and 250-mm dia.) over a length of
4.5 km.
In the case of the secondary cities, the emergency program does not include any investment
in additional water production or network expansion works, owing first of all to the absence of a
suitable institutional framework, and secondly to the lack of precise data on the willingness of the
people to pay for a improved water supply service. These data will be available at the end of the
preparatory phase of the Bissau and Secondary Cities Water Supply and Sanitation Program,
which will include an important additional water production and network expansion component.
The execution studies for this operation are already included in the present project, for an amount
of US$275,000.
Urban Drainage Subcomponent
The proposed operations do not include drainage works associated with road construction,
which have been taken into account in the Roads sub-component. They will relate in priority to
outfall upgrading works. Provision is also included for rehabilitation of existing works and,
exceptionally, execution of new works in sensitive areas; the total cost of these interventions is
estimated at US$1.62 million (works, contingencies, studies and supervision). They are limited to
the city of Bissau, which is hardest hit by flooding. The arrangements for maintenance of the
works will be firmed up by the strategic drainage studies for Bissau and the secondary cities.



62
Annex 8B
Page 5 of 9
Solid Waste Subcomponent
An amount of US$430,000 has been assigned to this subcomponent for the execution of
pilot operations relating to markets and certain priority neighborhoods in Bissau.
The operations comprises: (I) assistance in setting up groups of unemployed young people
for precollection of trash at the Bandim market, which faces a serious health problem; (ii)
awareness-arousing of the people, in priority those living in the neighborhoods where the drainage
operations will be carried out, with a view to organizing precollection circuits and to progressive
sharing by households in cost recovery, and (iii) testing of an innovative method of participatory
household garbage management which has been successfully tried out in Brazil.
IV.   Institutional Organization of the Program
The works will be entrusted to AGEOPPE, as delegated project manager. The public
agencies concemed will nevertheless be closely associated in involved in the planning, detailed
studies and implementation of the program:
Water Supply subcomponent: the Ministry of Natural Resources and EAGB
(Guinea-Bissau Water and Sanitation).
Urban Drainage subcomponent: Ministry of Social Infrastructure.
Solid Waste subcomponent: Municipality of Bissau.
The arrangements for execution of the Water Supply program are as follows: (I) the final
technical dossiers and the terms of reference of the consultants will be prepared under the
supervision of AGEOPPE, with permanent control by EAGB (Project Owner); (ii) the dossiers will
be examined and approved by EAGB's technical staff; (iii) AGEOPPE will carry out overall
supplies procurement in light of EAGB's technical specifications; (iv) AGEOPPE will select the
works contractors in agreement with EAGB; (v) the works will be executed under the supervision
of the consultants, and (vi) EAGB will perform technical acceptance and take-over of the works.
In order to instill a greater sense of involvement in the residents of the beneficiary
neighborhoods, the contractors will be required to recruit their skilled and unskilled labor from
among these residents. These are well-known procedures and practices, widely used in highly
labor-intensive community works executed by public works execution agencies (earthworks, cut
and fill earth moving, and so on). This requirement applies to both the Water Supply and the
Urban Drainage subcomponents.



63                                                     Annex 8B
Page 6 of 9
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
TRANSPORT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE COMPONENT (Inventory of SubProjects Identified for Year One)
COMPONENT                           Unit         Quantity       Unit Price         Tbl          No. of Contracts
(USS)           (USS)  '       _-    _:
A.WATER SUPPLY & DRAINAGE
A.1 Water Supply
BISSAU
Network rehabilitation                          linear meters          7,000             133          931,000          11
Network restructuring                               Im
Reinforcement of water mains                        Im
Studies & supervision (7%)                                                                             65,170
Sub-total Al                                                        996,170          I1
A.2 Rain Water Drainage
BISSAU
Outlets (nb21)                                      Im                 2,095             429          898,650          4
Sewers                                               Im
Studies & supervision (7%)                                                                             62,906
Sub-total A2                                                        961,556          4
A.3 Solid Waste
Collection of waste from markets                 lump sum                                             123,000          3
Collection in target areas                       lump sum                                               3,000          1
Studies & supervision (4%)                                                                              5,040
Sub-total A3                                                        131,040          8
Sub-Total A                                                       2,088,766          23
B. URBAN ROADS & DRAINAGE
Urban roads & drainage
Bissau
Ajuda                                                Im                5,000              60          300,000          5
Amadelai                                            Im                 5,000              60          300,000          5
Pefine                                               Im                1,733              60          103,980          2
Calaqui-Rossio                                       Im                6,100              60          366,000          6
Rue Pansau na Isna                                  Im                 3,000              60          180,000          3
Cupelon de Baixo                                     Im                  950              60           57,000          2
Studies & supervision (7%)
Sub-Tota B                                                         1,306,980         23
C. SMALL SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE
BISSAU
C.1 Schools
EBC Belem new construction                           U                     2           18,000          36,000           1
EBC Belem rehabilitation                             U                     2           10,000          20,000
C.2 Markets
Contum                                               U                     1          140,000         140,000          2
Hafia                                                U                     1          140,000         140,000          2
C.3 Health Centers
Contum                                               U                     1           40,000          40,000           1
Bairro Militar                                       U                     I          40,000           40,000          1
Hafia                                                U                     1          40,000           40,000           1
Pefme                                                U                     1           40,000          40,000           I
C.4 Youth Centers (Rehab)
Regional center (rehab)                              U                     I           10,000           10,000
Mes (rehab.)                                         U                     I          100,000          100,000         2
C.5 Other Small Sodal Infrastructures
Studies & supervision (7%)
Sub-Total C                                                         606,000          13
TOTAL                                                                             4,001,746         59



64
Annex 8B
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU                                   Page 7 of 9
TRANSPORT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE COMPONENT (Inventory of Sub-Projects Identified for Year Two)
COMPONENT                    Unit     Quantity    UnitPrice        Total      tNo. of Contracts
:__ :_:______ :_____ _____: __i::_:____:               (USS)0   f S  i :(US>0::   ::    : : ::     A (Un:S)
A. WATER SUPPLY & DRAINAGE
A. 1 Water Supply
BISSAU
Network rehabilitation                    Im
Network restructuring                     Im           10,900           69        751,000        10
Reinforcement of water mains              Im            4,500           52        235,000        4
Studies & supervision (7%)                                                         69,020
Sub total Al                                         1,055,020       14
A.2 Drainage of Rain Water
BISSAU
Outlets (nb 3)                            Im              986          180        177,604
Sewers (nb 2)                             Im            2,120          209        443,320         1
Studies & supervision (7%)                                                         43,465
Sub total A2                                          664,389         1
A.3 Solid Wastes
Collection of waste from markets       lump sum                                    50,000         1
Collection in target areas             lump sum                                   113,000        4
Studies & supervision (4%)            l                                             6,520
Sub total A3                                          169,520         5
Sub-Total A                                          1,719,409        20
B. URBAN ROADS & DRAINAGE
B.1 Urban roads
Bissau
Ajuda                                     Im            2,500          150        375,000         6
Amadelai                                  Im            2,500          150        375,000         6
Pefine                                    Im            1,190          150        178,500         3
Calaqui-Rossio                            Im            3,050          150        457,500         7
Cupelon de Baixo                          lm            1,500          150        225,000         3
B.2 Drainage
Canchungo (drainage)                      Im            1,500           60         90,000        2
Gabu (drainage)                           Im            1,500           60         90,000        2
B.3 Rehab. canals & sidewalks             Im            2,000           65        130,000        2
Studies & supervision (7%)
Sub-Total B                                          1,921,000        31
C. SMALL SOCL&L
INFRASTRUCTURE
C. 1 Schools
Bissau (rehab)                             U               20       10,000        200,000        20
C.2 Markets
Gabu (rehab & ext)                         U                1      300,000        300,000         5
C.3 Youth centers (rehab.)                 U                5       20,000        100,000         5
C.4 Other small social infra.          lump sum
Studies & supervision (7%)
Sub-Total C                                           600,000         30
TOTAL                 I_4,240,409                                                81



65
Annex 8B
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU                        Page 8 of 9
TRANSPORT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE COMPONENT (Inventory Sub-Projects Identified for Year Three)
COMPONENT                   unit     Quantity  Unit Price      Total       No. of
E______ ______ _______ _____  ___ _   (IJS5)  (USS)  Contracts
A. WATER SUPPLY & DRAINAGE
A.3 Solid Wastes
Collection of waste from markets    lump sum                                40,000      1
Collection in target areas          lump sum                               80,000       2
Studies & supervision (4%)                                                   4,800
Sub total A3                                       124,800      3
Sub-Total A           _                            124,800      3
B. URBAN ROADS & DRAINAGE
B.1 Urban roads
Canchungo                              Im           1,500        150       225,000      4
Gabu                                   Im           1,500        150       225,000      4
B.2 Drainage
Bafat                                  Im           2,800         60       168,000      3
Catio (rehab canals, sidewalks)        Im           1,500         65        97,500      3
Farim                                  Im           1,500         60        90,000      2
Studies & supervision (7%/o)
Sub-Total B                                             a 805,50  16
C. SMALL SOCIAL
INFRASTRUCTURE
C.1 Schools
Bafata (new construction)               U               2      18,000      36,000       2
Bafata (rehabilitation)                 U               2      10,000      20,000       2
C.2 Markets
Bafata (rehab and new construction)     U               1    150,000      150,000       3
Farim (rehab.)                          U               1      50,000      50,000       1
C.3 Youth centers (rehab.)              U               3      20,000      60,000       3
C.4 Other small social infra.
Studies & supervision (7%/6)
Sub-Total C                      _                316,000       11
TOTAL                                                      1,246,300      30



66
Annex 8B
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU                     Page 9 of 9
TRANSPORT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE COMPONENT (Inventory of Sub-Projects Identified for Year Four)
COMPONENT               Unit    Quantity  Unit Price    Totail        o i N Of
______________________          _____    _____ :     (US$) S(US))           Con rCtf
A. WATER SUPPLY & DRAINAGE
Sub-Total A
B. URBAN ROADS & DRAINAGE
B.1 Urban roads
Bafata                            Im          2,800       150      420,000      10
Catio                             Im          1,500       150      225,000      5
Farim                             Im          1,500       150      225,000      5
Sub-Total B                                   870,000     20
C. SMALL SOCIAL
INFRASTRUCTURE
S=ub-Total  C          __ _ __ _   __ _ _ _   ___X_ _____
TOTAL  Sub-Tot al_C_I870,0001
URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE COMPONENT(Guinean Pesos)
Component          Year 1      Year 2       Year 3      Year 4 :  Totl-
Water and ditch-       1,955,650   1,606,924     120,000                3,682,574
clearing
Urban roads and        1,306,980   1,921,000     805,500      870,000   4,903,480
drainage
Social infrastructures  606,000      600,000     316,000                1,522,000
TOTAL                 3,868,630   4,127,924   1,241,500       870,000  10,108,054



67                                   Annex 9
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
TRANSPORT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL SET-UP OF AGEOPPE
Contract Management Agency
The institutional set-up of this project, in line with other AGETIP-type operations, is
reflected in a number of legal and contractual relationships among the various actors concemed:
the central government, local governments, the Executing Agency, contractors, and consulting
firms. The term "contractors" is used to include building and construction companies,
cooperatives, and other legally constituted entities able to enter into a contract for sub-project
execution. The term "consulting firm" refers principally to engineering and architectural firms, but
many eventually include other legally constituted entities (e.g., non-governmental organizations
(NGOs)) able to provide the services required. The legal texts setting forth the above-mentioned
contractual relationships are described below:
(a)    The implementation of the project is entrusted to an executing agency named
BISSAUWORKS, hereafter referred to as "the Agency". The Articles of
Agreement of the Agency, which must at all times be acceptable to IDA, provide
that the Agency is a non-profit association whose Board includes the Mayor of
Bissau, a representative of the Transportors' Association (ASTRA), a recognized
civil leader, and a representative of the Chamber of Commerce. The role of the
President of the Board also includes one physical person elected as Administrator
of the Agency, to whom is fully entrusted the day-to-day management of the
Agency. As provided by the Articles of Agreement of the Agency, the
Administrator may be replaced only by extraordinary decision of the Board. The
Administrator, however, must be at all times acceptable to IDA. The Agency will
be effectively created after the founding members of the Board hold their first
meeting to approve the Articles of Agreement.
(b)    The Subsidiary Agreement between the Government and the Agency describes the
latter's modus operandi in the context of the present project. Among other things,
the Agreement establishes: that the Agency will execute sub-projects consistent
with those defined in the project; that, in the beginning, these sub-projects will be
exclusively located in the city of Bissau and then later extended to up to five other
secondary centers; that the Government of Guinea-Bissau will place non-
reimbursable financial resources at the disposal of the Agency, including the
proceeds of the credit, in an Account; that the Agency can also receive resources
from others sources; that the Procedures Manual is an integral part of the
Framework Agreement; that the Administrator of the Agency has full powers in
connection with the management of the Agency; that the Administrator can be
replaced only in accordance with the Articles of Agreement of the Agency; that the
Government confers to the Agency all powers required for the implementation of
the project; that the Agency will execute all sub-projects in strict compliance with
the Procedures Manual; and that the By-laws of the Agency cannot be modified
without Govermnent's agreement.



68                                  Annex 9
Page 2 of 3
(c)    The By-laws of the Agency (Statutes) establish the internal organization; hiring,
firing and other personnel management procedures; and administrative rules and
regulations. They ensure, among other things, that the Agency will have a small
staff, including a an Administrator assisted by one Financial Director and one
Technical Director.
(d)    The Procedures Manual which must at all times be acceptable to IDA, recalls the
fundamental objectives of the Agency and establishes: the procedures whereby the
Agency receives and processes sub-project execution requests from beneficiaries
(central or local governments), including the model Execution Agreement it will
sign with the beneficiary if it decides to execute the sub-project; the procedures
used by the Agency to establish and continuously update a roster of contractors
for different types of sub-projects; the various procurement procedures to be used
by the Agency for sub-project execution (depending on the estimated value of the
contract), including Sample Bidding Documents with a model contract to be
signed with the contractor; the procurement procedures to be used by the Agency
for sub-project engineering and supervision, including a model contract to be
signed with consulting firms the accounting and disbursement procedures to be
used by the Agency in connection with each sub-project; the financial management
procedure to be used by the Agency; the nature and periodicity of reporting by the
Agency; the procedures to be followed to secure independent external auditing of
the Agency; and personnel management procedures



69
Annex 9
Page 3 of 3
AGETIPE-type Agency
Implementing Agency for Public Works
Status
* independent institution
* legal status of a non-govememental, non-profit organization
* private legal status
Objectives
* employment creation by labor-intensive technologies
* improvement of the urban environment: rehabilitation / extension of
infrastructure
* development of project selection and management practices
* development of private contractors and consultants
Features
* autonomy, transparency
* its own and simplified procedures, to avoid the cumbersome, slow and
inefficient procedures:
- calling for bids;
- selecting contractors consultants and suppliers;
- awarding contracts;
- internal organization for work supervision and control;
- disbursement procedures; and
- handing over completed works;
Results
* increased capacity of private sector contractors and consulting firms
* improved match between public demand and private suppliers
* efficiency and transparency
* increased absorption capacity of IDA funds
* low cost overrun
* unit prices obtained: 5% to 40% lower than those obtained by the Government
Agencies
*imnprovement of the urban environment (education and health facilities,
drainage, waste collection, urban roads maintenance, rehabilitation of public
buildings)



70
Annex 10
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
TRANSPORT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
AGEOPPE
Eligibility Criteria for the Selection of Sub-Projects
I. FOR SUB-PROJECTS
To be eligible for execution, a sub-project must fulfill the following conditions:
(a)    Be included in the works classified in Section III of the Agency's procedures
manual;
(b)    Have at least an economic rate of return of 12% provided through cost-benefit
analysis and social use;
(c)    The part of the total cost of the sub-project spent on labor (excluding social
charges) must, as a general rule, be: (i) for urban projects, road rehabilitation,
and periodic road maintenance projects, higher than 20%; (ii) for routine
maintenance of highways, higher than 30%;
(d)    The average duration of jobs created by the execution of the sub-project must be
more than two weeks;
(e)    The absence of doubling up with another sub-project whose financing is already
assured;
(f)    An Environmental analysis indicates that the sub-project has no negative effect on
the environment;
(g)    The timing of the beginning of works must be less than three months;
(h)    The cost of the activities prior to the beginning of the works must be less than
10% of the estimated total cost of the sub-project;
(i)    It must be possible to mobilize the required equipment and materials at the work
site within the schedule for the start-up of the works, without incurring additional
costs;
(j)    For urban projects, the estimated amount of the sub-project must be between the
equivalent of US$5,000 and US$500,000 unless prior agreement is received from
both Government and IDA;



71
Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
(k)    The beneficiary must have the financial and technical capability to maintain the
works and assure their maintenance, and the adequate maintenance of the sub-
project(s) already financed must be observable;
(l)    The sub-project must benefit from the participation of the beneficiaries, in
particular women, concerned in the identification of proposed sub-projects,
participation being judged on the basis of the minutes of meetings held with the
final beneficiaries of the sub-project;
(m)   Road and canal-clearing sub-projects must include a with/with out study or must
be part of a development plan whose financing has been identified and will be
available in the following 12 months; and
Sub-projects for social infrastructures must conform to the norms defined by Government and, in
their absence, must satisfy the following cost-benefit criteria: schools must have at least 36
students per class and cover a target population of at least 500,000 inhabitants with a 3 km radius;
dispensaries must have at least one nurse and serve a target population of at least 11,000
inhabitants in a 5 to 10 km radius.
II. FOR THE BATCH OF SUB-PROJECTS
2.    In order to obtain IDA's no-objection, a batch of sub-projects must fulfill the following
conditions:
(a)    The total cost must be less than the remaining funds available to the Agency
through the Credit;
(b)    For urban projects, the batch of sub-projects must comply with the following
breakdown between projects submitted by Government and those submitted by
local communities: (i) year one, 90%-10%; (ii) year two, 70%-30%; (iii) year
three, 50%-50%; and (iv) year four, 40%-60%; and
(c)    For urban sub-projects, the average size of the sub-projects in the batch of sub-
projects should be between US$50,000 and US$70,000.



DETAILED PROJECT COST TABLES
Guinea-Bissau
Transport and Urban Infrastucture Project
Components Project Cost Summary
(Peso'000)                                        (US$ 000)
%     % Total                                   %     % Total
Foreign   Base                                  Foreign   Base
Local       Foreign        Total    Exchange  Costs    Local    Foreign      Total   Exchange Costs
A. Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Program
Road Rehabilitation                                      19,548,600.0  92,237,400.0  111,786,000.0    83      24    1,261.2    5,950.8    7,212.0     83      24
Regular Road Maintenance                                 18.259,000.0  27,388,500.0   45,647,500.0    60      10    1,178.0    1,767.0    2,945.0     60       10
Periodic Road Maintenance                                 4,082,700.0   36,744,300.0   40,827,000.0   90       9     263.4    2,370.6    2,634.0      90       9
Rehabilitation of Bubacque and Cacheu ports               8,602,500.0   20,072,500.0   28,675,000.0   70       6     555.0    1,295.0    1,850.0      70       6
Subtotal Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Program   50,492,800.0  176,442,700.0  226,935,500.0  78       49   3,257.6   11,383.4   14,641.0      78      49
B. Urban Infrastructure Rehabilitation program
Water and Sanitation                                     22,048,750.0   41.718.250.0   63,767,000.0   65      14   1,422.5    2,691.5    4,114.0      65      14
Traffic/Drainage                                         13,639,070.0  62,098,983.0   75,738,053.0    82      16     879.9    4,006.4    4,886.3      82      16
Small Equipment                                           8,342,720.0   15.632,680.0  23,975,400.0    65       5     538.2    1,008.6    1,546.8      65       5
Subtotal Urban Infrastructure Rehabilitation program       44,030.540.0  119,449,913.0  163,480,453.0  73      35    2,840.7    7,706.4   10,547.1      73      35
C. Capacity Building Program
Strenthening MES (Road)                                   2.191.700.0    4,597,300.0    6,789,000.0   68       1     141.4      296.6      438.0      68       1
Strenghthening MES (Urban)                                3,193.000.0    5,316,500.0    8,509,500.0  62        2     206.0      343.0      549.0      62       2
Strenghthening MES (Transport)                            1,627,500.0   3,549,500.0    5,177,000.0   69        1     105.0      229.0      334.0      69       1
Advisory Unit to MSE                                       210,800.0     316,200.0     527,000.0      60       -      13.6       20.4       34.0      60
Support to contractors/professionals/communities          5,989,200.0    3,992,800.0    9,982,000.0   40       2     386.4      257.6      644.0      40       2
Ageoppe                                                  11,412,650.0  20,583,225.0   31.995,875.0    64       7     736.3    1,328.0    2,064.3      64       7
Subtotal Capacity Building Program                         24,624,850.0   38,355,525.0   62,980,375.0  61       13   1,588.7    2,474.6    4,063.3      61      13
D. PPF Refinancing                                          6,297,750.0    7,697,250.0   13,995,000.0  55       3      405.0      495.0      900.0      55       3
Total BASELINE COSTS                                       125,445,940.0  341,945,388.0  467,391,328.0  73     100   8,092.0   22,059.4   30,151.4       73     100
Physical Contingencies                                    4,071.640.8   14,019,378.8   18,091,019.5   77       4     262.7      904.5    1,167.2      77       4
Price Contingencies                                      35,625,589.2   71,006,292.1  106,631,881.3  67       23    1,026.2    1,182.5    2,208.6     54       7
Total PROJECT COSTS                                        165,143,170.0  426,971,058.9  592,114,228.8  72    127   9,380.8   24,146.3   33,527.2       72    111
>
0Qr
(~DX
O
Fh.



Guinea-Bissau
Transport and Urban Infrastructure Project
Project Components by Year - Base Costs
(USS '000)
Base Cost
1996      1997_   1998         1999      2000      Total
A. Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Program
Road Rehabilitation                                              3,188.5    1,737.8    1,478.3   807.4         -     7,212.0
Regular Road Maintenance                                          532.0      530.0     590.0     593.0    700.0    2,945.0
Periodic Road Maintenance                                         900.0      170.0    1,564.0        -         -     2,634.0
Rehabilitation of Bubacque and Cacheu ports                      1,850.0         -         ---                       1,850.0
Subtotal Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Program           6,470.5   2,437.8   3,632.3    1,400.4    700.0    14,641.0
B. Urban Infrastructure Rehabilitation program
Water and Sanitation                                             2,150.5    1,818.0    145.5         -         -     4,114.0
Traffic/Drainage                                                 1,307.1    1,911.1    798.1      870.0        -     4,886.3
Small Equipment                                                    580.6     503.4     462.8         -         -     1,546.8
Subtotal Urban Infrastructure Rehabilitation program               4,038.2   4,232.5    1,406.4     870.0        -    10,547.1
C. Capacity Building Program
Strenthening MES (Road)                                            272.0      80.0      43.0      43.0         -      438.0_
Strenghthening MES (Urban)                                        270.0      155.5      68.0      55.5         -      549.0                                   w~
Strenghthening MES (Transport)                                     105.0     143.0      43.0      43.0         -      334.0
Advisory Unit to MSE                                                 8.5       8.5       8.5        8.5        -       34.0
Support to contractors/professionals/communities                   201.0     181.0     181.0      81.0         -      644.0
Ageoppe                                                           689.5      517.5     444.5      371.5     41.3    2,064.3
Subtotal Capacity Building Program                                 1,546.0    1,085.5    788.0     602.5      41.3    4,063.3
D. PPF Refinancing                                                  9oo.0          -         -         --               90.
Total BASELINE COSTS                                               12,954.7   7,755.8    5,826.7    2,872.9    741.3   30,151.4
Physical Contingencies                                             524.3     322.9     229.6      89.3       1.0    1,167.2
Price Contingencies
Inflation
Local                                                          523.8     644.1     584.2      367.2    179.2    2,298.4
Foreign                                                       231.8      300.5     358.0      233.5     58.6     1,182.5
Subtotal Inflation                                               755.5     944.6     942.2      600.7    237.8    3,480.9
Devaluation                                                     -213 .7    -350 .4    -363 .4    -239 .5   -105.3    -1,272.3
Subtotal Price Contingencies                                       541.9     594.2     578.9      361.2    132.5    2,208.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                14,020.9   8,672.9   6,635.2   3,323.4    874.8   33,527.2
Taxes                                                                  -         -         -         -         -          -                                t3
Foreign Exchange                                                 3,J0.3   6,218.4   5,004.1    2,479.5    504.0    24,146.3                                 |



Guinea-Bissau
Transport and Urban Infrastructure Project
Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ 000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1996      1997       1998      1999      2000      Total
A. Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Program
Road Rehabilitation                                           3,470.5    1,947.3    1,693.7    945.2       -     8,056.7
Regular Road Maintenance                                       559.6      575.0     654.2      672.3   825.0     3,286.1
Periodic Road Maintenance                                      975.1      189.1    1,781.8         -       -     2,946.0
Rehabilitation of Bubacque and Cacheu ports                   2,030.4         -         -          -       -     2,030.4
Subtotal Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Program        7,035.6    2,711.4    4,129.7    1,617.5   825.0    16,319.2
B. Urban Infrastructure Rehabilitation program
Water and Sanitation                                          2,366.8    2,061.3     169.8         -       -     4,597.9
Traffic/Drainage                                              1,434.6    2,131.0    915.0    1,015.3       -     5,495.9
Small Equipment                                                640.3      570.9     535.6          -       -      1,746.8
Subtotal Urban Infrastructure Rehabilitation program            4,441.7    4,763.2    1,620.4    1,015.3     -    11,840.7
C. Capacity Building Program
Strenthening MES (Road)                                        289.5       88.6      48.9       50.0       -       476.9
Strenghthening MES (Urban)                                     288.5      172.5      77.0       64.3       -       602.3
Strenghthening MES (Transport)                                  111.9     160.8      48.9       50.0       -       371.6
Advisory Unit to MSE                                              9.2       9.5       9.7        9.9       -        38.2
Support to contractors/professionals/communities               214.1      199.4     203.6       93.0       -       710.2
Ageoppe                                                         730.4     567.5     497.1      423.4    49.8     2,268.1
Subtotal Capacity Building Program                              1,643.6    1,198.3    885.1      690.5    49.8    4,467.3
D. PPF Refinancing                                               900.0          -         -          -       -       9o0.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                                             14,020.9   8,672.9    6,635.2   3,323.4   874.8    33,527.2
o 



Guinea-Bissau
Transport and Urban Infrastructure Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Base Costs
(USS '000)
Base Cost                         Foreign Exchange
1996      1997      1998      1999     2000      Total      %      Amount
I. Investrnent Costs
A. Civil Works (Roads)                  3,838.0   3,339.0   3,366.0   1,634.0       -   12,177.0    90.0   10,959.3
B. Civil Works (OTher)                  5,720.0   2,582.0    918.8         -        -    9,220.8    70.0    6,454.5
D. Equipment                             624.0         -         -                  -      624.0    90.0      561.6
E. Technical Fees                        448.8     319.3     163.9      43.4        -      975.3       -
F. Consultancies
Specialists                            335.3     436.3     288.3     215.3     41.3    1,316.3    60.0      789.8
G. Training                              263.0     255.5     206.0      93.5        -      818.0    40.0      327.2
H. PPF Refinancing                       900.0         -         -         -        -      900.0    55.0      495.0
Total InvestmentCosts                    12,129.0   6,932.1   4,942.9   1,986.2    41.3   26,031.4    75.2   19,587.4
II. Recurrent Costs
Routine Road Maintenance                 532.0     530.0     590.0     593.0    700.0    2,945.0    60.0    1,767.0
Ageoppe's Services                       293.8     293.8     293.8     293.8        -    1,175.0    60.0      705.0
Total Recurrent Costs                      825.8     823.8     883.8     886.8    700.0    4,120.0    60.0    2,472.0                                    u
Total BASELINE COSTS                     12,954.7   7,755.8   5,826.7   2,872.9    741.3   30,151.4    73.2   22,059.4
Physical Contingencies                   524.3     322.9     229.6      89.3      1.0    1,167.2    77.5      904.5
Price Contingencies
Inflation
Local                                523.8     644.1     584.2     367.2    179.2    2,298.4       -
Foreign                              231.8     300.5     358.0     233.5     58.6    1,182.5   100.0    1,182.5
Subtotal Inflation                     755.5     944.6     942.2     600.7    237.8    3,480.9    34.0    1,182.5
Devaluation                           -213.7    -350.4    -363.4    -239.5   -105.3   -1,272.3       -
Subtotal Price Contingencies             541.9     594.2     578.9     361.2    132.5    2,208.6    53.5    1,182.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                      14,020.9   8,672.9   6,635.2   3,323.4    874.8   33,527.2    72.0   24,146.3
Taxes                                        -         -         -         -        -          -       -         -
Foreign Exchange                        9,940.3   6,218.4   5,004.1   2,479.5    504.0   24,146.3
OQ 
-I-
... 
O ,_



Guinea-Bissau
Transport and Urban Infrastructure Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years -- Totals Including Contingencies
(US$'000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1996      1997       1998      1999      2000      Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works (Roads)            4,158.3    3,713.8    3,834.8    1,906.8          13,613.7
B. Civil Works (OTher)            6,277.7    2,918.0    1,062.1        -            10,257.9
D. Equipment                       660.0          -         -          -       -       660.0
E. Technical Fees                  514.6      380.8     199.0       53.7       -     1,148.2
F. Consultancies
Specialists                      361.5      485.1     327.6      250.1    49.8     1,474.2
G. Training                        280.2      281.5     231.7      107.4       -       900.8
H. PPF Refinancing                 900.0         -          -         -        -       900.0
Total Investment Costs             13,152.3    7,779.3    5,655.2   2,318.1    49.8    28,954.6
11. Recurrent Costs
Routine Road Maintenance           559.6      575.0     654.2      672.3   825.0    3,286.1
Ageoppe's Services                 309.0      318.7     325.7      333.0       -     1,286.4
Total Recurrent Costs                868.6      893.6     980.0    1,005.3   825.0     4,572.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                 14,020.9   8,672.9    6,635.2   3,323.4   874.8    33,527.2
L_n 
of0
ND-X



Guinea-Bissau
Transport and Urban Infrastructure Project
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Sumnnary
(Peso 000)                                         (USS 000)
%     %Total                                     %     % Total
Foreign   Base                                   Foreign   Base
Local       Foreign        Total    Exchange  Costs    Local    Foreign       Total   Exchange  Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works (Roads)         18,874,350.0  169,869,150.0  188,743,500.0   90      40    1,217.7   10,959.3   12,177.0      90       40
B. Civil Works (OTher)         42,876,627.0  100,045,463.0  142,922,090.0   70      31    2,766.2    6,454.5    9,220.8      70      31
D. Equipment                     967,200.0    8,704,800.0    9,672,000.0    90       2       62.4      561.6      624.0      90        2
E. Technical Fees              15,117,863.0           -   15,117,863.0       -       3      975.3          -      975.3        -       3
F. Consultancies
Specialists                   8,160,750.0   12,241,125.0   20,401,875.0   60       4      526.5      789.8    1,316.3       60       4
G. Training                     7,607,400.0    5,071,600.0   12,679,000.0   40       3      490.8      327.2      818.0      40        3
H. PPF Refinancing              6,297,750.0    7,697,250.0   13,995,000.0   55       3      405.0      495.0      900.0      55        3
Total Investment Costs           99,901,940.0  303,629,388.0  403,531,328.0   75      86    6,444.0   19,587.4   26,031.4      75       86
II. Recurrent Costs
Routine Road Maintenance       18,259,000.0   27,388,500.0   45,647,500.0   60      10    1,178.0    1,767.0    2,945.0      60       10
Ageoppe's Services              7,285,000.0   10,927,500.0   18,212,500.0   60       4      470.0      705.0    1,175.0      60        4
Total Recurrent Costs            25,544,000.0   38,316,000.0   63,860,000.0   60      14    1,648.0    2,472.0    4,120.0      60       14
Total BASELINE COSTS             125,445,940.0  341,945,388.0  467,391,328.0   73     100    8,092.0   22,059.4   30,151.4      73     100
Physical Contingencies          4,071,640.8   14,019,378.8   18,091,019.5   77       4      262.7      904.5    1,167.2      77        4
Price Contingencies            35,625,589.2   71,006,292.1  106,631,881.3   67      23    1,026.2    1,182.5    2,208.6      54        7
Total PROJECT COSTS              165,143,170.0  426,971,058.9  592,114,228.8   72     127    9,380.8   24,146.3   33,527.2      72     111
OQ D
_ m
x
0~



Ga.k.a
T.   " d Lka           c  P4*d
E_p.mn Mceia44 by Ccwvwwyts .tI  Cod
64g.fl    PalMS    StSibnqm                       prowUM                                           OW'dhw    AiSasy                                                                               Ph,l~
Rma         Read         mao      us CaO..    Wwar mi                         ma  utmafl          no an,gl"         NP as     to                   mqpmWlo                                                 Clk m
L anOSaS CSt
A.CSMaW.&(RSS)                            1613.0                 Z,634.0                       -           Z931.0         -                                        .        -.Z  217710                                                               50      401.1
B.Cs wks amTh.)                                -                                1,164.0   32940.0         1,90.0   1.4401             -             -          1000                                                   30.0           -    12201       0.0    401.0
o-N EaS---                                                                                                      -                 I 162.0        112.0          62.0                                                 201 1i4         -      63.0      25      161
E. Td.d.W  Fa.                             40.0            -           .-                   240.0             013    100.0            -             .              .       .                                             -.                    3o    s.c      4As
-       -                                   -       ~~~~~~         ~~~~~~        ~~~~~~    ~~~~202.  337A0  172.0    34.0         -      71.2                1,316.3     2.6     3219
0. TmbuSl                                                                                                                          74.0          100.0             -                                        644.0                             I - 91.0           -
Taanu Ca                                    ,22Z-2634.0                          1,50.0   4,114.0          4.146.3   1,0441        436.0          0400          334.0    34.0                               644       50           00      431 3             117
Tom &MIN." cm_-                                                                                                                                                                                                       00 d       31 A     CS 1.p7
L mW_t Cn
Ru-*W        Xl 6.Sain0 -,4 2-0                                                                -                -.10                                -           -                                              -         -           -    2*44        SD
Aapp..S0n                                      -                                                                -    ,                -             -             .         .                                  -   1,170.0             .,Ja7i         S0       1
TOM                                                                                                                                                112.0mt5Cu                                                         . 21176.0            54120.0      2
TSSAJUCOTST                                 7,212.0      2450      2.6340        1R500    4,114.0            4,0.63    1.SJ44       434.0          04.0          334.0    340                                 6440      064.3       000      10,14      32    1,1672
M4*iCuOy.n.                                34 0.           -       1317           92.0      206.7           3443       77.3         9.1           112           10J      O                                    -      23.0           -    1.1672
rlls C       _A4wb
Led                                     3722       484.7         9.1          90.7      342.2           2541      153.1        36.9           $0.1          34.7      41                                121.0    2521            -    2.141-
F.WV                                    3IS.1      147         14A            342       107.6           250.0      52.0         12.1          104           12.0      1.3                                142       70.2          -     1,1t2J       -         -
aaatSs ,                          690.3       62A4       231.6          134.1     450.1            0062     2064          51.1          751            4.7      42                                135.7    3261            -    344906                  -
Ds.                                      -206.2     -7 1         4512           .37.0    -1711           -1391      -6.7        .21.3          -330          -19.      -2.9                               -48     .14t.0           -   -1.272.3       -
0..anPk'. &ge ea                           44.1        341.1       160.3          67.1      2792          W340        122.7        201            42.1          76, 3J     1                                 42      1901            -    2,20.6    30        762
TdPfrCTCOSTS                                6 ,054.7    3,296.1    2,4.O          2,0304    4.57.9          0,4691    1.74.0        476.3         602.3         3711    3*2                                  7102   2,361.1       90.0   33.27.2       3.7   1,243.1
Faip ka_e's.                              45445       1910.7     2932.6         1394.0    2,933.9         4,457.3   1,111.8       3154           364.0         246A      22.3                               2722    1,4201       495.0   24,146.3    31.    6941
-j
>
-4 M
I-X



Gunea-Bsssau
Transport and Urban Intrastuctuae Prrect                                                               Unit                                                                 Pararmters (in %)
Table 1. Transport Inlrastuctxre Rehabiltat                                                           Coat                                                               Phy.
Detalled Costa                                                      Quantities                        (USS                       Base Cost (US$'000)                     Cont    For.   Gross
Unit    1096      1997      1998      1999    2000    Total   .'0)    1996          1997      199       199"    2000      Total    Rats   Exch. Tax Rate
1 tnvstmnt Costs
A Road Rehabilitation
1. Paved Road                    lan         51        16         4         3        -       74      38    1,938.0    608.0      1520      1140             2,812.0    50    90.0       0.0
2. Earth Roads                   ian          20        19        24       13        -       76      50    1,0000      9500    1,200.0    650.0       -    3,800.0      5.0    900       00
Subtotal Road Rehabilitation                                                                                 2,938.0   1,558.0   1.352 0    764 0             6,612.0
B. Periodic Maintenance
1 PavedRoad                      Ian          17         5       46          -               68      34      578.0     170.0   1,5640         -             2,3120      50    90.0      0.0
2. Earlh Roads                   bn           23         -         -                         23       14     322.0         -         -                        3220      5.0    900       0.0
Subtotal Periodic Maintenance                                                                                  9000      1700    1.5640         -       -    2,6340
C. Ports
1. ubacpie                       ea            1         -         -         -       -        1   1,050    1,050.0        -         -         -       -    1,050.0      5.0   70.0       0 0
2. Cacheu                         ea           1         -         -         -       -         1    800      800.0         -        -         -       -       800.0     5.0    70.0      00
Subtotal Ports                                                                                                1.850 0       -         -         -       -    1,850.0
D. Consultants
1 StdAes                         fee                                                                          625       44.8      106                 -       1180      50     0.0       0.0
2. Supervsion                    tee                                                                         1880      135.0     115.7      43.4       -      482.0     50      0.0      00
Subtotal Conautants                                                                                            250.5     1798      1263       43.4      -       6000
Total Investment Costa                                                                                         5,938.5   1,907.8   3,042 3    807.4            11,696.0
I Recurrent Costa
A Routine Maintenance
Paved Roads (1)                   yr                                                                         287 0              -        -        -           287 0     0.0    60 0      0.0
Paved Roads (2)                   yr                                                                             -     270 0        -         -       -       270.0     0 0    60.0      0.0
Paved Roads (3)                   yr                                                                             -         -     2910         -       -       2910      0.0   60.0       0 0
Paved Roads (4)                   yr                                                                             -         -        -      291 0       -      2910      0.0    60 0      0.0
Eart Roads (1)                    yr                                                                         245 0         -                                  245.0     0 0    60 0     0 0
Earlh Roads (2)                   yr                                                                             -     260.0                                  260 0     0.0   60.0       0.0
Earlh Roads (3)                   yr                                                                             -         -     299 0        -       -      299 0      0 0    60 0     0.0
Earth Roads (4)                   yr                                                                                                -      302 0      -       302.0    0.0    60 0      0 0
Earlh Roads (S)                   yr                                                                             -         -        -         -   700 0       700 0     0 0    60.0     0 0
Total Recurrent Coals                                                                                            532 0     530.0    590 0     593.0   700.0    2,945.0
Total                                                                                                           6.470 5    2,437 8    3,632.3   1,400 4   700 0    14,641.0
rD  (D
0
O -.



Guinea-Bissau
Transport and Urban lnfrasbueicr                                                                  Unit                                                                     Paramsetrs (in %)
Table 2. Wter/Sanitation                                                                         Cost                                                                   Phy.
Detiled Cost                                                   C LuanTSu                         (US$                         Base Coat (USS'000)                       Cont    For.    Gross
Unit    1996    1997    1994    1999    2000    Total    000)             1996       1997      1999    1999    2000         Total     Rate    Exch.  Tax Rate
1. Investment CoSts
A. Drinking Waer             Amount                                                                        958.5      958.5                  -        -    1,917.0      5.0    70.0         0.0
B. Rain Water                Amount                                                                        926.8      592.4                  -             1,519.0      5.0     70.0        0.0
C. Solid Weste               Amnount                                                                       130.9      159.5    118.6         *        -      409.0      5.0     70.0        0.0
D. StudieaSupention          amouni                                                                        134.5      107.6    26.9          -               269.0      5.0      0.0        0.0
Totl                                                                                                        2,150.5    1,818.0    145.5        -         -    4,114.0
TrFn oW Usbn NsbumPr                                                                                          una                                                           Pwni, on O)
Tab S. Tnrra Par                                                                                             Cowe
herted Cows                                                                                                   Ms                     eas come tuss o                    Co.L  FrM.   Gros
Unx       ee          1997         ing         1,9        2000      TtA-1    WD)        eee      191n7   im      iee    2000      ,        t.   Loch  Ta x 
L hw.esr- Comes
A.  nE.                      .1          21,793        5,000       5.900           -               32.563    0.09   1.307.0    300.0  34.0        -       -   1,955.0    6.0   70.0       0.0
B.EwthRo.                   .4m                        10.740      3.0O        S.e00      -        19,540    0.15        -   1,611.0  450.0  970.0            2,931.0    6.0   90.0      0.0                                        00
C. DarWt wat Superisio      I.e                                                                                        0.2       0.1    0.1    0.0        -      0.3    5.0    0.0        0.0                                       0
TcAri                                                                                                                 1,307.1   1,911.1  799.1   970.0      -   4,e5.3
Gulnea-Blhaau
Transport and Urban Infralucture Proj                                                                  Unit                                                             Pwaramter (In %)
Table 4. SmiaN Equpment                                                                                Coat                                                           Phy.
Deaid Costs                                                         Quantitles                        (USS                    Base Coat (US$ '000 _                  Cont.    For.    Gross
Unit      i6       1997      1998     1989    2000      Total  .J_L    19"          11997    19     199    2000        Total    Rate    Fxch.  Tax Rate
L Investment Cosh
A. Markets (Rehablbttor)          ea            *         1         2                           3    166.8        -   166.6   3332          -        -     499.8      5.0    70.0       0.0
B. MaUrkt(New)                    es           2          -         -        .        -         2      140    290.0       -        -        -        -     280.0      5.0    70.0       0.0
C. Clasooms (Rehab)               ea            2        20         2                          24       10    20.0   200.0    20.0          -        .     240.0      5.0    70.0        0.0                                     'I  >
D. Cassmorns (New)                ea            2          .        2        -        -         4       la    36.0        *    38.0         .        .      72.0      5.0    70.0        0.0                                     p) :1
E. HeafthCenters                  ea            4         -         -        -        -         4       40    160.0       -        -        -               160.0     5.0    70.0       0.0                                     20  D
F. Forums (Rehab)                 ea            1         5         3        -        -         9       21     21.0   105 0     63.0                        19.0      5.0    70.0       0.0                                          m
G. DeIgn and SupervAion           Fee                                                                          63.6    31.8    10.6         -        -      106.0     5.0      0.0       0.0
Tot)                                                                                                            580.6   503.4   462.8         -              1546.8
O



Gunes-Bissou
Transport and Urban Infratructe Pro'td                                                                                   UnS                                                           Partmers Ih1S)
TableS SngtShengMSE (Road)                                                                                               Cost                                                       PIy
D alde Costs                                                                        Quntubs                              fUSS                  Bass Cost fUsS 0001                 ConL    For.    Gross
UrS       1996      1997       19gf9     1999     2000      TdY       0001    1996    1997    1999    1999    2000    Total   Rat    Exd.  TaxRate
t Ivestmont Costs
A Shadt TerrTechnicaltAssistnce               Mhnont            1         1         1          1                 4       15    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0               60.0     2.5    60.0       0.0
B Loral Stai                                  MAMont          36         36        36        36        -        144      0.5    180      18.0    18.0    18.0        -    720       2.5    60.0       0.0
C. DocuonntationlProgrmsins g                1warig                                                                              50.0       -       -        - m500                 2.5    90.0       0.0
D. Trontno(Abrood)-HDM                         Morih           2          2         -          -       -          4        6     12.0    120                               240      0.0    40.0       0.0
E. Trairin - Regular Team                    Lutap sum                                                                          25.0    25.0        .        .       .    500       00     40.0       0.0
F. Veocies                                      es              4         -         -          -                  4       25   100 0        -       .        .       -   100.0      2.5    90.0       0.0
G Comr ters                                     ea              2         -         .                             2        6    12.0        -                              12.0     2.5    90.0       0.0
H. Transport Sitdy                           tump                                                                               30.0                             -         30.0     2.5    60.0       0.0
1. Instithlorwl Support to Reglonrk Team     tsuma                                                                               10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0             40.0      2.5    60.0       0.0
Total hivestmAet Coats                                                                                                           272.0    800.    43.0    43.0         .   438.0
t Recurwnt Costs
Tota                                                                                                                              272.0    80.0    43.0    43.0        -   438.0
G*reaBsau
Trpnalot and Urtan itratrlure Proct                                                                                     Unl                                                          Pr0Ssnrs Ohnfl
Tabe 6. Sntw#OmrrVg MSE (Urbon Sedor)                                                                                    Cost                                                       Phy.
iOt_d Coats                                                               _           u4itts                            fUSS                   Bs sCost (USS 0D0)             *    Cont    For.    Gross
UnS       1996      1997       199f      1999     2000      Tod t     IO       1996    1997    19tt   1969    2000    TOW Rt       o  . Exrb.  Tan Rit
I htwmtnet Costs
& Popesabo of Lesitlon                       Lumw on                                                                            750      750        -        -            150.0     2.5    60.0       0.0                                               CO
B.SthoftTwmTodrtc leAssisnece                 MlMonth          1          I         1          1                  4       15    15.0    150      15.0    15.0        -    60.0      2.5    60.0       00
C.LocdStatt                                   MtMorth         36         36        36        36        -        144      0.5    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0         -    72.0      2.5    SO0        0.0
0. Trking of Mtripsl Tacecdes                Ltm  sam                                                                              -    12.5    25.0    12.5         -    500       0.0    40.0       0.0
E. Taing of GDU Staf                         Lump Sam                                                                           25.0    25.0        .        .       .    50.0      0.0    40.0       0.0
F. Veides                                       eas            4          -         -          -       -          4       25   100.0        -       -        *       -   100.0      2.5    90.0       0.0
G.Cnipers                                       es             2          -          -         -       -          2        6     12.0               -                -    12.0      2.5    90.0       0.0
H4. Sthdas: Devloprnt d USt Pis              tump  m5.0                                                                                                                    15.0     2.5    60.0       0.0
1. hItUloroni Support to roonsi len          luep sum                                                                            100     10.0    10.0    10.0             40.0      2.5    60.0       0.0
Todaf wtmnst Cots                                                                                                                270.0   155.5    68.0    555          *   549.0
tL macnnt Costs
Todt                                                                                                                              270.0   155 5    68.0    5!5         -   549.0
Gulnes-Otnsau
Trnspoxt end Urban Inrastn,uctee Pro)ed                                                                               USn                                                           Panstrs (hO 
Table 7. Strerfdhuntng MSE (Transsport)                                                                              Cost                                                         Phy.
Dstaled Costs                                                                   Chfuantiles                          (USS                   Bass Cost (US$ 10)                   Coat.    For.    Gross
Unit      1996       1997      1999       1999      2000      Total      000)    1996    1997    1999    1999    2000    Total    Rit    E4neh   Tax Rats
Lhwnvstmrno  Costs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0 Z
A. SortTermTedmlcalAssstance           Mhnorth            1         1          1          1       -           4      15    15.0    15.0    150        150         -    600       25     600        00                                            OQ   i
B.LocalSStaf                            Mkrnoth          36         36         36        36        -         144      05     1B0      100     180      180         *    720       25     600        00                                             (n  (D
C VeNcies                                  es             2          -                                         2      25     50.0        -       -        -             50 0      25     90 0       0.0                                                X
D.Conpemrs                                es              2          .                     .       -           2       6     12.0        -       -        -             120       25     500        00
E Renndelng of ewdstlng Bulkitng        Lump surn                                                                               -   1000         -        -        . 100          50     70.0       0.0 010
F. kistional support                    uarp sumn                                                                            10.0    10 0      10.0    10.0             40.0      25     60 0       00                                            0
Total hnvestmrt Costs                                                                                                         1050    1430      430      430             3340                                                                       1h
t. Recurront Costs
Total                                                                                                                          1050    1430      430      430        -   334 0



Guines-issau
Transport and Urban bfrttucise Preect                                                                     Unit                                                     Parxattrs (in %)
rabie B. AdVIsory Urit tb MSE                                                                             Cost                                                   Phy.                       Sursnary Divisions
Dataltad Costs                                                           Ouantitlls                       (USS                 sass Cost fuSS 000               Cont.   For.   Gross                Expanditurs
Unit     199It     197       1999     1999    2000    Total         ) 1996    17    I9          1t9 20             l   Rate   Exch. Tax Rate  Compoonent   Account
I Invsstmsnt Costs
&LegaiA4sor                          MAionh          12        12       12        12       -       48     0.5    6.0    8.0    8.0    6.0               24.0    2.5   60.0        0.0 ADVIS_UNIT    CON
13. irrslon dowrsa"n karpxtt                                                                                      2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5         .    10.0    2.5   60.0        0.0 ADVIS_UNtT    CON
Total InvasSnnt Costa                                                                                               8.5    6.5     6.5    8.5             34.0
L Rscuront Costa
Totat                                                                                                               8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5              34.0
Tiapet trv ftmb t     n   FPr*d                                                                              Unit                                                       Ptn o 0n (in
T0 P. Apq_ps                                                                                                 Cost                 Bity.                                                       Suavnri Divisions
Detai  Cast                                                                                                  (US111ttl8           Bas ixCoa t1U#  0                  CenL.   For.   Gross              Espenodtu
Untt      1996      19tt     1 1"tt                       Tota      WM 200l0                                       TRotats l       Ele    TaxRte Copn n  Account
bWes   tCosts
AR        GtF    OM                  MMp mmtt                                                                       300                - _                   300      5.0   70.0       0.0 AGEOPPE CW0OTiER
IL Equlpwsn
WWos                                                3                                      -         3      25    75.0       *       *       *             75S0     2.5   90.0       0.0 AGEOPPE      EO
CoWa-I **n-                        karp tt                                                                        153.0      *               -      -      153.0    25    90.0       0.0 AGEOPPE      E0
Ofte spt.nw knt                        man                                                                        600           -0.0    2.5   90.0                                   0.0 AGEOPPE      EQ
Subo&tt Equipms t                                                                                                  288.0       -      -       -       -     288.0
C Coneulin Sevic
Ahft                                 Day           55        55       55        55        55       275    0.75    41.3   41.3   41.3   41.3   41.3    206.3    2.5   60.0            0.0 AGEOPPE    CON                OD
supowrservowmisti                     LS                                                                          36.5  162.5  109.5   36.5         -     36.0    2.5   60.0         0.0 AGEOPPE    CON
Sub0ot Consuling Uries                                                                                              77.8  223.6   150.8   77.8   41.3    571.3
T.t.l bwsstttant Costs                                                                                               395.8  223.8  150.S   77.8    41.3    889.3
L Rseutar4 Coste
Ak Paso   Eprpeumass                    LS                                                                          142.0  142.0  142.0  142.0              568.0    0.0   60.0        0.0 AGEOPPE      OP
8. Oert IExpIro                         La                                                                         151.8   151.t  151.8   151.8             607.0    0.0   60.0        0.0 AGEOPPE      OP
Tots x RecurnttCesC                                                                                                  293.1 M.o  2i3.   293.5                1,1750
TOWt                                                                                                                   5895   517.5  444.5  371.5   41.3   2,084.3
Trwpint wid Urten tvirucbir Pmt4at                                                                           Unit                                                      Panimnstem (in %l
T     0 to. St o      t cue=acrttoCsaas must                                                                 Cost                                                    Phy.                    3uomrsry Divisions
Deb1111 Costs                                                                Quantities                     (US                  Base Cost (""' I000)              Cent    For.   Gross              Expenditure
Unit     1966    1997    19991fl9    2000    Total    e              1       1997    199t   1m       2000   Total   Rate   Exch.  Tsx Rdt Componnt Account
tivrn tnt Cos ts
A Road Rshtsblttstion                                                                                                                                                                                                  0q 
Tn*" Of C0f*WnS#Pr0faScrb                 aseiaon         2       2        2        2       -        8      1i    36.0    360    36.0   36.0         -   144.0    0.0    40.0       0.0 SUPPORT    TRAIN             Ml iD
i Urban Wtsatructurs                                                                                                                                                                                                       X
IEGTtNWMwrb40kn)                         tan,oitutn60.0    600    60.0    20,0                                                                       -   200.0     0.0    40.0      0.0 SUPPORT    TRAIN                 _
IECfTlM"g(T-fPt0htW                      UVw msit                                                                  250    250    250    250         -   100.0    0.0    40.0       0.0 SUPPORT    TRAIN
ECff(n          ttit)                   kar                                                                      t0t0 80.0   800    600                  200.0    0.0   40.0       0.0 SUPPORT    TRAIN
Suhtoftl Urban infrtN tur                                                                                           1650   145.0   145.0    45.0           5C00
Total                                                                                                                 201.0   181.0  181.0    81.0       -   644.0



83
Annex 12
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
TRANSPORT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
SUMMARY OF CONSULTING SERVICES (RAINING AND STUDIES)
L TRAINING
Type of Training                  Trainees/    Delivered      Local       Abroad
session     by Firms
Workshops for contractors and consulting          26             X            X
firms, in the area of business administration
Highway Designer Maintenance method                2             X                        X
Specific worshop for MSE staff in sector         10-12           X           X
management and planning
IL STUDIES
Estimated
Subject                Number of         Delivered by        Year
MaWnmouth ._, ,_,_
finrs      indi'
Transport Study                        2-3                      X          1997
Road Fund Administration                2            X                     1996
Privatization of RODOFLUVIAL           34            X                     1996
Future Sector Investment Preparation   3-4           X          X         1998-99



84
Annex 13
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
TRANSPORT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Imptementation Schedule
Estimated AnmuaL Contractual and Other Payments
(US# miLlion base cost)
.--    - -   - -  - - -  -  -  - -  -  -  - - -  - -  -  -  -  -  -- -   - -  - -   - -  - - -  - -    --  - -  -  - -  - -  - -   - -
1995                      Project Year                  Total   ICe          Remarks
Pre-     _--___--_--__--_______--_--------_--_-----Payment  LCB
Project    1996      1997      1998     1999      2000             OTH
Project Elements\Quarters                 1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4                a)
 
Credit Timimg
Sign/Effec/CLose                              *  *                                          *
Works
ImpLementation of a PiLot Program          xxxx
Preparation of 1st year portfoLio         xx
Selection of architects/Engineers           xx
Signing of ContractS for Design             xxxx
Preparation of Design/Bid Docs              xxxx
Bidding/EvaLuation/Award                      xx xx
Construction contract Signature                  xxxx
ImpLementation of Works                            xxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xx
* Road Rehabilitation                              2.9       1.6       1.3      0.7                  6.6  I/LCB S2.5 million/ICB
* Periodic Road Maintenance                        0.9       0.2       1.5           -               2.6  LCB   Contracts under S0.2
* Routine road Maintenance                         0.5       0.5       0.6      0.6       0.7        2.9  LCB   Contracts under $0.2
* Urban Water and Sanitation                       2.0       1.7       0.1      -         -         3.8  LCR   Contracts under S0.2
* Urban streets and drainage                       1.3       1.9       0.9      0.9                  5.0  LCR   Contracts under S0.2
* Urban social infrastructure                      0.5       0.5       0.5           -               1.5  LCR
Goods
Standard Bid Docs ready for review        xx
Preparation of all Bid Documents          xx
Bidding/Evaluation/Award                    xx
Contracts Signature                           xx
Delivery of goods                                xx
* Equipment & Supplies                             0.6                                               0.6  I/LCR S0.4 million/ICR
ConsuLtancies (Major Contracts)
LOI/TORs/Short List for approval          xx
Bidding/Evaluation/Award                    xxxx
Contracts reviewed by IDA                     xx
Contracts Signature:                          xx xx                 X
* Technical Fees (Design/Spervision)             xx  0.4    0.3        0.2      0.1                  1.0  OTH   Through Short List
* Training Abroad                                xx  0.4    0.1                 .                    0.5  OTH   Through Short List
* Short Term Specialists                         xx  0.4    0.3        0.3      0.4       0.1        1.5  OTH   MostLy Individuals
Miscellaneous (Operating Costs)
Operation & Maintenance Costs                      xxxxxx xxxxxxx  xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx    2.5   OTH
(a): Procurement Methods                N8F: Non Bank-Financed



85
Annex 13
Paae 2 of 5
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
TRANSPORT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
PRIOR REVIEW THRESHOLD
Contract Profile by Value/Number
Range of           Estimated value (no.)     Cumulative value        Percentage of total
contract values       of contracts within     (no.) above threshold      value (no.) above
(incl. contingencies)   each range (US$M)             (USsM)                  threshold
(US$'000)
GOODS
Value     Number        Value      Number        Value      Number
500 and above         0.0           0         0.0           0          0%           0%
250 to 499        0.0           0          0.0           0          0%          0%
150 to 249        0.4           2          0.4           2         55%         17%
20 to 149        0.2           4          0.6           6         85%         50%
0 to 19        0.1           6          0.7          12        100%        100%
Duration of procurement is about three years.
WORKS
Value     Number        Value      Number        Value      Number
1000 and above         2.5           2         2.5           2         12%           1%
500 to 999        0.0           0          2.5           2         12%           1%
250 to 499        5.9           9          8.4          11         40%          3%
150 to 249        0.6           3            9          14         43%          4%
20to 149         11.1        230         20.1         244         95%         67%
0 to 19        1.0         120         21.1         364        100%        100%
Duration of procurement is about four years
Note: Threshold selection corresponds to a desirable percentage coverage of contract
value: (around 55% for goods and 43% for works), which requires a reasonable
individual workload for the task manager, given the project design and the use of a
contract management entity. (Any lower threshold for goods would require additional
staff input, which would not be realistic or desirable.)



86
Annex 13
Page 3 of 5
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
TRANSPORT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
COMPONENT A: ROAD REHABILITATION/MAINTENANCE
Year        Nature of Work       Location of Work   Contract Amount  Contracts  Procurement Method
Site        Base cost        number
(US$'ODO)                   [C     -C   OT
1996        Road Rehab.          Canchunga Bula   192               1
Mansaba Farim    287               1                 1
Guilege Cacine    1,000            1
Bafata Gabu      1,500             1
SubTotal                                           2,979            4          2       2
1997        Road Rehab.          Guilege Cacine    950            [_3          -       3    |
11                    |  Bafata Gabu      638             12        |         2    |
SubTotal                                           1,588          |5         | 1     T 5    |
1998        Road Rehab.          Mansoa          1128               1                  I
Mansaba
Binar Bisora     1,200             3                 3
SubTotal                                           1,328            4                  4
1999        Road Rehab.          Cacheu            96               1
Canchungo
Nova Sintra      650               2          -      2      -
S.Joao
SubTotal                                            746               3                  3
1996        Period. Road Maint.  Bula S. Vicinte    192             1                  I   |
Jao Landim       351               1                  I  |
Bula
S.Domingo        187               1          -       1     -
Varela
Mampata          132               1                  I 1   -
Guilege          _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
SubTotal                                           862              4        |         4    |
1997        Period. Road Maint.  Bula Binar        319              1                  I 1    -
Gabu Rio         700               2        |        2    |
Caium
SubTotal                                           1,019            3          -       3      -
1998     |Period. Road Maint.   Gabu Rio Caimr   768               2        |         2
SubTotal                                           768 12                              2



87
Annex 13
Page 4 of 5
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
TRANSPORT AND URBAN INFRASMRUCTURE PROJECT
COMPONENT A: ROAD REHABILITATIONIMAINTENANCE (CONT.)
Year             Nature of Work         Contracts        Contracts    Procurement Method
Amount           nunber
Base Cost-                                          -
(USS '0DO)                    ICR          LCB    0_1
1996             Routine paved Roads    287              30                        2       28
Maint.
1997                                    270              30                        2      28
1998             .                      291              30                        2      28
1999                                    291              30                        2      28
SubTotal                                1,139             120          .            8      112
1996             Routine dirt           244               11           -           6       5
Roads Maint.
1997                                    260              11            -           6       5
1998                                    299               11           -           7       4
1999                                    302               11           -           7      4
SubTotal                                1,105            44            -           26      18
Total          |                      |_11,534 |_189                 |2           |      i [  130 i



88
Annex 13
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU                       Page 5 of 5
TRANSPORT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
SUMMARY OF CONTRACTS PER YEAR FOR COMPONENT A
Year    Contracts   Contracts  Procurement Method
Amount    Number
Base Cost
(US$'000)
ICB   LCB   OTH
1996     4,372      38         2     8      28
1997     3,137      38         -      10    28
1998     2,686      47         -      15    32
1999     1,339      44                12    32
1996-  f11,534      167              45    120
SUMMARY OF CONTRACTS PER YEAR FOR COMPONENT B
Year     Contracts   Contract  Procurement Method
Amount    s
Base Cost   Number
(USS '000)
IC   LC   0TH
B B
1996      3,967       59       -   59   -
1997      4,127      81        -   81   -
1998      1,241       30       -   30   -
1999      870        20             20   -
1996-    10,205       190           19   -
L99                                  _
SUMMARY OF CONTRACTS PER YEAR FOR COMPONENTS A+B
Year       Contracts   Contracts   Procurement Method
Amount    Number
Base Cost
(USS'000)                                     I
ICB   LCB   OTH
1996       8,339       97         -     67    28
1997       7,264       119        -     91    28
1998       3,927       77         -     45    32
1999       2,209       64         -     32    32
1996 -99   21,739    J357        j2    1235  1120



89
Annex 14
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
TRANSPORT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
Approximate                     Activity                      Expected Skills       Resource       Resource
Date                                                                              (Bank)       (Project)
January 1996      Supervision Mission                      Task Manager                   X
Project Launch Workshop                 Engineer                                      x
Objectives:                             Disbursements                  X
a) Explain project objectives to        Procurement                    X
beneficiaries, enterprises and Government   Lawyer                     X
b) Procurement and disbursements        Auditor                                       x
c) Review effectiveness:                GREA                                          x
i) Achievement of credit effectiveness
ii) Accounting and management
June 1996         Supervision Mission                      Engineer                       X
a) Review project progress
b) Review outstanding issues
November 1996    Supervision Mission                       Task Manager                   X-
a) Review project progress              GREA                                          x
b) Review outstanding issues            Engineer                               .      x
March 1997        Supervision Mission                      Engineer                                      X
a) Review project progress
b) Review outstanding issues
September 1997    Supervision Mission                      Task Manager                   X
a) Review project progress              GREA                                          x
b) Review outstanding issues            Engineer                                      X
February 1998     Supervision Mission                      Engineer                                      X
a) Review project progress
b) Review outstanding issues
June 1998         Supervision Mission                      Task Manager                   X
a) Review project progress              GREA                                          x
b) Review outstanding issues            Engineer                               .      x
September 1998    Joint IDA/Government Mid-Term Review   Task Manager                     X
a) Review Action Plan and possibility of    Engineer                                  X
extending project to other cities       Procurement                    X
b) Review overall project progress and  Fin. Analyst                   X
adequacy of institutional arrangements  Technical Audit                               X
c) Accounting, SOE and disbursements    Environmental Specialist       X
d) Review project's overall impact      GREA                                          x
March 1999        Supervision Mission                      Engineer                                      X
a) Review project progress and
implementation of recommendations from
the mid-term review
b) Review outstanding issues
September 1999    Supervision Mission                      Task Manager                   X
a) Review project progress              Engineer                                      x
b) Review outstanding issues
September 2000    Final Supervision Mission                Task Manager                   X
a) Discussions with Government          Fin. Analyst                   X
b) Preparations for drafting ICR        Engineer                                      x
c) Preparatory work for future project  GREA                                          X
Assumes a Board approval in June 1995.
Staff inputs in staff weeks (sw) to supervise including field visits are as follows: 11 sw for 1996, g sw for FY97, 8 sw for FY98, 6 sw for FY99, and 2
sw for FYOO. T'he project would directly support 33 sw of an engineer (with experience in transport and urban projects).



90
Annex 15
Page 1 of 2
GUINEA-BISSAU
TRANSPORT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(USSMillion)
:,,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P                                                             .,- . ....... '"fEX  .d-..--f-'S'
D.....S.......     t                    Di'-bi     mf                                              A        (
19961I                                2.0                   2.0                    9                    0                   0
19961II                               3.0                   5.0                   23                    3                   6
19971I                                3.0                   8.0                   36                    10                  10
19971II                               3.0                   11.0                  50                    18                  14
19981I                                2.5                   12.5                  57                    26                 22
1j9981I1=                              2.5               _16.0   _    _73                               38                  30
19991I                                2.5                   18.5                  84                    50                 38
199911                                2.5                   21.0                  96                    62                 50
20001I                                0.8                   21.8                  99                    70                  58
2000 II                               0.2                   22.0                  100                   82                  70
T ransport and Public Works Project
100.. 
Io D.
...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..'  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .......
'...., .         -                           -Pr- 
.o Y.......... r .........                                                         .
.. . . . .  . . .  ..... .   . ..   .                        ....a.
.I.  ... .  ......            ..   :.-                                   .. 
.    0   .   . . . .     . . . .             . .   . . . . . . . . . .  . .  . .   . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .
.... .. ...F..al  Yea



91                                  Annex 15
Page 2 of 2
Government Counterpart Funds for Road Maintenance
and Project Contribution
FY           Road         Other Civil      Total       Cumulative         %
Maintenance      Works         per year
1996           0.1            0.2            0.3            0.3            12
1997           0.2            0.2            0.4            0.7            28
1998           0.2            0.2            0.5            1.2            48
1999           0.3            0.2            0.5            1.7            68
2000           0.7            0.2            0.9            2.5            100
TOTAL            1.5            1.0           2.5






RhD 27C03
(63                                     160'                11 {                N30'                                   :J5 00'0                                4,D00
GUINEA-BISSAU
TRANSPORT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT                                                                                                                     s E N E G A L
To DoEo,  Io Solo,          ~~~T. D016,        3oSR,
PROJECTO DE TRANSPORTE E INFRAESTRUTURA URBANA
"D-g.
,"o c7                          5 Comooo1              )9Srue Bac=r   700p oosb  _-               ~7
-12 WD                             r wnlul            _                                                                   ff             Oc lomw    N               sc        j ( >ToXolo,   ..-                                                                    2 /  )_
/                     -, ,o-' -,      Con-6-b                (
0          AC       EU, C U,a               Ba -"                           --
,                                                                   o         -   \                         G!' A B U                      <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  G U I N E A
-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1d
cODebungv   9x0  1 // fi E;heo(X_  v   <       _                   m      b   dE3rlW  >    ;         1                    (C; 640.1    ~                                              1. P,,c-
So.ono                                                                          44666640                    N ~~~~~Ooo6n,ooo                         00b0    0166 1400606  U  I  .
| ds tt-- .( 4P7 T ~\ t t boa:g ' \ -d =Ch  1amquav 0us- 
Th. WOdS 6.-k 0.-p4
'CA6y.666666E0                 AbO        B             S          _' /                            On.o_j
o6oop..d.n..a.60                               BIJAGAS                  lIVg                                               d_ Cs-                                                                            FERRY CROSSINGS TO BE CREATED                EXISTING FERRY CROSSINGS '
booda..                                                          oJyssdROO                                                              '                  40      J        AL~  I                           TR.AEESSIAS DE LANGAOAS A SEREM       ,~MRTM   OT
b-d.- wAAEG,,                                                                                                                                  C                                                              CRBAAAS NA ZONA RURAL ,A PRITI ME PORTSI
LLW4OAXOE         Bsb0q6ar               -i         _/  0-C<l        S4 COeiC13A,66              DI.G   y -   /                      PLANNED bRIDGE                               RIVER PORTS
BOLAMA  0I~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~' So,nAoI,  *   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~                                   P04M11  E PROJ ETO                           P0Rr0 FIUVTAt
f OLAMPAEDROADS                                                                                                                                                       FEEDER ROADS
MaRItNIA                                       '     u0. BILR!~6M  L                                                                            L ROXA     ,  / m b A  |  ,                ESTiADAS AICADROADAS                         ESTRADAS VICINAIS
-Z ,,   d^UillAhlA  r_           }/                                                                                ROUITNE MAINTENANCE                        AIRPORTS
CAh.0                                                                                                                            MANUTENCAO CORRENTE                  -     AEROPORTOS
I                                                  '                              PE       MA..  P D INTENANCE          0     SELECTED TOWANS
~~'1  ~                                         666Nf0IJ6  ORAosOZRJR0.                                                              L:04,0.- /~ow~o                            mAwLENc~o PERIfoGICA                       C.OADES SELEC.ONA GAS
SENIO*0                      1I0.                         006600                                                                       .       ,,~               . C                               REHAIAAITATON                        p5RGO  CAITL
5rNrGA6 ...\                      6N                                                                                                              R _6 | oo'  OiAhlOO  ' hE10  C. mec0.            ' -        REHARLLLTAcpo                              PiNCIPAIS CIDADES DA REGIAO
CAr_  - ZE _   t 0 A L I                                                                                                                                            6'0  CRnp-                         RURAL ROADS                           69    NATIONAL CAPITAL
VIC". 016                                                                                        ESTPADAS RLIRAIS                             CAPITAL DO PALS
-"  3         Lo     8                                                                                      snD                                              /~/                                         EARETH ROADS                       -REGION BOUNDARIES
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~ESERADAS EM rE404                                                                       AEGIAG PONTERICA    RE
OJISEt                                                                                                                                          RG'JTTNE MAINTENANCE               ..       INTTRNATIONAL EOILNDARIES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OInN AITENNC  I'ENATO.l.BOND
Gul.rA                                       EILG6OS                                                                           0                                     '          MANUTENCAO CORENTE                '     -  FRCNTEIRAS INTERNACIONA,S
.?<x;>KlLCzfTEl0                                                                                                         ...    PERIODC MAINTENANCE
r >              I" f                     0         TO 55    30     O     50      OO 10    0.                                                                                                      MANUTENCAO PERIODICA
516660  1.                                                                                                                              6flR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,  R~~~~EPABILITAION
IEC S                                   IT          20           o          40          3
_, LIERIA               1'30'                                   T'                     '                                   150 fO'                                                     6 0 3G'                                    03
N'~~~~~~~~~~~~_:









IMAGIIN G
Report No:       14331 GUB
Type: SAR



