Page  1
                                                           Conformed Copy
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2748 GUB
                        DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
                 (Transport and Urban Infrastructure Project)
                                  between
                         REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
                                   and
                 INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated August 16, 1995
                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2748 GUB
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated August 16, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF
GUINEA-BISSAU (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated
May 15, 1995 from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to implement the Borrower's
strategy in the transport and urban sectors (hereinafter called
the Program), and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the
execution of such program;
      WHEREAS (B) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS (C) the Association has agreed, on the basis,
inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
Page  2
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto set forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
            "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall
            otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a)
            on account of expenditures in the territories of any
            country which is not a member of the Association or
            for goods procured in, or services supplied from,
            such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any
            payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
            goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge
            of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of
            the United Nations Security Council taken under
            Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.".
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (b)   "Project Account" means the account referred to in
Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
      (c)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated May 16, 1994 and May
30, 1994 between the Borrower and the Association;
      (d)   "AGEOPPE" means Agencia Guineense de Execusþo de
Obras de Interesse Publico e Promocao de Emprago, a non-profit
association established pursuant to a Decreto-Lei dated May 12,
1995;
      (e)   "Manual of Procedures" means the manual of Procedures
for AGEOPPE referred to in Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time by AGEOPPE with
the prior approval of the Borrower and the Association;
      (f)   "RODOFLUVIAL" means the Empressa Publica de
Transportes Rodoviarios e Fluviais, the road and river
transport company of the Borrower, a public enterprise
established pursuant to Decreto-Lei No. 36-B/84 published in
the Boletim Oficial dated December 28, 1984;
      (g)   "SILODIATA" means the urban bus company of the
Borrower, a public enterprise established pursuant to Decreto-
Lei No. 4/76 published in the Boletim Oficial dated February
14, 1976;
      (h)   "TAGB" means the Transporte Aero do Guinea-Bissau,
the airline company of the Borrower, a public enterprise
established pursuant to Decreto-Lei No. 7/86 published in the
Boletim Oficial dated March 22, 1986;
      (i)   "Subprojects" means the projects proposed by AGEOPPE
and approved by the Borrower and the Association for financing
under the Project;
Page  3
      (j)   "Peso" means the currency of the Borrower;
      (k)   "MES" means the Borrower's Ministerio de Equipamento
Social, the Ministry of Social Equipment;
      (l)   "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into by the Borrower and AGEOPPE in accordance with
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
      (m)   "Road Fund" means the Fund established pursuant to
Decreto-Lei No. 19/84 published in the Boletim Oficial dated
June 23, 1984 for the purpose of controlling, managing and
collecting road user fees; and
      (n)   "Fiscal Year" or "FY" means the fiscal year of the
Borrower which begins from January 1 and ends December 31 of
each year.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to fourteen million Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 14,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain, in the name of AGEOPPE, in dollars a special
deposit account in commercial bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate
protection against setoff, seizure or attachment. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of
the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
      Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount of the
Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed
the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the
accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next
Page  4
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii)
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified
in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each
year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each June 15 and December 15
commencing December 15, 2005 and ending June 15, 2035. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on June
15, 2015 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount,
and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of
such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product
per capita, as determined by the Association, shall have
exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive
years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors
of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in
lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed
with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in
the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change
the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines
that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to
the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall cause AGEOPPE to carry
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate financial, administrative,
Page  5
engineering, environmental and technical practices, shall take
or cause to be taken, all actions, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable AGEOPPE to carry out the Project, and
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with the carrying out of the Project by
AGEOPPE.
      (b)   For the purpose of carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall enter into an agreement with AGEOPPE (the
Subsidiary Agreement), on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association, which shall include, inter alia:
            (i)    delegation of authority for all procurement
                   actions and for award, signature and payment
                   of contracts;
            (ii)   provision for the transfer of the proceeds of
                   the Credit;
            (iii)  the methods and procedures applicable to
                   the passing of the Credit proceeds to AGEOPPE;
            (iv)   the obligation of AGEOPPE to promptly inform
                   the Borrower and the Association of any
                   condition which interferes, or threatens to
                   interfere, with the progress of the Project,
                   the accomplishment of the purposes of the
                   Credit, or the performance by AGEOPPE of its
                   obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement;
            (v)    the obligation of AGEOPPE to provide
                   semiannual reports of such scope and in such
                   detail as the Borrower and the Association
                   shall reasonably request; and
            (vi)   the obligation of AGEOPPE to take all measures
                   necessary to ensure that the Project is
                   carried out with due diligence and efficiency
                   and in accordance with appropriate
                   administrative, technical, environmental and
                   financial practices.
      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the
purposes of the Credit and, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
      (d)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause
AGEOPPE to carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, and the terms and provisions of the Manual of
Procedures.
      Section 3.02. Without any limitation upon any of its
obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall:
      (a)   establish and maintain a Project Account in pesos in
a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association to be used exclusively for the purposes of meeting
the Borrower's counterpart expenditures for the Project; and
      (b)   in addition to the initial deposit referred to in
Section 7.01 (c) of this Agreement, deposit into the Project
Account, promptly before each fiscal semester, sufficient funds
to pay the Borrower's contribution to the financing of the
Project required for such fiscal semester, as estimated by the
Page  6
Borrower in consultation with the Association and AGEOPPE.
      Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.04. The Association and the Borrower hereby
agree that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04. 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) shall be carried out by AGEOPPE.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than
December 31, 1997, carry out jointly with the Association a
midterm review of the Project, during which they shall exchange
views generally on the progress achieved in the carrying out of
the Project and the performance by the Borrower of its
obligations under this Agreement and, in particular, the
overall performance of AGEOPPE as measured against the
performance monitoring indicators setforth in the Manual of
Procedures;
      (b)   in order to facilitate the midterm review referred to
in paragraph (a) above, cause AGEOPPE to prepare and submit to
the Borrower and the Association, not later than four weeks
before the scheduled date of the midterm review, a report of
Project activities of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
      (c)   prepare an action plan, satisfactory to the
Association, based on and having due regard to the
recommendations of the said review and thereafter adopt and
implement such plan.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than March
31, 1996, carry out a study (including an action plan) on
privatization or liquidation of TAGB; and (b) not later than
June 30, 1996 implement such action plan in a manner
satisfactory to the Association.
      Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, not later than December
31, 1996: (a) adopt an action plan with a timetable,
satisfactory to the Association, describing, inter alia, the
modalities for the privatization of the ferry services and the
maritime operations of RODOFLUVIAL respectively, and the fare
and subsidy policies of the Borrower affecting ferry services
and maritime operations; and (b) thereafter promptly implement
such plan in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
      Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, not later than December
31, 1995 terminate RODOFLUVIAL's road-haulage activities.
      Section 3.09. The Borrower shall not without the prior
approval of the Association, modify the priority network of
roads as defined in paragraph 5.1 of Annex 1 of the letter
dated May 15, 1995 describing the Program.
      Section 3.10. The Borrower shall, on the basis of the
recommendations of the study referred to in Part C.1 (ii) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, not later than December 31, 1996:
(a) adopt an action plan with a timetable, satisfactory to the
Association, describing, inter alia, actions and measures
necessary to promote the participation of road users in the
management of the Road Fund; and (b) thereafter promptly
implement such action plan.
      Section 3.11. Without limitation to the generality of the
provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement with regard to the
provision of funds, the Borrower shall: (a) take all measures
Page  7
required to increase the annual revenues of the Road Fund from
the current level in Pesos equivalent to: (i) $555,000 in FY
1996, (ii) $580,000 in FY 1997, (iii) $595,000 in FY 1998, and
(iv) $600,000 in FY 1999; (b) ensure that the proceeds of the
Road Fund shall be used primarily to defray the cost of road
maintenance work programs; (c) have the Road Fund accounts and
records for each FY audited in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association; (d) by March 31 of each
year submit the report of such audit to the Association for its
review and comment; and (e) by the end of each calendar year
submit to the Association for its reviews and comments a report
on the collection and use of the Road Fund proceeds.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause AGEOPPE to
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations and financial
condition of AGEOPPE.
      (b)   The Borrower shall cause AGEOPPE to:
            (i)    have its records, accounts and financial
                   statements (balance sheets, statements of
                   income and expenses and related statements)
                   and the records and accounts for the Special
                   Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                   accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the
                   Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than
                   three months after the end of each such year,
                   (A) certified copies of its financial
                   statements for such year as so audited, and
                   (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
                   of such scope and in such detail as the
                   Association shall have reasonably requested;
                   and
            (iii)  furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning such records, accounts,
                   financial statements and the audit thereof as
                   the Association shall from time to time
                   reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                   this Section, records and accounts reflecting
                   such expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                   Association has received the audit report for
                   the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                   from the Credit Account or payment out of the
                   Special Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Association's representatives
                   to examine such records; and
Page  8
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate
                   opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                   statements of expenditure submitted during
                   such fiscal year, together with the procedures
                   and internal controls involved in their
                   preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                   related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                              Other Covenants
      Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause AGEOPPE:
      (a)   to take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or to make other provision satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice;
      (b)   to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial, environmental
and technical practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers; and
      (c)   at all times to operate and to maintain its equipment
and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed,
to make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in
accordance with sound engineering, financial and administrative
practices.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Remedies of the Association
      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   a situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof,
will be carried out;
      (b)   the statutes of AGEOPPE shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of AGEOPPE to perform any
of its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement;
      (c)   the Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of AGEOPPE or for the suspension of its
operations;
      (d)   The Manual of Procedures, or any provision thereof,
shall have been altered, amended or disregarded without the
prior consent of the Association; and
      (e)   AGEOPPE shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement.
      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, any event specified in paragraphs (b), (c) or (e) of
this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VII
                        Effective Date; Termination
Page  9
      Section 7.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
      (a)   the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf
of the Borrower and AGEOPPE;
      (b)   the Borrower has signed a contract engaging the
auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association and has
furnished an opinion by said auditors that the accounting
system of AGEOPPE meets the requirements specified in Section
4.01 of this Agreement;
      (c)   the Borrower has opened the Project Account and has
deposited therein the initial deposit in an amount in pesos
equivalent to one hundred ninety thousand dollars ($190,000);
      (d)   the technical and administrative and financial
directors of AGEOPPE have been employed in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
      (e)   AGEOPPE has submitted to the Borrower and the
Association Subprojects acceptable to the Borrower and the
Association to be financed during the first year following the
Effective Date;
      (f)   AGEOPPE has selected the consultants to be recruited,
for implementation of Parts C.1 (ii), C.2 and C.3 of the
Project in accordance with the provisions of Section II of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
      (g)   the Borrower has adopted regulations, satisfactory to
the Association, setting the rates of charges to be collected
by the Road Fund from the road users during the first year of
the Project;
      (h)   the Borrower has dismantled the units of MES carrying
out road maintenance under force account methods, by offering
for sale or lease equipment and redeploying staff; and
      (i)   the Borrower has issued the Decree (Decreto-Lei)
ordering the liquidation of SILODIATA and appointing the
members of the liquidation commission to oversee the
liquidation of SILODIATA.
      Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Subsidiary Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and
AGEOPPE and is legally binding upon the Borrower and AGEOPPE in
accordance with its terms.
      Section 7.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VIII
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 8.01. The Minister in charge of finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
Page  10
            Ministerio das Financas
            C.P. 67
            Bissau, Guine-Bissau
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   MEF                     257 MEF BI
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
                         By /s/ Alfredo Cabral
                                                Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Kevin Cleaver
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                                  Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation
of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
                             Amount of the
                                Credit              % of
                               Allocated        Expenditures
                             (Expressed in          to be
      Category              SDR Equivalent)       Financed
(1)   Civil Works
Page  11
      (a) under the              9,000,000      95%
          Project with
          the exception
          of Part A.3
      (b) under Part A.3           900,000      95% until December 31,
          of the Project                        1996 85% until December 31,
                                                1997 70% until December 31,
                                                1998 60% until December 31,
                                                1999 and 0% thereafter
(2)   Goods                        400,000      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and 95% of
                                                local expenditures
(3)   Consultants' Services      1,600,000      100%
(4)   AGEOPPE Services             750,000      100%
(5)   Refunding of                 570,000      Amounts due
      Project                                   pursuant to
      Preparation                               Section 2.02 (c)
      Advance                                   of this Agreement
(6)   Unallocated                  780,000
      TOTAL                     14,000,000
                                ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   the term "AGEOPPE services" means the expenditures
incurred for the payment of the services of AGEOPPE, including:
      (i)   staff, office and administration costs, and
      (ii)  travel expenses.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
for expenditures under contracts for goods, works and services
not exceeding $150,000 equivalent, under such terms and
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower
in: (i) improving the management of the economic and social
urban infrastructure sector, (ii) rehabilitating transport and
urban infrastructure, and (iii) increasing the efficiency of
private small and medium size enterprises to carry out works
within the transport and urban infrastructure sectors.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association
may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Page  12
Part A:     Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Roads and Ports
1.    Rehabilitation of about 150 kilometers of roads, including
the construction of necessary engineering structures such as
service bays, inverts, culverts, and small bridges.
2.    Periodic maintenance of about 90 kilometers of roads
through, inter alia, the scarification of the pavement, grading
and shoulder regravelling, and small engineering structures.
3.    Routine maintenance of the road network through selective
interventions including the cleaning out of ditches, the
filling of potholes, the regravelling of dirt roads, the grass
clearance of shoulders, and the installation of wet set
barriers.
4.    Rehabilitation of the ports of Bubaque and Cacheu
including the rehabilitation of the quay, berthing structures
and storage facilities.
Part B:     Urban Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Maintenance
1.    Water and Sanitation:
      (a)   Rehabilitation of the primary network of water
distribution network including the replacement of about 7
kilometers of leaking main water pipes, the rehabilitation of
water storage, the connection and extension of about 2.4
kilometers of 200-250 mm water pipes, and the strengthening of
about 4.5 kilometers of piping.
      (b)   Rehabilitation of earth and concrete drainage
including the rehabilitation of four outlets, clearing of
existing and of new construction of essential earth and
concrete drainage.
      (c)   Implementation of a pilot program intended to develop
adapted and sustainable methods for solid waste collection and
disposal.
2.    Street Paving and Drainage:
      Carrying out of a street improvement program in Bissau and
seven secondary market towns (Buba, Bissora, Canchungo, Farim,
Bafatu, Gabu and Catio) including street paving for motorized
and non-motorized traffic,the repairs of sidewalks and
culverts, and the construction of neighborhood access streets
and intersections.
3.    Small Urban Infrastructure:
      (a)   Rehabilitation and construction of small economic and
social infrastructures, such as primary schools, basic health
centers, neighborhood markets, butcheries and small terminals
for inter-city transport.
      (b)   Carrying out strategic studies to improve investment
planning and maintenance of social infrastructure in urban
areas.
Part C:     Capacity Building; Management
1.    Institutional strengthening of MES through, inter alia,
carrying out studies on: (i) traffic, (ii) the Road Fund
administration and management, and (iii) future sectoral
operations, the carrying out of in-service training, short-term
training program abroad for the staff, the provision of
technical advisory services, the acquisition of office
equipment (including computers and materials), vehicles and the
rehabilitation of existing facilities of MES.
Page  13
2.    Carrying out of short-term workshops on business
administration, financial management, work organization and
labor intensive techniques for contractors, architects and
engineers taking part in the execution of the Project.
3.    Strengthening of the capacity of the municipalities,
neighborhood and user associations to secure minimum funding or
participation for the maintenance of existing urban
infrastructure, through information programs and the provision
of technical advisory services to assist in the preparation of
feasibility studies and technical project proposals.
4.    Institutional strengthening of AGEOPPE through, inter
alia, the acquisition of goods (including office equipment,
computers and vehicles) and the provision of technical advisory
services.
                                   * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of
this Section, as applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section,
goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.    The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
      (a)   Grouping of contracts
      To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent
or more each.
      (b)   Preference for domestically manufactured goods and
            domestic contractors
      The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the
Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be
carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    National Competitive Bidding
      Works estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or less per
contract and $15,500,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate
and goods estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or less per
contract and $200,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.    International Shopping
Page  14
      Goods estimated to cost $20,000 equivalent or less per
contract and $100,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
international shopping procedures in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan
for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all
goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to each contract for works and goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2
of this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form
of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Association, with such modifications thereto as shall have been
agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Association, other standard
forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Association review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to: (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for
the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior
Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of
consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Association, (d) amendments to
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or
above.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                          Implementation Program
A.    AGEOPPE:
Page  15
1.    The AGEOPPE Board consists of, inter alia, the mayor of
Bissau, a representative of the Chamber of Commerce, a
representative of the Transporters Association, the recognized
civic leader and the administrator.
2.    AGEOPPE shall employ and maintain until completion of the
Project, an administrator, a technical director, an
administrative and financial director in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
3.    AGEOPPE shall select the Subprojects to be financed under
the Credit in accordance with the eligibility criteria set
forth in the Manual of Procedures.
4.    Proposals for the financing of Subprojects shall be
submitted to review by AGEOPPE by the ministries of the
Borrower, the municipalities, or community organizations.
5.    AGEOPPE will first verify the compliance of Subprojects
proposals with the eligibility criteria set out in the Manual
of Procedures, including the promotion of intensive labor
techniques, the creation of jobs, the neutral impact on the
environment, the promotion of women participation and the
furtherance of Project objectives.
6.    (a)   AGEOPPE will then identify the portfolio of selected
Subproject proposals for the coming fiscal year and shall
furnish to the Borrower and the Association for approval a list
of selected Subprojects proposals not later than June 30 of
each fiscal year.
      (b)   AGEOPPE will furnish the Borrower and the Association
a list of the Subproject proposals which have not been
selected, for their review together with the reasons for the
non selection of such proposals.
7.    (a)   AGEOPPE shall enter into Subproject agreements, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, for the
execution of the Subprojects, with authorized representatives
of the entities whose subproject proposal has been approved all
in accordance with the Manual of Procedures.
      (b)   The Subproject agreements shall provide, inter alia,
for a detailed description of the Subprojects, the procurement
method, a schedule of payments, technical standards, and
accounting procedures.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligibleCategories in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $750,000
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
Page  16
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the
equivalent of $5,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory
to it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as
follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   requests for deposits into the Special Account
                   at such intervals as the Association shall
                   specify.
            (ii)   Prior to, or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required
                   pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for
                   the payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested.  On the basis of
                   each such request, the Association shall, on
                   behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
                   Credit Account and deposit into the Special
                   Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                   requested and as shall have been shown by said
                   documents and other evidence to have been paid
                   out of the Special Account for eligible
                   expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association
from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Page  17
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.    (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for
an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be
credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
