                                               Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                   FOR OFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                                  Report No: 28392-BR




                                PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                   ONA

                                           PROPOSEDLOAN

                               INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$8MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                               FEDERATIVEREPUBLICOF BRAZIL

                                                 FORA

                HUMANDEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT

                                               July 1,2005




HumanDevelopmentManagementUnit
CountryManagementUnit for Brazil
LatinAmerica andCaribbeanRegion


This document has a restricted distribution and may be usedby recipients only inthe performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective May 31,2005)


7
L                              Currencv U n i f i = n r a z i l i a n Reais (R$)

                    ~-                R$2.42 = US$1
                                               I     1

i 1                                    FISCAL YEAR      --
                                   Januarv 1      - [December 31                -7

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

  AIDS            Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
           ~




  CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
I ENCFROVAO I Utmer-Secondarv
                  National Universitv Maior Exam
  ENEM                               National Exam
  F E S           Higher Education Loan Program
  FMA             Financial Management Assessment
  FMR             Financial Management Reporting
  FMSB             Financial Management Sector Board
  FUNDEF           Fundfor the Development andMaintenanceof Basic Education and Teacher
                   Valorization
I GDP           I Gross Domestic Product                                               I
  HDPSRL          Human Development Public Sector Reform Loan
  HIV             Human Immunodeficiency Virus
  IA              Implementing Agencies
  IBGE            Brazilian Institute of GeonraDhv and Statistics
I IMF           I International Monetarv Fund                                          I
  INEP            National Institute for Education Research
  ISDS            IntegratedSafeguards Datasheet
  M&E             Monitoring and Evaluation
  M E C           Ministrv of Education
  M o H           Health Ministry
  PDO             Project Development Objective
  PIC             Public Information Center
  PID             Project Initiating Documents
  PIU             Proiect Imdementation Unit
1 PME           I Monthly  Employment Survey
  PNAD            National Household Survey
  POF             HouseholdExpenditure Survey
  SAEB
1I               National Svstem for Basic Education Evaluation
  SFC           I Federal Internal Control Secretariat
  SIAFI         I IntegratedFederal Financial Administration System

                                                       FOROFFICIAL USEONLY




  SIP           School Improvement Plan                                                ~    ~~~




  SOEs          Statements of expenditures
  STN           National Treasurv Secretariat
  SWAP          Sector Wide Approach
  TAL           Technical Assistance Loan
  UGP           Unidade Gestora do Projeto- Unit responsible and with authority to spend
                funds allocated by the Federal Budget.
  WBI           World Bank Institute




                           Vice President:      Pamela Cox
                         Country Director:      Vinod Thomas
                          Sector Director:      Evangeline Javier
                          Sector Manager:       Eduardo Velez
                           Sector Leader:       MariaMadalena dos Santos
                       Task Team Leader:        Albert0 Rodriguez




This document has a restricted distribution and may be usedby recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


                                                             BRAZIL
                                     BR HDTechnical Assistance Project

                                                          CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                         Page No    .
A. STRATEGICCONTEXT AND RATIONALE......................................................................                                            1
  1. Country and sector issues ....................................................................................................                1
 2.  Rationale for Bank involvement..........................................................................................                      2
 3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes.....................................................                                  3

B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION .....................................................................................................                       4
  1. Lending instrument..............................................................................................................              4
 2.  Project development objective and key indicators                               .............................................................. 5
 3. Project components..............................................................................................................               6
 4.  Lessons learnedand reflectedinthe project design ............................................................                                 8
 5. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection...............................................................                               8

C.  IMPLEMENTATION..............................................................................................................                   9
  1. Institutional and implementation arrangements                             ................................................................... 9
 2. Monitoringand evaluation of outcomes/results ..................................................................                                9
 3.  Sustainability .....................................................................................................................         10
 4.  Critical risks and possible controversial aspects ...............................................................                             10
 5. Loan conditions and covenants..........................................................................................
                  . .                                                                                                                             11

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY....................................................................................................                           11
  1
  .  Economic and financial analyses.......................................................................................                        11
 2.  Technical............................................................................................................................ 11
 3. Fiduciary............................................................................................................................          11
 4.  Social .................................................................................................................................      11
 5.  Environment ......................................................................................................................            11
 6. Safeguard policies.............................................................................................................. 12
                       . .

 7.  Policy Exceptions and Readiness ......................................................................................                        12

ANNEXES

Annex 1: Country and Sector or Program Background...............................................................                        13
Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financedby the Bank and/or other Agencies ........................                                      17
                                                                                                                                        19
Annex 4: Detailed Project Description........................................................................................
Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring ............................................................................
                                                                                                                                        21

Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements..................................................................................... 26
Annex 5: Project Costs ................................................................................................................ 25

Annex 7: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements ...........................................                                 27
                                                                                                                                        34
Annex 9: Economic and FinancialAnalysis................................................................................
Annex 8: Procurement .................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                        42
Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues ...............................................................................................       43

Annex 12: Documents inthe Project File......................................................................................
Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision............................................................................ 44
                                                                                                                                        46
                                                                                                                                        47
Annex 14: Country at a Glance .....................................................................................................
Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits ...................................................................................
                                                                                                                                        51




MAP(S)IBRD33637 .      Brazil

    BRAZIL: HUMANDEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCELOAN(TAL)

                           PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                           LATINAMERICA AND CARIBBEAN

                                         LCSHE

Date: July 1,2005                             Team Leader: Albert0 Rodriguez
Country Director: Vinod Thomas                Sectors: General education sector
Sector Managermirector: Evangeline Javier     (34%);0ther social services (33%);Health
                                              (33%)
                                              Themes: Other human development (P)
Project ID: PO82523                           Environmental screening category: Not
                                              Required
LendingInstrument: Technical Assistance       Safeguard screening category:
Loan
                                  ProjectFinancingData
[XI Loan     [ 3 Credit  [ ] Grant [ ]Guarantee   [ ] Other:

For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): 8
Pronosed terms: FSL




RECONSTRUCTIONAND                       I                I                 I
DEVELOPMENT
Total:                                          13.00             0.00            13.00

Borrower:
Government of Brazil
Brazil

Responsible Agency:
Ministry o f Education
Brazil
Ministry of Health
Brazil
IBGE
Brazil

4nnual           2.30      3.75      1.75        0.20
Cumulative      2.30       6.05     7.80         8.00




Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?
Ref. PADA.3                                                                         [ ]Yes [XINO

Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?
Ref. PAD D.7                                                                        [ ]Yes [XINO
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                        [ ]Yes [XINO
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                        [ ]Yes [XINO

Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
Ref. PAD C.5                                                                        [ ]Yes [XINO

Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?
Ref. PAD 0.7                                                                        [XIYes [ ] N o

Project development objective Ref. PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3
Government increases institutional capacity to monitor the progress and impact of its social
policies, a critical step towards institutionalizing performance-based management

Project description [one-sentence summary of each component] Ref. PAD B.3.a, Technical
Annex 4
Component 1: Collection of Monitoring and Evaluation Data inthe Social Sectors i s
Strengthened. For the Brazilian Institute o f Geography and Statistics, technical assistance will
focus on enhancing national household surveys (PNAD, PME and POF) so as to provide
strategic, comprehensive and integrated information for monitoring and evaluating the impact of
key social sector reforms and livingconditions o f the Brazilian population.

Component 2: Monitoring and evaluation inthe Education Sector i s improved. For the Ministry
of Education the technical assistancewill focus on designing and developing a ministry-wide
information system to track and monitor key programs that can assist sub-national governments
intheir efforts to launchquality educational assessmentinstruments. This component is not
financed by the World Bank loan, but i s an overall part of the project.

Component 3: Strengthening and consolidation of Health System reforms. For the Ministry o f
Health, technical assistancewill be directed at: (i)  developing effective inter-government
planning and budgetary instruments; (ii)    strengthening monitoring andevaluation capacity; (iii)
reorienting the federal grant transfer subsystem; and (iv) supporting measures to improvement
accountability practices and quality o f care.

Which safeguard policies are triggered, if any? Ref. PAD 0.6, TechnicalAnnex 10
None

Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Ref. PAD C.7
Boardpresentation: None

Loadcredit effectiveness: None

Covenants applicable to project implementation: Establishment and maintenance of
implementation unitsinMinistry of Health staffed to Bank satisfaction.


A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE

1. Country andsector issues

During the last decade, Brazil has carried out a number of significant reforms aimed at
improving the coverage, quality and efficiency of its education and health systems, and has
strengthened its safety net program. As a result, today more children are in school, parents and
communities are gaining greater influence on the education system, more resources are being
made available to disadvantaged groups, and more adults are able to acquire new skills for a
changing labor market. The overall health status o f the population has markedly improved, as
shown by significantly lower infant and maternal mortality rates, a very small rate of mortality
from vaccine-preventable diseases in children and a steady and strong decline in mortality from
infectious diseases and parasites for the entire population. Despite the relatively high incidence
of HIV/AIDS compared to the rest of Latin America, innovative and aggressive prevention and
education campaigns, combined with a policy o f delivering medical treatment and drugs free to
all patients has caused the number of new cases to level off. Brazil has expanded and improved
its social assistance programs by introducing successful conditional cash transfer programs
targeted to poor children and youth. These programs are effective in reducing both short- and
long-term poverty by providing transfers subject to school attendance, community service and
health care use.

The major social reforms already undertaken constitute a solid basis from which the Government
can proceed to further develop its social reform agenda, strengthening and expanding the positive
human development outcomes recorded thus far. For these crucial social sectors, the challenge
that lies ahead i s no longer necessarily one of access, but rather the equity, quality and efficiency
of social service delivery. Such services can best be delivered by a system that i s both
accountable to the populations it serves and i s directed b y an adequate governance structure
informed by current, comprehensive information.

The Human Development Programmatic Sector Reform Loan, signed in January 2003, tackles
the core sectoral issues of targeting, resource allocation and efficiency of spending, by promoting
stronger accountability and governance, enhancement of equity-oriented policies,                   and
improvement in the efficiency and quality o f social service delivery. Specific benefits of the HD
PSFU include: (i)     broader access by the poor and disadvantaged groups to basic education,
health and social assistance services through improved targeting and program expansion; (ii)
sounder operation of public programs, through increased accountability, inter-governmental
policy coordination, transparent budgetary planning and consumer voice; and (iii)           enhanced
quality and efficiency of service delivery through the provision of incentives to reduce disparities
between high and low performing providers o f public social services. The HD PSRL program
has already demonstrated innovative practices and had made significant progress toward
achieving its project objectives, including: protection o f successful programs in the social
sectors, a significant increase in the minimum FUNDEF allocation for education, the unification
of the roster of recipients of federal financial subsidies (Cadastro Unico) and the approval of a
law in January 2004 to unite most of these programs into a single family assistance program, and
expansion of the family health program (Programa Saude de Familia).



                                                   1

The technical assistance project (TAL) accompanies the HD PSRL and provides the tools for
helping Brazil to achieve its HD PSRL goals. While the HD PSRL provides a roadmap for
 sectoral reform that ultimately leads toward a stronger culture of performance-base management,
the HD TAL will provide the immediate tools to assist the government in improving and
developing monitoring systems and policy impact research, a necessary and urgent step.
Responding to these government needs requires technical support along three complimentary
dimensions: (i)  additional data must be collected to meet the needs of diverse agencies in the
social sectors, (ii) new and existing information must be used to monitor program progress,
providing a continuous feedback loop that allows for adjustments during implementation, and
(iii)a culture of evaluation mustbe fostered, encouraging the use of technical data-driven
decision makingrather than political criteria for policy formation.

The Government, in requesting Bank support for the development and implementation of
monitoring and research programs, i s seeking to institutionalize a culture o f performance-based
management under which decision-making i s heavily informed b y up-to-date reports and
information on program progress and impact. While Brazil collects a wide range of data across
social sectors, the use of this information for making policy decisions i s not yet a common
practice. Brazil seeks to break this tradition b y developing an institutional feedback mechanism
under which recurrent and robust data i s collected, processed, analyzed, disseminated and
thereafter utilized in the policy decision-making processes. Institutionalizing this feedback
mechanismi s at the heart of the HDTAL.

2. Rationale for Bank involvement

The PSRL series establishes a framework for dialogue on human development with the
Government, giving special emphasis to results-oriented policies, and allowing the Government
to benefit from continuous technical assistance leveraged by the Bank. Inthis regard, the Bank's
support o f social sectors i s the result of several years of quality policy dialogue and technical
cooperation, including the Bank's role in ensuring a smooth transition for the new
administration. This TAL will contribute to the building of the knowledge base required for the
advancement of the reform agenda and the improvement of basic social programs and outcomes,
a key element of the Government's long-term vision for the social sectors.

The Bank's comparative advantage relative to other international partners include its: (i)
knowledge contributions, based on global experience and the link to policy dialogue; (ii)   ability
to strengthen institutional capacity, including through WBI activities; (iii)competitive financing
and innovative lending products; and (iv) the ability to catalyze the efficient spending of others,
including the government.      As a knowledge-driven institution, the Bank possessesthe technical
expertise and experience in the field for guiding the creation and implementation of needed, but
frequently overlooked, monitoring and evaluation programs. The development of a culture of
performance-based management in Brazil will require the presence o f an independent, external
and knowledgeable partner in implementation. The Bank, as an honest broker between the
government and civil society, i s especially prepared for accompanying the implementation of a
multi-project database o f implementation progress information.




                                                  2

The Bank, in supporting the Government inthis proposed HDTAL i s adding further value by: (i)
helping the government identify those key activities that will have significant impact in
advancing the sectoral reform agenda; (ii)financing several o f these activities that are the
technical underpinnings of social sector reform but that are frequently overlooked in budget
decisions; (iii) participating as a partner in the technical discussions of the broader reform
agenda; and (iv) working with the Government to introduce performance-based management
arrangements while helping it to achieve international best practice on monitoring and impact
evaluation efforts.

3. Higher level objectivesto which the project contributes

After the first year of President Lula's administration, during which important benchmarks were
achieved on macro-economic stability, Brazil's attention i s now focused on the social agenda.
Thus, demonstrating progress and impact is becoming a priority for the Brazilian Government.
The Bank's HD portfolio in Brazil has been an important instrument to support policy reform in
the social sectors in the country. Innovative investments in health, education, and social
protection have been accompanied by strong policy dialogue, AAA, and technical assistance,
under the umbrella of the HD PSRL series which provide the overall framework for reform.
Thus, the HD PSFU and its corresponding HDTAL are very timely and important instruments to
assist the Government in maintaining a long-term reform vision while tracking social policy
implementation progress and impact. Figure 1 graphically portrays the coordinated strategy for
assistance in the social sectors, and within it, the strategic role of the PSRL series and the
proposed HD TAL.

 Figure 1:World Bank Integrated PackageSupporting the FederalGovernment
            Of Bmdlinthe Social Sectors




        I 1KnowledgeManagementand          I I         Lending and Financial
                                                          Assistance Pillar




                                                3

The HD PSRL was prepared as the first of a programmatic operation involving three phases and
several corresponding technical assistance loans (TALs). Each project's accompanying TAL i s
designed to provide appropriate tools and technical assistance for the Government to progress to
subsequent loans of the HD PSRL. The first loan of the PSRL series acknowledged Brazil's
achievements in human development, supports the continuity of the most effective programs, and
protects the budget of these programs, in accordance with the recently approved CAS (December
9, 2003). While it is too soon to be more specific regarding the second and third HD PSRL
structure, it is expected that the second loan will strengthen and expand social policies and
programs, while providing flexibility regarding the mechanisms the Government may employ to
deliver the particular policy or pursue the chosen objective. The third operation i s expected to
further institutionalize and consolidate these policy reforms. The PSRL and TAL programs
engage the administration in a sustained dialogue on social policies and programs that have
proven to be effective. These reforms, which involve effective targeting, redistribution of
resources to benefit the poor, transparent allocation of resources based on capitation, and
successful conditional cash transfers, enjoy broad political support and are within the
implementation capacity o f the executive branch. The basic objective of the first HDPSRLi s to
reduce poverty by improving the quality and efficiency of public spending in education, health
and social assistance, and protecting the poorest and most vulnerable groups from adverse
impacts of economic crises. The increased quality of public social spending will enable the
Government o f Brazil to sustain and accelerate the rate of human development in the country
while maintaining a framework of fiscal responsibility. As further specified in the CAS, the role
of the World Bank in this process of reform would be to support vital policy reforms and
innovative, well-performing investments, helping to lift the welfare of Brazilians, particularly the
poorest. The HD TAL complements the CAS'S results-based approach, providing additional
support for meeting benchmarks for 2007 and 2015 Millennium Development Goals relating to
human welfare gains, and social and cultural sustainability.

More specifically, the proposed HD TAL will also entail significant synergies with the Bolsa
Familia Project, which provides support to the Government's flagship social program. The
Bolsa Familia project supports the design and implementation of a comprehensive monitoring
and evaluation system for the Bolsa Familia Program. For example, the activities to support the
strengthening of IBGE's overall household survey system under this proposed HD TAL will
provide important inputs into this system. The HD TAL'Ssupport for strengthening monitoring
and evaluation in education and health would entails valuable inter-sectoral linkages for the
Bolsa Familia Program.


B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

1. Lendinginstrument

Choice of Lending Instrument. The project is a Technical Assistance Loan designed to
accompany the implementation of the HD PSRL. This HD TAL will be implemented by three
different agencies (IBGE and the Ministries o f Education and Health). This design i s useful for
this project because: (a) budgets are allocated to each corresponding implementing agency, and
(b) each implementing agency can have independent access to their allocated resources, and (c) it



                                                 4

responds to the multi-sectoral nature of the project. It i s expected that this technical assistance
loan, which facilitates the progress from the first HD PSRL to the second HD PSRL, may be
followed ifneeded by a second TAL. The aim of a second TAL i s to deepen and consolidate the
efforts achieved under the first TAL and assist the Government in moving from the second to the
third HDPSRL.

2. Project development objective and key indicators

The development objective o f the HDTAL i s to assist the government in developing institutional
capacity to monitor the progress and impact of its social policies, a critical step towards
institutionalizing performance-based management.              Developing a culture of monitoring,
evaluation, and informed policy-making i s in the interest of both policy makers (who will make
better informed decisions) and stakeholders (who will be assured o f better targeted and more
efficient social programs). This requires improving the quality and depth of available
information, increasing accountability, and improving governance systems in the social sectors
by creating a feedback mechanism under which monitoring, evaluation and research programs
are usedto formulate policies. This objective i s a deliberate choice among several options, and i s
the result of identifying the most effective medium-term activity for achieving more equitable,
efficient and quality social programs. Figure 2 illustrates the conceptual integration between the
HDPSRLconceptual framework and the proposed HDTAL assistance strategy.

                     Figure 2: HDPSRL and HD TAL Integrated Design

   HDPSRL

    Accountability
    and Integrated
     Governance                             Structure      (Dissemination)
                                        (Institutionalized




   EquityEnhancing
       Policies                                                        /
                                                                     0
                                                                   0
                                                                 0

   EnhancedQuality                                            B'
    andEfficiency




The specific development objectives o f the TAL are to:


    0   Enhance monitoring processes and systems, including the systematic collection
        of thorough data on social indicators, to permit: (i)stronger, more integrated
        and continuous assessment o f progress on social programs and policies, and (ii)
        use of performance information in resource allocation decision-making.




                                                    5

    0    Support the development of systematic research and evaluation of the impact of health,
         education and social protection policies and reforms as a means toward institutionalizing
         a results-oriented culture of accountability in public organizations responsible for social
         sector service delivery.


    0    Support the institutional reform agenda as specified by the HDPSRL.

The process of establishing a culture of performance-based management in the social sectors i s
long and complex, and the HDTAL will contribute with critical elements to enable the Brazilian
Government to aggressively move towards this goal. Specifically, as a result o f this Technical
Assistance Loan, data availability will be enhanced by collecting new critical information with
more regularity; relevance and utilization of data will be improved through the creation of an
institutional vehicle (Social Statistics Committee) for deliberation and feedback; monitoring o f
key education policies will be strengthened through the integrated monitoring system to be set up
at the Ministry o f Education; and impact evaluation o f health policies will be completed, to guide
decision-making and adjust health programs as needed. Altogether, the Government will have
stronger information and a sound framework to enhance i s assessment of the impact and cost-
effectiveness o f its social policies. Similarly, the Bank will benefit from this framework to
conduct similar assessmentson its contribution to Brazil in the social sectors.

3. Project components

Component I: Strengthening Collection of Monitoring and Evaluation Data for the Social
Sectors. For the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics, a legally autonomous agency o f
the Federative Republic of Brazil, technical assistance will focus on enhancing national
household surveys (PNAD, PME and POF) so as to provide strategic, comprehensive and
integrated information for monitoring and evaluating the impact of key social sector reforms and
living conditions of the Brazilian population.

The principal activities of this component include: (i)      creation of and support for a Social
Statistics Committee that will monitor and evaluate the statistical information demands o f
various government agencies; (ii)technical assistance for the implementation of a second
Household Expenditure Survey (POF- Pesquisa de OrGamentos Familiares) as well as test and
deploy a micro expenditure survey; (iii)support for planning the improvement of existing
national surveys including the merging o f the current household survey (PNAD-Pesquisa
Nacional de Amostra a Domicilio) and PME- Pesquisa mensa1 de Emprego data collection into
one continuous survey, (iv) inclusion of the quickly developing North Region (rural) into the
PNAD survey; (v) development of poverty maps; (vi) technical support for the development of
recurring policy-driven questionnaire modules for tracking indicators in social sectors; and (vii)
financing of analytical research of the results of the 2002/03 POF. Improving the household
survey data collection has the added advantage o f providing independent tracking for social
sector policies, taken from a different source than those collected b y ministries (which are based
on information collected from service providers rather than the service consumer).




                                                 6

Component 2:        Strengthening monitoring and evaluation in the Education Sector. This
component, financed with counterpart funds, i s an integral part of the HDTAL activities. For the
Ministry of Education the technical assistancewill focus on designing and developing a ministry-
wide information system to track and monitor key programs that can assist sub-national
governments in their efforts to launch quality educational assessment instruments. This Ministry-
wide information system will be closely coordinated with IBGE's data collection, as the latter
will provide the principal data inputs to the Ministry of Education Information System,
completing those data collected through INEPin the education sector.

INEP's continued involvement in improving student learning assessments and program
evaluation i s centered on the task of improving existing instruments, attending to the demand of
states in developing their own universal systems (to be compatible, where possible with the
federal-level, sample-based assessments), and improving the dissemination and use of existing
evaluation systems. The HD TAL complements this effort by creating mechanisms by which
INEP's and IBGE's data can be used in decision-making and policy-design processes in the
Ministry of Education.

The Ministry-wide monitoring system will provide up-to-date policy feedback mechanisms for
project implementation agencies and units. Four decentralized monitoring nuclei will be created
to assess the effectiveness of MEC's main programs in the following areas: Higher Education,
Professional Education, Basic Education and Continued Education coordinated by a central team
in the Executive Secretariat. This vision will be tested through the implementation of the TAL
and the creation of the four M&E nuclei which foresees the continuous monitoring of the key
programs that account for nearly 80 percent of the education budget (most of which are included
inthe PSRLtargets for the secondphase).

Component 3: Strengthening and consolidation of Monitoring and Evaluation Functions in
the Health Sector. For the Ministry of Health, technical assistance will be directed at: (i)
creating a sustainable and institutionalized M&E platform at the federal level; (ii)  strengthening
monitoring and evaluation capacity at the state and municipal levels; and (ii)supporting
evaluative research of system reforms, service delivery and public health programs.

To know whether SUS i s delivering good quality care efficiently and effectively to intended
beneficiary populations, the M o H seeks to develop sustainable capacity at federal, state and
municipal levels to monitor and evaluate system performance (equity, efficiency and quality) and
impact (health status). The project will also support the introduction of results-based
management mechanisms to foster evidence-based policy formation, program design and
decision making. A major focus will be on the institutionalization of monitoring and evaluation
at least at the federal level while strengthening such capacity in states and large municipalities.
Specific activities include: (i)
                               assessment o f M&E capabilities and activities, (ii)building a M&E
network among practitioners and stakeholders to facilitate information exchange; (ii)
establishment of an institutional framework for M&E including identification o f performance
indicators, sources, methods, frequency and schedule of data collection, data analysis
mechanisms and feedback and dissemination channels; and (iv) financing evaluative research on
specific topics related to quality, costs, system effectiveness, patient satisfaction and impact of
health reforms.



                                                 7

4. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design

The ongoing reform, supported by the PSRL, has tackled a number of important systemic
problems, but others remain unsolved and new challenges have come to the fore. The key
challenge i s to build upon lessons learned during the previous decade, addressing gaps in the
policy framework and lapses in implementation.

IBGE's experience in collecting information is well-regarded and its credibility in producing
accurate, timely information for informing social policy i s a model in the region. Improved
information sharing with government agencies, however, including in the use of this data for
decision making requires additional levels of cooperation and dissemination of the data
available, as well as flexibility in attending to the needs of these agencies while maintaining
compatibility across data collection periods.        Lessons learned from past projects include
development o f mechanisms for continuous dialogue between agencies as well as the creation of
workshops and technical meetings for exchanging ideas. The design o f this project recognizes
IBGE's activities as a key public good, providing valuable household information to complement
ministry-collected data. This combination of information from both supply and demand sources
can be utilized by the social ministries to enhance policy development and monitoring and
evaluation. As a result, while providing resources to Ministries o f Health and Education to
improve their M&E agendas, a large portion of this loan supports IBGE's efforts to better
respond to the needs of all social sector ministries. Careful attention was given in the design to
improving the information flow between these agencies.

In education, the use of more transparent, technical selection criteria for the distribution of
project funds under the Fundescola program (which was based on IBGE's geographical micro-
regions for inclusion of municipalities) gave the project additional credibility and helped to
reduce political pressure from those municipalities not included in the target regions. Growing
use of individual level data in such programs as Bolsa Escola (now part o f Bolsa Familia) has
generated increased interest by Ministry officials in using the data collected by INEP and other
institutions. In the health sector, important strategic areas include raising equity of resource
allocation, increasing patient satisfaction, efficiency and quality o f service provision, improving
system effectiveness, rationalizing decentralization and preventing and controlling non-
communicable diseases. The key to many o f these challenges i s the creation of an efficient and
effective monitoring and evaluation system.

5. Alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection

 Each of these components was selected based on the need to provide informational tools to the
government in monitoring progress toward PSRL 2 triggers and developing an improved data
collection, monitoring and evaluation system in key social sectors.          Alternatives considered
included distribution of project funds equally across several agencies, but the final design favors
the financing of the "public good" o f data collection conducted by IBGE because o f its obvious
use for implementation and decision makingacross all social sector ministries. Also considered




                                                   8

 was the alternative of focusing project design only on achieving specific PSRL targets, but both
 the Government and the Bank agreed to the importance of expanding this TAL'S impact to
 establish a more systemic performance based framework..

 C. IMPLEMENTATION

 1. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

Choice of Lending Instrument. The project is to be implemented by three different agencies
(IBGE and the Ministries of Education and Health). Each agency financed by the loan (IBGE
and Ministry o f Health) will carry out its activities under an implementation agreement that
articulates the activities for which the agency i s responsible.

Project Management Design. The design described above also suggests that each implementing
agency financed by the loan would have a small unit responsible for implementing the activities
financed under the loan. The establishment o f such units is condition of disbursement for each of
the corresponding components. In the case o f the Ministry of Education, such unit has already
been formed. For IBGE, because of the size of the financed activities, the current administrative
structure will implement the project, undergoing training and continuous support in Bank
procedures. The Ministry o f Health will have small implementing units to keep track o f and
provide support to project progress and activities. In this regard, each implementing agency will
be responsible for following the procedures set forth in the Loan Agreement, especially in the
context of procurement, disbursement and financial management arrangements and reporting
project progress to the Bank. Such an arrangement has been tested in other project experiences,
with relative success. In addition, an advisory committee will be established at the Ministry o f
Planning to ensure coordination of the different ministries and IBGE in the implementation of
the loan. The advisory committee will be formed by representatives from the Ministries of
Planning, Education, Health, and Social Assistance and IBGE.

As each of the participating agencies (IBGEand the Ministries of Education and Health) will be
working independently from one another, institutional capacity issues will need to be addressed
in each agency. The Ministry of Health has considerable experience in working with Bank
financial management and procurement procedures and should therefore have little difficulty in
meeting the implementation demands of the project. While IBGE i s new to Bank operations,
much of their current operations i s project-based and financed, thus the transition to Bank
procedures should not be difficult (see Annex 7 for more details).

2. Monitoringand evaluation of outcomes/results

As the focus of the TAL is at the federal level, with technical assistance and other activities
restricted to three implementing agencies, monitoring and evaluation of outcomes and results
will be collected directly from IBGE and the Ministries o f Education and Health through project
progress reports and supervision missions.        In addition, each implementing agency will be
required to submit regular updates of their progress towards achieving (a) the specific HD TAL
outcomes and objectives, and (b) the HDPSRL benchmarks.




                                                  9

3. Sustainability

In seeking to establish a culture of performance-based decision-making in several ministries, the
TAL project is assisting the Government in increasing economic and policy efficiencies. It is
expected that once implementing agencies and Ministries have improved access to and use o f
data that meet their specific program and social sector needs, the data will become indispensable
for policy making and program design. Nonetheless there are a number of risks, as described
below, which may delay the institutionalization of performance-based management in the
implementing agencies and thus the sustainability o f project efforts. Despite these risks, there i s
considerable evidence of institutional capacity in the fact that Brazil collects, analyzes and
disseminates a substantial amount o f data and survey in the social sectors. What i s missing, that
this HD TAL seeks to contribute to, is a more systematic integration of this information into
policy decision-making processes with the end goal of institutionalizing a culture of
performance-based management.

4. Critical risks and possiblecontroversial aspects

                     Risks                     RiskMitigation Measures         RiskRatingwith
                                                                                  Mitigation
To Droiect development obiective
Fiscal constraints may limit budget         The Bank and the Government                 S
availability for implementing agencies,     have agreed in the highpriority
thusjeopardizing implementationof the       o f this Loan, and monitoring of
HDTAL.                                      budget allocations during
                                            budget cycle will be proactive.
Adequate buy-in for the use of these
enhanced monitoring and evaluation          The Bank is mitigating this risk            M
systems. Historically, investment in        by ensuring that dialogue is held
creating better data collection and         at all political and technical
evaluation systems has not received         levels o f the involved agencies.
much attention.
To component results
Even if quality data, solid monitoring      The Bank i s mitigating this risk           S
and robust evaluation i s available, there  by having agreed through the
i s a risk that policy decision makers may  HDPSRLto a long-term
ignore these key technical inputs and       framework to which the
privilege other criteria for policy-        Government i s committed, and
making.                                     will closely monitor progress
                                            towards institutinga culture o f
                                            data-driven decision making,
                                            using the health sector as a
                                            model for other sectors.
The financing of the Education              Supervision missions and                    M
component only through counterpart          reporting will include the
funds may diminishthe incentive for         Ministry o f Education.
prompt implementation.



                                                 10

5. Loan conditionsand covenants

Conditions for effectiveness: None

Condition for disbursement: IBGEAgreement executed on behalf o f the Government of Brazil
and IBGE.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economicandfinancialanalyses
N/A

2. Technical

The HD TAL i s based on joint Bank and Government analysis and agreements contained in the
HD PSRL. The three components have been explored in detail and are embedded in ongoing
efforts currently under implementation by the Government. The design of the project i s further
guided by years o f intensive Bank technical assistance in the social sectors.

3. Fiduciary

The FMA concluded that the financial management arrangements o f the Project satisfy Bank's
minimum requirements and, financial management systems are in place that can effectively
control and monitor the Project, and provide with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely
information on its implementation status.       The financing plan includes the financing of
reasonable taxes, per the new Expenditure Eligibility Paper.

4. Social

The TAL i s expected to improve the efficiency of social sector spending b y providing program
specific and general data, which, when used in conjunction with policy making and program
development should improve targeting o f social spending directed at the poor. Of special interest
i s the development o f poverty maps.

Through the IBGE component, the project supports the collection of data that will permit the
assessment of the impact o f government policies and programs in very specific locales which
would eventually permit, among other issues, a good account o f impact on ethnic groups.

5. Environment
NIA




                                               11

6. Safeguard policies

   Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                             Yes                     No
   Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                                 [ I                    [XI
   Natural Habitats (OPBP 4.04)                                                             [ I                    [XI
   Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                                [ I                    [XI
   Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                                  [ I                    [XI
   Involuntary Resettlement (OPBP 4.12)                                                     [I                     [XI
   Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                                   [ I                    [XI
  Forests (OPBP 4.36)                                                                       [ I                    [XI
   Safety of Dams (OPBP 4.37)                                                               [ I                    [XI
  Projects inDisputed Areas (OPBP/GP 7.60)*                                                 [ I                    [XI
   Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                      [ I                    [XI

7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness

The TAL does not require any exceptions from Bankpolicies or procedures. The project meets
all Regional criteria for readinessfor implementation.




* By supporting theproposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice thefinal determination of theparties' claims on the
disputed areas


                                                             12

                     Annex 1:CountryandSector or ProgramBackground
                          BRAZIL: HDTechnicalAssistance Project


Country Background. The democratic election of a leader determined to focus on Brazil's
social agenda while respecting prudent fiscal constraints i s a historic opportunity to overcome
long-standing issues of social exclusion inequities in Brazil and to achieve sustainable and
equalizing growth. Yet, the macroeconomic risks and the range o f possible outcomes for Brazil
are very large. The Bank's approach toward the administration i s driven by the desire to help
Brazil capture the opportunity while reducing the risks.

The relationship between the new Government and the Bank has been very encouraging. From
the beginning, the Bank has supported the new Government with a set o f Policy Notes prepared
by Bank staff on a number of key challenges facing Brazil. Many of the policy proposals now
emerging from announcements o f the new Government are consistent with the Policy Notes. The
opportunities and risks o f the current situation and the excellent positioning o f the Bank justify a
high level of Bank engagement and support to the new Government. The objectives of this
support would be three-fold: (a) support progress on Brazil's medium-term policy reform agenda
for stability, growth, poverty reduction, environmental management, and social inclusion; (b)
help achieve short-term advances in Brazil's economic and social situation that would
consolidate the reform path taken by the Lula Government; and (c) signal our positive
assessment of Brazil's policies in order to help restore confidence and market access. The
instruments for intensified support to Brazil would include short-term advisory services,
programmatic lending, and a strong investment-lendingprogram.

The Bank has prepared a series o f policy-based lending operations (programmatic loans),
including the HDPSRL and this HDTAL, whose broad outlines were set out at a Board meeting
in August 2002.       These operations complement the ongoing US$30 billion IMF standby
arrangement and support the Government's reforms for advancing social progress, assuring
economic and fiscal stability, and fostering growth. These operations will play a key role to: (a)
continue and deepen key sectoral reforms; (b) finance part of the nominal fiscal deficit and the
external financing requirements of the public sector; and (c) signal to the markets the
commitment of the new administration to sound economic and sectoral policies.

Loans to support fiscal reforms, financial sector reforms, and reforms to improve
competitiveness and the investment climate are following. A loan in support of Bolsa Familia
was recently approved. Other loans are policy lending for environmental policy and housing
policy reforms. Ineach case, such loans build on reform progress achieved by Brazil to date, and
required a clear commitment to reforms by the Government. Policy-based lending i s
accompanied by technical assistance operations. Investment lending and analytic sector work
will focus on deepening the policy reform agenda and supporting projects and programs that
have strategic importance for poverty reduction, economic growth, environmental management,
and fiscal stability, based on CAS priorities and recognizing Brazil's severe fiscal constraints.
New features of the investment program are likely to include: (a) a strong emphasis on up-
scaling and replication of successful poverty reduction approaches, including the use of sector-
wide approaches; (b) a more integrated approach toward state lending, including support for


                                                  13

priority planning, expenditure management and program evaluation across sectors; and (c)
projects to support innovative priorities of the new Government including, possibly, youth
employment policies.

Recent Sector Reforms. During the last decade, Brazil has carried out a number of significant
reforms aimed at improving the coverage, quality and efficiency of its education and health
systems, and has strengthened its safety net program. As a result, today more children are in
school, parents and communities are gaining greater influence on the education system, more
resources are being made available to disadvantaged groups, and more adults are able to acquire
new skills for a changing labor market. The overall health status o f the population has markedly
improved, as shown by significantly lower infant and maternal mortality rates, very small rate of
mortality from vaccine-preventable diseases in children and a steady and strong decline in
mortality from infectious diseases and parasites for the entire population. Albeit the relatively
high incidence o f HIVIAIDS compared to the rest of Latin America, innovative and aggressive
prevention and education campaigns, combined with a policy o f delivering medical treatment
and drugs free to all patients has caused the number of new cases to level off. Brazil has
expanded and improved its social assistance programs by introducing successful conditional cash
transfer programs targeted to poor children and youth. These programs are effective in reducing
both short- and long-term poverty by providing transfers subject to school attendance,
community service and health care use.

Recent human development achievements include:

   0   Brazil's extreme poverty rate has fallen from 21.3 percent in 1990 to 14.4 percent in
        1999. Rates have fluctuated since then with the economic cycles. The new
       Administration has renewed the commitment to poverty reduction through expanded and
        new programs to combat malnutrition.


   0   Brazil i s close to achieving universal basic education. There has been a massive
       expansion in basic education enrollment, significant increases in school grade promotion
       rates, a substantial rise in public expenditure in education and a reduction in the regional
       differences in access to education and in its quality.        Net enrollment rates in the
       fundamental cycle rose from 80.3 percent in 1980 to 96.3 percent in 2000. Regional
       inequalities in enrollment have fallen significantly and completion rates increased from
       51.9 percent in 1995 to 61.1 percent in 1999.


   0   The health of Brazilians has significantly improved over the last decade. Infant mortality
       decreased by 38 percent (from 48 to 30) and regional health inequalities were reduced.
       Mortality from vaccine-preventable diseases in children i s now negligible. Mortality from
       infectious diseases and parasites declined to only   percent of all deaths in 1998.


   0   Maternal health has improved through the expansion o f prenatal exams and
       gynecological medical consultations provided by the public health system over the last
       decade. Moreover, Brazil i s implementing an nnovative and successful program to
       combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases.




                                                14

    0   Total fertility rate has decreased to 2.2 as contraceptive prevalence rate in Brazil
        increased from 66 percent in 1986to 77 percent in 1996. The changing mortality patterns
        and the decline in fertility rate contributed to an increase in life expectancy. The Brazil's
        health system reform accounts for much of these achievements.


    0   Gender equality continues to be promoted.           In Brazil, women are generally better
        educated than men: the average education of women is 5.4 years compared to 5.2 years
        for men.


    0   Brazil has increased its safety net funding from 0.26 percent of GDP in 2000 to 0.63
        percent in 2002, nearly tripling in three years. Vulnerable groups, including the disabled
        and elderly, are protected through effective social assistance programs, and poor children
        and youth benefit from innovative conditional cash transfer programs that promote school
        attendance, health care utilization and community development.           These demand-side
        programs have been critical to achieve the significant progress of social development
        indicators.

The major social reforms outlined above constitute a solid basis from which the Government can
proceed to further develop its social reform agenda, strengthening and expanding the positive
human development outcomes recorded thus far. For these crucial social sectors, the challenge
that lies ahead is no longer necessarily one of access, but rather the equity, quality and efficiency
of social service delivery. Such services can best be delivered by a system that i s both
accountable to the populations it serves and i s directed by an adequate governance structure
informed b y current, comprehensive information.

Responding to Sector Needs. The Human Development Programmatic Sector Reform Loan,
signed in January 2003, tackles core the sectoral issues o f targeting, resource allocation and
efficiency o f spending, by promoting stronger accountability and governance, enhancement of
equity-oriented policies, and improvement inthe efficiency and quality of social service delivery.
Specific benefits of the HD PSRL include: (i)       broader access by the poor and disadvantaged
groups to basic education, health and social assistance services through improved targeting and
program expansion; (ii)  sounder operation of public programs, through increased accountability,
inter-governmentalpolicy coordination, transparent budgetary planning and consumer voice; and
(iii)enhanced quality and efficiency o f service delivery through the provision o f incentives to
reduce disparities between high and low performing providers o f public social services. The loan
presented here i s a technical assistance loan (TAL) that accompanies the HD PSRL and provides
the tools for helping Brazil to achieve its HD PSRL goals. While the HD PSRL provides a
roadmap for sectoral reform that ultimately leads toward a stronger culture of performance-base
management, the HD TAL will provide the immediate tools to assist the government in
improving and developing monitoring systems and policy impact research, a necessary and
urgent step.

The Government, in requesting Bank support for the development and implementation of
monitoring and research programs, i s seeking to institutionalize a culture o f performance-based
management under which decision-making i s heavily informed by up-to-date reports and
information on program progress and impact. While Brazil collects a wide range of data across



                                                  15

social sectors, the use of this information for making policy decisions i s not yet a common
practice. Brazil seeks to break this tradition by developing an institutional feedback mechanism
under which recurrent and robust data i s collected, processed, analyzed, disseminated and
thereafter utilized in the policy decision-making processes. Institutionalizing this feedback
mechanismi s at the heart of the HDTAL.

The PSRL series establishes a framework for dialogue on human development with the
Government, giving special emphasis to results-oriented policies, and allowing the Government
to benefit from continuous technical assistance leveraged by the Bank. This TAL will provide
the tools for accompanying this framework by contributing to the buildingof the knowledge base
required for the advancement o f the reform agenda and the improvement of basic social
programs and outcomes.

The Bank, in supporting the Government in this proposed HDTAL i s adding further value by: (i)
helping the government identify those key activities that will have significant impact in
advancing the sectoral reform agenda; (ii)financing several o f these activities that are the
technical underpinnings of social sector reform but that are frequently overlooked in budget
decisions; (iii)participating as a partner in the technical discussions of the broader reform
agenda; and (iv) working with the Government to introduce performance-based management
arrangements while helping it to achieve international best practice on monitoring and impact
evaluation efforts.

Objectives of the TAL.The development objective of the HD TAL i s to assist the government in
developing institutional capacity to monitor the progress and impact o f its social policies, a
critical step towards institutionalizing performance-based management. This requires improving
accountability and governance systems in the social sectors by creating a feedback mechanism
under which monitoring, evaluation and research programs are used to formulate policies. This
objective is a deliberate choice among several options, and i s the result o f identifying the most
effective medium-term activity for achieving more equitable, efficient and quality social
programs. Figure 2 in page 5 illustrates the conceptual integration between the HD PSRL
conceptual framework and the proposed HD TAL assistance strategy.




                                                16

        Annex 2: Major Related ProjectsFinanced by the Bank and/or other Agencies
                          BRAZIL: HDTechnical Assistance Project

1.       Cear6 Basic Education, 2000-2006, US$90.0 million. The main objective o f the Ceara
Basic Education Quality Improvement Project i s to promote greater quality, efficiency and
equity in the provision of education services by: (a) improving education quality in both
academic achievement (output) and learning environment (education inputs); (b) expanding
access to drop-outs and excluded youth through the use o f alternative methodologies; (c)
fostering equity in the provision of education services in the poorest municipalities; and (d)
strengthening the managerial and administrative capacity of the central, regional and municipal
levels to deliver public education services efficiently.

2.       Health Sector Reform, 1996-2003, US$300.0 million. Improvement of health care
delivery through rehabilitation, equipment, management improvement and the introduction o f
quality assurance programs in public and private non profit hospitals and ambulatory facilities
working for Unified Health Systems - SUS.

3.       HD Program Sector Reform, Feb. 2003-Dec. 2003, US$505.0 million.              The main
objective of the First Programmatic Human Development Sector Reform Loan (First HD PSRL)
i s to support an ongoing program of human development reforms that tackle core sectoral issues
of targeting, resource allocation, and efficiency of spending. The human development program
contributes to reducing poverty and to protecting the poor against adverse effects o f economic
crises, and is also considered a key factor to achieve sustainable and equitable growth. In
addition to deepening key sectoral reforms, this Loan will signal to the markets the commitment
of the new administration to sound economic and sectoral policies, and finance part of the
nominal fiscal deficit and the external financing requirements o f the public sector.

4.     Bahia Basic Education APL (two phases), 2000-2006, US$129.6 million.             Improve
fundamental and secondary school outcomes, as measured b y improvements in dropout and
promotion rates and student performance on standardized tests; and to increase access to
secondary school, as measured by an increase in secondary enrollments.

5.     Family Health Extension Program, 2002-2005, US$68.0 million. The main objectives are:
Increase coverage to health services among urban populations, especially those with limited
access to and utilization of basic health care, by expanding the Family Health Program,
reorganizing service delivery and improving referral systems in participating municipalities of
100,000 residents or more. (2) Improve the quality of basic care services nation wide by
supporting the training and preparation of health professional and workers in the Family Health
Model. (3) Improve the performance and effectiveness o f basic care services through supporting
g the development of monitoring and evaluation, information management and accreditation
systems.

6.      Fundescola IIIa, 2002-2006. US$160.0 million. To assist targeted state and municipal
secretariats of education reduce the disparities across their primary schools and increase the
effectiveness of these schools, within each local government's financial capacity.




                                                  17

7.     Aids and STD Control, 1998-2003, US$165.0 million. The objectives of the Second
Aids and STD Control Project are: 1) to reduce the incidence of HIV and STD infection and 2)
expand and improve diagnosis, treatment, and care of persons with HIV, AIDS, and STD. The
project components include: 1) AIDS and STD prevention, 2) diagnosis, treatment and care for
HIV, AIDS, and STD patients, and 3) strengthening of public and private institutions for
AIDS/STD control.

8.     Bolsa Familia Proiect in Support of the FirstPhaseof the Program, 2004-2006, US$520.2
million. The objectives of the new BFP include: (a) reducing poverty and inequality today,
through the provision of direct monetary transfers to poor families; and (b) reducing poverty and
inequality tomorrow, by providing incentives and conditions for investments in human capital on
behalf o f beneficiary families, and by linking beneficiary families to complementary services
that could help them invest and grow out of poverty in the future.




                                               18

                               Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring

                                BRAZIL: HDTechnicalAssistanceProject

                                            ResultsFramework

                 PDO

Government increases institutional    Benchmarks for secondHDPSRL            Gauges integration of data into
capacity to monitor the progress and  met and documented using improved      decision making and auditing
impact of its social policies, a     monitoring and evaluation systems       procedures of participating agencies,
critical step towards                 and data.                              as well as the alignment of IBGE's
institutionalizing performance-based                                         data collection with implementing
management.
      c
        IntermediateResults
         Oneper Component
ComponentOne:                        ComponentOne:                           ComponentOne:
Collection of Monitoring and         (i)   SocialStatistics Committee        Achievementof results indicates
Evaluation Datafor the Social              holdingregularmeetings            systematic adaptationof existingdata
Sectors is Strengthened              (ii) Second HouseholdExpenditure        collection systemand researchgoals to
                                           Survey (POF- Pesquisade           meetthe needsof the social sector.
                                           OrcamentosFamiliares)conducted
                                     (iii) Support for planningthe
                                           improvementof existingnational
                                           survey including the mergingwith
                                           the current employmenthousehold
                                           surveys
                                     (iv) PNAD improvedandNorth region
                                           includedinsurvey
                                     (v) Povertymaps developed
                                     (vi) Policy modulesfor tracking
                                           indicatorsin social sectors
                                           developed
                                     (vii) Analytical research usingPOF
                                           2002103 datafinanced
ComponentTwo:                        Component Two                           ComponentTwo:
Monitoring and evaluation in the     (i)   Ministry-wide information system  Developmentanduse of improved
Education Sector is improved               to track andmonitoreducation      monitoring andevaluationsystems
                                           programsdeveloped                 demonstratesgreater commitment
                                                                             towards performance-based
                                                                             management.

ComponentThree:                      Component Three:                        ComponentThree:
Strengthening and consolidation of   i) Institutionalframeworkand            Developmentanduse of instruments and
monitoring and evaluation functions       organizationalunit establishedfor  financing formulasdemonstratesgreater
in the health sector.                     consolidatingandcoordinatingM&E    commitment towards results-based
                                          activitiesinthe MoH.               managementandfinancing.
                                     ii) Capacity of federal, state and
                                          municipallevels to monitor and
                                          evaluatethe performanceof
                                          publicly-financedservices assessed
                                          andreport disseminated.
                                     iii) Network of among M&E
                                         practitioners,stakeholdersand
                                          academics established.
                                     iv) Evaluationresearchon system
                                         performance financed.




                                                        19

                 a


   g  Z
      #     m
            g
c1  m    #Z

                              Annex 4: Detailed Project Description
                           BRAZIL: HDTechnical Assistance Project


Component 1: Strengthening Collection of Monitoring and Evaluation Data for the Social
Sectors (US$6.0mof loan amount). As a principal provider of statistical data and demographic
information to the Brazilian Government, implementing agencies, and researchers, the Brazilian
Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE) serves a crucial role in developing a culture of
performance-based management in Brazil. This project seeks to strengthen IBGE's technical
capacity as a provider of social sector monitoring, evaluation and living condition data. The data
collected and published by IBGE are a public good, to be used by all social sectors and diverse
government and non-government agencies in the creation of and evaluation of policies and
program.

The TAL will focus on technical assistance for enhancing national household surveys (PNAD,
PME and POF) so as to provide strategic, comprehensive and integrated information for
monitoring and evaluating the impact of key social sector reforms and living conditions of the
Brazilian population. Each of the principal activities (and corresponding cost estimates) related
to this component are described in the paragraphs below.

    (i)     Creation of and support for a Social Statistics Committee that will monitor and
            evaluate the statistical information demands o f various government agencies.        The
            Committee will act as the interlocutor between implementing agencies (e.g.
            Ministries, Project Agencies) and the IBGE instrument design and implementation
            teams in order to ensure that implementing agencies have the data to meet their
            monitoring and evaluation needs, while balancing the priorities of the data needs o f
            the social sector as a whole.

      i)    Technical assistance for the implementation of a second Household Expenditure
            Survey (POF-Pesquisa de OrqamentosFamiliares). This subcomponent is designed
            to: (a) conduct a follow-up to the POF 2002-03, which provides a solid baseline for
            evaluation of the Lula administration's social policies, as well as (b) test and deploy
            an annual micro-POF survey. The 2002-03 POF provides information for measuring
            family spending and poverty in both general (e.g. inequality, malnutrition) and
            specific (e.g. pension distribution, Bolsa Familia) terms. It i s expected that the 2006-
            07 version will mirror closely the 2002-03 version in order to maintain comparability
            and continuity, and in the future will be applied every three to five years.
            Development of an annual, reduced version o f the POF will provide the Government
            with a more frequent and flexible measure o f household well-being, with the
            possibility for including specific modules which respond to Ministry and
            implementing agency demands for social sector data.

    (iii)   Supportfor improvement of existing national surveys including the merging of the
            current PNAD and PME data collection into one continuous survey. The PNAD
            (Pesquisa Nacional por Amostra de Domicilios) i s a national representative sample
            used by researchers and policy makers to understand poverty analysis and income
            distribution in Brazil.   The PME (Pesquisa Mensal de Emprego) i s a monthly


                                                 21

           employment survey applied in the six largest metropolitan areas. Under this activity
           topics and question in the two surveys will be merged to create a single, nationally
           representative survey, eventually replacing the existing surveys. The resulting
           information will be an important measurement tool, as well as a means of increasing
           efficiency by reducing overlapping questions and topics currently present in the two
           surveys.

           Expansion of the PNAD to include the North Region. In order to keep up with the
           rapid demographic changes in the North region the project will finance the expansion
           of the PNAD to include the states of Acre, AmapB, Amazonas, Pad, R8ndonia and
           Roraima (which have never been included in the PNAD survey). This expansion will
           allow the annual survey to be more representative of Brazilian population changes
           and economic growth.

           Development of Poverty Maps. The project will support the development of highly
           disaggregatedinequality and poverty maps usingpioneering World Bank methods for
           incorporating a combination of census and household survey information. These
           maps will be valuable tools for developing social policy, both from a focusing and
           monitoring and evaluation standpoint. The TAL will support the construction of the
           initial maps so that they can be updatedwith information as data become available.

           Technical support for development of occasionalpolicy modules and researchfor
           tracking indicators in social sectors. Many social programs require specific
           monitoring and evaluation data (e.g. program-specific samples, questionnaires, and
           methods) that cannot be otherwise included in the surveys described above. The
           project will provide technical assistance for expanding TBGE's capacity for
           responding to the increasingly frequent and diverse demands of Government and
           other implementing agencies interested in specialized monitoring and evaluation
           activities and data collection.

           Supportfor Analytical Research based on the 2002-03 POF results. Inpreparation
           for future applications of the POF, the project will support several studies using the
           2002-03 POF data, as well as dissemination of these results though national
           workshops.

Component 2: Strengtheningmonitoring and evaluation in the Education Sector (Financed
only with counterpart funds) With nearly 50 million students enrolled in more than 200
thousandeducational institutions at all levels of education, monitoring and evaluation of Brazil's
education system i s particularly complex. Currently a diverse array of databases and information
systems, managed by the Ministry of Education through its Institute for Education Research
(INEP), provide a profile of Brazil's education system. This component will assist the Ministry
of education in meeting the growing demand for program specific information and state level
evaluation, as well as improve MEC's capacity for targeting and monitoring of program
progress. For the Ministry of Education technical assistance will be given for the following
purpose:




                                               22

           The development and implementation of Ministry-wide information and monitoring
           system to monitor program and policy impact and progress. The Ministry o f
           Education seeks to create four decentralized Nuclei of M&E activities in each of four
           areas- professional Education, Basic Education, Higher Education, and Continued
           Education under the coordination of a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit located in the
           Executive Secretariat in order to permit constant, real-time monitoring of program
           and policy impact. This vision will be tested through the implementation of the TAL
           and the creation of the four M&E units which foresees the continuous monitoring o f
           MEC's key programs that account for nearly 80 percent of the education budget
           (most of which are included inthe PSRLtargets for the second phase).

Component 3:: Strengthening and consolidation of Monitoring and Evaluation Functions in
the Health (US$2.0m of loanamount). Starting in the late 1980sBrazil has undertaken a major
health reform program, providing for the decentralization of service provision from the federal
government to municipalities and, to a lesser extent, state governments. The reform includes new
mechanisms to foster social participation in the definition of priorities and in oversight o f service
provision through councils established at municipal, state and federal levels, as well as consumer
feedback instruments to gauge technical quality and patient satisfaction with publicly-financed
hospitals. The reform also transformed how the federal government finances health services
provided by states and municipalities. The project seeks to support the ongoing reform effort
through strengthening M o H capacity to monitor and evaluate service delivery, public health
programs and reform progress. It will also assist the Ministry of Health in achieving its
benchmarks for the second HDPSRLthrough technical assistance directed at:

    (i)    Strengthening monitoring and evaluation capacity at the federal level. To know if
           SUS is delivering good quality care efficiently and effectively, the M o H seeks to
           develop sustainable capacity to monitor and evaluate progress. As such, the project
           will support the creation of an institutional framework, definition of instruments,
           distribution o f responsibilities among subnational entities, assessment o f M&E
           capabilities and activities, building a network to facilitate information exchange
           among practitioners and stakeholders, and introduction of performance-based
           management strategies. In addition to these activities, the project will provide
           technical assistance and training to consolidate and link M&E functions in the MoH,
           define performance indicators, identify sources, methodologies, frequency and
           schedule of data collection, establish mechanism for data analysis, reporting and
           review, and institutionalize feedback and dissemination channels to foster evidence-
           based policy formation and program design.

   (ii)    Strengthening Monitoring and Evaluation Capacity at the state and municipal
           levels. M o H seeks to strengthen M&E capacity o f states and municipalities. Under
           current M o H plans, states would have a major M&E role for small and low capacity
           municipalities while large municipalities would develop in-house capabilities. This
           set o f activities will aim to develop tools for enhancing the capacity of states and
           municipalities to monitor and evaluate system performance, including access,
           stewardship and overall effectiveness. Activities under this subcomponent will
           include: assessing capacity o f states and municipalities to perform monitoring and
           evaluation o f publicly-financed health activities; design o f M&E program in selected


                                               23

     states and municipalities; training in monitoring and evaluation methods, assessment
     of the quality of databases; development o f performance indicators and data
     collection instruments and methods, and establishment of core group or network of
     professional staff in states to provide M&E support to municipalities.

(iii)Supportfor Evaluation Research Studies. In order to better respond to patient needs
     and reduce system inefficiencies that result in low technical quality the project will
     support targeted evaluations studies of system performance not assessed through
     current monitoring systems, including research studies on costs, quality and patient
     satisfaction in both ambulatory and hospital settings. These studies will be part and
     parcel of the overall M&E institutionalization effort directed to the federal, state and
     municipal levels.




                                           24

                                 Annex 5: ProjectCosts
                 BRAZIL: HDTECHNICALASSISTANCEPROJECT




 and Evaluation Data an

 2. StrengtheningMonitoringand Evaluation        2,024,000   30,000    2,054,000
 inthe Education Sector

 3. Strengthening and Consolidation of Health    1,954,000   90,000    2,044,000
    System
-~~
 Total Baseline Cost                           12,820,000   439,000   13,259,000
 Physical Contingencies                            738,000   30,000      768,000
 Price Contingencies                            -1,127,000   20,000   -1,107,000
                       TotalProject Costs'     12,431,000   489,000   12,920,000
                              Front-endFee               -   80,000       80,000
                  TotalFinancingRequired     I 12,431,000 I 569,000  113,000,000I




                                            25

                           Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements
                 BRAZIL: HumanDevelopment Technical Assistance Project


 Choice of Lending Instrument. This loan will be a traditional technical assistance loan, with a
three -year period of implementation starting December of 2005 and ending in January of 2009.
The project i s to be implemented by three different agencies (IBGE and the Ministries of
Education and Health, although the Ministry o f Education will only work with counterpart
funding) . The success of this design lies in the possibility that: (a) budgets are allocated to each
corresponding implementing agency, and (b) in case the Treasury decides to open a special
account for the loan, each implementing agency will have independent access to the special
account. This simplified approach i s especially important given the multi-sectoral nature o f the
project. IBGE will carry out its activities under an implementation agreement that articulates the
activities for which the agency i s responsible, and which i s a condition for Loan effectiveness.

Project Management Design. The design described above also requires that each financed
implementing agency would have a small implementing unit responsible for implementing the
activities financed under the loan. For IBGE, because o f the size of the financed activities, the
current administrative structure will implement the project, undergoing training and continuous
support in Bank procedures. This training will be ongoing and provided by the Bank
implementation specialists under the supervision o f the Bank's technical team for this TAL. The
Ministry o f Health will have small implementing units to keep track of and provide support to
project progress and activities. Such team will prioritize expertise in procurement and financial
management and will rely heavily on the already existing expertise in this Ministry for
implementing Bank projects.

In this regard, each financed implementing agency will be responsible for following the
procedures set forth in the Loan Agreement, especially in the context of procurement,
disbursement and financial management arrangements and reporting project progress to the
Bank. Such an arrangement has been tested in other project experiences, with relative success.
The flow o f funds for financial reporting will be managed though monitoring o f the single
special account for the two implementing agencies.

As each of the financed implementing agencies (IBGE and the Ministry of Health) will be
working independently from one another, institutional capacity issues will need to be addressed
in each agency. The Ministry of Health have considerable experience in working with Bank
financial management and procurement procedures and should therefore have little difficulty in
meeting the implementation demands of the project. While IBGE i s new to Bank operations,
much o f their current operations i s project-based and financed, thus the transition to Bank
procedures should not be difficult. IBGE has elected to implement the project using its existing
technical and administrative capacity, and it will use a contracted agency to assist when needed.
The Bank supports this decision, given the efficient administrative structure of the organization
and the centralized nature of the activities to be executed under this TAL. Duringthe first period
o f implementation, the Bank team will be especially attentive to IBGE's implementation strategy
inorder to react and promptly adjust procedures and processes as needed.




                                                 26

               Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
                           BRAZIL: BR HDTechnicalAssistanceProject

                            PartA -FinancialManaPementAssessment

 I.ScopeofAssessment

 L C O M r a z i l CMU performed a financial management assessment of the Agencies which will
 implement the Technical Assistance Project that accompanies the Programmatic Human
 Development Sector Reform Loan. This assessment included the Ministry of Education, which is
 a participating agency implementing activities that will not be financed by the Bank loan. The
Project will be implemented by three IA' - IBGE2,MEC3and MoH4. The assessments included a
review of all financial management and disbursement arrangements, in place and/or to be
implemented by each of the three IA, in order to evaluate their capabilities to effectively execute
the financial management and monitoring of this Project, to be partially financed through a
Technical Assistance Loan by the World Bank.

The assessment was carried out in accordance with OPBP 10.02 and the Guidelines for
Assessment of Financial Management Arrangements in World Bank-Financed Projects issued by
the FMSB on October 15, 2003. The overall objective of the assessments was to determine
whether the Borrower and its Implementing Agencies have or will have acceptable financial
management arrangements, capable o f i)properly manage and account for all project proceeds,
costs and transactions, ii)produce timely, accurate and reliable financial statements and reports
for general and Bank special purposes, iii)safeguard Project's assets, iv) engage independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank, v) disburse Bank's funds in the most efficient way following
applicable Bank's rules and procedures.

The assessments were carried out on site following meetings and work sessions with the I A s and
various Borrower's staff members involved in the Project preparation. The overall assessments
work included: a) discussions with the Agencies and Borrower's financial staff, b) assessment of
the financial management systems in place and/or to be used for project's accounting, financial
administration, controlling and reporting, c) analysis of the required financial staff manpower
and structure, d) review of funds flow mechanisms, e) review o f internal controls and
administration procedures to control and monitor project execution, f) review disbursement
methodology to be used, g) agree on reporting requirements, h) review internal and external audit
arrangements.




* IA-ImplementingAgencies
  IBGE-BrazilianInstituteof Geographyand Statistics
  MEC-EducationandCultureMinistry
4 MS-HealthMinistry


                                                   27

11. ExecutiveSummary

As mentioned above the Project will be implemented by three federal government I A s - MEC
IBGE, and MoH.        Although the FM Assessment may differ in each IA, most o f the FM
arrangements are applicable equally in all of them. Unless otherwise indicated, all the FM
arrangements described in Part B of this Report are applicable to all three IAs.

In general, the findings of the financial management assessment were satisfactory in relation to
the three I A s and in relation to Bank's requirements. The assessments included agreements on
standards and formats for audited financial statements and timetable for their submission. There
are no Country issues that would impede Bank's lending. The scope of the financial management
assessment was to determine which financial management systems and arrangements are
currently in place or being prepared, ifthey are adequate and which additional arrangements
would have to be implemented in order to meet all Bank's financial management requirements
for an efficient administration for this Project. The I A s agreed with the format o f the Financial
Statements in FMR format, and on the timeframe for their submission duly certified by public
auditors.

The financial management risk associated to the Project is rated as moderate. N o major risks
were identified which would require special recommendations or actions, other than those
already inplace or to be implemented.

111. Conclusion ofAssessment

The FMA concluded that the financial management arrangements of the Project satisfy Bank's
minimum requirements and, financial management systems are in place that can effectively
control and monitor the Project, and provide with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely
information on its implementation status.

IV. Project RiskAnalysis

A risk assessment questionnaire was filled in for each IA on basis of the observations made and
are filed together with the financial management assessment work papers.

The Risk Assessment Matrixes resulting thereof indicated the degree o f risk o f each of the items
related to the Financial Management o f the Project.

The overall risk ratings were:

IBGE-Moderate
IBGE - Weaknesses: Never implemented a Project financed by the Bank, rigidity of SIAFI to
prepare FMRs,flow o f funds subject to Federal Budget contingency.

Mitigation measures: Close support and monitoring; utilization of SIAFI "Gerencial" to prepare
FMRs.




                                                28

 IBGEStrengths: Strong organization, most part of staff i s for a long time onjob and committed
 to Project, SIAFI to control financials (commitments, payments), internal audit.

 MEC Low (andwill implementnon-Bankfinancedactivities)
       -
 M E C - Weaknesses: Coordination Unit formed, flow of funds subject to Federal Budget
 contingency.

 Mitigation measures: M E C has in house experienced staff who can be recruited to work on this
 Project.

 Strengths: A good monitoring system (SIOF) developed specifically to control MEC's projects
 and activities.

M o H- Moderate
M o H - Weaknesses: All FMfunctions will not be carried out centrally in IA, will be spread out
in various MoH's sectors, flow of funds subject to Federal Budget contingency.

Mitigation measures: M o H has in house experienced staff who can be recruited to work on this
Project. There will be one person inthe IA to coordinate the various FMfunctions.

Strengths: M o H has a long time experience with Bank financed Projects.


               Part B-FinancialManagementand DisbursementArrangements

V. ImplementingEntityminancialManagementUnit

It has been decided that the Project will be managed separately by the three IAs, with an
implementation unit in MoH, and through the administrative and technical team of IBGE. In
MEC, the project i s managed by the Unidade de Gesta`o de Projetos, already within the
Executive Secretariat. It i s clearly understood by the Borrower that the UGP(s) should have full
capacity to undertake all financial management responsibilities.

Brief description of the financial management aspects o f each o f the IAs:

IBGE: has a complete organizational structure, whose functions are basically divided between
two Directorates: Executive and Technical. The Technical Directorate undertakes and
coordinates all data collecting and technical research activities. The Executive Directorate i s in
charge o f Procurement and Finance.

The Finance Sector has over 60 staff members engaged basically in three sectors: Budgeting,
Accounting and Financial.

Project implementation will be under the coordination o f the Technical Directorate. A Project
Coordinator has already been appointed. The Project Coordinator will have full administrative,
financial management and procurement support from the various Departments and Sectors from
IBGE's organization.


                                                 29

MEC: the Unidude de Gestiio de Projetos will implement activities that will be financed by
counterpart funds, but that are an integral part of the HD TAL. The Ministry has experience in
implementing Projects financed by the Bank (Fundescola I, Fundescola 11, and Fundescola
IIIA). Project Coordinator has been appointed and a small coordination unit has already been
defined and will be set up to implement the project. This Unit operates under the Execute
Secretariat of MEC, with the participation of the Budget and Planning Sub-secretariat. It i s
composed in principle by key personnel as follows: a Project Coordinator, and specialists in
financial management and procurement. MEC has among its staff, experienced personnel who
can be recruited for this Project. Additional personnel may be hired through UNDP, as required
under new provisions of Decree 5151 dated July 22,2004.

MoH: has a long time experience in implementing Bank financed Projects - AIDS I(closed),
AIDS I1(L.4392), AIDS 111(L.4713), Vigisus I(L.4394), Vigisus I1(negotiations concluded in
April 2004), Family Health (L.7105), Reforsus (L.4047). Each of these Projects has a separate
PIU with full responsibility for the implementation. A small unit to implement this Project will
work under the Secretaria Executiva o f the Ministry.

VI, FundsFlow andDisbursements

The flow of funds for this Project would be as follows:

                                                              Payments
                     Treasury              SIAFI-UGPs         of goods,
                     single                accts.IBGE,        services,
                     Account-              M S            --9 operating




1 -Withdrawals from Loan Account to reimburse Treasury for advances made to Project
2 -Treasury opens budgetary credits in SIAF15Project's accounts
3- Payments to suppliers, contractors, consultants, operating costs, etc


InJuly 2004, STN changed the procedures for reimbursement of expenses financed by the Bank
in a way that disbursements are deposited directly from the Loan Account to the Treasury single
account. However, Treasure wants still to hold the right to open a Special Account, in order to be
able to reverse this procedure in the future, if this i s so decided by the Government. There will
not be Special Accounts anymore, and Bank's funds will be transferred directly from the Loan
Account to Treasury's single account. Payments will be withdrawn directly from the Treasury
single account to the end beneficiaries. Resources for the Project will be allocated in SIAFI, on
basis o f the annual federal budget. Each Project will have a specific budget account in SIAFI,
from which funds will be committed for specific purposes.



  SIAFI-Integrated Federal Financial Administration System


                                                      30

Step by step, this i s how funds will flow infederal projects:

    a. Credits are opened for each spending Unit - UG6,after Federal Budget i s approved by
        Congress, (IBGE, and UGPs and M o H i s UG);

    b. Payments are made by the UGP through SIAFI, and funds are withdrawn from Treasury
        Single Account;

    c. UGPsprepare SOEs and send to STN7;

    d. STN requests disbursements from the Bank to be made directly from the Loan account,
        the exact amount required to refund the eligible expenditures.

Once Federal Budget i s approved by Congress, budget credits are booked in SIAFI to each UG.
According to recent regulations from STN, each UGP i s a UG, Le., with authority to actually
spend the funds which were specifically allocated in the Federal Budget. The UGPs process
payments of Projects' costs through SIAFI directly from Treasury single account. Flow of funds
will be exactly the same for all two financed componentsMs.

Under these Treasury arrangements, disbursements will be made through SOEs, and SS. SOEs
thresholds will be the same as the Procurement thresholds.

VII. Accounting Policies and Procedures, Internal Controls

The two financed I A s follow federal legislation for public accounting, and therefore the
Budgeting and accounting system will be processed and recorded in SIAFI. SIAFI controls all
federal budget and its financial execution. It i s also the accounting system for all federal
agencies. Payments by federal agencies can only be done through SIAFI. When the budget i s
approved by Congress, it i s recorded in SIAFI for each Ministry and Agency. Each Ministry and
Agency can spend only up to the amounts recorded in SIAFI and for the items which were
previously approved inthe overall budget process.

VIII. InternalAudit

Only IBGE has an Internal Audit Department. It i s part of the Brazilian Federal Internal Control
System implemented b y the Presidential Decree # 3591 of September 6, 2000. The Federal
Internal Control System encompasses the Federal Internal Control Secretariat (SFC) and the
Internal Audit Departments o f all Federal owned public Enterprises and Indirect Administration
Entities. Internally the Audit Department reports to the President and to a Committee formed by
representatives of the National Treasury, Central Bank, Public prosecutors and two public
servants elected by staff. Externally it reports to SFC. SFC approves their annual budget and
work program. Audit findings are regularly reported and relevant points are followed up for



 UG-Unidade Gestora-Unit responsible and with authority to spend funds allocated by the Federal Budget.
Currently PIU are UG.
'STN-National  Treasury Secretariat


                                                     31

corrective actions. Its independence level i s satisfactory and they also provide support to the
external auditors.

IX. ExternalAudit -Audit Reports

External audit will follow Bank's new audit policy and audit guidelines issued by the FMSB on
June 30,2003. Project's accounts and Financial Statements will be audited by SFC. The year-end
FMRs,inthe agreed format, will be used as the annual Financial Statements of the Project,




    Audit Report                                   Due Date
    1) Project Financial Statements with           Upto six months after closing of fiscal
        auditors single opinion                    year
    2) Management letter                           Upto six months after closing of fiscal
                                                   year

X. Reporting and Monitoring Financial Statements
                                  -

FinancedI A ' s will report using SIAFI"Gerencial". SIAFI "gerencial" i s a special tool developed
and implemented to issue financial reports based on the financial execution o f the Project. The
project will report quarterly in the format of FMR Financial Statements. Each report will contain
the figures for the quarter, accumulated for year, accumulated for the Project. The year-end
Financial Statements will be issued in the same FMR format and will also serve for independent
audit purposes. The FMR formats have already being agreed with the U s , and samples will be
available by negotiations. All FMRs supporting documentation will be filed in the IAs, for
auditors' inspection and review by Bank's supervision missions.

The following Reports in FMR formats will be issued:




            I RSF-2  Expendituresby components                            1Quarterly  I

XI. Information Systems

The basic tool for accounting, budget recording, reporting, monitoring and financial control i s
SIAFI.




                                                32

XII. Allocation of LoanProceeds


           ExpenditureCategory                    IAmount in
                                                       US$               Financing Percentage

  1. Goods and Non-consulting Services"'                            100%
  Consulting Services, Training Seminars,
  and IncrementalOperationalCosts for               5,940,000
  Part A
  2. Goods and Non-consultingServices"'             1,980,000       100%
  Consulting Services, Training Seminars,
  and IncrementalOperationalCosts for
  Part C
 Front EndFee                                        40,000         100%
  Total Project Costs                              8,000,000
' Non-consultantservices includedbut is not limitedto printing.
2/ The term "incremental operationalcosts" meansthe reasonablenon-consultant'scosts incurred for the
   implementationof the projectincludingconsumable supplies and transportation needs.

XIII. Retroactive financing and closingdate

Retroactivefinancing will be accepted up to a total of US$ 1,500,000 for eligible expenditures
incurredfor twelve monthsbeforethe Loan Agreement's signature, but after July 1,2004.
Closing date for the Loan is July 31,2009.




                                                     33

                                      Annex 8: Procurement


                          BRAZIL: BR HD Technical Assistance Loan
A)    General

Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in May 2004; and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published in
May 2004); and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement.

There are two financed implementing agencies under the proposed Project:); Ministry of Health
(MoH)and Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics - (IBGE)of the Ministry of Planning.
One UGP i s under the Executive Secretariat (MoH) and the implementing team under the
Technical Director o f IBGE. Each one i s responsible to execute the respective component of the
Project. The project will consist of three components described inAnnex 4 of this PAD.:

The general descriptions of various items under different expenditure category are described in
the Procurement Plan. For each contract to be financed by the Loan, the different procurement
methods or consultant selection methods, the need for estimated costs, prior review
requirements, and time frame are agreed between the Borrower and the Bank project team.

Procurement of Goods: Goods estimated to cost US$350,000 equivalent per contract or more
will be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. Goods procured
under this project would include: Data processing equipment and peripherals. The procurement
will be done usingBank's SBD for all ICB.

Goods estimated to cost more than US$lOO,OOO equivalent and less than US$350,000 equivalent
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis o f NCB procedures. Goods
procured under this project would include: Data processing equipment and peripherals as well
as other items that may be grouped to reach NCB thresholds, are expected to be procured
through this method, as described in item Incremental Operating Costs. The procurement will be
done usingthe National SBD (SEAIN)agreed with the Bank.

Contracts estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent each, may be purchased on the basis
of price quotations from at least three eligible suppliers. Pregiio eletr6nico may be used as an
alternative to national or international Shopping for off-the-shelf items under all three
components. Scattered printing services, small technical services, computer equipment and
peripherals, office equipment and furniture, sundries items, and logistics for training events and
workshops have been identified to be procured under this method.

Procurement of non-consulting services: Under the technical and project management
components, goods will be procured by the respective implementing agencies' procurement unit,
and besides the above mentioned goods, the non-consulting services foreseen at this stage for the
Project, consist of printing services, small technical services, and communication equipment. In
addition, IBGE will procure tickets, rent boats, planes and vehicles, and provide daily
subsistence allowance for carrying out selected surveys. The procurement of non-consulting


                                                34

services may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping procedures and/or
Pregdo eletrdnico.

Selection of Consultants: The proposed project would finance consultant services by firms and
individuals. It is expected that the project will finance several studies, design of information
systems, data collection and analysis, activities to the Cadastro System, etc. manuals to the HD
TAL Project, etc. It is also expected that the project will finance studies and research activities
through a variety of interventions. The project's selection and employment of consultants will be
carried out under arrangements acceptable to the Bank (Table A2), using the Bank's Standard
Forms and Contracts. The following methods apply:

Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) procedure will be used for consultant services,
project's studies, implementation and supervision, and training contracts. Short lists of
consultants for services estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract may be
composed entirely of national consultants in accordance with the provisions o f paragraph 2.7 of
the Consultant Guidelines.

Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications (CQS) No CQS method was identified for the
two agencies: IBGEand MoH.

Individual Consultants: national and international consultants will be hired by the
implementing agencies, for assignments which meet the criteria specified in Section V of the
Guidelines. A core group for providing technical and operational assistance for project
management will be hired through this method, and includes Planning and Monitoring specialist,
specialists to each area o f intervention, Procurement and Financial Management specialists, and
Information and Technology specialist.

Project Incremental Operating Costs: Incremental operational costs refers to the management
and supervision o f the Project. These services will be financed in accordance to bi-annual plans
approved b y the Bank. Identification of suppliers o f sundry items and minor services will be
made through market inquiries in the local market as in shopping. Once the suppliers are
established (generally those offering the lowest cost o f lists o f items), a purchase order will be
issued using regular administrative procedures. The market inquiries will be updated
periodically. Internal travel may be procured through administrative procedures acceptable to the
Bank.

Others: The training and workshops activities under the project include several training
activities (not all identified at inception). The UGPs will follow shopping for the procurement of
space, facilities, travel, lodging, hiringof speakers, and development of materials.


B) Assessment of the agency's capacity to implement procurement

Bank-financed procurement activities will be carried out by Unidudes Gerenciadoras do Projeto
(UGPs) within the Secretarias Executivas (SE) of the Ministry of Health (MoH) and IBGE, a
public institute of the Ministry of Planning. The UGPs will retain a bi-lingual individual
consultant with experience in Bank's procurement and selection of consultant's procedures (No.


                                                  35

1of the Action Plan) and will organize a procurement team consisting of at least one well-trained
personnel to exercise the procurement and financial functions in accordance with Bank's rules
and to carry out supervisory responsibilities (No. 2 of the Action Plan). If used, the Project
Implementation Manual will include, in addition to the procurement procedures, the SBDs to be
used for each procurement method, as well as model contracts for works and goods procured.

An assessment of the capacity of the Implementing Agencies to implement procurement actions
for the project has been carried out by PAS Anemarie Guth Proite on February 16, 2004 in M E C
and IBGE, and on May 19,2005 inMoH. The assessmentreviewed the organizational structures
for implementing the project and the interaction between the project's staff responsible for
procurement Officer and both institutions the Ministry o f Health and IBGE's relevant central
unit for administration and finance.

There i s a Country Procurement Assessment (CPAR) for Brazil dated 2004. The results o f this
review indicate that the judicial protests or recurso continue to be a major difficulty in the
government procurement. Another finding indicate that the use of pregzo eletrdnico and other
modern procurement methods will add efficiency and transparency to the government
procurement The CPAR recognizes that the procurement function in the federal government i s
robust.

Most o f the issuedrisks concerning the procurement component for implementation of the
project have been identified and include:

         Procurement Cycle Management: The opportunity and timing of the procurement at
         both UGPs i s determined by the availability o f budgetary resources provided by the
         Ministries involved (MoH, and MP (IBGE)). Planning o f procurement is not a strength
         of the procurement cycle in both UGPs thus, both UGP staff will have to be trained in
         preparingprocurement plans.

         Legal Aspects and Procurement Practices: There are no serious concerns raised
         regarding quality of internal procurement practices of the core o f the UGPs and their
         conformity with procurement practices acceptable to the Bank.               The proposed
         procurement arrangements would include the use o f pregzo eletrdnico as an alternative
         to shopping. There i s need to insert in the loan agreement such an acceptability,

         Organization and Functions: The overall organization of the both UGPs i s acceptable,
         The majority o f the staff are civil servants but, there may be cases o f hiring individual
         consultants following Bank's Guidelines. The procurement function should be
         strengthened by providing both UGPs, at M o H and IBGE, the resources as indicated in
         their respective Action Plan.

         Support and Control Systems: The project includes large amount in hiring ugentes de
         coletu de dudos thus involving transfer of funds to de-centralized units (IBGE) in every
         state within the country. All this de-centralized activity will require a good control
         system. In the assessment to the sample visited, it was confirmed the participant entity
         has a good system installed and staff well trained. However, there i s no procurement
         module operating in neither UGP (MoH and IBGE) to make operational the


                                                  36

    procurement monitoring system nor the PMR reporting. Activity No. 5 of the Action
    Plan refer to this action. The Ministry of Health information was not available at the
    time the assessment was taking place.

(e) Record-keeping: Detailed procurement records, reflecting the project's supply of goods
    and consultant services, including records o f time taken to complete key steps in the
    process and procurement activities related to supervision, review and audits, will be
    maintained by each UGP. These records will be maintained for at least two years after
    the project's closing date. The records for goods will include public notices, bidding
    documents and addenda, bidopening information, bidevaluation reports, formal appeals
    by bidders and outcomes, signed contracts with related addenda and amendments,
    records on claims and dispute resolution, and any other useful information, including a
    procurement plan in a format acceptable to the Bank. It was noted that the availability,
    quality, security and completeness of procurement records and files in IBGE does not
    meet good standards. The lack of space and file cabinets to orderly file procurement
    documentation i s a fact for both UGPs. Activity No. 6 of the Action Plan requires that
    both UGPs a IBGEto install andor improve their filing systems. Quite the contrary, the
    procurement files of the Ministry of Health's UGP is well kept and neatly organized,

(f) Procurement Information System (SIZG): There is a necessity to upgrade the existing
    clients' Information Systems Activity in order to include the a module for reporting the
    procurement plan and other procurement actions reflected in No. 4 o f the Action Plan.
    Inrelation to the Ministry of Health, the system was not availableto be assessed.

(g) Staffing: The quality and quantity of the staff is essential to good procurement
    administration. The assessment determined that both UGPs should be staffed with at
    least one senior specialist capable of doing upstream work in procurement of goods and
    one specialist in hiringconsultants experienced inWorld Bank procurement and shall be
    retained in the UGP throughout the project implementation. in virtue of the capacity
    assessment risk classification on procurement aspects activity No. 2 of the Action Plan
    refer to this action.. One of them, may also be the responsible person to monitor and
    supervise the procurement management system. A greater challenge i s for UGP at both
    entities to ensure the compliance with the basic procurement arrangements under the
   Project on a regular and consistent basis.

(h) General Procurement Environment: The control units at the federal level have
   difficulties understanding such differences.        Seemingly, the judiciary confronts
   difficulties recognizing such differences during the resolution of conflicts. The
   confidentiality o f the process i s also a point o f conflict. It i s agreed that M o H will
   establish the UGP in accordance with the below chart where a detailed and integrated
   financial monitoring and procurement environment i s to be taken place:




                                           37

The overall risk assessment for both agencies (MoH and IBGE), i s high and would require at
least one full time procurement staff in the UGPs throughout the implementation of the project,
due to the unfamiliarity o f Bank's Guidelines by the agencies' staff (civil servants). This
recommendation i s reflected in the Action Plan for the improvement of the implementation
capacity as reflected inActivity No. 2.

                                   Procurement Functional Chart




                                              38

                               ProposedAction Planfor the Project




       experienceinBank's Procurementand Selection of        prior to Pioject implementation and be
       Consultant's procedures to closely work with Project   maintainedduring the Project implementation.
       staff (UGP).
2.     The ProcurementUnit staff shouldinclude at least      At the time of formation of the UGPand
       one well trainedprocurementpersoncapableof             during project implementation
       doing upstreamwork inprocurementand managing
       the information system.
3.     UGP will submit to the Bank the format of the          By Loan Signing
       procurement andmonitoring report.
4.     The Borrower's Information Systemshould be able       As soon as procurement plans are completed
       to monitor, follow-up activities on procurementand
       up-datethe existing procurementplan.
5.     Implementingagencies (MoH andIBGE), to                 Approved by the Bank negotiations.
       maintain anddevelop amanualon all procurement
       methodsas well as detailing the proceeds.


6      UGPs to install and/or improving filing systemand      By Disbursement.
       specialbidding commissionsestablishedin each
       UGP.




C) Procurement Plan

The implementing agencies prepared their procurement plans for the activities to be carried out
during the first 18-24months of project implementation. These plans were approved by the Bank
and filed in the project files. It will also be available in the Project's database and in the Bank's
external website. The procurement plans consist o f (i)project's goods, including contract
packaging, applicable procedures and process scheduling; and (ii)a consultant and training
providers selection process plan for the project's training and consultant services, including
contract packaging, applicable procedures, and selection criteria. The procurement and consultant
selection process plans reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvement in
institutional capacity, will be updated periodically, and shall be submitted to the Bank in January
of each year. Such updating shall include the (i)      list of contracts completed, under execution,
under procurement, to be procured in the upcoming calendar semester and, tentatively in the
subsequent semester; (ii)   costs of completed and under execution contracts, estimated costs for
upcoming contracts; (iii)schedule of bidding; and (iv) particular methods of procurement of
goods or selection of consultants in accordance to a format agreed with the Bank. The working
instructions will be in the Operational Manual which will contain standard bidding documents,
request for proposal, formats for reporting on procurement, forms o f contract, timetables, model
of TOR and any other relevant information related to procurement.


                                                   39

D) Procurement Implementation

Advertising. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) for the purchasing o f ICB goods must be
published in the United Nations Development Business, no later than September 2004.
Thereafter, the Notice will be updated annually for outstanding consultant services and ICB
goods. In addition, detailed consultant services and assignments will be advertised, as they
become available, in at least one national newspaper of a large circulation. The two financed
Executing Agencies (IBGE and MoH) may also seek "expressions of interest" by contacting
embassies, professional organizations, or firms that are known. In this case, the information
required would be minimum, limited to make a judgment on the firm's and/or individual
consultants suitability. Sufficient time (not less than 15 days) will be provided for responses,
before preparing the short lists.

Operational Manual (OM). In order to reduce implementation delays and define roles,
responsibilities, mechanisms, schedules and accountability arrangements, the Operations Team
will prepare a draft of an Operational Manual of the project (enactment would be a condition o f
signature). The OM will include conditions necessary for implementation o f the project such as:
institutional arrangements; operational procedures (including a system for monitoring and
verification of conditionalities, eligibility procedures); procurement and contracting procedures,
sample standard biddingdocuments and filing instructions (including for ICB, QCBS and NCB);
project administration, monitoring and progress reports, and evaluation plans.

E) Frequency ofProcurementSupervision

In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, the capacity
assessment of the Implementing Agency has recommended twice a year supervision missions to
visit the field to carry out post review of procurement actions. The Bank will carry out two
annual procurement reviews to review the transfer o f funds to de-centralized units in every state
with emphasis in the hiring of data collectors, supervision and operational costs and transfer of
funds (ajuda de custos).

Ex-Post Reviews:       All bidding processes regardless of their value are subject to ex-post
procurement review. All documentation included but not limited to: terms of reference, bidding
documents and request for proposals, bids or proposal received, correspondence on all bids either
prior or following of award o f contract and any subsequent amendments should be maintained
until at least two years following the closing of the project.

The Bank's review of selection o f consultants will be in accordance with Appendix 1 o f the
Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants and the provisions stipulated in the
Loan Agreement. Consultant contract documents to be reviewed will include TORS,shortlists,
evaluation reports, and contract forms. A review process similar to individual consultants, will
apply to training and workshops.

The size of the sample for post-review will be 1 in 5 in all cases. This ratio may be adjusted
during project implementation depending on the performance of the agencies and the results of
the reviews.


                                                  40

                                                                                  Attachment 1



      Details of the Procurement Arrangement Involving International Competition


1.     Goods and Works and non consulting services.

  (a) List of contract Packages which will be procured following ICB:




IBGE 01
     -      processing US$l.lZmi   ICB      NIA    Yes        Prior   30-Sep-04   none
           Equipment



  (b) ICB Contracts estimatedto cost above $250,000percontract will be subject to prior
     review by the Bank.

       Consulting Services.

       No international competition for consulting services was identifiedduring preparation of
       the Procurement Plans

       Consultancy services (firms) estimated to cost above $100,000 per contract and
       Individual Consultancy services estimated to cost above $50,000 per contract will be
       subject to prior review by the Bank as set forth in the Procurement Plan

       Short lists composed entirely of national consultants: Short lists of consultants for
       services estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract may be composed
       entirely of national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the
       Consultant Guidelines.




                                               41

                  Annex 9: Economic and FinancialAnalysis
                  BRAZIL: BR HDTechnical Assistance Loan


Not Applicable.




                                   42

                    Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues
                 BRAZIL: BR HDTechnicalAssistanceLoan


Not applicable.




                                 43

                       Annex 11:Project Preparation and Supervision
                        BRAZIL: BR HDTechnical Assistance Loan




I                                     I                             I                            I

Key institutions responsible for preparation of the project: Ministry o f Education, Ministry of
Health and IBGE.

Bank staff and consultantswho worked on the project included:

 Name                                               Title                           Unit
 Albert0 Rodriguez                  Lead. Education Specialist (TTL)              LCSHD
 Madalenados Santos                 Sector Leader                                 LCSHD
 Ademildes Dantas                   Operations Officer                            LCSHD
 Alexandre Borges de Oliveira       Procurement Analyst                           LCOPR
 Amber K. Gove                      Consultant                                    LCSHD
 Anabela Abreu                      Peer Reviewer                                 SASHD




 Marta Molares-Halberg              Lead Counsel                                  LEGLA
 Mary Sheehan                       Lead Operations Officer                       LCCSC
 Suzana Campos Abbott               Lead Operations Officer                       LCSHD



                                                44

Bankfunds expendedto date on projectpreparation:
1. Bank resources: $83,000
2. Trust funds:       --
3. Total:          $83,000

EstimatedApproval and Supervisioncosts:

1. Remainingcosts to approval: 6,500
2. Estimatedannual supervisioncost: $85,000




                                          45

                         Annex 12: Documentsinthe Project File
                      BRAZIL: BR HDTechnical Assistance Loan

A. Backgrounddocuments:

- FundescolaI,ProjectAppraisal Document,March 16, 1998
- FundescolaIIIa, ProjectAppraisal Document,May 17,2002
- FirstProgrammaticHumanDevelopmentSector ReformLoan(PSRL)ProjectAppraisal
     Document,January 27,2003
- BolsaFamilia, ProjectAppraisal Document,March2004

B. ProjectDocuments:

- Supervisiondocument: HDPSRLprogramupdate, with Review of TriggersTable, March8,
  2004

C. BankAssessments:

- Environmentaland Social Commentson PCN
- FMA Report andFMarrangements




                                          46

                                       Annex 13: Statementof Loansand Credits
                      BRAZIL: HumanDevelopmentTechnicalAssistance Loan(TAL)

                                                                                                             Differencebetween
                                                                                                             expectedandactual
                                                         Original Amount in US$Millions                        disbursements

Project ID FY   Purpose                               IBRD        IDA       SF       GEF    Cancel. Undisb. orig.     Frm.Rev'd

PO69934    2005 BR-PERNAMBUCO INTEGDEVT:               31.50       0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   31.50   3.11         0.00
                EDUC QUAL IMPR
PO87711    2005 BR Espirito SantoWtr & CoastalPollu    36.00       0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   33.82   0.09         0.00
PO83533    2005 BR TA-Sustain. & Equit Growth          12.12       0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   12.12   0.83         0.00
PO76924    2005 BR-(Amapa) SustainableCommunities       4.80       0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00    4.80   0.03         0.00
PO82328    2005 BR-Integ.Munk.Proj.-BetimMunicipality  24.08       0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   23.95   2.72         0.00
PO60573    2004 BR Tocantins SustainableRegionalDev    60.00       0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   59.40   15.40        0.00
PO80830    2004 BR Maranhao Integrated:RuralDev        30.00       0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   30.00   4.62         0.00
PO83013    2004 BR Disease Surveillance& ControlAPL   100.00       0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   99.00   -0.50        0.00
                L

PO87713    2004 BR (CRLl) Bolsa Familia 1stAPL        572.20       0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00  572.20   78.13        0.00
PO58503    2003 GEFBR Amazon RegionProt Areas           0.00       0.00      0.00     30.00   0.00   26.17    0.00        0.00
                (ARPA)
PO49265    2003 BR-RECIFE URBANUPGRADING               46.00       0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   44.99   10.16        0.00
                PROJECT
PO70827    2003 BR-2ndAPL BAHIA DEV.                   60.00       0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   33.11   21.74        0.00
                EDUCATION PROJECT
PO54119    2003 BR BAHIA DEVT (HEALTH )                30.00       0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   26.48   10.48        0.00
PO74777    2003 BR-MunicipalPensionReformTAL            5.00       0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00    4.90    4.83        0.40
PO76977    2003 BR-Energy Sector TA Project            12.12       0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   12.00    5.70        0.00
PO80400    2003 BR-AIDS & STD Control 3               100.00       0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   91.88   35.18        0.00
PO55954    2002 BR GOIAS STATE HIGHWAY                 65.00       0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   27.08   27.08       -1.02
                MANAGEMENT
PO57653    2002 BR- FUNDESCOLA IIIA                   160.00       0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00  151.71  -73.31        0.00
PO57665    2002 BR-FAMILY HEALTH EXTENSION             68.00       0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   51.14   44.60        0.00
                PROJECT
PO60221    2002 BR FORTALEZA METROPOLITAN              85.00       0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00  111.47   70.68        0.00
                TRANSPORTPROJ
PO66170    2002 BR-RGN 2ND RuralPoverty Reduction      22.50       0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   12.15    8.38        0.00
PO70552    2002 GEFBR PARANA BIODIVERSITY               0.00       0.00      0.00      8.00   0.00    6.18    6.78        0.00
                PROJECT
PO73192    2002 BR TA FinancialSector                  14.50       0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00    9.30    9.03        0.00
PO74085    2002 BR SergipeRural Poverty Reduction      20.80       0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00    1.45   -0.99        0.00
PO51696    2002 BR SA0 PAUL0 METRO LINE4              209.00       0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00  163.41  150.31        0.00
                PROJECT
PO43869    2002 BR SANTA CATARINA NATURAL              62.80       0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   58.64   23.08        0.00
                RESOURC& POV.
PO50881    2001 BR PIAUIRURAL POVERTY                  22.50       0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00    4.60    4.44        0.00
                REDUCTION PROJECT
PO50880    2001 BR Pemambuco Rural PovertyReduction    30.10       0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00    7.37    6.83        0.00
PO50875    2001 BR Ceara RuralPovertyReduction         37.50       0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00    5.72    4.97        0.00
                Project
PO59566   2001  BR- CEARA BASIC EDUCATION              90.00       0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   61.18  -28.82        0.00
PO50772   2001  BR LAND-BASED POVRTY                  202.10       0.00      0.00      0.00  58.13  165.13  152.74        0.00
                ALLEVIATION I(SIM)
PO73294   2001  BR Fiscal & Fin. Mgmt. TAL             8.88        0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00    6.74    5.78        0.00



                                                              47

PO47309   2000  BR ENERGY EFFICIENCY(GEF)              0.00   0.00    0.00    15.00    3.10       3.69      6.79        3.76
PO06449   2000  BR CEARA WTR MGT PROGERIRH           136.00   0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00      57.52     54.64        11.76
                Sm?
PO39199   2000  BR PROSANEAR 2                        30.30   0.00    0.00     0.00    6.40      22.29     28.69        22.29
PO50776   2000  BR NEMicrofinance Development         50.00   0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00      21.20    -28.80        0.00
PO35741   2000  BR NATLENV 2                          15.00   0.00    0.00     0.00    2.32       5.61      7.93        4.34
PO48869   1999  BR SALVADOR URBANTRANS               150.00   0.00    0.00     0.00    32.00     53.95     85.95        0.00
PO50763   1999  BR- Fundescola2                     202.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    10.86      4.24     15.10        0.00
PO38895   1998  BR FED.WTR MGT                       198.00   0.00    0.00     0.00    40.00     55.03     95.03        38.88
PO06474   1998  BR LAND MGT 3 (SA0PAULO)              55.00   0.00    0.00     0.00    10.00     33.75     43.75        28.86
PO43421   1998  BR RJM.TRANSIT PRJ.                  186.00   0.00    0.00     0.00    27.78     82.50    110.28        0.00
PO43420   1998  BR WATER S.MOD.2                     150.00   0.00    0.00     0.00   125.00     19.33    144.30        6.94
PO42565   1998  BR PARAIBA R.POVERTY                  60.00   0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00      4.47      4.47         0.00
PO57910   1998  BR PENSION REFORMLIL                   5.00   0.00    0.00     0.00     0.50      1.48      1.98         1.48
PO06532   1997  BR FEDHWY DECENTR                   300.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    50.00     44.15     94.15        -2.41
PO34578   1997  BR RGS Highway MGT                    70.00   0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     17.30     17.30        -0.45
PO43868   1997  BR RGS LANDMGTPOVERTY               100.00    0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00      2.94      2.94         1.76
PO43873   1997  BR AG TECH DEV.                       60.00   0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     15.31     15.31        15.31
PO37828   1996  BR (PR)R.POVERTY                    175.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    10.00     30.01     40.01        -0.51
PO06210   1996  GEFBR-NATL BIODIVERSITY                0.00   0.00    0.00    10.00     0.00      1.67      1.62         0.93
                                             Total: 4,164.80  0.00    0.00    63.00   376.09   2,426.03  1,345.54      132.32




                                                          BRAZIL
                                                STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                             Held and DisbursedPortfolio
                                               InMillions of U S Dollars


                                                         Committed                           Disbursed
                                                       IFC                                  IFC

     FY Approval  Company                  Loan       Equity   Quasi   Partic.  Loan       Equity      Quasi     Partic.

     2005         ABN AMRO REAL            7.00         0.00    0.00     0.00      7.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
     2001         AG Concession            0.00        15.00    15.00    0.00      0.00     14.07       0.00      0.00
     2002105      Amaggi                   30.00        0.00    0.00     0.00     15.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
     2002         AndradeG.SA              25.67        0.00    10.00   15.15     25.67      0.00      10.00     15.15
     2001         Apolo                    7.21         0.00    0.00     0.00      4.71      0.00       0.00      0.00
     2005         Aracruz                  50.00        0.00    0.00     0.00     50.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
      1998        Arteb                    20.00        0.00    0.00    18.33     20.00      0.00       0.00     18.33
     1999        AutoBAn                   22.73        0.00    0.00    17.25     22.73      0.00       0.00     17.25
     1998        BSC                       1.33         0.00    0.00     0.55      1.26      0.00       0.00      0.55
     1996        BancoBradesco             0.68         0.00    0.00     1.oo      0.68      0.00       0.00      1.oo
     2001        Brazil CGFund             0.00        20.00    0.00     0.00      0.00      2.60       0.00      0.00
     1994196     CHAF'ECO                  1.78         0.00    0.00     5.26      1.78      0.00       0.00      5.26
     2002104     CN Odebrecht              25.00        0.00    0.00     0.00     25.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
     2003        CPFLEnergia               0.00         0.00   40.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      40.00      0.00
     1992        CRP-Caden                 0.00         0.17    0.00     0.00      0.00      0.17       0.00      0.00
     1996197     CTBC Telecom              0.00         6.54    0.00     0.00      0.00      6.54       0.00      0.00
     1999        Cibrasec                  0.00         3.22    0.00     0.00      0.00      2.71       0.00      0.00

2004        Comgas                      45.00     0.00    0.00   45.00   12.50  0.00    0.00   12.50
 1997/00    Coteminas                   0.00      0.18    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.18   0.00   0.00
 1980/92    DENPASA                     0.00      0.06    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.06   0.00   0.00
 1998       Dixie Toga                  0.00     10.36    0.00    0.00   0.00   10.36   0.00   0.00
 1997       Duratex                     3.24      0.00    3.00    2.55   3.24   0.00    3.00   2.55
 1999       Eliane                       19.20    0.00   13.00    0.00   19.20  0.00   13.00   0.00
 1998       Empesca                     5.00      0.00   10.00    0.00   5.00    0.00  10.00   0.00
2000104     Fleury                      20.00     0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
 1998       Fosfertil                   4.55      0.00    0.00   16.70   4.55    0.00   0.00   16.70
1998        Fras-le                     5.33      0.00    9.99    0.00   5.33    0.00   6.69   0.00
1994        GAVEA                       0.00      0.00    5.50    0.00   0.00    0.00   5.50   0.00
            GPCptl Rstrctd              0.00      3.02    0.00    0.00   0.00    2.95   0.00   0.00
2001        GPC                         0.00      0.00    9.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   9.00   0.00
1997        Guilman-Amorim              20.99     0.00    0.00   28.74   20.99   0.00   0.00   28.74
1998        IcatuEquity                 0.00      5.79    0.00    0.00   0.00    4.42   0.00   0.00
1999        InnovaSA                    12.50     5.00    0.00   30.00   12.50   5.00   0.00   30.00
1980/87/97  Ipiranga                    23.62     0.00    0.00   39.75  23.62    0.00   0.00   39.75
1999        Itaberaba                   0.00      2.28    0.00    0.00   0.00    2.28   0.00    0.00
2000/02     Itau-BBA                    83.63     0.00    0.00    0.00   51.48   0.00   0.00    0.00
1999        JOSAPAR                     7.57      0.00    7.00    0.00    2.57   0.00   7.00    0.00
1995        LojasAmericana              2.00      0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00   0.00   0.00    0.00
1992/99     MBR                         12.50     0.00    0.00    0.00   12.50   0.00   0.00    0.00
2002        Macae                       38.27     0.00   10.00   31.25   38.27   0.00  10.00   31.25
2002        Microinvest                 0.00      1.25    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.42   0.00    0.00
2002/05     Net Servicos                0.00      7.37    0.00    0.00    0.00   7.37   0.00    0.00
1994        Para Pigmentos              6.45      0.00    9.00    0.00    6.45   0.00   9.00    0.00
1996        Perdigao                    2.19      0.00    0.00    0.00    2.19   0.00   0.00    0.00
1994/00/02  Portobello                  0.00      1.15    0.00    0.00    0.00   1.15   0.00    0.00
2000        Puras                       1.33      0.00    1.oo    0.00    1.33   0.00   1.oo    0.00
2003104     Queiroz Galvao              0.60      0.00   0.00     0.00    0.08   0.00   0.00    0.00
            RandonImp1Part              3.27      0.00    3.00    0.00    3.27   0.00   3.00    0.00
1997/03     SP Alpargatas               30.00     0.00   0.00     0.00   15.00   0.00   0.00    0.00
1997        Sadia                       5.84      0.00   3.67    37.06    5.84   0.00   3.67   37.06
2002        Salutia                     0.00      0.01   0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00
1997        Samarco                     5.40      0.00   0.00     0.00    5.40   0.00   0.00    0.00
1998        Saraiva                     3.46      2.40   0.00     0.00    3.46   2.40   0.00    0.00
2003        Satipel                     12.86    0.00    10.00    0.00   12.86   0.00  10.00    0.00
2000        Sepetiba                    26.68    0.00    5.00     0.00   11.68   0.00   5.00    0.00
1999        Sudamerica                  0.00     7.35    0.00     0.00    0.00   7.35   0.00    0.00
2001        Synteko                     15.43    0.00    0.00     0.00   15.43   0.00   0.00    0.00
1998104     Tecon Rio Grande            8.10     0.00    0.00     8.10    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00
2001I03     Tecon Salvador              0.00     0.56    0.00     0.00    0.00   0.55   0.00    0.00
2004        TriBanco                    10.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00
2002        UPOffshore                  11.60    10.00   0.00    30.00   0.00    3.00   0.00    0.00
2002104     Unibanco                    20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00
                       Total portfolio: 658.01  101.71  164.16  326.69  470.57  73.58  145.86 256.09




                                                      49

                                                  Approvals PendingCommitment
                                               ~~~                               ~

 FY Approval Company                        Loan        Equity     Quasi   Partic.
~

 2005        ABN AMRO REAL                0.03          0.00       0.00     0.00
 2000        BBA                          0.01           0.00      0.00     0.00
 2002        BancoItau-BBA                0.00           0.00      0.00     0.10
 1999        Cibrasec                     0.00          0.00       0.00     0.00
 2005        CosanSAIC                    0.05          0.02       0.00     0.00
 2005        Embraer                      0.04           0.00      0.00     0.10
 2005        GP CapitalI11                0.00           0.02      0.00     0.00
 2005        LOJAS I1                     0.04           0.00      0.00     0.00
 2002        Suape ICT                    0.01           0.00      0.00     0.00
 2004        TermoFortaleza               0.06          0.00       0.01     0.11

                 Total pendingcommitment:    0.24       0.04       0.01     0.31




                                         50

                                                     Annex 14: Country at a Glance
                       BRAZIL: HumanDevelopmentTechnicalAssistanceLoan(TAL)
                                                                      Latin       Lower-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                   America      middle
                                                             Brazil & Carib.     income       Developmentdiamond'
2003
Population, midyear (millions)                                1766       534       2,655                      Lifeexpectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                           2,720    3,260        1,480
GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                              479.5    1,741        3,934

Average annual growth, 1997-03

Population(%)                                                   1 3      1 5         09
Laborforce (%)                                                  1 6      2 1         1 2      GNI                                   Gross
                                                                                              per                                  primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1997-03)                                         capita                             nrollment
Poveity (% ofpopulationbelownationalpovertyline)                22
Urbanpopulation(% of totalpopulation)                           83       77           50
Life expectancyat birth (years)                                 69       71           69                               1
Infant mortality(per 1,000live births)                          33       28           32
Childmalnutntton (% of children under5)                          6                    11           Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulahon)               67        86          81
                                                                                                 ---
Illiteracy(% ofpopulation aqe 154                               14        11          10
Gross pnmaryenrollment (% of school-aqepopulabon)              148       129         112
    Male                                                       153       131         113     j          rr::r-middle-income    orou~
    Female                                                     144       126         111

KEYECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                  1983        1993     2002        2003
                                                                                               Economicratios'
GDP (US$billions)                                203.3       438 3    460 8        492 3
Gross domestic InvestmenVGDP                       16.7       20 8      196         20.1
Exports of goods and servtcedGDP                   11.4       105       155         16.9                            Trade

Gross domestic savings/GDP                         19 1       22.3      21 6        23 8
Gross nationalsavingdGDP                                      20 2      185         207

Currentaccount balance/GDP                         -34         -0 1     -16          0 8      Domestic
Interest paymentdGDP                                3 9        0 6       2 9         2 7                                        Investment
Total debVGDP                                      485        32.9      49 6        480       savings

Total debt service/exporls                         547        24 4      70 3        65.1
Presentvalueof debtlGDP                                                 52 6
Presentvalueof debtlexports                                           329 6
                                                                                                                Indebtedness
                                      1983-93 1993-03         2002     2003      2003-07
(averageannualgrowth)                                                                             -
GDP                                       2 4       2 3        1 9      -0 2         39                   Brazl
GDP per capita                            0 6       1 0        0 7      -1 4         32
Exportsof goodsand services               6 3       7 5       142        7 9          1 6


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                  1983        1993     2002        2003        Growthof investmentand GDP (%)
                                                                                                                                          I
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                        10.9        7.6       5.6          5.8                                                 I
                                                                                              2o T
lndustly                                           44.0       41.6      20.6        19.1       10
   Manufacturing                                   33.2       25.0      12.4        11.4
Services                                           45.1       50.6      73.5        75.1        0

Privateconsumption                                 71.2       60.1      56.1        56.9      -io
Generalgovernmentconsumption                        9.7       17.7      20.1        19.3                   -GDI             -GDP
Importsof goods and services

                                               1983-93 1993-03                     'Oo3        Growthof exports and imports (%)
(averageannualgrowih)
Agriculture                                         2.4        3.9       5.0          5.5     m&
lndustly                                            1.2        1.8
   Manufacturing                                    0.0        1.4
Services                                            3.0        2.5

Privateconsumption                                  0.8        1.9      -0.4         -3.3
Generalgovernmentconsumption                       6.4         2.0       1.0        11.6
Gross domestic investment                          4.9         1.2      -4.3         -4.5
Importsof goods and services                       5.9         4.0    -12.3          -1.9


Note:2003 data are preliminaryestimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicatorsinthe country (in bold)comparedwith its income-groupaverage. If data are missing,the diamondwill
    be incomplete.




                                                                              51

                                                                                                                           Brazil

PRICESand GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                            1983        1993    2002    2003
Domesticprices                                                                     Inflation(%)

(% change)
Consumer prices                            135.0      1,928.0    12.5     9.3
Implicit GDP deflator                      140.2      1,996.6    10.2    12.8
Governmentfinance
(% of GDP, includescurrent grants)
Current revenue                                                  23.9    23.7               98     99     w       01     02      w
Current budgetbalance                                             2.8     3.0
Overall surpius/deficit                                                                    -GDP       deflator   *CPI


TRADE
                                            1983        1993    2002    2003
(US$millions)                                                                        Exportand import levels(US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                                   38,563   60,362 73,084                                                      I
 Coffee                                                2,466    3,049  3,456
 Sovbeans                                      ......
                                               ......  3,074    3,032  4,290     "Coo
 Manufactures                                         25,935  33,000  39,653
Total imports (cif)                                   25,256  47,237  48,260     40 Coo

 Food                                                  1,089    1.085    924
  Fueland energy                                       2,139    6,240  6,577       2 O . W

 Capital goods                                 ....    8,369   11,643  10,348                                                  M I
                                                                                         0

Exportprice index (1995=100)                  80          91       88      95              97   98    99     w     01   M

Importprice index (1995=100)                  57          67       91      90    1I                 Exports        w Imports      I
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    140         136       97     105

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                           1983         1993    2002    2003
(US$ millions)                                                                     Currentaccount balanceto GDP ("A)

Exportsof goods and services              23,611      41,616  69,913  83,567
Importsof goods and services              19,534      31,795  61,709  63,819       ' T
Resourcebalance                            4,077       9,821    8,204  19,748

Net income                               -11,022     -12,099  -18,191 -18,552
Net current transfers                        108       1,686    2,390  2,867

Current account balance                   -6,837        -592   -7,597  4,063

Financingitems (net)                       4,946       9,805   -6,003   -963
Changes in net reserves                    1,891      -9,213   13,600  -3,100

Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$ millions)      4,583      32,211  37,823  49,296
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)        2.1OE-10 3.22E-2          2.9     3.1

                                                                                 I
EXTERNAL DEBTand RESOURCE FLOWS
                                           1983         1993    2002    2003
(US$ millions)                                                                     Compositionof 2003 debt (US$ mlll.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed       98,525 144,104      228,662 236,245
  IBRD                                     3,628       6,575    8,585   8,588                           A 8.588
  iDA                                          0           0        0       0                 G 22,103


Total debt service                        13,304      10,883  51,636  56,793
  IBRD                                       507       1,858    1,518  2,010
  IDA                                          0           0        0       0

Composition of net resourceflows
  Official grants                             18          59        0
  Official creditors                       1,576      -1,033     916
  Private creditors                        2,659      10,073   -9,541     233
  Foreigndirect investment                 1,609       1,292        0
  Portfolio equity                             0       6.570        0            1          F 155,904
World Bank program
  Commitments                              2,067        636     1,276   1,217      A IBRD                            E Bilateral
  Disbursements                            1,204        471    1,384   1,291       B IDA
                                                                                      --       D Other multilateral
                                                                                                -                    F Private
                                                                                                                      --
  Principal repayments                      270        1,279   1,063   1,633       C-iMF                             G .Short-term
  Net flows                                 934         -808     322    -342
  Interestpayments                          237         579      456     377
  Net transfers                             698       -1,387    -134    -719


DevelopmentEconomics                                                                                                       4/12/05




                                                                  52

                             70                                    60                                                 50
                                         V E N E Z U E L A                                                                                                                     40
                                                                                                           FR.
                                                                                                        GUIANA
               C O L O M B I A
                                                           Boa
                                                          Vista              ANAYUG       SURINAME
                                                                                                           (FR)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             B R A Z I L
                                                          RORAIMA                                            A M A P                                A T L A N T I C               O C E A N

          0                                                                                                 Macap                                                                                         0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RIVERS
                                                               Negro                                                             Belm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 STATE CAPITALS
                                                                    Manaus                                Amazonas                                         So Lus

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                       P   A       R                                                                  Fortaleza

                                     A M A Z O N A S                                                                                                                                                                             STATE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                            M A R A N H  O          Teresina
                                                                                                                                                                              C E A R      RIO                                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                         GRANDE     Natal
                                                                                                                                                                                        DO NORTE

                                                                                                                                                                                               PARABA
                                                                                                                                                             P I A U I                               Joo
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Pessoa
                        A C R E                      Porto                                                                         Tocantins                                        PERNAMBUCO       Recife
                                Rio                 Velho
                               Branco                                                                                                                                                             Macei
          10                                                                                                                                                          Sobradinho             ALAGOAS                     This map was produced by the
                                                                                                                         T O C A N T I N S                              Reservoir                                         Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                R O N D  N I A                                                                                                                              Aracaju       10
                                                                                                                                                                                        SERGIPE                           The boundaries, colors, denominations

              P E R U                                                                          M AT O                                                      B       A H  I  A                                              and any other information shown on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          this map do not imply, on the part of
                                                                                             G R O S S O                                                                                                                  The World Bank Group, any judgment
                                                                                                                                                                                       Salvador                           on the legal status of any territory, or
                                                                                                                                                          Francisco
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          any endorsement or acceptance of


                                                                                      Cuiab                           BRASLIAF.D.                                                                                       such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                      So
                                                                                                                     GOIAS
                                                                                                                    Goinia
                                                                                                                                                M I N A S                                                       PANAMA       VENEZUELA
                                             B O L I V I A                                                                                                                                                                                GUYANA
                                                                                                                                                G E R A I S                                                                                   SURINAME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FRENCH GUIANA (FR)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      COLOMBIA

                                                                                              MATO GROSSO                                                       Belo
                                                                                                    DO SUL                 Grande                        Horizonte      ESPRITO                                ECUADOR
                                                                                                                                                                         SANTO
                                                                                                       Campo                                                                Vitria
          20                                                                                          Grande
                                                                                                             Parana   SO PAULO                                                                                       PERU                B R A Z I L
                                                                                                                                                      RIO DE JANEIRO
                                                                     PARAGUAY                                                                                                    A T L A N T I C           20

                                  CHILE                                                                                                                     Rio de Janeiro                                                      BOLIVIA
                                                                                                                                            So Paulo
                                                                                                             PARAN                                                                  O C E A N                    PACIFIC
              P A C I F I C                                                                                                Curitaba                                                                                                      PARAGUAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OCEAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CHILE
               O C E A N                                                            Paraguay                  STA CATARINA
                                                                                                                             Florianpolis                                                                                     ARGENTINA                 A T L A N T I C

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            URUGUAY
                                             A R G E N T I N A                                                                                                                                                                                             O C E A N
                                                                       anaraP                 Uruguay                                         0          250           500       750      1000 KILOMETERS
                                                                                                     RIO GRANDE
                                                                                                       DO SUL        Porto Alegre             0               200           400         600 MILES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD
APRIL

          30                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 31367
     2001
           80                        70                              60                  URUGUAY                   50                                           40                               30  30

