Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB485 
Project Name 
BR HD Technical Assistance Loan 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General education sector (34%);Other social services (33%);Health (33%) 
Project ID 
P082523 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERMENT OF BRAZIL 
Implementing Agency 
 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [ ] B   [X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [ ] S
2
  [ ] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
November 18, 2003 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
August 25, 2003 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 18, 2004 
 
 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
1. 
The proposed Technical Assistance Loan (HD TAL) in the amount of US$15 million (of a total program 
amount of US$25 million) is intended to support the design and implementation of Brazil’s Programmatic Human 
Development Sector Reform Loan (HD PSRL) and is aligned with the Brazil CAS (expected approval December 9, 
2003). The HD PSRL tackles core sectoral issues of targeting, resource allocation and efficiency of spending, by 
promoting stronger accountability and governance, enhancement of equity-oriented policies, and improvement in the 
efficiency and quality of social service delivery.  While the HD PSRL provides a roadmap for sectoral reform that 
ultimately leads toward a stronger culture of performance-base management, the HD TAL will provide the 
immediate tools to assist the government in improving and developing monitoring systems and policy impact 
research, a necessary and urgent step. 
 
2. 
The Government, in requesting Bank support for the development and implementation of monitoring and 
research programs, is seeking to institutionalize a culture of performance-based management under which decision-
making is heavily informed by up-to-date reports and information on program progress and impact. While Brazil 
collects a wide range of data across social sectors, the use of this information for making policy decisions is not yet 
a common practice.  Brazil seeks to break this tradition by developing an institutional feedback mechanism under 
which recurrent and robust data is collected, processed, analyzed, disseminated and thereafter utilized in the policy 
decision-making processes. Institutionalizing this feedback mechanism is at the heart of the HD TAL. 
 
3. 
The Bank, in supporting the Government in this proposed HD TAL is adding value by: (i) helping the 
government identify those key activities that will have significant impact in advancing the sectoral reform agenda; 
(ii) financing several of these activities that are the technical underpinnings of social sector reform but that are 
frequently overlooked in budget decisions; (iii) participating as a partner in the technical discussions of the broader 
reform agenda; and (iv) working with the Government to introduce performance-based management arrangements 
while helping it to achieve international best practice on monitoring and impact evaluation efforts. 
 
4. 
After the first year of President Lula’s administration, during which important benchmarks were achieved on 
macro-economic stability, Brazil’s attention is now focused on the social agenda. Thus, demonstrating progress and 
impact is becoming a priority for the Brazilian Government. The HD PSRL and its corresponding HD TAL are very 
timely and important instruments to assist the Government in maintaining a long-term reform vision while tracking 
social policy implementation progress and impact. 
 
 
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
 
Page  2
 
 
The development objective of the HD TAL is to assist the government in developing institutional capacity to 
monitor the progress and impact of its social policies, a critical step towards institutionalizing performance-based 
management.  This requires improving accountability and governance systems in the social sectors by creating a 
feedback mechanism under which monitoring, evaluation and research programs are used to formulate policies. This 
objective is a deliberate choice among several options, and is the result of identifying the most effective medium-
term activity for achieving more equitable, efficient and quality social programs. Figure 1 illustrates the integration 
between the HD PSRL conceptual framework and the proposed HD TAL strategy. 
 
Figure 1: HD PSRL and HD TAL Integrated Design 
 
 
5. 
The specific development objectives of the TAL are to: 
 
\01\02
Enhance monitoring processes and systems, including the systematic collecting 
of thorough data on social indicators, to permit: (i) stronger, more integrated 
and continuous assessment of progress on social programs and policies, and (ii) 
use of performance information in resource allocation decision-making. 
 
\01\02
Support the development of systematic research and evaluation of the impact of 
health, education and social protection policies and reforms as a means toward 
institutionalizing a results-oriented culture of accountability in public 
organizations responsible for social sector service delivery. 
 
\01\02
Support the institutional reform agenda as specified by the HD PSRL. 
 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
6. 
The proposed project would support both the achievement of the HD PSRL reform objectives and the long-term 
development of institutional capacity, through provision of technical assistance, studies, training and equipment, 
with project costs estimated at US$25 million.  The main activities to be financed under the project include three 
components to monitor and evaluate the reforms in education, health and social assistance, in preparation for the 
subsequent stages of the program.   
 
7. 
Technical assistance will be provided to the Ministry of Education (US$5.0 million of loan), the Ministry of 
Health (US$5.0 million of loan) and the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (US$5.0 million of loan) 
covering the following areas:  (i) training, (ii) improvements in information technology, (iii) specialized 
consultancies, (iv) legal drafting, (v) diagnostic studies, (vi) financing of surveys, and (vii) monitoring activities and 
impact studies.  These figures will be revised as the scope of activities and the related cost estimates are refined 
during the continuation of project preparation.  The following is a description of the main activities which are 
proposed under the above project components.  
Strategy 
Processes 
Structure 
(Institutionalized 
M&E) 
HD PSRL 
 
Accountability 
and Integrated 
Governance 
 
 
 
 
 
Equity Enhancing 
Policies 
 
 
Enhanced Quality 
and Efficiency 
Inputs 
(Quality Data 
Collection) 
  
HD TAL
Culture of 
performance-
based 
management 
Information-based 
decision-making 
(Dissemination) 
Strengthened 
Social Sector 
Effectiveness
Page  3
 
 
 
(a) For the 
Ministry of Education
 technical assistance will be given in the areas of student 
learning assessments and program evaluation (including SAEB, ENEM, 
ENC/PROVÃO); improved targeting mechanisms (for FUNDEF/FUNDEB, Merenda 
Escolar and FIES) and strengthening of a ministry-wide information system to track and 
monitor these and other programs. 
(b) For the 
Ministry of Health
, technical assistance will be directed at introducing 
more equitable resource allocation instruments, more effective provider payment 
mechanisms, results-based management and budgeting tools and policies to further the 
separation of financing and provision of publicly-financed health services.   
(c) For the 
Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics
, technical assistance will focus on 
enhancing national household surveys (PNAD, PME and POF) so as to provide strategic, 
comprehensive and integrated information for monitoring and evaluating the impact of 
social sector reforms. 
 
 
4. 
Safeguard policies that might apply 
[Guideline:  Refer to section 5 of the PCN.  Which safeguard policies might apply to the project and in what ways?  
What actions might be needed during project preparation to assess safeguard issues and prepare to mitigate them?]
 
 
5. Tentative 
financing 
Source: 
($m.) 
BORROWER 
0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
15 
 
Total 15 
 
6. Contact 
point 
Contact: Alberto Rodriguez 
Title: Sr Education Spec. 
Tel: (202) 458-7821 
Fax: (202) 614-0594 
Email: arodriguez@worldbank.org
 
