Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  06/16/2005 
Report No.:  AC1655
1. Project Statistics  
 
Country:  Brazil 
Project ID:  P082523 
Project Name:  Brazil: Human Development Technical Assistance Loan (TAL) 
Task Team Leader:  Alberto Rodriguez 
Estimated Appraisal Date: June 11, 2004 
Estimated Board Date: July 28, 2005 
Managing Unit:  LCSHE 
Lending Instrument:  Technical Assistance 
Loan 
Sector:  General education sector (34%);Other social services (33%);Health (33%) 
Theme:  Other human development (P) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
8.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER 
5.00
5.00 
Environmental Category: C - Not Required 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
Government increases institutional capacity to monitor the progress and impact of its 
social policies, a critical step towards institutionalizing performance-based management.   
 
3. Project Description 
Component 1:  Collection of Monitoring and Evaluation Data in the Social Sectors is 
Strengthened. For the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics, technical assistance 
will focus on enhancing national household surveys (PNAD, PME and POF) so as to 
provide strategic, comprehensive and integrated information for monitoring and 
evaluating the impact of key social sector reforms and living conditions of the Brazilian 
population.  
 
Component 2:  Monitoring and evaluation in the Education Sector is improved. For the 
Ministry of Education the technical assistance will focus on designing and developing a 
ministry-wide information system to track and monitor key programs that can assist sub-
national governments in their efforts to launch quality educational assessment 
instruments. This component is not financed by the World Bank loan, but is an overall 
part of the project.  
Page  2
Component 3: Strengthening and consolidation of Health System reforms.  For the 
Ministry of Health, technical assistance will be directed at: (i) developing effective inter-
government planning and budgetary instruments; (ii) strengthening monitoring and 
evaluation capacity; (iii) reorienting the federal grant transfer subsystem; and (iv) 
supporting measures to improvement accountability practices and quality of care.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
n/a   
 
5. Environmental and Social Specialists on the Team 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
 X 
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
n/a   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
n/a   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
n/a   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
n/a   
Page  3
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
n/a   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management, Cultural Property and/or the Safety 
of Dams policies, the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of 
the Environmental Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
n/a   
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
BP 17.50 - Public Disclosure 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
No 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
No 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
No 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
No 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
No 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
No 
Page  4
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Alberto Rodriguez 
 
Environmental Specialist: 
 
 
Social Development Specialist 
 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Jean-Roger Mercier 
 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Eduardo Velez Bustillo 
 
Comments:   
