Page  1
 
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
 
 
Report No.:  AB785 
 
Project Name 
Human Development Technical Assistance Loan 
 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General education sector (34%); Other social services (33%); 
Health (33%) 
Project ID 
P082523 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERMENT OF BRAZIL 
Government of Brazil 
Brazil 
Ministry of Education 
Brazil 
Ministry of Health 
Brazil 
 
 
 
Implementing Agencies 
IBGE 
Brazil 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [ ] B   [X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [ ] S
2
  [ ] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
April 14, 2004 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 8, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
June 17, 2004 
 
 
1.  Country and Sector Background
 
 
During the last decade, Brazil has carried out a number of significant reforms aimed at 
improving the coverage, quality and efficiency of its education and health systems, and has 
strengthened its safety net program.  As a result, today more children are in school, parents and 
communities are gaining greater influence on the education system, more resources are being 
made available to disadvantaged groups, and more adults are able to acquire new skills for a 
changing labor market.  The overall health status of the population has markedly improved, as 
shown by significantly lower infant and maternal mortality rates, a very small rate of mortality 
from vaccine-preventable diseases in children and a steady and strong decline in mortality from 
infectious diseases and parasites for the entire population.  Despite the relatively high incidence 
of HIV/AIDS compared to the rest of Latin America, innovative and aggressive prevention and 
education campaigns, combined with a policy of delivering medical treatment and drugs free to 
all patients has caused the number of new cases to level off. Brazil has expanded and improved 
Page  2
 
 
its social assistance programs by introducing successful conditional cash transfer programs 
targeted to poor children and youth.  These programs are effective in reducing both short-and 
long-term poverty by providing transfers subject to school attendance, community service and 
health care use.   
 
The major social reforms already undertaken constitute a solid basis from which the Government 
can proceed to further develop its social reform agenda, strengthening and expanding the positive 
human development outcomes recorded thus far.  For these crucial social sectors, the challenge 
that lies ahead is no longer necessarily one of access, but rather the equity, quality and efficiency 
of social service delivery. Such services can best be delivered by a system that is both 
accountable to the populations it serves and is directed by an adequate governance structure 
informed by current, comprehensive information.   
 
The Human Development Programmatic Sector Reform Loan, signed in January 2003, tackles 
the core sectoral issues of targeting, resource allocation and efficiency of spending, by promoting 
stronger accountability and governance, enhancement of equity-oriented policies, and 
improvement in the efficiency and quality of social service delivery.  Specific benefits of the HD 
PSRL include:  (i) broader access by the poor and disadvantaged groups to basic education, 
health and social assistance services through improved targeting and program expansion; (ii) 
sounder operation of public programs, through increased accountability, inter-governmental 
policy coordination, transparent budgetary planning and consumer voice; and (iii) enhanced 
quality and efficiency of service delivery through the provision of incentives to reduce disparities 
between high and low performing providers of public social services. The HD PSRL program 
has already demonstrated innovative practices and had made significant progress toward 
achieving its project objectives, including: protection of successful programs in the social 
sectors, a significant increase in the minimum FUNDEF allocation for education, the unification 
of the roster of recipients of federal financial subsidies (
Cadastro Único
) and the approval of a 
law in January 2004 to unite most of these programs into a single family assistance program, and 
expansion of the family health program (
Programa Saúde da Família
).  
 
The loan presented here is a technical assistance loan (TAL) that accompanies the HD PSRL and 
provides the tools for helping Brazil to achieve its HD PSRL goals.  While the HD PSRL 
provides a roadmap for sectoral reform that ultimately leads toward a stronger culture of 
performance-base management, the HD TAL will provide the immediate tools to assist the 
government in improving and developing monitoring systems and policy impact research, a 
necessary and urgent step. Responding to these government needs requires technical support 
along three complimentary dimensions: (i) additional data must be collected to meet the needs of 
diverse agencies in the social sectors, (ii) new and existing information must be used to monitor 
program progress, providing a continuous feedback loop that allows for adjustments during 
implementation, and (iii) a culture of evaluation must be fostered, encouraging the use of 
technical data-driven decision making rather than political criteria for policy formation. 
 
The Government, in requesting Bank support for the development and implementation of 
monitoring and research programs, is seeking to institutionalize a culture of performance-based 
management under which decision-making is heavily informed by up-to-date reports and 
information on program progress and impact. While Brazil collects a wide range of data across 
social sectors, the use of this information for making policy decisions is not yet a common 
Page  3
 
 
practice.  Brazil seeks to break this tradition by developing an institutional feedback mechanism 
under which recurrent and robust data is collected, processed, analyzed, disseminated and 
thereafter utilized in the policy decision-making processes. Institutionalizing this feedback 
mechanism is at the heart of the HD TAL. 
 
2. Objectives
 
 
The development objective of the HD TAL is to assist the government in developing institutional 
capacity to monitor the progress and impact of its social policies, a critical step towards 
institutionalizing performance-based management. Developing a culture of monitoring, 
evaluation, and informed policy-making is in the interest of both policy makers (who will make 
better informed decisions) and stakeholders (who will be assured of better targeted and more 
efficient social programs). This requires improving the quality and depth of available 
information, increasing accountability, and improving governance systems in the social sectors 
by creating a feedback mechanism under which monitoring, evaluation and research programs 
are used to formulate policies. This objective is a deliberate choice among several options, and is 
the result of identifying the most effective medium-term activity for achieving more equitable, 
efficient and quality social programs. Figure 2 illustrates the conceptual integration between the 
HD PSRL conceptual framework and the proposed HD TAL assistance strategy. 
 
 
Figure 2: HD PSRL and HD TAL Integrated Design 
 
 
 
 
The specific development objectives of the TAL are to: 
 
• 
Enhance monitoring processes and systems, including the systematic collection of thorough 
data on social indicators, to permit: (i) stronger, more integrated and continuous assessment 
of progress on social programs and policies, and (ii) use of performance information in 
resource allocation decision-making. 
 
Strategy 
Processes 
Structure 
(Institutionalized 
M&E) 
HD PSRL 
 
Accountability 
and Integrated 
Governance 
 
 
 
 
 
Equity Enhancing 
Policies 
 
 
Enhanced Quality 
and Efficiency 
Inputs 
(Quality Data 
Collection) 
  
HD TAL
Culture of 
performance-
based 
management 
Information-based 
decision-making 
(Dissemination) 
Strengthened 
Social Sector 
Effectiveness
Page  4
 
 
• 
Support the development of systematic research and evaluation of the impact of health, 
education and social protection policies and reforms as a means toward institutionalizing a 
results-oriented culture of accountability in public organizations responsible for social sector 
service delivery. 
 
• 
Support the institutional reform agenda as specified by the HD PSRL. 
 
The process of establishing a culture of performance–based management in the social sectors is 
long and complex, and the HD TAL will contribute with critical elements to enable the Brazilian 
Government to aggressively move towards this goal.  Specifically,  as a result of this Technical 
Assistance Loan, data availability will be enhanced by collecting new critical information with 
more regularity; relevance and utilization of data will be improved through the creation of an 
institutional vehicle (Social Statistics Committee) for deliberation and feedback; monitoring of 
key education policies will be strengthened through the integrated monitoring system to be set up 
at the Ministry of Education; and impact evaluation of health policies will be completed, to guide 
decision-making and adjust health programs as needed. Altogether, the Government will have 
stronger information and a sound framework to enhance is assessment of the impact and cost-
effectiveness of its social policies. Similarly, the Bank will benefit from this framework to 
conduct similar assessments on its contribution to Brazil in the social sectors. 
 
After the first year of President Lula’s administration, during which important benchmarks were 
achieved on macro-economic stability, Brazil’s attention is now focused on the social agenda. 
Thus, demonstrating progress and impact is becoming a priority for the Brazilian Government. 
The Bank’s HD portfolio in Brazil has been an important instrument to support policy reform in 
the social sectors in the country. Innovative investments in health, education, and social 
protection have been accompanied by strong policy dialogue, AAA, and technical assistance, 
under the umbrella of the HD PSRL series which provide the overall framework for reform. 
Thus, the HD PSRL and its corresponding HD TAL are very timely and important instruments to 
assist the Government in maintaining a long-term reform vision while tracking social policy 
implementation progress and impact.  Figure 1 graphically portrays the coordinated strategy for 
assistance in the social sectors, and within it, the strategic role of the PSRL series and the 
proposed HD TAL.  
 
Page  5
 
 
HD PSRL Series: Provides Frameworks for
HD PSRL Series: Provides Frameworks for
HD PSRL Series: Provides Frameworks for
HD PSRL Series: Provides Frameworks for
Long
Long
Long
Long-
-
-
-Term Policy Reform
Term Policy Reform
Term Policy Reform
Term Policy Reform
Lending and Financial 
Assistance Pillar
Figure 1:
Figure 1:
World Bank Integrated Package Supporting the Federal Government 
World Bank Integrated Package Supporting the Federal Government 
Of Brazil in the Social Sectors
Of Brazil in the Social Sectors
SWAp Operations:
• Bolsa Familia
• VIGISUS II
• FUNDEF
Regular Investment Operations:
• QUALISUS
• FUNDESCOLA
• Science and Technology
Knowledge Management and 
Technical Assistance Pillar
HD TAL
: 
Moving towards Results / 
Performance-based Management –
AAA activities for Policy Support:
• Social Protection: BRASA
• Health: Hospital Performance
• Basic Education: Positive 
Deviance
• Higher Education: Strategic 
Dialogue for Policy Reform
• Labor: Primeiro Emprego
 
 
The HD PSRL was prepared as the first of a programmatic operation involving three phases and 
several corresponding technical assistance loans (TALs). Each project’s accompanying TAL is 
designed to provide appropriate tools and technical assistance for the Government to progress to 
subsequent loans of the HD PSRL. The first loan of the PSRL series acknowledged Brazil’s 
achievements in human development, supports the continuity of the most effective programs, and 
protects the budget of these programs, in accordance with the recently approved CAS (December 
9, 2003). While it is too soon to be more specific regarding the second and third HD PSRL 
structure, it is expected that the second loan will strengthen and expand social policies and 
programs, while providing flexibility regarding the mechanisms the Government may employ to 
deliver the particular policy or pursue the chosen objective. The third operation is expected to 
further institutionalize and consolidate these policy reforms. The PSRL and TAL programs 
engage the administration in a sustained dialogue on social policies and programs that have 
proven to be effective. These reforms, which involve effective targeting, redistribution of 
resources to benefit the poor, transparent allocation of resources based on capitation, and 
successful conditional cash transfers, enjoy broad political support and are within the 
implementation capacity of the executive branch.  The basic objective of the first HD PSRL is to 
reduce poverty by improving the quality and efficiency of public spending in education, health 
and social assistance, and protecting the poorest and most vulnerable groups from adverse 
impacts of economic crises.  The increased quality of public social spending will enable the 
Government of Brazil to sustain and accelerate the rate of human development in the country 
while maintaining a framework of fiscal responsibility.  As further specified in the CAS, the role 
of the World Bank in this process of reform would be to support vital policy reforms and 
innovative, well-performing investments, helping to lift the welfare of Brazilians, particularly the 
Page  6
 
 
poorest.  The HD TAL complements the CAS’s results-based approach, providing additional 
support for meeting benchmarks for 2007 and 2015 Millennium Development Goals relating to 
human welfare gains, and social and cultural sustainability.  
 
More specifically, the proposed HD TAL will also entail significant synergies with the proposed 
Bolsa Família
 Project, which will provide support to the Government’s flagship social program. 
The proposed 
Bolsa Família
 project will support the design and implementation of a 
comprehensive monitoring and evaluation system for the 
Bolsa Família
 Program. For example, 
the activities to support the strengthening of IBGE’s overall household survey system under this 
proposed HD TAL will provide important inputs into this system.  The HD TAL’s support for 
strengthening monitoring and evaluation in education and health would entails valuable inter-
sectoral linkages for the 
Bolsa Família
 Program. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement
 
 
The PSRL series establishes a framework for dialogue on human development with the 
Government, giving special emphasis to results-oriented policies, and allowing the Government 
to benefit from continuous technical assistance leveraged by the Bank. In this regard, the Bank’s 
support of social sectors is the result of several years of quality policy dialogue and technical 
cooperation, including the Bank’s role in ensuring a smooth transition for the new 
administration. This TAL
 
will contribute to the building of the knowledge base required for the 
advancement of the reform agenda and the improvement of basic social programs and outcomes, 
a key element of the Government’s long-term vision for the social sectors. 
 
The Bank’s comparative advantage relative to other international partners include its: (i) 
knowledge contributions, based on global experience and the link to policy dialogue; (ii) ability 
to strengthen institutional capacity, including through WBI activities; (iii) competitive financing 
and innovative lending products (e.g. TAL, SWAps); and (iv) the ability to catalyze the efficient 
spending of others, including the government. Each of these characteristics is present in this 
project and is further manifest in the Bank’s ability to bring to the table lessons learned from 
international implementation experience. As a knowledge-driven institution, the Bank possesses 
the technical expertise and experience in the field for guiding the creation and implementation of 
needed, but frequently overlooked, monitoring and evaluation programs. The development of a 
culture of performance-based management in Brazil will require the presence of an independent, 
external and knowledgeable partner in implementation. The Bank, as an honest broker between 
the government and civil society, is especially prepared for accompanying the implementation of 
a multi-project database of implementation progress information.  
 
The Bank, in supporting the Government in this proposed HD TAL is adding further value by: (i) 
helping the government identify those key activities that will have significant impact in 
advancing the sectoral reform agenda; (ii) financing several of these activities that are the 
technical underpinnings of social sector reform but that are frequently overlooked in budget 
decisions; (iii) participating as a partner in the technical discussions of the broader reform 
agenda; and (iv) working with the Government to introduce performance-based management 
arrangements while helping it to achieve international best practice on monitoring and impact 
evaluation efforts. 
Page  7
 
 
 
4. Description
 
 
Component 1:
  
Strengthening Collection of Monitoring and Evaluation Data for the Social 
Sectors.
 
For the 
Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics
, technical assistance will focus 
on enhancing national household surveys (PNAD, PME and POF) so as to provide strategic, 
comprehensive and integrated information for monitoring and evaluating the impact of key social 
sector reforms and living conditions of the Brazilian population. 
The principal activities of this component include: (i) creation of and support for a Social 
Statistics Committee that will monitor and evaluate the statistical information demands of 
various government agencies; (ii) technical assistance for the implementation of a second 
Household Budget Survey (POF- 
Pesquisa de Orçamentos Familiares
) in 2005; (iii) support for 
improvement of existing national surveys including the merging of the current household survey 
(
PNAD-Pesquisa Nacional de Amostra a Domicílio
) data collection into one continuous monthly 
survey, (iv) inclusion of the quickly developing North Region (rural) into the PNAD survey; (v) 
development of poverty maps; (vi) technical support for the development of recurring policy-
driven questionnaire modules for tracking indicators in social sectors; and (vii) financing of 
analytical research of the results of the 2002/03 POF.  Improving the household survey data 
collection has the added advantage of providing independent tracking for social sector policies, 
taken from a different source than those collected by ministries (which are based on information 
collected from service providers rather than the service consumer).  
 
Component 2:  Strengthening monitoring and evaluation in the Education Sector.
 
For the 
Ministry of Education
 the technical assistance will focus on designing and developing a ministry-
wide information system to track and monitor key programs, such as FUNDEF/FUNDEB, FIES, 
Merenda Escolar
, Literacy Program, and SAEB and to provide support for sub-national 
governments in their efforts to launch quality educational assessment instruments. This Ministry-
wide information system will be closely coordinated with IBGE’s data collection, as the latter 
will provide the principal data inputs to the Ministry of Education Information System, 
completing those data collected through INEP in the education sector.  
 
INEP’s continued involvement in improving student learning assessments and program 
evaluation is centered on the task of improving existing instruments, attending to the demand of 
states in developing their own universal systems (to be compatible, where possible with the 
federal-level, sample-based assessments), and improving the dissemination and use of existing 
evaluation systems. The HD TAL complements this effort by creating mechanisms by which 
INEP’s and IBGE’s data can be used in decision-making and policy-design processes in the 
Ministry of Education.  
 
The Ministry-wide monitoring system will provide up-to-date policy feedback mechanisms for 
project implementation agencies and units.  This Monitoring and Evaluation Unit will be located 
in the Executive Secretariat in order to permit constant, real-time monitoring of program and 
policy impact. This vision will be tested through the implementation of the TAL and the creation 
of the M&E unit which foresees the continuous monitoring of nine programs that account for 
nearly 80 percent of the education budget (seven of which are included in the PSRL targets for 
the second phase).   
Page  8
 
 
 
Component 3:  Strengthening and consolidation of Health System reforms.
  
For the 
Ministry of 
Health
, technical assistance will be directed at: (i) developing effective inter-government 
planning and budgetary instruments; (ii) strengthening monitoring and evaluation capacity; (iii) 
reorienting the federal grant transfer subsystem; and (iv) supporting measures to improvement 
accountability practices and quality of care. 
 
Developing effective planning and budget instruments will entail improving existing systems and 
provision of technical assistance for the development of new monitoring and evaluation 
programs. The creation of these programs will in turn assist in improving the equity of federal 
transfers to the local political level as well as facilitate the introduction of systematic monitoring 
and evaluation. Finally, in order to better respond to patient needs and reduce system 
inefficiencies that result in low quality the project will support the continued development of a 
client response system. By supporting the development and costing of treatment protocols and 
evaluating the quality of care, the project will assist in setting standards and institutionalizing 
quality measurement and monitoring. 
 
5. Financing
 
 
Source: (US$m.) 
BORROWER 5 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
10.1 
 Total 
15.1 
 
6. Implementation
 
 
Choice of Lending Instrument
.
 A single loan agreement will be signed by the Government, but 
the program is to be implemented by three different agencies (IBGE and the Ministries of 
Education and Health). Each agency will carry out its activities under an implementation 
agreement that articulates the activities for which the agency is responsible. 
 
Project Management Design
. 
The design described above also suggests that each implementing 
agency would have a small implementing unit responsible for implementing the activities 
financed under the loan.  For IBGE, because of the size of the financed activities, the current 
administrative structure will implement the project, undergoing training and continuous support 
in Bank procedures. The Ministries of Health and Education will have small implementing units 
to keep track of and provide support to project progress and activities. In this regard, each 
implementing agency will be responsible for following the procedures set forth in the Loan 
Agreement, especially in the context of procurement, disbursement and financial management 
arrangements and reporting project progress to the Bank. Such an arrangement has been tested in 
other project experiences, with relative success. The flow of funds for financial reporting will be 
managed though monitoring of the single special account for all three implementing agencies. 
 
As each of the participating agencies (IBGE and the Ministries of Education and Health) will be 
working independently from one another, institutional capacity issues will need to be addressed 
Page  9
 
 
in each agency. Both the Ministries of Education and Health have considerable experience in 
working with Bank financial management and procurement procedures and should therefore 
have little difficulty in meeting the implementation demands of the project.  While IBGE is new 
to Bank operations, much of their current operations is project-based and financed, thus the 
transition to Bank procedures should not be difficult (see Annex 7 for more details). 
 
7. Sustainability
 
 
In seeking to establish a culture of performance-based decision-making in several ministries, the 
TAL project is assisting the Government in increasing economic and policy efficiencies. It is 
expected that once implementing agencies and Ministries have improved access to and use of 
data that meet their specific program and social sector needs, the data will become indispensable 
for policy making and program design. Nonetheless there are a number of risks, as described 
below, which may delay the institutionalization of performance-based management in the 
implementing agencies and thus the sustainability of project efforts. Despite these risks, there is 
considerable evidence of institutional capacity in the fact that Brazil collects, analyzes and 
disseminates a substantial amount of data and research in the social sectors. What is missing, that 
this HD TAL seeks to contribute to, is a more systematic integration of this information into 
policy decision-making processes with the end goal of institutionalizing a culture of 
performance-based management. 
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
 
 
The ongoing reform, supported by the PSRL and this TAL, has tackled a number of important 
systemic problems, but others remain unsolved and new challenges have come to the fore. The 
key challenge is to build upon lessons learned during the previous decade, addressing gaps in the 
policy framework and lapses in implementation.  
 
IBGE’s experience in collecting information is well-regarded and its credibility in producing 
accurate, timely information for informing social policy is a model in the region. Improved 
information sharing with government agencies, however, including in the use of this data for 
decision making requires additional levels of cooperation and dissemination of the data 
available, as well as flexibility in attending to the needs of these agencies while maintaining 
compatibility across data collection periods. Lessons learned from past projects include 
development of mechanisms for continuous dialogue between agencies as well as the creation of 
workshops and technical meetings for exchanging ideas. The design of this project recognizes 
IBGE’s activities as a key public good, providing valuable household information to complement 
ministry-collected data. This combination of information from both supply and demand sources 
can be utilized by the social ministries to enhance policy development and monitoring and 
evaluation. As a result, while providing resources to Ministries of Health and Education to 
improve their M&E agendas, a large portion of this loan supports IBGE’s efforts to better 
respond to the needs of all social sector ministries. Careful attention was given in the design to 
improving the information flow between these agencies. 
 
In education, the use of more transparent, technical selection criteria for the distribution of 
project funds under the Fundescola program (which was based on IBGE’s geographical micro-
Page  10
 
 
regions for inclusion of municipalities) gave the project additional credibility and helped to 
reduce political pressure from those municipalities not included in the target regions. Growing 
use of individual level data in such programs as 
Bolsa Escola
 (now part of 
Bolsa Família
) has 
generated increased interest by Ministry officials in using the data collected by INEP and other 
institutions. In the health sector, important strategic areas include raising equity of resource 
allocation, increasing patient satisfaction, efficiency and quality of service provision, improving 
system effectiveness, rationalizing decentralization and preventing and controlling non-
communicable diseases. The key to many of these challenges is the creation of an efficient and 
effective monitoring and evaluation system. 
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation)
 
 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
 (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 4.01) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
 4.04)
 
[ ] 
[X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
 
[ ] 
[X] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
, being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[ ] 
[X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
 4.12)
 
[ ] 
[X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
, being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[ ] 
[X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
 4.36)
 
[ ] 
[X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
 4.37)
 
[ ] 
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.60)
*
 
[ ] 
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.50)
 
[ ] 
[X] 
 
 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents
 
 
A.  Background documents: 
 
-  Fundescola I, Project Appraisal Document, March 16, 1998 
-  Fundescola IIIa, Project Appraisal Document, May 17, 2002 
-  First Programmatic Human Development Sector Reform Loan (PSRL) Project Appraisal    
Document, January 27, 2003 
-  Bolsa Família, Project Appraisal Document, March 2004   
 
B.  Project Documents: 
 
-  Supervision document: HD PSRL program update, with Review of Triggers Table, March 8, 
2004 
 
C.  Bank Assessments: 
 
 -   Environmental and Social Comments on PCN 
                                                
 
*
 
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the
 
disputed areas
 
Page  11
 
 
- 
FMA Report and FM arrangements 
 
 
11. Contact point: 
 
Contact: Alberto Rodriguez 
Title: Sr Education Spec. 
Tel: (202) 458-7821 
Fax: (202) 614-0594 
Email: arodriguez@worldbank.org 
 
 
12. For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
