                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR00001539



             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                              (IBRD-73470)

                                      ON A

                                      LOAN

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$8 MILLION


                                     TO THE

                       FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL

                                      FOR A

           HUMAN DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT

                                   June 10, 2010




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                  (Exchange Rate Effective May 4, 2010)
                    Currency Unit = Brazilian Real (R$)
                           R$1.00 = US$0.56993
                          US$ 1.00 = R$1.75459

                              FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1- December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AIDS         Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
ANS          National Health Insurance Agency
ENC/PROVAO   National University Major Exam
ENEM         Upper-Secondary National Exam
FIES         Higher Education Loan Program
FMR          Financial Management Report
FUNDEB       Fund for the Development and Maintenance of Fundamental Education
             and Teacher Valorization
FUNDEF       Fund for the Development and Maintenance of Basic Education and
             Teacher Valorization
HD PSRL      Human Development Public Sector Reform Loan
HIV          Human Immunodeficiency Virus
IA           Implementing Agencies
IBGE         Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics
IDEB         Index of Development of Basic Education
INEP         National Institute for Education Research
ISDS         Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
MEC          Ministry of Education and Culture
MOH          Ministry of Health
PDE          Plan for Education Development
PDO          Project Development Objective
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
PME          Monthly Employment Survey
PNAD         National Household Survey
POF          Household Expenditure Survey
SAEB         National System for Basic Education Evaluation
SFC          Federal Internal Control Secretariat
SIAFI        Integrated Federal Financial Administration System
SIP          School Improvement Plan
STN          National Treasury Secretariat
SWAp         Sector Wide Approach
TAL          Technical Assistance Loan
UGP          Unidade Gestora do Projeto - Unit responsible and with authority to
             spend funds allocated by the Federal Budget
                 Vice President: Pamela Cox
               Country Director: Makhtar Diop
                Sector Manager: Chingboon Lee
            Project Team Leader: Michele Gragnolati
ICR Team Leader/Primary Author: Michele Gragnolatti/Suzana de Campos Abbott
                                             BRAZIL
                             Human Development Technical Assistance Project



                                                           CONTENT
Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 8
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 13
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 20
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 20
  6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 24
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 26
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 27
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 28
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 29
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 30
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 32
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 33
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 34
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 42
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 43
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Brazil: Human
Country:                Brazil                  Project Name:             Development Technical
                                                                          Assistance Loan (TAL)
Project ID:             P082523                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-73240
ICR Date:               06/23/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     TAL                     Borrower:
                                                                          BRAZIL
Original Total
                        USD 8.0M                Disbursed Amount:         USD 5.9M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 5.9M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Education
 Ministerio da Saude
 IBGE
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       11/26/2003     Effectiveness:             12/14/2006       12/14/2006
Appraisal:            06/11/2004     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             07/28/2005     Mid-term Review:           03/05/2008       04/15/2009
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2009       12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:



                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     85                100
Health                                                                5
Sub-national government administration                                10


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                               17
Health system performance                                             17
Managing for development results                                      33                  50
Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring                             33                  50

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                           Pamela Cox
Country Director:          Makhtar Diop                         Vinod Thomas
Sector Manager:            Chingboon Lee                        Evangeline Javier
Project Team Leader:       Michele Gragnolati                   Alberto Rodriguez
ICR Team Leader:           Suzana Nagele de Campos Abbott
ICR Primary Author:


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objective of the HD TAL is to assist the government in developing
institutional capacity to monitor the progress and impact of its social policies, a critical
step towards institutionalizing performance-based management. Developing a culture of
monitoring, evaluation, and informed policy-making is in the interest of both policy


                                                ii
makers (who will make better informed decisions) and stakeholders (who will be assured
of better targeted and more efficient social programs). This requires improving the
quality and depth of available information, increasing accountability, and improving
governance systems in the social sectors by creating a feedback mechanism under which
monitoring, evaluation and research programs are used to formulate policies. This
objective is a deliberate choice among several options, and is the result of identifying the
most effective medium-term activity for achieving more equitable, efficient and quality
social programs.

  The specific development objectives of the TAL are to:
  #      Enhance monitoring processes and systems, including the systematic collection
of thorough data on social indicators, to permit: (i) stronger, more integrated and
continuous assessment of progress on social programs and policies, and (ii) use of
performance information in resource allocation decision-making.
  #      Support the development o f systematic research and evaluation of the impact of
health, education and social protection policies and reforms as a means toward
institutionalizing a results-oriented culture of accountability in public organizations
responsible for social sector service delivery.
  #      Support the institutional reform agenda as specified by the HD PSRL

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The Project#s Development Objectives were not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target     Formally        Actual Value
                                            Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value
                                              approval          Target       Completion or
                                             documents)         Values         Target Years
                Benchmarks for second HD PSRL met and documented using improved
Indicator 1 :
                monitoring and evaluation systems and data. (Text Description)
                                                                           Achieved. A table
                                                                           that describes
                                                                           progress for second
                                                                           HD PSRL
                                                                           benchmarks
                                                                           indicators has been
                                                                           included in Annex
Value
                Values specified in the                                    10 of this ICR. It
quantitative or                          100%
                HD PSRL document                                           shows the large
Qualitative)
                                                                           majority of PDO
                                                                           indicator s (20/23)
                                                                           have been fully
                                                                           achieved. Only a
                                                                           very few (3/23)
                                                                           have been partially
                                                                           met
Date achieved 12/14/2006                 12/31/2009                        12/31/2009



                                              iii
Comments
(incl. %        95%
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                             Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                              Revised
                                               approval                        Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                              documents)                       Target Years
                1.1 Social Statistics Committee holding regular meetings (Text Description)
Indicator 1 :

                                                                             Achieved. The
                                                                             Committee has
Value           Social Statistics          100%
                                                                             been formed and
(quantitative   Committee not in place
                                                                             meetings are
or Qualitative) (Text Description)
                                                                             happening
                                                                             regularly.
Date achieved 12/14/2006             12/31/2009                              12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        100%
achievement)
Indicator 2 : 1.2 Second Household Budget Survey Conducted (Text Description)
                                                                     Achieved: The
                                                                     survey has been
Value                                100%                            completed. Data are
(quantitative   Survey not conducted                                 being cleaned up
or Qualitative)                                                      and will be released
                                                                     in April 2010.

Date achieved 12/14/2006                   12/31/2009                       12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        100%
achievement)
                1.3 Support for planning the improvement of existing national surveys including
Indicator 3 :
                the merging with the current employment ho usehol survey (Text Description)
                                                                            Achieved. A first
                                                                            pilot of merged
                                                                            surveys was carried
                                                                            out in November
                                                                            2008. The results
Value
                Two surveys are                                             have been
(quantitative                              100%
                independent                                                 evaluated. The next
or Qualitative)
                                                                            tests have been
                                                                            planned and are
                                                                            being impl emented
                                                                            (starting in the State
                                                                            of Rio de Janeiro)


                                               iv
Date achieved     12/14/2006               12/31/2009                        12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %          100%
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     1.4 PNAD improved and North Region included in the survey (Text Description)
Value                                                                      Achieved. North
(quantitative     PNAD is done as always 100%                              Region is part of
or Qualitative)                                                            PNAD.
Date achieved     12/14/2006             12/31/2009                        12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %          100%
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     1.5 Poverty maps developed (Text Description)
                                                                             Achieved: Poverty
Value
                                                                             maps completed
(quantitative   No poverty maps            100%
                                                                             and disseminated in
or Qualitative)
                                                                             December 2008
Date achieved 12/14/2006                   12/31/2009                        12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        100%
achievement)
                1.6 Policy modules for traking indicators in social sectors developed (Text
Indicator 6 :
                Description)
                                                                               Achieved. After
                                                                               consultation with
Value                                                                          sectoral
                No policy modules
(quantitative                              100%                                departments,
                available
or Qualitative)                                                                supplemental
                                                                               modules hav e been
                                                                               added to PNAD.
Date achieved 12/14/2006                   12/31/2009                          12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        100%
achievement)
Indicator 7 : 1.7 Analytical research using POF 2002/03 data financed (Text Description)
                                                                               Achieved. Research
Value
                Analytical research is not                                     was financed by
(quantitative                              100%
                financed                                                       IBGE and was
or Qualitative)
                                                                               completed.
Date achieved 12/14/2006                   12/31/2009                          12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        100%
achievement)
                2.1 Education Ministry-wide information system to track and monitor these and
Indicator 8 :
                other programs developed (Text Description)
Value                                                                          Achieved. SIMEC
                Information system in
(quantitative                              100%                                (Integrated System
                MEC needs improvement
or Qualitative)                                                                of Planning, Budget



                                                v
                                                                              and Finance of the
                                                                              Minist ry of
                                                                              Education)
                                                                              developed and
                                                                              implemented to
                                                                              monitor the actions
                                                                              and the resources
                                                                              transferred to states
                                                                              and municipalities
Date achieved 12/14/2006                  12/31/2009                          12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        100%
achievement)
                3.1 Institutional framework and organizational unit established for consolidating
Indicator 9 :
                and coordinating M&E activities in the MOH (Text Description)
                                                                              Partially Achieved.
                                                                              Datasus has been
                                                                              strengthened. Many
                                                                              units in the MOH,
                                                                              including a
Value
                                                                              department of
(quantitative   Unit in MS not available 100%
                                                                              health economics,
or Qualitative)
                                                                              are using its data to
                                                                              monitor the
                                                                              performance o f
                                                                              different segments
                                                                              of SUS
Date achieved 12/14/2006                  12/31/2009                          12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        70%
achievement)
                3.2 Network of M&E practitioners, stakeholders and academics established (Text
Indicator 10 :
                Description)
                                                                              Partially Achieved.
                                                                              There is a lot
Value
                Information on M&E not                                        variation across the
(quantitative                             100%
                available                                                     26 States and more
or Qualitative)
                                                                              than 5000
                                                                              municipalities.
Date achieved 12/14/2006                  12/31/2009                          12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        50%
achievement)
Indicator 11 : 3.3 Evaluation research on system performance financed (Text Description)
                                                                              Some progress.
Value                                                                         Although no formal
(quantitative   Network not in place      100%                                network has been
or Qualitative)                                                               established, the
                                                                              performance if SUS



                                                vi
                                                                              is receiving more
                                                                              and more attention
                                                                              by practitioners,
                                                                              government officia
                                                                              ls and many
                                                                              academic
                                                                              departments
Date achieved     12/14/2006               12/31/2009                         12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %          30%
achievement)
Indicator 12 :    3.4 Evaluation research on system performance financed (Text Description)
Value
                  Evaluation research is not
(quantitative                                100%                             Not achieved
                  financed
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/14/2006               12/31/2009                         12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %          0%
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                          IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     12/20/2005          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     05/23/2006          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.00
  3     12/27/2006          Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory               0.02
  4     05/12/2007          Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory               0.02
  5     12/07/2007      Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory               0.02
  6     06/17/2008      Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory               1.22
  7     12/20/2008      Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory               3.62
  8     01/24/2009      Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory               4.12
  9     03/28/2009      Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory               4.51
 10     10/09/2009      Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory               5.70
 11     12/13/2009          Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory               5.77


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                               vii
I. Disbursement Profile




                          viii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

In the decade preceding appraisal of the Human Development Technical Assistance Project (HD
TAL, the Project), Brazil had carried out a number of significant reforms aimed at improving the
coverage, quality and efficiency of its education and health systems, and had strengthened its
safety net program. As a result of these reforms, more children were in school, parents and
communities were gaining greater influence over the education system, more resources were
being made available to disadvantaged groups, and more adults were able to acquire new skills
for a changing labor market. The overall health status of the population had improved markedly:
infant and maternal mortality rates had lowered significantly, the rate of child mortality from
vaccine-preventable diseases was very small and there had been a steady decline in mortality
from infectious diseases and parasites for the population as a whole. Brazil had expanded and
improved its social assistance programs through the introduction of successful conditional cash
transfer programs targeted to poor children and youth.

The major social reforms the government had enacted provided a solid basis from which the
government could proceed further to develop its social reform agenda, strengthening and
expanding the positive human development outcomes it had recorded. The challenge that lied
ahead was no longer necessarily one of access, but rather of equity, quality and efficiency in
social service delivery, through a system that was both accountable to the population it served
and directed by a governance structure that was informed by up-to-date, comprehensive
information.

The First Programmatic Human Development Sector Reform Loan, signed in January 2003 had
supported the government in tackling the core sectoral issues of targeting, resource allocation
and efficiency of spending, by promoting stronger accountability and governance, enhancement
of equity-oriented policies, and improvement in the efficiency and quality of social service
delivery1. Specific benefits of the HD PSRL included: (a) broader access by the poor and
disadvantaged groups to basic education, health and social assistance services through improved
targeting and program expansion; (b) sounder operation of public programs, through increased
accountability, inter-governmental policy coordination, transparent budgetary planning and
consumer voice; and (c) enhanced quality and efficiency of service delivery through the
provision of incentives to reduce disparities between high and low performing providers of
public social services. The HD PSRL program had already demonstrated innovative practices
and had made significant progress toward achieving its development objectives.2 It had also
1
  A US$505.05 million loan for the First Programmatic Human Development Sector Reform Loan was approved by
the Bank's Board on February 25, 2003 (Report No. 25351-BR). When it was approved, it was expected to be the
first of possibly two additional loans for a total amount of US$1.5 billion in support of Brazil's program of human
development reforms.

2
  The Simplified Implementation Completion Report for the HD PSRL dated June 23, 2004 rated the program's
Outcome as Satisfactory, Sustainability as Likely, Institutional Development Impact as Substantial, and both Bank
and Borrower Performance as Highly Satisfactory (Report No. 29158).


                                                         1
demonstrated innovative practices, including: protection of successful programs in the social
sectors, a significant increase in the minimum FUNDEF (Fundo de Manutenção e
Desenvolvimento do Ensino Fundamental e de Valorização do Magistério, Fund for the
Development and Maintenance of Basic Education and Teacher Valorization) allocation for
education, the unification of the roster of recipients of federal financial subsidies (Cadastro
Único) and the approva of a law in January 2004 to unite most of these programs into a single
family assistance program, and expansion of the Family Health Program (Programa Saúde da
Família).

The HD TAL was prepared to accompany the HD PSRL series of loans, specifically to provide
the tools for helping Brazil to achieve the PSRL's goals. The HD PSRL provided the roadmap
for sectoral reform that would lead toward a stronger culture of performance-based management,
while the HD TAL would provide the immediate tools to assist the government in improving and
developing monitoring systems and policy impact research. To accomplish this, the Government
required support along three dimensions: (a) additional data needed to be collected to meet the
needs of diverse agencies in the social sectors; (b) new and then-existing information needed to
be used to monitor program progress, providing a continuous feedback loop that allowed for
adjustments during implementation, and (c) a culture of evaluation needed to be fostered,
encouraging the use of technical data-driven decision making rather than political criteria for
policy formulation.

The Government sought to institutionalize a culture of performance-based management under
which decision-making was heavily informed by up-to-date reports and information on program
progress and impact. Brazil at the time was not using the wide range of data that it collected
across the social sectors to inform policy decisions, and sought to develop an institutional
feedback mechanism under which recurrent and robust data was collected, processed, analyzed,
disseminated and utilized in the policy decision-making process.

After the first year of President Lula's administration, during which important benchmarks had
been achieved on macro-economic stability, the Government's attention focused on the social
agenda. Demonstrating progress and impact had become a priority for the Brazilian
Government.

The Bank's assistance under the HD TAL built upon several years of support to Brazil's social
sectors that had supported policy reform through innovative investments in health, education and
social protection accompanied by strong policy dialogue, analytical and advisory services and
technical assistance under the umbrella of the HD PSRL series that provided the overall
framework for reform. Support for the HD TAL was part and parcel of Bank support to the HD
PSRL, and was seen as contributing to building of the knowledge base required for the
advancement of the reform agenda and the improvement of basic social program and outcomes.
It also entailed strong synergies with other projects in the Bank's social sector portfolio, such as
for example the Bolsa Família Project that supported the Government's flagship social program.
The Bolsa Família Project supported the design and implementation of a comprehensive
monitoring and evaluation system for the program. Activities to strengthen the Instituto
Brasileiro de Geografía e Estatística (IBGE, the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics)



                                                 2
in its overall household survey system under the HD TAL would provide important inputs into
Bolsa Família's monitoring and evaluation system.

Assistance for Brazil's social reforms was at the center of the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) that envisaged the Bank's role as one of supporting vital policy reforms and
innovative, well-performing investments, helping to lift the welfare of Brazilians, particularly the
poorest3. The HD TAL complemented the CAS' results-based approach, providing additional
support for meeting benchmarks for 2007 and 2015 Millenium Development Goals relating to
human welfare gains, and social and cultural sustainability.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The development objective of the HD TAL was to assist the Government in developing
institutional capacity to monitor progress and impact of its social policies. This was seen as a
critical step towards institutionalizing performance-based management. The specific objectives
of the HD TAL were to:

(a) enhance monitoring processes and systems, including the systematic collection of thorough
data on social indicators, to permit: (i) stronger, more integrated and continuous assessment of
progress on social programs and policies, and (ii) use of performance information in resource
allocation decision-making;

(b) support the development of systematic research and evaluation of the impact of health,
education and social protection policies and reforms as a means toward institutionalizing a
results-oriented culture of accountability in public organizations responsible for social sector
service delivery; and

(c) support the institutional reform agenda as specified by the HD PSRL.

As a technical assistance project, the key indicators that were to be used to evaluate the Project's
achievement of its Development Objectives included one outcome indicator and mostly output
indicators, as follows:

      Outcome Indicator: Benchmarks for Second HD PSRL met and documented using
      improved monitoring and evaluation systems and data.


      Output Indicators, by Component:

      Component One: Collection of Monitoring and Evaluation Data for the Social Sectors
      Strengthened
      Social Statistics Committee holding regular meetings
      Second Household Expenditure Survey (POF, Pesquisa de Orçamentos Familiares)
      conducted
3
    World Bank Country Assistance Strategy for Brazil, Report No. 27043 dated Nov. 10, 2003.


                                                         3
   Support for planning the improvement of existing national survey including the merging with
   the current employment household surveys
   National Household Survey (PNAD, Pesquisa Nacional por Amostragem Domiciliar)
   improved and North region included in survey
   Poverty maps developed
   Policy modules for tracking indicators in social sectors developed
   Analytical research using POF 2002/03 data financed

   Component Two: Monitoring and Evaluation in the Education Sector is Improved
   Ministry-wide information system to track and monitor education programs developed

   Component Three: Strengthening and Consolidation of Monitoring and Evaluation
   Functions in the Health Sector
   Institutional framework and organizational unit established for consolidating and
   coordinating M&E activities in the Ministry of Health
   Capacity of federal, state and municipal levels to monitor and evaluate the performance of
   publicly-financed services assessed and report disseminated
   Network of among M&E practitioners, stakeholders and academics established
   Evaluation research on system performance financed.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The Project's Development Objectives were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

As a technical assistance operation, the Project's main beneficiaries were expected to be IBGE,
the MEC and the MOH. Indirectly, over the longer term, the Project's beneficiaries would be the
beneficiaries of the Government's social programs (not limited to those implemented by MEC
and MOH), especially the poor, who could be expected to count on better targeted and more
efficient, equitable and quality social services that would be made available based on the
improved information (including poverty maps), monitoring and evaluation supported by
activities under the Project.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The HD TAL (the Project) comprised three components that were to be implemented by: (a) the
Instituto Brasileiro de Geografía e Estatística (IBGE, Brazilian Institute of Geography and
Statistics), a legally autonomous agency of the Federative Republic of Brazil that was the
Government's principal provider of statistical data and demographic information; (b) the
Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC), and (c) the Ministry of Health. The components were
designed as follow.

Component 1: Strengthening Collection of Monitoring and Evaluation Data for the Social
Sectors (US$9.151 million total project costs; US$6.0 million of loan amount)


                                               4
Because of its institutional mandate, IBGE played a crucial role in developing a culture of
performance-based management in Brazil. The Project sought to strengthen IBGE's technical
capacity as a provider of social sector monitoring, evaluation and living condition data. The data
collected and published by IBGE were considered to be a public good, to be used by all social
sector agencies and diverse government and non-government agencies in the creation and
evaluation of policies and programs.

The Project was to provide technical assistance to IBGE for enhancing national household and
employment surveys (PNAD, PME and POF) to provide strategic, comprehensive and integrated
information for monitoring and evaluating the impact of key social sector reforms and living
conditions of the Brazilian population. The key activities to be financed were:

(a) Creation of and support for a Social Statistics Committee that would monitor and evaluate
the statistical information demands of various government agencies. The Committee would act
as the interlocutor between implementing agencies (e.g., ministries) and the IBGE instrument
design and implementation teams in order to ensure that implementing agencies had the data to
meet their monitoring and evaluation needs, while balancing the priorities of the data needs of
the social sector as a whole;

(b) Technical assistance for the implementation of a second Household Expenditure Survey
(POF, Pesquisa de Orçamentos Familiares). This activity was to (i) conduct a follow-up to the
POF 2002-03, which provided a solid baseline for evaluation of the administration's social
policy, and (ii) test and deploy an annual micro-POF survey. The 2002-03 POF provided
information for measuring family spending and poverty in both general (e.g., inequality,
malnutrition) and specific (e.g., pension distribution, Bolsa Família) terms. To maintain
comparability, the follow-up survey was to mirror the 2002-03 versions, and was to be applied
every three to five years. An annual, reduced version of the POF would also be developed to
provide a more frequent and flexible measure of household well being;

(c) Support for improvement of existing national surveys including the merging of the PNAD
(Pesquisa Nacional por Amostra de Domicilios) and PME (Pesquisa Mensal de Emprego) data
collection into one single, continuous and nationally representative survey. The PNAD was a
national representative sample used by researchers and policy makers to understand poverty
analysis and income distribution. The PME was a monthly employment survey applied in the six
largest metropolitan areas. The new survey would not only be an important measurement tool
but would also increase efficiency by reducing overlapping questions and topics in the two then-
existing surveys;

(d) Expansion of the PNAD to include the North Region. The PNAD had never included the
states of Acre, Amapá, Amazonas, Pará, Rôndonia and Roraima. This activity would provide for
the expansion of the PNAD to these states, resulting in a survey that was more representative of
the population given the rapid demographic changes that had taken place in the North region;

(e) Development of Poverty Maps. The Project was to support the development of highly
disaggregated inequality and poverty maps using pioneering methods developed by the Bank for
incorporating a combination of census and household survey information. It would support the

                                                5
construction of the initial maps so that they could later be updated with information as data
became available;

(f) Technical support for the development of occasional policy modules and research for
tracking indicators in social sectors. Many social programs required specific monitoring and
evaluation data (e.g., program-specific samples, questionnaires, and methods) that could not be
otherwise included in the existing surveys. The Project would support IBGE in strengthening its
capacity to respond to the increasingly frequent and diverse demands from Government and
other agencies interested in specialized monitoring and evaluation activities and data collection;
and

(g) Support for Analytical Research based on the 2002-03 POF results. The Project was to
support several studies using the 2002-03 POF data, as well as dissemination of its results
through national workshops.

Component 2: Strengthening monitoring and evaluation in the Education Sector (US$2.054
million total project costs; financed by counterpart funds only)

With nearly 50 million students enrolled in more than 200 thousand educational institutions at all
levels of education, monitoring and evaluation of Brazil's education system was particularly
complex. The existing diverse databases and information systems, managed by the Ministry of
Education (MEC) through its Institute for Education Research (INEP, Instituto Nacional de
Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais), provided a profile of Brazil's education system. This
component was to assist the MEC in meeting the then growing demand for program specific
information and state level evaluation, and improve MEC's capacity for targeting and monitoring
or program progress.

For MEC, the technical assistance was to focus on designing and developing a ministry-wide
information system to track and monitor key programs that could assist sub-national
governments in their effort to launch quality educational assessment instruments. The ministry-
wide information system was to be closely coordinated with IBGE's data collection, as the latter
was to provide the principal data inputs to MEC's information system, complementing data
collected through INEP in the education sector.

INEP's continued involvement in improving student learning assessments and program
evaluation was centered on the task of improving then-existing instruments, attending to the
demand of states in developing their own universal systems (which were expected to be
compatible with the federal-level, sample-based assessments), and improving the dissemination
and use of existing evaluation systems. The Project was to complement this effort by creating
mechanisms through which INEP's and IBGE's data could be used in decision-making and
policy-design processes in MEC.

MEC sought to create four decentralized nuclei of monitoring and evaluation activities in each of
four areas: (a) Professional Education; (b) Basic Education; (c) Higher Education; and (d)
Continued Education. These were to be created under the coordination of a Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit located in the Executive Secretariat in order to permit constant, real-time

                                                6
monitoring of program and policy impact. This vision was to be tested through implementation
of the Project and the creation of the four nuclei that foresaw the continuous monitoring of
MEC's key programs that accounted for nearly 80 percent of the education budget.

Component 3: Strengthening and consolidation of Monitoring and Evaluation Function in
the Health Sector (US$2.044 million total project costs; US$2.0 million of loan amount)

Starting in the late 1980s, Brazil had carried out a major health reform program that provided for
the decentralization of service provision from the federal government to municipalities and, to a
lesser extent, state governments. The reform included new mechanisms to foster social
participation in the definition of priorities and in oversight of service provision through councils
established at municipal, state and federal levels, as well as consumer feedback instruments to
gauge technical quality and patient satisfaction with publicly-financed hospitals. The reform
transformed how the federal government financed health services provide by states and
municipalities. The Project was to support the Ministry of Health's (MOH) reform effort by
strengthening its capacity to monitor and evaluate service delivery, public health programs and
reform progress, and to assist the MOH in achieving the benchmarks for the then proposed
Second HD PSRL.

The MOH sought to develop sustainable capacity at federal, state and municipal levels to
monitor and evaluate system performance (equity, efficiency and quality) and impact (health
status). The Project was to support the introduction of results-based management mechanisms to
foster evidence-based policy formation, program design and decision- making. A major focus
was to be on the institutionalization of monitoring and evaluation at least at the federal level
while strengthening that capacity in states and large municipalities. Specific activities were to
include:

       (a) Strengthening monitoring and evaluation capacity at the federal level. The
       Project was to support the creation of an institutional framework, the definition of
       instruments, the distribution of responsibilities among practitioners and stakeholders, and
       the introduction of performance-based management strategies. In addition, the Project
       was to provide technical assistance and training to consolidate and link monitoring and
       evaluation functions in the MOH, define performance indicators, identify sources,
       methodologies, frequency and schedule of data collection, establish a mechanism for data
       analysis, reporting and review, and institutionalize feedback and dissemination channels
       to foster evidence-based policy formation and program design;

       (b) Strengthening monitoring and evaluation capacity at the state and municipal
       levels. Under the MOH's plans, the states were to have a major role in monitoring and
       evaluation for small and low capacity municipalities, while large municipalities would
       develop their own in-house capabilities. The Project was to develop tools for enhancing
       the capacity of states and municipalities to monitor and evaluate system performance,
       including access, stewardship and overall effectiveness. Activities under the Project were
       to include: (i) assessing capacity of states and municipalities to perform monitoring and
       evaluation of publicly-financed health activities; (ii) design of monitoring and evaluation
       programs in selected states and municipalities; (iii) training in monitoring and evaluation

                                                 7
       methods; (iv) assessment of the quality of databases; (v) development of performance
       indicators and data collection instruments and methods, and (vi) establishment of core
       group or network of professional staff in states to provide monitoring and evaluation
       support to municipalities; and

       (c) Support for evaluation research studies. The Project was to support targeted
       evaluation studies of system performance the were not then being assesses through
       monitoring systems, including research studies on costs, quality and patient satisfaction
       in both ambulatory and hospital settings. These studies were to be part and parcel of the
       overall monitoring and evaluation institutionalization effort directed to the federal, state
       and municipal levels.

1.6 Revised Components

The Project's components were not revised formally. However, MEC eventually carried out its
component without financing under the Project (as planned), and asked to be formally excluded
from the Project a few months before the closing date of the Project. The MOH, after initial
institutional issues, decided to carry out activities also with its own resources, and eventually
requested that the amounts allocated to the Project's third component that it was to implement be
allocated to The National Health Insurance Agency (Agência Nacional de Saúde Suplementaria--
ANS). This change in the Project's description was never processed though because of
institutional constraints in transferring the authority of using IBRD funds to an autonomous
agency like the ANS.

1.7 Other significant changes

In October 2009, the Bank received a request from the Treasury of Brazil to drop formally
Components 2 and 3 from the Project. However, in view of the then proximity to the loan's
December 31, 2009 Closing Date, the Bank responded by approving the cancellation of US$2
million originally allocated to Component 3, but without a formal restructuring to eliminate those
components.




2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Assessment of the Project's Design. The Project's design was sound. It was designed as a
Technical Assistance Loan to accompany the implementation of the HD PSRL, yet it is not clear
why it was only approved in mid-2005, more than two years after the HD PSRL had disbursed
since it was to facilitate progress from the first HD PSRL to the second HD PSRL. It was to be
implemented by three different agencies (IBGE, MEC and MOH), each relating directly with the
Bank, which was considered useful because: (i) budgets were allocated to each corresponding
agency; (ii) each implementing agency could have independent access to their allocated
resources, and (iii) it responded to the multi-sectoral nature of the Project. While the Project was
                                                 8
to address issues that were by definition multi-sectoral in nature, it perhaps under-estimated the
support for addressing these very same issues in the context of several then closed and ongoing
lending operations, especially in the health sector, and hands-on analytical and advisory services
in the education sector. Although activities related to the education sector that were to be
implemented by MEC were included in the Project, there was no allocation for loan funding to
finance those activities. This in the end created a somewhat awkward situation in terms of
supervision, which was not provided under the framework of the Project but through the Bank's
overall sectoral policy dialogue, and led to the last minute request to eliminate the MEC's
component from the Project.

Soundness of Background Analysis and Lessons of Experience. The background analysis that
went into the Project's design was extensive in that it was the same analysis that had guided the
design of the HD PSRL. It included an extensive number of analytical and advisory tasks
(AAA), including Policy Options Notes that had been prepared for the then incoming
administration, and experience gained through support for preparation and supervision of a large
number of lending operations in education, health and social protection (in addition to multi-
sectoral operations) implemented at both the federal and state levels, that had provided an
important instrument to support policy reform in the social sectors. A list of these is provided in
Annex 12.

Adequacy of Government's Commitment. The Government's commitment to the Project was
extremely high in terms of its content, since it supported the activities needed to carry out the
centerpiece of its electoral platform--its social agenda of poverty reduction with increased equity
and efficiency, within a framework of macroeconomic stability. What is not so clear is whether
the Government, especially two of its implementing agencies (MEC and MOH) actually
desired--or came to need--Bank financing in the form of a separate technical assistance loan, or
whether it desired only the Bank's continued technical assistance that had been provided almost
routinely through AAA and in the context of individual lending operations.

Assessment of Risks. The Project's assessment of risks was somewhat superficial, but in
retrospect, few if any projects prepared at the time provided the type of risk analysis that has
today become standard in the appraisal of projects to be financed by the Bank.

The underlying concern in the Project's risk assessment centered on the premise that the
Government would require external funding not only for the implementation of project activities,
but as an incentive to carry them out. It envisaged that a second HD PSRL (and the expectation
of associated funding) would provide for mitigation of the risk that even with quality data, key
policy decision makers would not make use of the improved technical inputs that the Project
would make available. Both this risk, and that of possible fiscal constraints limiting the Project
implementing agencies' budgets were both rated Substantial. Along the same lines, the risk that
financing of activities by MEC with counterpart funds only could diminish the incentive for
prompt implementation in retrospect seemed to imply that the incentive for implementation was
mainly financial. In this sense, the risk assessment overestimated the risks related to possible
financial constraints, and underestimated the Government's commitment to the specific activities
that the Project would support, with or without external funding.



                                                9
The risk assessment did not address possible risks that did in fact materialize, such as those
related to implementation delays due to staffing or other factors such as the signing of an
interagency agreement with IBGE, that of MEC and MOH eventually carrying out project
activities outside the framework of the Project, or, more importantly, that a second HD PSRL
would never materialize as the Government no longer required the financing that would have
been associated with the planned follow-on operation.



2.2 Implementation

Project Objectives. Because they remained so fully congruent with its own policies, plans and
programs, the Government remained fully committed to the Project's objectives throughout its
implementation period. In fact, the Project's objectives responded to not only strengthen and
provide inputs to programs carried out by its implementing agencies, but also as input into the
design and implementation of other priority Government programs, such as its flagship Bolsa
Familia Program4.

Project Components. The Project's design envisaged three implementing agencies, without a
coordinating unit through which communications with the Bank under the loan would be
channeled. Each agency financed by the loan (MOH and IBGE) was to carry out its activities
under an implementation agreement that specified the activities for which it was responsible.
This institutional framework complicated supervision somewhat, especially since the Bank had
to deal directly with each of three agencies, without any overall coordination. In the end, as both
the MEC and the MOH carried out project activities mainly through other vehicles, the Bank's
relationship with each of the two ministries in the context of the Project suffered.

Component 1, implemented by IBGE, was by far the largest accounting for three quarter of loan
proceeds as approved, and perhaps the most successful under the Project's framework (see
Section 3.2 below). IBGE, a legally autonomous agency of the Federative Republic of Brazil has
a key and catalytic role in terms of providing strategic, comprehensive and integrated
information for monitoring and evaluating the impact of key social sector reforms and living
conditions. Although this was IBGE's first experience with Bank lending, by-and-large
implementation went smoothly despite some initial delays in formalizing the implementation
agreement with the Government and issues with procurement and financial management. IBGE
achieved all of the benchmarks for moving ahead with the second HD PSRL for which it was
responsible (Annex 10).




4
 Project Appraisal Document for the Bolsa Familia Project in support of the First Phase of the Bolsa Familia
Program, Report no.. 28544-BR , dated May 25, 2004.


                                                        10
Component 2, implemented by MEC, was to be financed entirely with counterpart resources.
MEC implemented the activities under the Project, and received initial supervision from the
Bank. As a result of the studies financed under the framework of the Project, MEC selected 14
programs that were to be monitored and evaluated. But in 2008, in view of the establishment of
the Plan for Education Development (PDE)5, it found that its participation under the Project
(even without financing) was no longer justified and notified the Bank accordingly. Despite this,
MEC carried out all of the activities it was expected to implement under the Project, and
complied with the benchmarks for moving ahead with the second HD PSRL.

Component 3, implemented by MOH, was perhaps the most difficult in the context of the
Project, although in the end, several of its activities were carried out and the activities included
as benchmarks for the second HD PSRL were either achieved fully or are well advanced.
However, this did not occur within the context of the Project. Initial implementation was
affected by staffing changes in the Department responsible for this component in the MOH,
which in turn delayed procurement of consultants' services for studies that had been defined.
Following continued delays, the MOH made progress on several Project activities (such as the
development of systems to monitor system performance and impact, introduction of results-
based management mechanisms, introducing mechanisms to support strengthening the capacity
for monitoring at the state and municipal level) through its operational departments and in many
programs with the Bank's assistance under other Bank-financed projects. Annex ___ presents a
summary of results-based financing mechanisms under health projects financed by the Bank in
Brazil that rely on adequate monitoring systems, and federal support, strengthening and
supervision by the MOH. With activities progressing on that side, the MOH requested that the
Project instead provide technical assistance and financing to the National Health Regulatory
Agency (ANS) to establish an accreditation system for private health insurance plans. In the
end, this component was not restructured since the Government faced problems in transferring
the funds to ANS, and the US$2 million (more exactly US$1,98) originally allocated to the
MOH were cancelled as of December 3, 2009.

Mid-term Review. The Project's Mid-Term Review was carried out in April 2009, somewhat late
in implementation, but served to provide a forum for reviewing in detail its progress towards the
achievement of its Development Objectives, and updating its results framework.

Factors that Affected Project Implementation. The Project was very much a part of the
Government's program and agenda, and implementation progressed with some delays and
adjustments, but generally in accordance with the Government's originally defined schedule that
had been built into the HD PSRL and consequently into the Project's original timetable. What
had not been envisaged was that the Government would move forward with its agenda in large

5
  The PDE is the central policy tool that forms part of a series of measures to improve the quality of education in
Brazil. The PDE includes performance contracts of sub-national governments with the Federal government, with the
initial focus being on municipalities. An important focus of the PDE is the emphasis on promoting performance­
based policy levers to improve quality in Brazil's decentralized context. As part of the contract, the municipality
(and subsequently the school) undertakes a commitment to improve the "Index of Development of Basic Education
(IDEB)".


                                                        11
part with its own or alternative resources in the context of its sectoral development programs and
projects, some of which counted on financing from then ongoing or planned investment loans
from the World Bank. Several factors affected this. First, Brazil's macroeconomic situation had
improved considerably from the time that the first HD PSRL was approved. As a result, it no
longer required the important balance of payments support that a second HD PSRL was to
provide. Still, the Government assigned high priority to the Project's objectives since they were
central and fundamental for its social agenda, so much so, that it moved forward with activities
and met the benchmarks for the second HD PSRL even though it no looked to financing from
that loan. Similarly, the Government began to embrace a results orientation in most of its social
programs, albeit outside of the context of the Project, for which monitoring and evaluation was
fundamental. In the MEC and the MOH, this results orientation and the support the ministry
provided to states and municipalities to embrace it was built into the design and financing of
different important federal and other programs implemented by states and municipalities.

Planned Versus Actual Costs and Financing. The US$8 million loan for the Project was
approved on July 28, 2005, signed on October 26, 2006 and declared effective on December 14,
2006. Initial delays related mostly to delays in Congressional approval of the loan. Of the
original amount of the loan, US$5.93 was actually disbursed, all of it to IBGE under Component
1. As a result, "implementation" in the sense of providing finance for activities under a project,
was limited to Component 1. The loan closed on schedule, on December 31, 2009.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
M&E Design6. As the focus of the Technical Assistance Project was at the federal level,
monitoring and evaluation of outcomes and results was to be collected directly from IBGE and
the MEC and MOH through project progress reports and supervision mission. In addition, each
of the three implementing agencies was to be required to submit regular updates of their progress
towards achieving: (i) the Project's specific outcomes and objectives (Section 1.2), and (ii) the
HD PSRL benchmarks.

M&E Implementation. The Project's monitoring framework was relatively simple, comprised of
mostly outputs for which it was a question of tracking progress and eventual completion of tasks
that did not require sophisticated systems to track progress towards a pre-defined numeric target.
Information on the activities and progress by MEC and MOH was not provided routinely in the
context of the Project, but rather through other vehicles and operations, including a strong policy
dialogue with those ministries.

M&E Utilization. Although supervision missions followed up on the Project's progress towards
its expected targets (especially for Component 1), Bank supervision only began reporting
progress towards those targets in late 2008, and then routinely used this framework as a basis for
monitoring the Project's progress towards its development objectives.
6
  This section describes the Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation and Utilization of the HD Technical
Assistance Project, and not the progress with the design, implementation and utilization of monitoring and
evaluation systems in the Government's social programs that were central objectives of the Project and are described
in Section 3.2.


                                                        12
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards. None of the Bank's Safeguard Policies were triggered by the Project.

Procurement. With no previous experience with Bank-financed operations, IBGE initially ran
into some difficulties with handling procurement under the Project, although a procurement
agent had been contracted to assist in this process and IBGE had initially been using this agent
for the selection of consultants and the preparation of ICB and NCB bidding documents.
Subsequent supervision revealed that IBGE began assuming a greater responsibility for
procurement processes and decisions, with the benefit that its internal procurement function
came out strengthened in the process.

Financial Management. Financial management went generally smoothly, although there were
issues with the auditors' opinion on the July 8, 2008 audit report of Component 1, which IBGE
rapidly addressed to comply with the Bank's financial management requirements.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The Project financed, or better supported, the development of systems, data collection
instruments and processes that either are or have very much become ingrained in its way of
doing business. These have either improved or made more efficient existing processes and
surveys, introduced new mechanisms of monitoring and evaluation and results-based financing
or supported the establishment of mechanisms, such as the Social Statistics Committee that bring
greater coordination, responsiveness and relevance into the design, monitoring and evaluation of
the Government's social programs.         These outcomes have been internalized into the
implementing agencies' structure and programs and they have absorbed the corresponding
budgetary, staffing and managerial responsibilities.

A stand-alone follow-up to the Project is not planned, as had been contemplated in the Project
Appraisal Document. Yet, the Bank has a very active program in Brazil that includes several
ongoing and planned lending operations and AAA, to support programs at the federal and state
levels. As the Project's objectives are fully compatible with the Government's, the Bank will
undoubtedly continue providing technical and financial assistance under its assistance program
to the Project's implementing agencies, and other agencies at all levels, towards further progress
with those objectives.

As to next steps, IBGE is analyzing the test POF Simplificada, and the results of this analysis
will guide the design of the new, annual survey. It continues to collect data on the pilot tests of
the PNAD Continua, that will continue until October 2010, which will feed into the planning and
design of that survey to be rolled out in 2011. The Social Statistics Committee is fully
recognized by all of the agencies that are represented in it, including now the Ministries of Labor
and of Social Security, as well.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation


                                                13
Project Objectives. The relevance of the Project's objectives was extremely high. Its
development objectives were at the time it was designed and still are at present unquestionably
consistent with Brazil's development priorities, with Bank country and sector assistance
strategies, and with corporate goals. The Project's objectives are consistent with the Brazilian
Government's strategy to reduce poverty and inequality while fostering economic development,
which continues to be the centerpiece of its economic and social development priorities. During
its first term, President Lula's administration maintained a dual strategy of both promoting and
maintaining economic growth, and also stimulating social progress to tackle the challenges of
inequality. In its second term, which began in early 2007, the current administration launched a
renewed push for economic development and faster growth, as well as actions to further
strengthen social policy and ensure that the recent gains in equity are sustainable, especially to
weather the current economic slowdown. Better informed policy decisions and program design,
which is made available by activities supported under the Project, is important for improving
equity and efficiency of the Government's social programs, and hence key for improving the
availability and delivery of social services to the country's population.

The Project's objectives are also at the center of one of the core pillars of the Bank's current
CPS, namely, Achieving a More Equitable Brazil. The Bank's strategy mirrors the Brazilian
Government's objective of reducing inequality by combining social progress with economic
stability. The CPS states that the Bank's support focuses on reaching the poorest and achieving
higher levels of quality and efficiency in social services, which was an important focus of the
Project. The Project was complemented during implementation, by a strong program of
programmatic Analytical and Advisory Services (AAA) that focused on building capacity for
monitoring and evaluation and by ongoing operations in the education, health and social
protection sectors.

The Project's objectives were also closely aligned with corporate priorities of achieving the
Millennium Development Goals in particular, MDG1, the reduction of poverty, hunger and
malnutrition, and achieving universal primary education (MDG2) and reducing child mortality
(MDG4) and maternal mortality (MDG5).

Project Design. The Project's design was also relevant, in that it was designed to provide needed
technical and financial support for advancing with the institutional activities that would be
required for complying with the benchmarks for an originally planned second HD PSRL.
Perhaps one question regarding the Project's design that, in retrospect, could be questioned--
although it did not impact the eventual accomplishment of most of its development objectives---
was whether it made sense to include a component for the MEC, without external funding, and
another for the MOH that already counted on several and expected to count on new Bank loans
that were supporting/would support similar institutional objectives.

Project Implementation. Due to an improved macroeconomic situation at the time, the
Government decided that it did not require the Bank's financing for implementing the policy
actions under a planned second PSRL. Still, the actions and activities that would have been
supported under the then proposed second PSRL remained very much at the center of the
Government's social policy agenda, and hence the Project's design, as a vehicle for financing
international expertise and providing hands-on technical support through supervision, remained

                                               14
very relevant. During implementation, it became clear that without a need for additional external
funding, and with the capacity to implement their planned activities either with internal
capabilities or with Bank assistance under other operations, Components 2 and 3 that were to
support MEC and MOH, respectively, lost their relevance but only in terms of financing and
assistance to be provided under the framework of the Project and not in terms of their overall
relevance to the Government.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The Project was structured around three components, each to be implemented by three different
implementing agencies, and the monitoring indicators were structured following these
components. The Project's achievement of its objectives, as evidenced by progress towards
originally defined targets, is presented below by each of the three objectives, with corresponding
indicators and targets mapped to the corresponding objective (i.e., instead of presenting a
discussion of the indicators/targets/achievements by project component).

Objective 1: to enhance monitoring processes and systems, including the systematic collection
of thorough data on social indicators, to permit: (i) stronger, more integrated and continuous
assessment of progress on social programs and policies, and (ii) use of performance
information in resource allocation decision-making

Achievement of objective 1 is assessed using intermediate outcome indicators.

The Project made considerable progress in improving and streamlining the systems for the
collection of data on social indicators, and in institutionalizing a structure not only for
consolidating this information, but using it effectively for making informed policy decisions. In
addition, both under and in parallel to the activities financed by the Project, the Ministries of
Education and Health (and other ministries not included under the Project such as the Ministry of
Social Development), began to rely on coordinated data sources, and improved and
institutionalized not only important systems for data collection and monitoring that are used to
guide resource allocations and formulate policies, but also performance-based financing
mechanisms into their programs. Specific accomplishments include:

   Social Statistics Committee holding regular meetings. Achieved. The Social Statistics
   Committee was established through an Inter-ministerial Ordinance on December 6, 2007. As
   established, the Committee included representatives of the Ministries of Planning, Health,
   Education, Strategic Affairs, and Social Development. The Ministries of Labor and of Social
   Security were later invited to participate in the Committee given the high relevance of the
   statistical information for which they are responsible to the Government's social agenda and
   priorities. The Committee is comprised of two units: the Management Group, responsible for
   defining the Committee's guidelines and action plans and the Executive Group, responsible
   for implementing the action plans put in place by the former. The Committee first met on
   December 16, 2008, and since then has been meeting regularly, either as a whole or as sub-
   groups, to establish an inventory of statistical information produced by IBGE and by the
   various Government ministries, evaluate their demands for this information and improve and
   streamline their access to the various statistical information systems. The Committee has to
   date has identified and documented, under a framework prepared by IBGE, all existing
                                               15
    statistical data bases maintained by IBGE, the Ministries of Health, Education, Labor, Social
    Development and Social Security, and is currently identifying possible information gaps.
    IBGE has designed a web-based system to provide access to the Committee's activities,
    which is already online.
    Second Household Expenditure Survey (POF, Pesquisa de Orçamentos Familiares)
    conducted. Achieved. The Project supported IBGE in design and carrying out of the second
    POF, which comprised the survey of about 65,000 households throughout the country
    between 2008 and 2009. The data is currently being processed and the survey's results are
    expected to be released in April 2010, with updated information on family spending and
    poverty in general and the impact of specific social programs. This full update of the POF
    will permit the evaluation of the Government's social programs against the baseline 2002-
    2003 POF. At the same time as the second POF was being conducted, IBGE developed and
    tested several questionnaires for a Simplified POF (POF Simplificada), and conducted this
    simplified survey of about 5,000 households in the all states in Brazil's South Region and
    four states in the Northeast Region. The pilot testing of the Simplified POF was carried out
    at the same time as the second POF to permit the eventual comparison of data to validate the
    simplified version, which is to be conducted on an annual basis.
    Support for planning the improvement of existing national survey including the
    merging with the current employment household surveys. Achieved. A first pilot test of
    the PNAD Continua, the new national survey that will merge information from the two
    existing PNAD and Pesquisa Nacional de Emprego (Monthly Employment Survey, PMR)
    was carried out in November 2008, on the basis of a new questionnaire and design. This
    pilot test aimed at validating the new questionnaire was developed on the basis of
    background documents prepared and inputs received from users of the survey information,
    including policy makers, during a series of seminars that IBGE conducted, including those
    under the framework of several forums of the Sistema Integrado de Pesquisas Domicialiares
    (SIPD).7 After evaluating the initial results, the pilot test was rolled out in 2009 to about
    45,000 households in five large states and the Federal District. The pilot test is proving
    useful for validating input related to labor, earning, migration, housing, for evaluating the
    process for collecting information and for comparing the data of the pilot PNAD Continua
    with that of the PNAD and the PME.
    National Household Survey (PNAD, Pesquisa Nacional por Amostragem Domiciliar)
    improved and North region included in survey. Achieved. Given delays in loan signing,
    this indicator was achieved in 2004 with counterpart funding. The PNAD today covers the
    entire country, including rural areas of the North region. Since that time, PNAD data
    covering the country as a whole is available on IBGE's web site.
    Poverty maps developed. Achieved. After a process of preparing data, adjusting the model
    and establishing measures of poverty and inequality in small locations, poverty maps were
    prepared on the basis of social, economic and demographic information from the POF
    2002/2003 and the Demographic Census 2000. A DVD, Mapa de Pobreza e Desigualdade:
    Municipios Brasileiros 2003 (Map of Poverty and Inequality), with maps of the main poverty
    and inequality indicators disaggregated by municipality, and complementary maps on
    indicators associated with poverty and inequality was launched in December 2008. The
7
  The SIPD fora are twice-yearly meetings of external users, promoted by IBGE, to promote discussion and receive
input to guide the design of the system of household surveys.


                                                       16
   complementary maps include information grouped in twelve categories: economy,
   population, education, health, housing and basic sanitation, physical, political, natural
   resources and environment, industry and services, agriculture, urbanization and
   infrastructure.
   Policy modules for tracking indicators in social sectors developed. Achieved. In
   coordination with the respective sector ministries, IBGE developed and added several
   supplemental modules to the PNAD. These include supplements on: income transfers from
   social programs (PNAD 2004 and 2006), which were later incorporated in the PNAD itself
   from 2007 onwards; child labor by age bracket (PNAD 2006); adolescent and adult education
   (PNAD 2007), and a third supplement on health (PNAD 2008).
   Ministry-wide information system to track and monitor education programs developed.
   Achieved. The Ministry of Education has established a web-based information system,
   accessible by all states and municipalities, to track and monitor education programs across
   the country. The Sistema Integrado de Planejamento Orçamento e Finanças (Integrated
   System of Planning, Budget and Finance, SIMEC), contains several modules through which
   multi-year plans, education programs and projects with states and municipalities, their
   budgets, financial management and project management are developed, monitored and
   evaluated.
   Institutional framework and organizational unit established for consolidating and
   coordinating M&E activities in the Ministry of Health. Partially Achieved. The MOH
   has not formally established a single, centralized organizational unit for consolidating and
   coordinating its monitoring and evaluation activities throughout the ministry, per se. Rather,
   the ministry as a whole has adopted a performance-based financing mechanism through its
   budgetary process, that by definition required the development and strengthening of its
   capacity for monitoring and evaluation. The MOH's Executive Secretariat has overall
   responsibility for establishing targets, monitoring and evaluating the various programs and
   projects it finances. It is supported in this effort with a comprehensive web-based database,
   DATASUS that contains countrywide information, by jurisdiction, on health indicators,
   budgets and financing through states and municipalities under the Sistema Único de Saúde
   (SUS), and utilization of health services. Most of MOH's units, such as the Secretaría de
   Atenção à Saúde, which is directly responsible for implementing instruments and processes
   to strengthen the SUS, have departments or units specifically charged with designing and
   implementing monitoring and evaluation of their programs. The Bank has been supporting
   the design and implementation of performance-based financing of federal health programs
   implemented by states and municipalities under several health sector projects it is financing
   (or has financed). Annex 11 contains a description of the performance-based mechanisms
   that have been incorporated in the federal budgetary and funding process under these
   programs.

Objective 2: to support the development of systematic research and evaluation of the impact
of health, education and social protection policies and reforms as a means toward
institutionalizing a results-oriented culture of accountability in public organizations
responsible for social sector service delivery

Achievement of objective 2 is assessed using intermediate outcome indicators.



                                              17
The Project made good progress towards the accomplishment of this objective, although the
institutionalizing of a results-oriented culture of accountability the public sector is still very
much a work in progress, that will be advanced through the implementation of several ongoing
efforts and programs that are supporting its advancement under those individual programs.
Specific accomplishments include:

   Analytical research using POF 2002/03 data financed. Achieved. IBGE developed and
   published the Pesquisa de Orçamentos Familiares 2002-2003: Indicadores de Despesas:
   Brasil e Grandes Regiões in 2007. Given the delays in loan signing, this activity was
   financed with counterpart funding.
   Capacity of federal, state and municipal levels to monitor and evaluate the performance
   of publicly financed (health) services assessed and report disseminated. Partially
   Achieved. Progress towards this indicator, again, was not achieved through a separate
   activity under the Project. Rather, the health reform program that was implemented starting
   in the 1980s provided for the decentralization of service provision to state and municipal
   governments, and transformed the mechanism for federal financing to states and
   municipalities through the SUS. Through the development and implementation of
   performance-based financing mechanisms in the part federally funded programs, the MOH
   has been working with states in municipalities to strengthen their abilities to monitor
   programs' and projects' planning, budgeting, financial execution all against results. Still, the
   states' and municipalities' capacity to monitor and evaluate varies greatly. As a result, most
   performance-based financing programs include specific activities to work with the weaker
   states and municipalities to strengthen their capacities in this area.
   Network of among M&E practitioners, stakeholders and academics established
   (health). Some Progress. Although a "formal" network has not been established, the
   performance of the SUS, and in reality of all social programs, has received ever increasing
   attention not only by the staff of federal, state and municipal government officials, but also
   by practitioners, academic institutions and think-tanks.
   Evaluation research on system performance financed (health). Not Achieved.

Objective 3: to support the institutional reform agenda as specified by the HD PSRL.

Achievement of objective 3 is assessed using outcome indicators.

The Project was expected, through the activities it would finance and the specific outputs it
would achieve, to assist the Government in achieving the institutional reform agenda specified in
the HD PSRL that would enable it to meet the benchmarks specified for the then proposed
second PSRL. By 2007, the Government had achieved all of the specified benchmarks, as
presented in Annex 10.


3.3 Efficiency

As the Project was a technical assistance operation, an economic analysis was not prepared
during preparation against which its efficiency can be measured. Still, the Project's efficiency
can be inferred on the basis of the expected impacts of the activities it supported, and the
efficiency with which it was implemented.
                                               18
First, the Project is expected to lead to increased efficiency in and effectiveness and quality of its
data collection. The pilot testing of the PNAD Continua, to replace eventually the PNAD and
PME will increase efficiency in data collection. The expansion of the PNAD to the entire
country, and its supplementary modules, together with the poverty maps improved the quality of
available data. By improving the quality of information available, through data collection, and
an increased focus on monitoring and evaluation, the Government is able to make better-
informed decisions regarding the design and targeting of its social sector programs, and
beneficiaries of those programs will eventually count on better targeted and more efficient
services. The introduction of performance-based financing mechanisms into Government
programs introduces greater efficiency into the allocation and use of Government resources,
while identifying issues with respect to institutional capacity constraints among certain states and
municipalities that can be and is being addressed through strengthened implementation support
aimed at building needed capacity. These efforts are expected strengthen the effectiveness of
social programs, both through improved equity and improved quality and efficiency in their
delivery.

The Project as prepared included funding distributed among its three components for activities to
be implemented by IBGE, by the Ministry of Education and by the MOH. Activities to be
implemented by MEC were from the start to be financed with counterpart funding. Because of
delays in signing, three main activities implemented by IBGE were carried out with counterpart
funding, outside the scope of project financing. Finally, MOH in the end received no funding
under the Project for the activities that it implemented which in several cases counted on Bank
financing under other operations in the health sector. As a result, the Project's objectives were
achieved with only US$5.93 in Bank financing from the US$8.0 loan that supported it.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Project's Overall Outcome Rating is rated Moderately Satisfactory, based on: (i) its
continued high relevance in terms of the activities it supported (although financing under the
loan was not required to carry out some parts of the Project); (ii) its substantial achievement of
its Development Objectives, with moderate shortcomings in the achievement of objectives by the
MOH, but only minor shortcomings in the achievement of objectives by IBGE which was
responsible for the largest share of the Project; and (iii) the efficiency with which it was carried
out, and that it will support in terms of strengthening, coordinating and streamlining data
collection and monitoring and evaluation to inform better the Government's social sector policies
and programs.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

By definition, the Project had a strong social and poverty focus, although it was not expected to
have a direct impact on poverty. Its implementation will result not only in better information to
analyze the existence and determinants of poverty, but also to design and target better


                                                 19
Government policies and programs to maximize their impact on reducing inequities and
alleviating poverty.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The Project basically supported institutional development activities that, as described in Section
2.5, have been internalized in the implementing agencies', or better, the Government's structure,
its policies and the programs it finances.

Beyond this, the Project's main institutional impact was in the formation and now regular
operation of the Social Statistics Committee that is established and recognized formally by all of
the ministries that comprise it as responsible for analyzing information needs and demands of the
social sector ministries with IBGE, making compatible those demands and prioritizing them, and
proposing the implementation of any needed special surveys aimed at measuring emerging social
issues. The Committee provides for structured coordination of the social sector ministries with
IBGE with the goal of bringing greater effectiveness in the quality of social information data
bases, and permitting greater information sharing, cooperation and dissemination of available
data.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Negligible

The Risk to the Project's Development Outcome is considered Negligible. As described earlier,
government ownership of the Project's objectives is extremely high. The activities, policies and
processes that the Project supported have been internalized by the Government, and
institutionalized technically, managerially, and financially. They will undoubtedly continue,
with a continuous search for expansion, adjustment and improvement in support of their
objectives. With an obvious social objective, stakeholder support is also high. In looking to the
future, perhaps the main risk would center on the forthcoming electoral process that will result in
a change of Presidential administration in early 2011. However, with a strong social equity and
efficiency focus, it is hard to imagine that any incoming administration would reverse the
progress made towards the Project's objectives.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

                                                   20
Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The Project
was strategically relevant to the Government and to the Bank's country assistance program,
especially to the HD PSRL and other social sector operations. It was a central element in an
integrated program of assistance in support of possibly the Government's highest priority--
achieving equity and efficiency in the deliver of social services, and its preparation was based on
a wealth of knowledge acquired through AAA and lending operations. The Project's design
incorporated lessons learned in earlier assistance, especially in recognizing IBGE's activities as a
key public good, providing valuable household information to complement ministry-collected
data, and incorporating them in the Project along with the MEC and MOH to address information
needs and availability from demand and supply sources. Fiduciary aspects were rather
straightforward, as were the Project's monitoring and evaluation arrangements. Two aspects of
Quality at Entry that eventually affected the Bank's supervision of activities that the Project
supported within the framework of Bank financing and project supervision deserve highlighting.
Although the factors described below did not affect eventual accomplishment of the Project's
objectives, they do bring into question whether with the exception of the IBGE component. Bank
lending was the most appropriate assistance vehicle through which to support the MEC and the
MOH.

Implementation Arrangements. The Project's implementation arrangements were somewhat
unique in that each of its implementing agencies was to be responsible for procurement,
disbursement and financial management arrangements and reporting project progress directly to
the Bank (i.e., without an overall coordinating unit). The PAD reported that this type of
arrangement had been tested with relative success in other projects financed by the Bank. An
advisory committee was to be established at the Ministry of Planning to ensure coordination of
the different ministries and IBGE in the implementation of the loan. The downside of this
arrangement was that the Bank did not have one, but several, interlocutors. When MEC decided
to "withdraw" from the Project, and MOH to carry out activities on its own, the Bank's main
counterpart became IBGE. Information regarding activities in education and health were
provided based on the Bank's solid policy dialogue with both of those ministries. Somewhat
related to this issue, is the question of why the Project's original design included a component to
be implemented by MEC, when no loan financing was to be provided.

Also, as mentioned in Section 2.1, the Project's risk assessment was relatively thin, failed to
identify risks that emerged that had an impact on the need for project financing, but not on the
eventual accomplishment of its objectives.

Bank Inputs and Processes. The Bank's inputs to support the Borrower's preparation were
solid, and counted on experienced Task Managers in each of the three human development
sectors--education, health and social protection. There was complete continuity in the Task
Managers that supported preparation of the Project and that had earlier supported preparation of
the HD PSRL. Yet, it is not clear why the loan for this Project was only taken to the Board more
than two years after approval and disbursement of the first HD PSRL, when there were already
indications that a second HD PSRL would never materialize.

(b) Quality of Supervision


                                                21
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Bank Performance in the Quality of Supervision was Moderately Satisfactory. The Bank
continued to provide support during supervision through multi-sectoral specialists under the
coordination of the Task Manager. Supervision of fiduciary aspects, when issues emerged
became proactive, and supervision reporting made due note of the issues, adjusting the Project's
implementation ratings accordingly.

In retrospect, it seems that the dynamics of Bank supervision changed once it became clear that
the Government did not want to move forward with financing under a second HD PSRL, which
happened relatively early in implementation. Bank Task Management changed almost
immediately after loan effectiveness (due to internal rotation), by which time it had become clear
that there would not be a second phase. Supervision took on a more routine investment lending-
type project management emphasis, as opposed to one driven by making rapid progress towards
benchmarks in a policy matrix supported by a team of specialists. Concurrently, the Bank
provided specialized sectoral assistance towards accomplishment of the Project's objectives
through separate just-in-time advisory support (education), programmatic AAA (social
protection), and supervision of other projects under implementation and preparation (health).

Given the delays in project start-up, implementation was delayed and the Project's Mid-Term
Review was conducted when the Bank's loan was near closing, and when a new Task Manager
with a broad social policy focus assumed responsibility. The Mid-Term Review did serve to
focus on the Project's accomplishments, and to review progress towards the eventual
achievement of its objectives, including progress towards the benchmarks for a second HD
PSRL.

What is not clear is why the Bank did not recommend dropping Components 2 and 3 early on,
when the Bank became appraised that the MEC and MOH were implementing activities outside
of the Project's framework. As explained repeatedly, this did not impact progress towards the
accomplishment of the Project's objectives. But did create a somewhat strange situation in
which a project's implementing agencies (i.e., MEC and MOH) moved in parallel to a project for
which they were responsible with Bank technical and advisory support and assistance, but
outside of that project's framework.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory, based on the factors described
above, but mostly on the very high strategic relevance, timeliness and the high quality technical
analysis of the Project, its objectives, and its components that were so very congruent with those
of the Government. Even though MEC and MOH implemented most of the activities outside of
the Project's framework, the quality of the Project's technical design and inputs undoubtedly
provided strong input for those institutions' agenda in support of its objectives. Yet, with the
benefit of hindsight, perhaps a lending instrument was not the most vehicle through which the
Bank's assistance in support of the MEC's and the MOH's objectives could be provided.


                                               22
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Government's Performance is rated Satisfactory8. Its ownership and commitment to
achieving the Project's development objectives was extremely high---they were the
Government's objectives that it supported through the implementation of its many ongoing and
design of its many planned programs. Through establishment and continued operation of the
Social Statistics Committee, it created a forum for coordinating and furthering the objectives
supported by the Project, not only among its implementing agencies, but by all agencies with
responsibility for formulating, implementing, monitoring and evaluating social policies and
programs.

The one main factor under the Government's control that impacted the Project was somewhat
contrary to what is normally observed. The Project had originally been designed to support
implementation of the series of HD PSRLs, and, specifically, the transition from the first to the
second phase. With a rapidly improving macroeconomic environment since the first HD PSRL
was approved, the Project's dynamics shifted, especially in terms of requiring external finance to
maintain, support, expand and improve its social programs. This affected the "raison d'etre" of
the Project, with the result that loan financing became limited to Component 1, implemented by
IBGE, an autonomous agency.

Transition arrangements are in place, and all of the Project's implementing agencies have
internalized the policies and activities that the Project supported.



(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Implementing Agencies' Performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory9.

It is difficult to rate the performance of the MEC and MOH, since they had relatively little direct
participation in the Project after preparation and early implementation. MOH, in early
implementation, encountered frequent delays in contracting, and preparing implementation plans,
mostly due to staffing issues that were eventually resolved. But this does not provide sufficient
basis to form an informed judgment as to the ministries' performance under the Project. They
both remained committed to the Project's objectives, and remained very much involved in the
Social Statistics Committee as beneficiaries, users and providers of information from and to
government databases, and with the Bank in the context of other assistance vehicles.



8
    Government is taken to mean the whole of the Federal Government and its policies.

9
    Implementing Agencies is taken to mean IBGE, MEC and MOH.


                                                         23
IBGE, on the other hand, remained not only committed to the Project's objectives from
preparation onwards, but also fully engaged with the Bank throughout project implementation. It
addressed fiduciary issues as they arose in a timely manner, and established monitoring systems
to follow the Project's progress. It assumed fully its catalytic role in reaching out to other
government agencies to coordinate the needs, availability, quality, and analysis of social data.
Finally, it implemented all of its programmed activities--by far the Project's largest component-
-in a timely fashion, with only minor and justifiable delays, within the Project's original
implementation schedule and with impeccable commitment to quality and results.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Overall Borrower Performance is rated Satisfactory for the reasons described above, but also
in view of the Borrower's commitment as a whole to the Project's objectives and their continued
implementation and sustainability.

6. Lessons Learned

   Nothing substitutes a Borrower's commitment to project objectives. This project is a prime
   example of the fact that nothing substitutes for a Borrower's commitment to project
   objectives. IBGE required the funding to carry out the programmed activities, and did so
   impeccably. Both the MEC and MOH did not require loan funding, but carried out the vast
   majority of activities without loan funding, basically because the Project's objectives were
   the Government's own.

   Technical Assistance in the context of development policy lending, including
   programmatic development policy lending--realities and needs. There is a wide array of
   experience within the Bank with technical assistance loans that accompany development
   policy loans (DPLs) in support of the development and design of reforms that count on
   financial support under the associated DPL(s). Invariably, this experience has been mixed,
   and generally, the implementation of technical assistance often moves along a slower
   timetable, given not only the time required to design and implement institutional reforms, but
   also the very nature of technical assistance lending that requires compliance with more
   hands-on, day-to-day involvement with fiduciary issues, including the preparation of terms-
   of-reference, adherence to Bank procurement policies and procedures, etc. In the case of the
   Project, this never really became an issue since the second in the series of programmed
   PSRLs never materialized, and the Borrower in any event complied with the benchmarks for
   a second PSRL by 2007. In any event, it is not clear that the envisaged timetable for moving
   ahead with a second PSRL would have been compatible with what turned out to be the
   schedule for implementation of the technical assistance activities under the Project.

   Incorporating various agencies without a coordinating agency. The Project's design was
   such that each of three implementing agencies was to be responsible for procurement,
   disbursement and financial management arrangements and reporting project progress directly
   to the Bank (i.e., without an overall coordinating unit). There was an advantage to this
   arrangement, namely, that each of the implementing agencies could communicate and report

                                               24
   routine project activities directly to the Bank, without the additional layer of a coordinating
   unit. On the downside, this placed somewhat of an additional burden on the Bank's
   supervision effort that needed to relate to each of the three agencies individually. In the end,
   the additional effort was eased somewhat by the fact that both the MEC and the MOH
   implemented most of the Project's activities on their own, outside of the framework of the
   Project, and the focus of the Bank's supervision, in the context of the Project, was on IBGE,
   but created a difficult situation in hands-on supervision assistance to those agencies was
   provided outside the framework of the Project.

   Support within a coherent framework of overall support to a sector. The Project provided
   assistance to the Government within a coherent and coordinated framework of overall
   support to Brazil's social sectors that included a comprehensive program of lending and non-
   lending assistance, including short-term, hands-on advisory services. It may sound redundant
   to say this, but this assistance framework, coupled with the Government's commitment to the
   overall objectives that it supported (and continues to support) provided an environment
   conducive to the accomplishment of this (and other) Project's objectives. This is all the more
   apparent in view of the fact that some of the Project's objectives were met without loan
   financing but with Bank assistance under other Bank-financed projects or through its
   extensive program of analytical and advisory services.

   Issues with relation to an implementing agency "withdrawing" from a Project (but
   supporting its objectives)--need for guidance on how to address and evaluate. The Project
   had three implementing agencies, with very different realities. First, was IBGE, an
   autonomous agency of the Government that utilized project-related funding and
   corresponding technical assistance to carry out the Project's activities. The MEC was
   included under the Project, but from the start was to implement its activities under the Project
   with counterpart resources, through routine budgetary allocations to the Ministry. The MOH
   was included under the Project, with incremental funding from the Bank's loan that would
   allow it to carry out its planned activities. Including these three agencies within the Project's
   framework made sense, especially since the activities that they were to carry out, and the
   objectives that they were to pursue were complementary and part and parcel of the
   Government's objectives for institutionalizing a culture of results-based accountability in the
   social sectors based on reliable data, and each of these had a special role in moving towards
   compliance with benchmarks that would trigger the second phase of the HD PSRL. Still, the
   implementing agencies' realities were very different, and yet both the MEC and the MOH
   were able to pursue the Government's objectives outside of the framework of the Project.

   The analysis of evaluating the Project's accomplishment of development objectives in this
   report was based on just that, regardless of source of financing. In accordance with the
   Bank's procedures for project restructuring, it might have been preferable to exclude both the
   MEC and the MOH from the Project at some early point. But there is something twisted
   about this line of reasoning, since MEC really never counted on Bank financing to begin
   with. Perhaps the question should be whether it made sense to include the MEC in the
   Project from the start, realizing that its relation with the Bank would be one based on
   technical, and not financial, assistance. In retrospect, the response is probably yes it did
   make sense, since the MEC was able to move ahead with its activities under a framework of

                                                25
    the Government's objectives, and that when the Project was designed, it was to support
    actions towards compliance with benchmarks, including ones that MEC needed to achieve.
    Then, the question is whether it would have made sense to exclude the MOH from the
    Project at some point. With the MOH implementing the Project's activities, in pursuit of its
    objectives, the MOH's position became exactly like that of the MEC--an agency that
    implemented important activities under the Project with its own (or alternative) resources,
    and with the Bank's technical assistance through other vehicles. Perhaps, in the end, the
    issue is one of attribution: to what extent is the accomplishment of the Project's objectives
    attributable (exclusively) to the Project. Guidance on this issue of incorporating
    components/agencies under a project that get implemented but not necessarily with loan
    financing would be welcome.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

A Project Completion Report prepared by IBGE was received by the Bank on March 26, 2010, and served
as input into the preparation of this ICR. A copy is available in the Project Files. A draft of this ICR was
sent to MEC, MS and IBGE on May 20, 2010 IBGE sent comments to the Bank by email on May 31,
2010 The comments were few, and concerned only precision of dates, and clarification of certain
activities carried out by them under the Project. IBGE's comments have been incorporated in this ICR.
No comments were received from either MEC or MS.

(b) Co-financiers

N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

N/A




                                                    26
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Thousand equivalent)
                                                        Actual/Latest
                                   Appraisal Estimate                         Percentage of
            Components                                  Estimate (USD
                                    (USD millions)                             Appraisal
                                                           millions)
Component 1:
Strengthening Collection of
                                           9.151               8.927               100
Monitoring and Evaluation Data in
the Social Sectors
Component 2:
Strengthening Monitoring and               2.054               0                    0
Evaluation in the Education Sector
Component 3:
Strengthening and Consolidation of         2.044               0                    0
Health System

                Total Baseline Cost        13.259               8.927
Physical Contingencies
                                            0.768
Price Contingencies
                                           -1.107
                Total Project Costs        12.920
Front-end fee IBRD                          0.080
        Total Financing Required           13.0




(b) Financing
                                          Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                          Estimate     Estimate    Percentage of
            Source of Funds
                                            (USD         (USD        Appraisal
                                         thousands)   thousands)
 Borrower                                    5.0    0.00          .00
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                          13.0        0.00        .00
and Development




                                                 27
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

See Section 3.2




                                28
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(Including assumptions in the analysis)

N/A




                                       29
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes



    (a) Task Team members


                                                                                Responsibility/
             Names                                  Title             Unit
                                                                                  Specialty

Lending

Ademildes Dantas                  Operations Officer                 LCSHE   Fiduciary/Operational
Alberto Rodriguez                 Sr. Education Economist            LCSHE   Task Team Leader
Anemarie Proite                   Procurement Specialist             LCSFP   Procurement Aspects
Claudio Mittelstaedt              Financial Management Specialist    LCSFM   Financial Management
Daniela Pena de Lima              Operations Officer                 LCSHH   Fiduciary/Operational
Kathy Lindert                     Social Development Economist       LCSHS   Technical /Operational

Supervision/ICR

Ademildes Dantas                   Operations Officer                LCSHE Fiduciary/Operational
Adriana Paula Sales Correia        Team Assistant                    LCSHD Operational Support
André Médici                       Health Senior Economist                 Technical
Barbara Bruns                      Education Specialist                    Technical
Cassia Castro de Miranda           Team Assistant                    LCSHD Operational Support
Chingboon Lee                      Sector Manager                          Education Manager
Daniela Pena de Lima               Operations Officer                      Fiduciary/Operational
Danilo Pisani de Souza             Financial Management Specialist         Financial Management
Frederico Rabello Costa            Procurement Specialist            LCSPT Procurement Aspects
Jason Hobbs                        Social Development Research             Technical Research
João Vicente Novaes Campos         Procurement Specialist                  Procurement Aspects
Katherine Scott                    Senior Economist                  DECPI Technical
Kathy Lindert                      Social Development Economist      LCSHD Task Team Leader
Luis Prada                         Senior Procurement Specialist     LCSPT Procurement Aspects
Marize de Fátima Santos            Team Assistant                    LCSHD Operational Support
Michele Gragnolati                 Sector Leader                           Task Team Leader
Nicolas Drossos                    Financial Management Specialist         Financial Management
Peter Lanjouw                      Research Manager                  DECPI
Phillippe George Pereira Guimarães
                                   Economist                         HDNSP Tecnhical
Leite
Romero Barreto Rocha               Economist                               Economist
Suzana Amaral                      Financial Management Specialist   LCSFM Financial Management
Suzana Nagele de C. Abbott         Senior Operations Officer               Operational
Tatiana Proskuryakova              Seniro Operational Officer              Operational




                                                     30
(b) Staff Time and Cost


                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands (including travel
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                                 and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                                  21.32                       74,206.19
  FY06                                   0.00                        2,296.00
                          Total:        21.32                       76,502.19
Supervision/ICR
  FY06                                   6.15                       17,103.93
  FY07                                  11.35                       41,816.66
  FY08                                  15.50                       62,784.34
  FY09                                  22.81                      116,827.52
  FY10                                  14.62                       87,756.19
                          Total:        70.43                      326,288.64




                                      31
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

N/A




                                      32
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

N/A




                                      33
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

See comments in Section 7(a). A copy of IBGE's Project Completion Report is in the Project
Files. IBGE's comments on this ICR have been incorporated in this document.

1. Project Evaluation: design, execution, results and operating experience

(a) Design

Component 1, "Strengthening Data Collection for Monitoring and Evaluation in Social Areas",
under the aegis of IBGE, was divided into seven sub-components:

   1. Social Statistics Committee (SSC)

   2. Strategy for the Family Budget Survey Program (POF)

   3. Improvement of existing national surveys, including the merger of PME (Monthly
     Employment Survey) and the PNAD within the National Continuous Household Survey

   4. Expansion of the coverage of the PNAD to include the North Region rural area

   5. Preparation of Poverty Maps

   6. Technical training for monitoring and evaluating social policies

   7. Analytical studies of the results of POF 2002/2003.

The project design focused on two key objectives: (i) to improve existing surveys; and (ii) to
provide technical training for IBGE staff to undertake special monitoring and evaluation surveys
on social policies (requiring specialized methodology).

(b) Execution

   1. The Social Statistics Committee

The Social Statistics Committee (SSC) was established on 06/12/2007. This consists of two
bodies: (i) a Steering Committee, responsible for setting guidelines for SSC work; and (ii) an
Executive Group, responsible for implementation of tasks in accordance with Steering
Committee guidelines. The Committee consists of representatives of the Ministries of Planning,
Budget and Management, Health, Education, Social Development and Hunger Alleviation, as
well as of the Special Ministry for Strategic Affairs.

The first meeting of the SSC was held on 16 December 2008 at the Ministry of Planning, Budget
and Management (MPOG) in Brasilia. The discussion covered: (i) the Committee´s expanded
goals, namely the diagnosis of social statistics based on administrative records and surveys
conducted by IBGE and the various ministries with responsibilities in the social area; (ii) an

                                               34
appraisal of statistical requests and requirements i.e. "demand evaluation"; and finally (iii)
measures for improving access to available databases.

In March 2009, the Steering Committee established the following guidelines for the SSC:

   x   To maintain, enhance and regularly update the social statistics inventory, with particular
       attention to official statistical inputs;
   x   To ensure the consolidation, improvement and comparability of information, and to
       provide easy access to the same;
   x   To encourage the adoption of concepts, classifications and methods for processing,
       storing and presenting official statistical information to enable the above goals to be
       achieved;
   x   To work towards covering information gaps and to gradually incorporate a wider range of
       statistical sources;
   x   To systematize information demand and to ensure optimum production and use of
       available data through improved coordination;
   x   To regulate and facilitate access by different government agencies to existing databases,
       ensuring transparency, visibility, legibility and comprehensibility;
   x   To undertake actions aimed at promoting the profile of SSC work; and
   x   To adopt the Fundamental Principles of Official Statistics of the UN Statistical
       Commission, 1994 (http://unstats.un.org/unsd/methods/statorg/default.htm).

On the same occasion it was decided to formally invite the Ministries of Labor and Social
Welfare to be represented on the SSC, in view of the important databases produced by both
ministries and the two ministries ´strong connections with the social area.

It was also decided that the SSC Executive Group would produce a work-plan covering the
following:

          o   To inventory social statistics production with a view to identifying gaps,
              evaluating progress and highlighting opportunities for incorporating new
              statistical sources;
          o   To evaluate and implement the Metadata Project for administrative records;
          o   In accordance with its remit, to organize the information demand flow which will
              be the responsibility of the Household Surveys System (SIPD);
          o   To organize and optimize information demand flow and to propose measures for
              facilitating access to databases held by SSC member agencies, integrating such
              data wherever possible;
          o   To create, maintain and make full use of the IBGE website to disseminate SSC
              documents, including summary records of its meetings.

The SSC Executive Group met four times in 2009 to progress the above work-plan. Members of
the Group also participated in the 6th and 7th Forums of the Integrated Household Surveys
System (SIPD). The main objective of the SIPD forums, sponsored by the IBGE on a twice-
yearly basis, and attended by internal and external users, is to provide an opportunity for



                                              35
delivering information on the Project and encouraging further discussion by interested
parties. Among the main achievements of the Group were:

               ·   Identification of the databases to be inventoried;
               ·   Drawing up inventories of institutional databases, using the same standard
                   form as that used for the IBGE Metadata Bank Project;
               ·   The following two main sets of databases were duly documented: IBGE
                   databases and those produced by, or under the control of, the Ministries of
                   Education, Health, Labor and Social Development. The Ministry of Pensions
                   and Welfare is currently in the process of deciding which material would
                   make a suitable contribution to this exercise;
               ·   A comparative table was drawn up on the basis of the above evidence to
                   facilitate discussion about possible gaps in the social data;
               ·   Information about the work and other aspects of the Social Statistics
                   Committee is being prepared for the IBGE website.

2. Strategy for the Family Budget Survey Program (POF)

Planning went ahead in 2007 on the "Complete POF". This included making decisions about the
content of the POF, designing data-collection and training tools, field-testing and developing a
suitable data entry system and, finally, the purchase of appropriate equipment for data collection.

As for the "Simplified POF", a start was made on defining the design and content of the model
questionnaire which would eventually (with the Complete POFs) form the basis of the
Continuous Family Budget Survey scheme.

In 2008, the POF 2008-2009 was implemented throughout Brazil, based on a sample of around
65,000 previously-selected households. Interviews were conducted from May onwards, and by
December data collection had been completed in 60% of the selected households. In the context
of the Simplified POF, the questionnaires were completed and the pilot trial operational model
and sample were defined. The sample was designed to allow the results generated from the pilot
trial to be estimated and potentially used for comparing with the POF 2008-2009 results.

The methodological model of the pilot project was discussed and defined together with IBGE
experts in national accounts, employment, prices and incomes, poverty and living conditions.
The test model was also presented to external users during the SIPD discussion forums.

In 2009, the information collection stage of the 2008-2009 Family Budget Survey covering the
entire national territory was finalized. After information collection was completed in the field (in
May 2009), the resulting data was duly analyzed and processed. A set of analytical procedures
was used to assess the consistency of the information and the quality of execution of the
collection processes. The training and pilot trial stages were undertaken under the Simplified
POF regime, as provided for in the work program. The pilot trial, conducted between February
and June, involved evaluating different types of questionnaire models. The results of these will
be compared with data from the POF 2008-2009, with a view to defining a simplified family
budget survey model which could be utilized annually. In the test sample, approximately 5,000

                                                36
households in the South Region and in four Northeastern states (Ceará, Rio Grande do Norte,
Paraiba and Pernambuco) were selected. During the last six months of 2009 the final test
statistics were generated and the calculation, critical analysis and imputation steps commenced at
the core level.

3. Improvement of existing national surveys, including the merger of the PNAD and PNE
   into the National Household Survey

Year 2007 was spent planning the `Continuous PNAD'. Workshops were organized and
documents published in the IBGE discussion series with a view to ensuring that information
would be readily available on the planning aspects of the survey, and also to involve as many
users as possible. Preparation of the questionnaire and design of the sample (based on the
`Master Sample' approach proposed for this survey) went ahead.

In 2008, a number of initiatives were taken which, based on the initial proposal for a
questionnaire incorporating the `labor' and `income' themes in the Continuous PNAD, resulted
in a proposed new version of the questionnaire to be used for trials. The various initiatives
involved making contact with international consultants, discussions with external users (in the
SIPD forums), updating international recommendations with regard to planning the 2010 Census,
etc.

The new version of the questionnaire was also the outcome of wide-ranging discussions in two
major events: the XVI National Meeting of Population Studies and the XVIII International
Conference of Labor Statisticians (ILO, Geneva). IBGE was invited to present discussion
documents at these events, following which the first trial, undertaken in November, served to
validate a substantial number of questions regarding labor and income, as well as confirm the
value of the system developed for laptop computers.

2009 saw the planning and execution of a major trial involving around 45,000 households in
Pará, Pernambuco, Brasília, São Paulo, Rio Grande do Sul and Rio de Janeiro. The scope and
design of the sample were based on the Master Sample to be applied within the Integrated
Household Surveys System. The field trial was conducted between October 2009 and February
2010 in all the above areas, except for Rio de Janeiro, where it is due to be completed in October
2010. This test exercise will provide an opportunity to evaluate the routine sample rotation
procedures, the alternation of supplementary themes and enable a comparison with the results of
the PME. Note that in Rio de Janeiro the trial covers the sectors of the Master Sample which
refer to Metropolitan Regions, whereas in the other states it encompassed the respective
territories in their entirety.

The trial aimed at the following: (i) to validate the labor, income, time-use, migration and
housing questionnaires; (ii) to appraise the logistical aspects of data management, collection and
computer-generated information required for the Continuous PNAD; and (iii) to produce
statistically-accurate results in order to enable a reliable comparison to be made with the PNAD
and PME ­ both of which will be replaced by the Continuous PNAD.




                                               37
4. Expansion of PNAD coverage ­ Rural North

Due to procedural delays experienced in signing the Loan Agreement for the HD TAL Project,
IBGE own resources were used to achieve the goals of this subcomponent. The PNAD currently
covers all the national territory, including the rural part of the North Region. All the National
Household Survey results from 2004 onwards, including data on this region, are available for
consultation on the IBGE website.

5. Poverty Maps

The work undertaken by IBGE in 2007 basically revolved around database integration, i.e.
assembling data from different surveys and censuses to form the basis of a methodology to be
used in poverty studies - specifically the concept of the "Poverty Map".

Constructing Poverty Maps involved applying a variety of statistical methods for fine-tuning
estimation models in small areas or "dominions". Once data had been assembled, the
consumption model adjusted and "small area" poverty and inequality figures calculated, it was
possible to construct maps showing the levels of poverty, "subjective" poverty and inequality in
Brazil´s municipalities.

In order to contribute to a better understanding of the determinants of poverty, the team
supplemented the Poverty Maps with municipal maps showing useful local social, economic and
demographic information.

The indicators for the Poverty and Inequality Maps were completed in 2008, based on small-area
estimates calculated by the method developed by the World Bank, drawing on data from the POF
2002/2003 and the 2000 Population Census. The methodological texts and maps were edited
prior to insertion in the final product.

18 December 2008 saw the official launch of the DVD version of the Poverty and Inequality
Map: Brazilian municipalities - 2003, containing maps showing the main poverty and inequality
indicators. The DVD also displayed a series of maps with useful supplementary data, under 12
main headings: Economy, Population, Education, Health, Housing, Basic Sanitation, Physical
Aspects, Political Aspects, Natural Resources and the Environment, Industry and Services,
Agriculture, Urbanization and Infrastructure.

6. Technical training for monitoring and evaluating social policies

As the result of close interaction with senior management dealing with a wide range of public
policy issues and an ongoing dialogue with users and World Bank staff, the IBGE teams learnt a
great deal about the importance of conducting systematic surveys for monitoring public policies.

Examples of this enhanced systematic approach were: (i) the supplements to PNADs 2004 and
2006 referring to income transfer programs; (ii) the inclusion in the PNAD basic questionnaire
(from 2007) of questions asking for details of income arising from transfers; (iii) dissemination
of the PNAD 2006 supplement on child labor according to the age groups defined by national

                                               38
child labor legislation; and, finally, (iv) the PNAD supplements on professional and adult/youth
education (2007) and health (2008).

The Social Statistics Committee played a key role in upgrading technical training for evaluating
and monitoring social policies, by collaborating with IBGE (data requests and requirements etc),
maintaining the SSC inventory of social statistics and filling gaps in existing information.

7. Analyzing the results of POF 2002/2003

As was the case of Subcomponents 4 and 6, implementation of Subcomponent 7 activities did
not involve the use of IBRD funds.

The "Family Budget Survey 2002-2003: Expenditure indicators: Brazil and Major Regions" (1st
Edition -Rio de Janeiro: IBGE, 2007) was published.

Overall Outcomes

Of the seven subcomponents of Component 1 of the HD TAL Project for which IBGE
shouldered responsibility, the Institute worked on three of them using its own resources: (i)
expanded coverage of the PNAD to include the North Region rural area; (ii) analytical studies on
the results of the POF 2002 / 2003; and (iii) staff capacity-building for monitoring and evaluating
social policies.

In (i) and (ii) above, procedural delays in the run-up to the signing of the Loan Agreement for the
HD TAL Project obliged IBGE to use its own resources in view of the pressing need to obtain
key spatial and thematic information on Brazil´s socio-demographic situation.

In the case of (iii) above, the objectives of the technical training initiative were achieved in the
course of the HD TAL Project as the result of our staff interacting closely with key public policy
practitioners, engaging in an ongoing fruitful dialogue with users and World Bank staff and
liaising with the SSC. This subcomponent had no financial resource implications.

The subcomponents funded with HD TAL Project resources attained the objectives set forth in
the Project Consultative Charter (May 2004). The Social Statistics Committee was duly
established and began work on its predetermined Action Agenda. The 2008-2009 Family Budget
Survey was undertaken in the context of the Family Budgets Survey (POF), with the publication
of the results forecast for June 2010. A pilot trial of the Simplified POF was also conducted. This
consisted of evaluating different types of questionnaires with a view to producing a simplified
family budgets survey which could be applied annually (in accordance with the targets
established for this subcomponent). As for the subcomponent dealing with improving existing
nationwide surveys, including the merger of PME and PNAD in the Continuous National
Household Survey (the "Continuous PNAD"), the size significance test was carried out,
involving some 45,000 households in Pará, Pernambuco, Brasília, São Paulo, Rio Grande do Sul
and Rio de Janeiro. This test is the key to the future successful deployment of the Continuous
PNAD, which will represent a significant step forward in the social statistics area. Finally, the
Poverty Maps component reached its planned target with the launching in 2008 of the DVD

                                                39
version of the Poverty and Inequality Map: Brazilian municipalities - 2003. This subcomponent
involved training a technical team in the use of specific World Bank methodology for
constructing maps of this type.

Operational experience

Executor Performance

IBGE possessed virtually no experience of World Bank operations at the start of the HD TAL
Project, although many IBGE operations at the time were based on funded projects. IBGE
nevertheless decided to implement the Project using its own technical and administrative staff.
The World Bank agreed to this approach in view of IBGE´s efficient administrative structure and
the centralized nature of the activities to be undertaken under the HD TAL - all of which were to
be controlled by the IBGE Research Directorate.

Once the initial problems had been overcome, especially regarding the correct understanding and
use of World Bank instruments, IBGE was able to satisfactorily assimilate the required concepts
and practices, as was confirmed by the Bank´s own supervisory missions.

World Bank

The accessibility and availability of World Bank interlocutors was essential for assisting IBGE in
its role as the executor of a project which needed to conform to Bank standards.

UNDP

At an early stage in the negotiations on the HD TAL Project Loan Agreement, IBGE (aware of
its own shortcomings in the procurements and consultancy-hiring areas) identified the need for
UNDP assistance in this area and an IBGE/UNDP contract was duly signed for this purpose.

Although this arrangement made a useful contribution to IBGE´s work, it generated a number of
problems during project implementation, particularly with regard to the rules applied by UNDP
(which occasionally differed from World Bank rules).

One of the more positive outcomes of the experience with UNDP is that IBGE is now
determined to overhaul its procurements division so that it can deal effectively with contacts and
purchases in accordance with World Bank rules.

2. Appraising the project vis-à-vis the objectives specified in the Project Appraisal
Document (PAD)

The Loan for Human Development Sector Reform (HD PSRL), signed by the Brazilian
Government and the World Bank in 2003, focused on the adoption of a culture of project
management based on results. The HD TAL Project thus seeks to provide, as a necessary
preliminary step, the tools to assist the Government to improve and develop monitoring systems
and surveys to measure the impact of the Government´s public policies.

                                               40
While a wide range of social data is collected in Brazil, produced by IBGE and other agencies,
such information is not widely employed in public policy decision-making. The main thrust of
the HD TAL Project was, and is, to provide an institutional framework for building a mechanism
for developing a reliable database containing information that can be analyzed, disseminated and
used to benefit the decision-making process.

Creating a more robust strategic information system, which enables more precise monitoring of
the living conditions of the Brazilian population, referencing social policies and obtaining more
accurate evaluations of the respective impacts, has generated an environment that is more
disposed to development-oriented political dialogue.

A highlight of the HD TAL Project has been the creation of the Social Statistics Committee. The
remit of the SSC is to assess the requirements for social policy-related statistical information
submitted to IBGE by government agencies, to harmonize the many requests, to set priorities and
to suggest the commissioning of special research studies and surveys for measuring new social
phenomena. Consisting of representatives from IBGE and government departments directly
linked to the social area, the SSC aims to provide a space for improved dialogue between IBGE
and government agencies to ensure that statistical requirements are fully dealt with. The SSC
also aims to streamline the information system focused on social development policies, through
enhanced information exchange, closer inter-agency cooperation and wider dissemination of
available information.

3. Project follow-up

The following are some of the projects developed under the HD TAL Project that are being
followed up as part of the IBGE Research Directorate work program:

Simplified POF

The analysis of the results (scheduled for 2010) of the pilot trial will be essential for deciding on
the type of Annual Survey to be conducted in future.

Continuous PNAD

The results of the trials conducted in 2009 (to continue in Rio de Janeiro until October 2010) will
form the basis for the next steps for planning deployment of the Continuous PNAD in 2011.

Social Statistics Committee

The SSC is now fully acknowledged by all its members as a valuable institutional body. The
Executive Group has already selected the main action targets for the SSC 2010 work-plan, based
on Steering Committee guidelines.




                                                 41
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                       42
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Background documents:
   · Fundescola I, Project Appraisal Document, March 16, 1998
   · Fundescola IIIa, Project Appraisal Document, May 17,2002
   · First Programmatic Human Development Sector Reform Loan (PSRL) Project Appraisal
       Document, January 27,2003
   · Bolsa Família, Project Appraisal Document, March 2004

Project Documents / Supervision document:
    · HD PSRL program update, with Review of Triggers Table, March 8, 2004
    · Human Development Technical Assistance Project Appraisal Document , July 1, 2005

Bank Assessments:
   · Environmental and Social Comments on PCN
   · FMA Report and FM arrangements




                                               43
Annex 10. Progress towards HD PSRL Performance Triggers

A.       Accountability and Integrated Governance
                   Issue                           Selected benchmarks                                   Status
Establish evaluation and consumer        Strengthen evaluation culture in the        Achieved: Although quality throughout the
feedback mechanisms for education and    education sector by: (i) participation in   education system continues to be a
health programs, provide for increased   PISA/OECD international learning            concern, the federal and state governments
involvement of community in decision-    assessments; and (ii) providing technical   place appropriate emphasis on measuring
making and promote effective social      support to sub-national government for      learning outcomes (Brazil participates in
mobilization                             evaluation in the education system          PISA and maintains a network of national
                                                                                     and state level learning assessments:
                                                                                     Índice de Desenvolvimento da Educação
                                                                                     Básica (IDEB), Provinha Brasil, Prova
                                                                                     Brasil and Sistema Nacional de Avaliação
                                                                                     da Educação (SAEB) and a growing
                                                                                     number of states are experimenting with
                                                                                     school-level incentives, such as bonus pay,
                                                                                     linked to learning outcomes.
                                         Allocate at least the same budget than the Achieved: Allocation for 2005 budget is
                                         previous year (in real terms) for a school  equivalent from that of the 2004 budget.
                                         autonomy program that transfers resources
                                         directly to schools.
                                         Systematically track and respond to client Achieved: The Ministry of Health (MOH)
                                         contacts and grievance in SUS-financed      has implemented a revised PNASH system
                                         health facilities by creating an integrated that includes measuring patient
                                         database drawing in information from        satisfaction, a general strategy to integrate
                                         Serviço de Atendimento de Demanda           a number of heretofore separate
                                         Espontânea-Sistema Único de Saúde           information systems.
                                         (SADE-SUS), Sistema de Cartas and
                                         Programa Nacional de Avaliação dos
                                         Serviços Hospitalares (PNASH) programs.




                                                             44
Create effective and transparent federal   Prepare legislation to maintain and          Achieved: Fundo de Manutenção e
financing framework                        enhance effective financing framework with   Desenvolvimento da Educação Básica
                                           incentives for improved delivery of          (FUNDEB) legislation passed in 2006 has
                                           education services, with special             extended and expanded the successful
                                           consideration of preschool and upper         Fundo de Manutenção e Desenvolvimento
                                           secondary education.                         da Educação Fundamental (FUNDEF)
                                                                                        model to its successor, FUNDEB. FUNDEB
                                                                                        directs a greater share of earmarked sub-
                                                                                        national government resources to
                                                                                        education, expanding it to include Early
                                                                                        Childhood Development (ECD), secondary
                                                                                        and adult education, in addition to primary
                                                                                        education. The new FUNDEB recognizes
                                                                                        the need for re-focus of education
                                                                                        resources to - preschoolers and youth, and
                                                                                        to increase Brazil's levels of secondary
                                                                                        education participation.
                                           Review FUNDEF's minimum acceptable           Achieved: The minimum allocation was
                                           allocation per student.                      reviewed and received the largest increase
                                                                                        in FUNDEF's history through Decreto 4,966
                                                                                        of January 30, 2004. On February 2, 2005,
                                                                                        the minimum allocation was again
                                                                                        reviewed, and increased in 9.97% with an
                                                                                        additional differential treatment for rural and
                                                                                        urban schools. In urban schools, 1-4
                                                                                        series, the allocation is R$620.56, and for
                                                                                        5-8 series it is R$ 651.59. In 2007, the
                                                                                        minimum allocation was again increased
                                                                                        with the approval of FUNDEB law 11.494 of
                                                                                        June 2007. FUNDEB increased the
                                                                                        minimum floor from R$682,60 per student
                                                                                        to R$946,29 (series 1-8), maintaining the
                                                                                        differential treatment for rural and urban
                                                                                        schools. FUNDEB also included financing
                                                                                        for nursery and pre-school education,
                                                                                        secondary schooling, secondary schooling
                                                                                        integrated with professional education,
                                                                                        special education, indigenous and
                                                                                        Quilombola education, and schooling for
                                                                                        youth and adults (EJA/AJA).
                                           Strengthen federal resource transfer         Achieved: MOH has increased the
                                           system in the health sector through          percentage of resources transferred
                                           developing a strategy to: (i) establish a    through grant system to 80% (up from 70%
                                           system to track and monitor the use of       in 2002). Implemented pilot program in six
                                           federal resources transferred to states and states to track use of federal resources
                                           municipalities; (ii) increase the percentage transferred for disease surveillance. MOH
                                           of resources transferred through the grant plans to scale-up tracking system. A
                                           system; (iii) gradually consolidate the      "forum" was held to prepare proposal to
                                           number of grants through a block grant       consolidate the number of transfers.
                                           scheme; and (iv) condition federal transfers
                                           for investments on the approval of the PDIs




                                                               45
Establish National Standards and         Test in at least five (5) sub-national      Achieved: Brazil has made major
strengthen federal government monitoring governments the educational assessment      advancements in establishing national
function                                 kit for sub-national governments            standards with the introduction or
                                                                                     improvement of several testing
                                                                                     mechanisms, including: IDEB, Provinha
                                                                                     Brasil, Prova Brasil and SAEB.
                                           Introduce results-based management tools Partially achieved: Programa de
                                           in the health sector through: (i)         Expansão e Consolidação da Saúde da
                                           implementation of performance             Família (PROESF) 2 includes establishing
                                           agreements between municipal/state        performance-based agreements with
                                           managers and PSF teams, ambulatory        Programa Saúde da Família (PSF) teams.
                                           units and hospitals; and (ii) development The Department of Health Care is starting
                                           and testing of federal performance-based the internal processes to establish
                                           financing scheme for basic care that is   performance agreements with ambulatory
                                           linked to Basic Health Agreements         units and hospitals.
                                                                                     A seminar on results-based management
                                                                                     for primary health care is under preparation
                                                                                     for this FY.

Expand technical support for and promoted Support separation of financing/regulation     Achieved: MOH has established a transfer
coordination among sub-national           and provision functions in publicly-financed   to provide an incentive to states and
governments                               health services through developing models      municipalities to establish regionalized
                                          for: (i) autonomous management of state-       delivery system. Autonomous models for
                                          operated hospitals and (ii) integrated         hospital governance and management are
                                          delivery systems                               on the MOH agenda.
                                          Expand the number of schools and               Achieved: Articulated Action Plans (Plano
                                          municipalities benefiting from                 de Ações Articuladas, PAR) are part of the
                                          FUNDESCOLA                                     Brazilian "Everyone for Education" plan,
                                                                                         instituted by Decree nº 6.094 of April 24,
                                                                                         2007. This plan greatly expands the
                                                                                         amount of technical support for sub-
                                                                                         national governments. Under the plan,
                                                                                         consultants and technicians from the
                                                                                         Ministry of Education (MEC) work with local
                                                                                         educational entities to develop action plans
                                                                                         for improvement that will be financed by
                                                                                         Fundo Nacional de Desenvolvimento da
                                                                                         Educação (FNDE)/MEC. These plans
                                                                                         (PARs) are then monitored by MEC and
                                                                                         evaluated by a joint committee of
                                                                                         municipal, state and federal actors.




                                                               46
B.        Compensatory            and Equity Enhancing Policies
Provide effective transfers for              Revise the targeting to strengthen mean-    Achieved: Under the HD-TAL IBGE has
disadvantaged families                       tested conditional cash transfers.          developed an Integrated Survey System. In
                                                                                         2010, IBGE will launch the new household
                                                                                         survey that merges PNAD and PME. Under
                                                                                         Bolsa Familia, the Ministry of Social
                                                                                         Development (MDS) and IBGE have
                                                                                         developed Poverty Maps based on 2003
                                                                                         POF and 2000 census, which is scheduled
                                                                                         to be updated with 2008/09 POF and
                                                                                         Census 2010. MDS has also strengthened
                                                                                         the existing Cadastro Único systems and
                                                                                         redesigned the questionnaire.
                                           Prepare legislation with provisions for       Achieved: Pro-Infant (Pró-Infância),
                                           federal incentives to municipal               created by resolution nº6 of April 2007, is
                                           governments to expand the provision of        part of the Programa de Desenvolvimento
                                           subsidized preschool programs for the         da Educação (Brazilian Plans for
                                           poorest families, including children and      Educational Development, PDE). Pró-Infant
                                           mother nutrition.                             provides resources from the federal
                                                                                         government to municipalities and the
                                                                                         Federal District for the construction of
                                                                                         educational facilities for children with less
                                                                                         than six years of age. The goal is that
                                                                                         between 2007 and 2010 the volume
                                                                                         invested in Pro-Infant reaches R$800
                                                                                         million. In 2007, more than 4300
                                                                                         municipalities requested financial and
                                                                                         technical assistance. Of those, 499
                                                                                         municipalities were selected resulting in the
                                                                                         financing of 515 units at a cost of R$361
                                                                                         million. The prevision for 2008 is that Pro-
                                                                                         Infant finances the construction of more
                                                                                         than 500 units in 500 municipalities.
                                           Devise a formula for differentiated PSF       Achieved: Differentiated payment system
                                           federal transfers for low-density rural areas already established for high-density urban
                                           and high-density urban centers.               areas. A proposal is under study to do the
                                                                                         same for low-density rural areas.
Consolidate effective subsidy programs for Evaluate impact and quality of school         Achieved: Impact evaluation of Bolsa
poor schools                               feeding programs using improved               Alimentação completed. Evaluation applied
                                           household surveys and nutritional gains       Household survey and nutritional gain
                                           analysis                                      analysis. Merenda Escolar is under
                                                                                         evaluation by MEC.
Establish effective subsidy programs for   Prepare the implementation plan of the        Achieved: MEC is already implementing a
disadvantaged children                     national policy dealing with education for    Federal Program of Inclusive Education in
                                           children with disabilities and a design a     partnership with municipalities. It is notable
                                           mechanism to monitor compliance and           and positive that the emphasis of the
                                           outcomes.                                     present policy is one of inclusive education,
                                                                                         rather than special education
Redistribute resources benefiting poorer   Monitor resource allocation mandated by Achieved: EC-29 monitoring system
communities and populations                EC-29 to further reduce health financing      established.
                                           gap between rich and poor regions by
                                           developing parameters for setting needs-
                                           adjusted per capita spending floor for basic
                                           care
                                           Allocate at least the same budget as the      Achieved.
                                           previous year (in real terms) for a program
                                           that provides additional resources to
                                           municipalities for purchase of basic drugs.




                                                                 47
C.        Enhanced Quality and Efficiency
Improve internal efficiency in the social    Strengthen hospital reimbursement and       Partially achieved: Introducing
sectors                                      accounting system by revising Autorização standardized cost systems in hospitals is
                                             de Internação Hospitalar (AIH) to reflect   on the QUALISUS policy agenda, and may
                                             actual costs of services rendered and       be included in the proposed QUALISUS
                                             provide disincentives for unnecessary       lending operation. MOH is currently
                                             hospital admissions by developing a plan to revising the AIH and has implemented a
                                             introduce cost accounting systems in SUS- system to reduce fraudulent claims.
                                             financed hospitals
                                             Establishment of a federal program to       Partially achieved: A decision has been
                                             promote school acceleration programs        made that Federal Government will not
                                                                                         finance acceleration programs (states and
                                                                                         large municipalities to do it), but instead
                                                                                         monitor repetition rates.
Improved utilization of available physical   Continue offering distance education        Achieved: TV Escola is still under
resources                                    programs                                    operation.
                                             Define referral and counter-referral system Achieved: All municipalities defined referral
                                             in which PSF teams serve as gate keepers systems in "Conversion Plans" required for
                                             to upper-level services                     financing through the PROESF1. Under
                                                                                         PROESF 2, these referral systems will be
                                                                                         checked on a sample of municipalities.
Improve utilization of available human       Define methodology and instrument for       On track: MOH is establishing criteria for
resources                                    accreditation of PSF teams                  accreditation of PSF TEAMS. A MOH
                                                                                         Decree on this subject should be published
                                                                                         this fiscal year.
                                             Explore alternative policies to guide       Partially achieved: Teacher re-training
                                             teacher deployment and re-training through activities completed, however, there is no
                                             a study of experiences                      work regarding teacher deployment.




Federal Transfer Mechanisms in Health Programs
Federal Transfer Mechanisms in Health Programs
      AIDS/ STI                    VIGISUS II            FAMILY HEALTH I             FAMILY HEALTH II                 QUALISUS I
     CONTROL III
      June 2003*                    April 2004               February 2002                 March 2008                December 2008
                                                          PROJECT FOCUS
HIV incidence, quality       Health surveillance and     Primary Health Care.        Primary Health Care.        Efficiency, quality,
of life for people living    indigenous health.                                                                  governance of health
with HIV.                                                                                                        care.
                                              PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES
Reduce incidence of          Reduce mortality /       Increase access to    Increase access to                    Improve quality,
STI & HIV by                 morbidity from           Family Primary Health Family Primary Health                efficiency,
strengthening national       communicable and         care in large, urban  care in large, urban                 effectiveness of SUS-
response & ensuring          non-communicable         municipalities.       municipalities.                      financed delivery
its sustainability.          dieases and exposure to                                                             system via integrated
                             risk factors associated                                                             regional healthcare
                             with ill health.                                                                    networks.
Improve the quality of       Improve health                                 Raise the technical                  Contribute to
life of people living        outcomes of groups                             quality of, and patient              improving continuity
with HIV/AIDS by             most at risk including                         satisfaction with,                   of care by
strengthening national       indigenous populations                         primary health care.                 strengthening the
response & ensuring          and Quilombo                                                                        prevention, detection,
its sustainability.          (descendents of slaves)                                                             and treatment of
                             communities.                                                                        diseases and
                                                                                                                 conditions with the
                                                                                                                 greatest impact on the
                                                                                                                 country's disease

*
Date of PAD publication



                                                                 48
    AIDS/ STI                    VIGISUS II          FAMILY HEALTH I           FAMILY HEALTH II                QUALISUS I
   CONTROL III
                                                                                                          burden.
                                                                               Improve the efficiency     Improve overall
                                                                               and effectiveness of       effectiveness of the
                                                                               Family Health service      delivery system to
                                                                               providers as well as the   prevent, detect, treat
                                                                               broader delivery           priority chronic and
                                                                               system.                    non-communicable
                                                                                                          conditions.
                                                                                                          Improve the quality
                                                                                                          and efficiency of
                                                                                                          services w/ emphasis
                                                                                                          on secondary-level
                                                                                                          hospitals, specialty,
                                                                                                          diagnostic, and
                                                                                                          emergency centers,
                                                                                                          logistical systems.
                                                      BENEFICIAIRIES
438                        200                       187 municipalities        187 Municipalities         15 Regional health
27 states + DF             27 states + DF                                                                 networks
411 municipalities         25 state capital cities
                           144 satellite cities

                                                   TRANSFER MECHANISM
Fund to fund transfer -    Fund to fund transfer -   Two pilot bonus         Management Contracts         Subproject Plans
resources flow from        resources flow from       systems that were       between                      first technically
National Health Fund       National Health Fund      announced in 2005 and   MOH and states;              qualified by
(FNS) to State and         (FNS) to State and        implemented in 2006.    MOH and                      independent panel
Municipal funds.           Municipal funds.                                  municipalities.              MOH selects up to 15
PAM: Results-based         PLANVIGI:                                                                      plans.
Action Plans for states    Surveillance
and municipalities.        development plan
MOH confirms               prepared by state /
management capacity.       municipality and
                           approved by MOH.
                                               DISBURSEMENT V. INDICATORS
Each state /               States have 14            A lump-sum bonus was Performance level at            Implementation divided
municipality agrees on     indicators                given to municipalities mid-term will                into two phases. Level
a set of indicators /      Capital cities 12         that met 3 performance  determine financing          of funding for 2nd
targets                    indicators                indicators.             levels for the               phase depends on
                           Municipalities 10                                 subsequent 18 months         performance in 1st
                           indicators                                        of execution.                phase.
Agreements were            Outputs & intermediate Additionally, a            Municipalities agree to      Compliance with subset
evaluated in month 10      outcomes benchmarked performance prize            meet targets for 12          of 17 mandatory
of implementation and      for each phase.           bonus was established   mandatory indicators.        indicators.
revised or continued for                             based on coverage and
the following year                                   fiduciary objectives.
                           Weighted grading                                  Municipalities select         Elective indicators
                           system determines level                           elective indicators to be    eligible for bonus
                           of performance                                    eligible for bonus           financing.
                                                                             financing.
                           PLANVIGI divided                                  Variable targets set         Variable targets set
                           into two phases. Level                            according to specific        according to specific
                           of funding for 2nd                                municipality plans and       subproject plans and
                           phase depends on                                  baseline data.               baseline data.
                           performance in 1st
                           phase
                                               MONITORING AND EVALUATION
6 months (targets) and     2 years                   One-time assessment at  18 months by MOH.            6 months (data entry)

                                                            49
       AIDS/ STI               VIGISUS II            FAMILY HEALTH I           FAMILY HEALTH II               QUALISUS I
    CONTROL III
12 months (PAM)           SVS certifies              end of project by MOH.                               and 2 years (in-depth
Municipalities assessed   compliance with                                                                 assessment) by
by state M&E staff; and   indicators.                                                                     MOH.
states by federal M&E     SFC carries out
staff                     administrative and
Inception of federal,     financial audits.
state and municipal
M&E units. Subset of
participating states
serve as pilot M&E
sites.
                                      CATEGORIES OF PERFORMANCE RATING
Technical & financial     Technical & financial One: requirements for Nine: matrix plots                  Excellent
execution                 execution             bonus were met.       coverage goals against              Satisfactory
Above 75% = Good          Above 75%                                   technical performance               Unsatisfactory
Between 50-75% =          Between 50-75%                              & financial execution.
Satisfactory              Below 50%
Below 50% =
Unsatisfactory
                                                    HIGH PERFORMANCE
Score of 75% or above     Score of 75% or above      Not defined.    Not defined.                         Not defined.
on weighted grading       on weighted grading
system.                   system.
                                                    LOW PERFORMANCE
Score of 50 or below on   Score of 50 or below on    Not defined.   Low execution.                        No financial execution
weighted grading          weighted grading                                                                6 months after receiving
system.                   system.                                                                         MOH allocation.
                                                          REWARDS
Not defined.              10% increase in            For performance bonus,    Up to 2.5 times original   10% increase in funding
                          funding to be used         50% of original grant     financing for meeting      to be used during
                          during second phase of     was transferred as a      agreed targets on          second phase of
                          implementation to fund     lump sum payment.         mandatory indicators;      implementation.
                          predefined bonus plan.     For performance prize,    additional 15% of
                                                     12 municipalities split   financing available as a
                                                     R $6 million.             bonus if elective
                                                                               indicators are met.
                                                         PENALTIES
Possible cessation of     10% decrease in            Funding reduced or        Not defined.               Funding reduced or
funding.                  funding; implement         delayed.                                             delayed.
                          predefined emergency
                          plan during second
                          phase .
                                                         REMEDIES
Municipalities must       Increased monitoring,      Targeted TA.              Not defined.               Low performers receive
present corrective        supervision, training                                                           additional TA.
action plans to           and TA.
Municipal Health
Council; remedies for
States not defined.
TA includes capacity
building for states/
municipalities to
qualify for transfers.
                                                      EXIT STRATEGY
Cessation of funding      Transfers may be           Not defined.              Exclusion from project     Persistent low
can be recommended        blocked.                                             financing.                 performance results in
by supervising inter-                                                                                     exclusion from further
managerial committees.                                                                                    financing.

                                                            50
    AIDS/ STI                   VIGISUS II            FAMILY HEALTH I            FAMILY HEALTH II        QUALISUS I
   CONTROL III

                                                             IMPACT
In 2007, 75% of            In 2008, 75% of            The modest results-        Project not yet    Project not yet
municipalities reached     municipalities reached     based financing scheme     effective.         effective.
at least 75% of targets    at least 75% of targets    represented the first
and financial execution.   and financial execution.   time MOH had used
                                                      such mechanisms.
                                                      Despite initial
                                                      resistance, the response
                                                      was so positive that
                                                      MOH introduced a
                                                      modified version into
                                                      its Pactos de Saude
                                                      policy in 2006.




                                                             51
                                                          To Ciudad Guayana
                                  70°W                                                              60°W                                                                   50°W                                                          40°W
                                                      R.B. DE                                      GUYANA
                                                    VENEZUELA
                                                                                                                            SURINAME
                                                                                                                                                      French
                                                                                                                                                      Guiana                                                                                                                                B RA ZIL
                                                                                                                                                       (Fr.)                                               ATLANTIC




                                                   Or
                                                    i n oco
                        COLOMBIA                                                      Vista
                                                                                  Boa Vista
                                                                                                                                                                                                            OCEAN
                                                                                                                                                              AMAPÁ
                                                                                                                                                              AMAPÁ                                                                                                                       STATE CAPITALS
                                                                                        RORAIMA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                              Macapá
                                                                                                                                                              Macapá
                 0°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0°                   RIVERS
                                                                                 Ne
                                                                                      gro                                                             zon
                                                                                                                                                  Ama                                                                                                                                     MAIN ROADS
                                                          A m a z o n                                                                                                              Belém
                                                                                                                                                                                   Belé
                                                                                                                                                                                   Belém
                                                                                                                                                                                                            São Luís
                                                                   ma                   Manaus                                                                                                                                                                                            RAILROADS


                                                                   A
                                                                        zo




                                                                                                                                        jó s
                                                                             n                                                                                                                                                                  Fortaleza
                                                                                                                     ra                     pa                                                                                                                                            STATE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                   ei                  Ta
                                                                                                              ad
                                                                    B a s i n                             M
                                                                                                                                                                                                 MARANHÃO
                                                                                                                                                                                                 MARANHÃ
                                                                                                                                                                                                 MARANHÃO                     Teresina
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Teresina
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CEARÁ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CEARÁ         RIO GRANDE                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                         AMAZONAS                                                                                                     PA R Á                                                                                               NORTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DO NORTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Natal
                                                              us




                                                                                                                          Tele
                                                         Pu r




                                                                                                                                                             u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PARAÍBA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ARAÍ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PARAÍBA




                                                                                                                                                         Xing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   João




                                                                                                                              s
                                                                                                                                                                                                             PIAUI




                                                                                                                            Pi re
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Pessoa
                                                                                 Porto Velho
                                                                                 Porto Velho                                                                                                                                               PERNA




                                                                                                                                                                                     Tocantins
                                                                                                                               s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MBUC            Recife
                                ACRE                                                                                                                                                                                                                  O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Maceió




                                                                                                                                                                          ia
                                   Rio Branco                                                                                                                                                                                 o
                                                                                                                                                                                     Palma                                  sc




                                                                                                                                                                   Aragua
                 10°S                                          RONDÔNIA
                                                               RONDÔ
                                                               RONDÔNIA                                    Juruena                                                                                                     ci                                  ALAGOAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   n
                                                                                                                                                                               TOCANTINS




                                                                                                                                                                                                            São Fra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Aracaju
                                                                                                                                      MATO                                                                       BAHIA                              SERGIPE
                         PERU                                                                                                        GROSSO
                                                                                                         Mato Grosso                                                           B r a z i l i a n                                                Salvador
                                                                                                           Plateau Cuiabá
                                                                                                                    Cuiabá                                                 F.D.
                                                                                                                                                                           F.D.
                                                                                                                                                                    BRASÍ
                                                                                                                                                                    BRASÍLIA
                                                                                                                                                                    BRASÍLIA
                                                              BOLIVIA                                                                                            GOIAS Goiânia
                                                                                                                                                                          Goiâ
                                                                                                                                                                          Goiânia                MINAS GERAIS

                      PACIFIC                                                                   To                                                                             H i g h l a n d s
                                                                                            Santa Cruz
                                                                                                                                     MATO
                                                                                                                                     MATO GROSSO                                                            Belo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ESPÍ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ESPÍRITO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ESPÍRITO
                      OCEAN        CHILE                                                                                                DO SUL
                                                                                                                                                                        Grande                            Horizonte
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SANTO
                                                                                                                           Parag y




                 20°S                                                                                                                        Campo                                                                                                                 20°S
                                                                                                                                             Grande                                                                            itó
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Vitória
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Vitória
                                                                                                                                ua




                                                                                                       To                                                          SÃO PAULO
                                                                                                                                                                   SÃO PAULO
                                                                                                   Santa Cruz
                                                                                                                                                         ná
                                                                                                                                                       ra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RIO DE
                                                                                                                                                  Pa




                                                                                                          PARAGUAY                                                             São
                                                                                                                                                                               São Paulo                  Rio de JANEIRO
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Janeiro
                                                                                                                                                         PARANÁ
                                                                                                                                                          ARANÁ
                                                                                                                                                         PARANÁ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ATLANTIC
                                                                                                                                                                                Curitaba
                                         BRAZIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OCEAN
                                                                                                                                                                                  STA CAT
                                                                                                                                                                                      CATARINA
                                                                                                                                                                                  STA CATARINA
                                                                                                                                                                                  Florianópolis

                                                                                                                                             RIO GRANDE
                                                                                                                                                DO SUL
                                                                                                                                                                   Porto
                                                                                                                                                                   Porto Alegre
                                                                                                                                                                                                     0         200                400     600 Kilometers           30°S
                 30°S                                              ARGE N TI N A
SEPTEMBER 2004




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD 33377
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                            To Buenos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                 Aires
                                                                                                                               URUGUAY                                                               0                        200          400 Miles                        shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                            70°W                                                         60°W                                                      50°W                                                      40°W
                                                                                                                                      To Montevideo
