Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7324-BR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Human Development Technical Assistance Project) 
 
between 
 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated October 26, 2006 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7324-BR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated October 26, 2006, between the FEDERATIVE 
REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower is implementing a program of actions, objectives 
and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of its human development policies 
(the Program) and has contracted from the Bank a loan in an amount of five hundred five 
million fifty thousand Dollars (the Human Development Programmatic Loan) in support 
of the Program during the execution thereof; 
WHEREAS (B) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of part of the Project; 
WHEREAS (C) the Borrower, through its Ministry of Education, will finance out 
of its own resources the portion of the Project to be carried out by such Ministry; and 
WHEREAS (D) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower, in support of the Project, upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01.
 The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
“Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on 
Page  3
-
2
-
the goods or services to be financed under the Loan, or on their importation, 
manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing of such taxes is subject to the 
Bank’s policy of requiring economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its 
loans. To that end, if the Bank shall at any time determine that the amount of any 
taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan is excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the 
Borrower, adjust the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of 
such item in the Loan Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of 
the Bank.” 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in the table 
in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 (c) 
“FMR” means each report prepared in accordance with Section 
4.02 of this Agreement; 
 (d) 
“IBGE” means 
Fundação Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatística
,
the Borrower’s Institute of Geography and Statistics established pursuant to the 
Borrower’s Decree-Law No. 161 of February 13, 1967, operating in accordance with 
Law No. 5878 of May 11, 1973 and its by-laws approved by Decree No. 4740 of June 13, 
2003 published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on June 16, 2003; 
 
(e) 
“IBGE Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and IBGE pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time; and such term includes all schedules to the IBGE 
Agreement; 
 
(f) 
“IBGE Unit” means the Project implementation unit to be maintained by 
IBGE pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(g) 
“INEP” means 
Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais
,
the Borrower’s National Institute for Education Research; 
 
(h) 
“MEC” means the Borrower’s  Ministry of Education; 
 
(i) 
“MoH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health; 
 
(j) 
“MoH Unit” means the Project implementation unit to be maintained by 
MoH pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement; 
(k) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual, issued by MoH and IBGE on 
June 1, 2005, and referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement; 
 
(l) 
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators set forth in the 
Operational Manual; 
 
(m) 
“PIUs” means collectively the MoH Unit and the IBGE Unit; 
(n) 
“Procurement Plans” means the procurement plans prepared by IBGE 
and MoH, both dated May 31, 2005, covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of 
implementation of Parts A and C of the Project respectively, as the same shall be updated 
from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to 
cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of Project implementation; 
(o) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(p) 
 “Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and 
(q) 
“Social Statistics Committee” means the committee referred to in Section 
3.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.03.  Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity in respect of Part A of the Project shall be deemed as a reference to 
IBGE. 
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to eight million 
Dollars ($8,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for Parts A and C of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar 
payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2009, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan subject to any waiver of a portion of 
such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after the 
Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time, subject to any waiver of a portion of such charge 
as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 (c) 
Promptly following the Execution date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 2.10.  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 
2.09 of this Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis 
applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest 
Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full 
maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
Section 2.11.  (a) The Minister of Health and any person or persons whom he or 
she shall designate in writing is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
Page  7
-
6
-
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions in respect of Part 
C
of the Project. 
(b) 
The President of IBGE and any person or persons whom he or she shall 
designate in writing is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 
of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions in respect of Part A of the 
Project. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project and, to this end shall: 
(i) 
carry out Part B of the Project through MEC; 
(ii) 
carry out Part C of the Project through MoH; and 
(iii) 
cause IBGE to carry out Part A of the Project, 
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
economic, administrative, financial, environmental and social practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, during the implementation of the Project:  
(i) 
maintain in MoH; and 
(ii) 
cause IBGE to maintain, 
 
Project implementation units (PIUs) with functions and responsibilities 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall enter into an agreement with IBGE, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to set forth their respective responsibilities in the 
implementation and coordination of Part A of the Project, including IBGE’s obligation to 
Page  8
-
7
-
establish and maintain: (i) the IBGE Unit; and (ii) a social statistics committee, with 
powers and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, to monitor and evaluate the 
statistical information demands of other governmental agencies. 
 (d) 
The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the IBGE 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, suspend, waive, 
terminate or fail to enforce the IBGE Agreement or any 
provision thereof; and 
(ii) 
cause IBGE to carry out its obligations and exercise its rights 
under the IBGE Agreement, in such manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan. 
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants’ services required for Parts A and C of the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plans. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plans in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such updates to the Bank not later than 12 
months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plans, for the Bank’s approval. 
(c) 
MEC shall furnish to the Bank for its technical comments the terms of 
reference of the consultants to be employed for purposes of Part B of the Project. 
Section 3.03.  The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
carry out Part C of the Project through MoH; and 
(b) 
cause IBGE to carry out Part A of the Project, 
in accordance with an operational manual, said manual to include, 
inter alia
,
the 
procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of the Project (including the 
procurement, financial and disbursement requirements thereof and the Performance 
Page  9
-
8
-
Indicators).  In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and 
those of this  Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall through MEC and MoH, and cause IBGE to:  
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, not later than six months after the Effective Date and biannually thereafter during 
the period of Project implementation, three reports, one each for MEC, MoH and IBGE, 
comprising the results of the evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of such report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof during the 
period following such date; and 
(c) 
(i)  
review with the Bank, within no more than two months after each 
such report’s preparation, the reports referred to in paragraph (b) 
of this Section; and 
(ii) 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objective 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of said 
report and the Bank's views on the matter. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall: 
(i) 
establish and maintain in MoH for Part C of the Project; and 
(ii) 
cause IBGE to establish and maintain in respect of Part A of the 
Project, 
financial management systems, including records and accounts, and 
prepare financial statements (of the respective agencies) in accordance with 
Page  10
-
9
-
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to their respective parts 
of the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall through MoH, and cause IBGE to: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall through MoH, and cause IBGE to: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii)
 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Page  11
-
10
-
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.04 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, through MoH 
in respect of Part C of the Project and cause IBGE in respect of Part A of the Project, to 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b)  
The first FMRs shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that IBGE shall have failed to perform 
any of its obligations under the IBGE Agreement. 
(b) 
Without limiting the rights contained in Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions, it is understood that if any event specified in paragraph (a) of this Section 
shall have occurred, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account for expenditures 
under Part A of the Project. 
Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in Section 5.01 of 
Page  12
-
11
-
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower and IBGE without the Borrower 
having taken any action to remedy the situation. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01.  The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Loan provided for in this 
Agreement has been duly regis
tered by the Borrower’s Central Bank. 
Section 6.02. The date January 26, 2007 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.11 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministério da Fazenda 
 
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "P" - 8º andar 
 
70048-900 Brasília, DF 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile:   55-61-412-1740 
Page  13
-
12
-
With copy to: 
 
Ministério da Saúde 
 
Secretario Executivo 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios – Bloco “G”, Sala 305 
 
70058-900 Brasilia, DF 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsímile: 55-61-226-9737 
 
Ministerio de Educação 
 
Secretario Executivo 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “L”, Sala 700 
 
70047-900 Brasilia, DF 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsímile:  55-61-2104-9168 
 
IBGE 
 
Diretoria de Pesquisas 
 
Av. Republica do Chile 500, 10º Andar, Centro 
 
20.031-170 Rio de Janeiro, RJ 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsímile: 55-21-2142-0039 
 
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
 
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco K, 5
andar 
 
70.040-906-Brasília – DF 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsímile:  55-61-225-4022 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in 
Brasília, Federative Republic of Brazil, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
 
By /s/ Suely Dib de Sousa e Silva 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ John Briscoe 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
WITNESSED BY: 
________________________________ 
/s/ Jarbas Barbosa da Silva Júnior 
Vice-Minister of Health 
 
________________________________ 
/s/ André Luiz de Figueiredo Lázaro 
Deputy Vice-Minister of Education 
 
________________________________ 
/s/ Eduardo Pereira Nunes 
President of IBGE 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)  Goods and Non-Consulting 
5,940,000 
100% 
 Services
,
Consultants’ Services, 
 
Training and Seminars, and  
 
Incremental Operational Costs for 
 
Part A of the Project 
 
(2)  Goods and Non-Consulting 
1,980,000 
100% 
 
Services, Consultants’ Services, 
 
Training and Seminars, and  
 
Incremental Operational Costs for 
 
Part C of the Project 
 
(3)  Front-End Fee 
80,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(4)  Premia for Interest Rate 
0 
Amount due under 
 
Caps and Interest Rate Collars 
 
Section 2.09 (c) of 
 
this Agreement 
 
________
TOTAL 8,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the term “incremental operational costs” means the reasonable non-
consultants’ costs incurred: (i) by the PIUs for maintenance and consumable office 
Page  17
-
16
-
supplies and materials; (ii) by IBGE for rental of facilities, rental of boats, planes and 
vehicles and other expenditures as needed for data collection and surveys; and (iii) by the 
PIUs’ members for travel to supervise the Project, and participate in training events, none 
of which would have been incurred absent the Project; and 
(b) 
the term “training” means the reasonable costs of: (i) travel, room, board 
and per diem incurred by trainees (other than PIUs’ members) in connection with their 
training; (ii) the course fees charged by academic or other institutions; and (iii) logistic 
costs (incurred other than by consultants) associated with the carrying out of training and 
seminars. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures: 
 
(a) 
prior to the date of this Agreement except that withdrawals, in an 
aggregate amount not exceeding $1,500,000 may be made on account of payments made 
for expenditures twelve months before that date but after July 1, 2004;  
 
(b) 
under Parts A and C of the Project until the respective PIUs have been 
established; and 
 
(c) 
under Part A of the Project unless: (i) the IBGE Agreement has been 
executed on behalf of the Borrower and IBGE; and (ii) the Bank has received legal 
opinions from counsel to the Borrower and IBGE stating that the IBGE Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and IBGE and is legally binding upon 
the Borrower and IBGE in accordance with its terms. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures:  
 
(a) 
under contracts for goods, and non-consultants and consultants’ services 
in respect of which prior review of contracts is not required in accordance with the 
provisions of Section IV (A) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and  
 
(b) 
training and incremental operational costs,  
 
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Page  18
-
17
-
Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the case of the first 
such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan 
Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the 
date of such request.  
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part 
A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
Page  19
-
18
-
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required 
to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (A) the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts reflecting 
expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based Disbursements or were 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may be.  
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole 
discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what 
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of 
its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
Page  20
-
19
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $800,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have 
Page  21
-
20
-
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  22
-
21
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of:  
(a) 
the amount so requested; and  
(b) 
the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred 
to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to 
be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period 
following the date of such reports. 
Page  23
-
22
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in developing its 
institutional capacity to monitor the progress and impact of its social policies as a critical 
step for performance-based management of such policies. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Strengthening Collection of Monitoring and Evaluation Data in the Social 
Sectors
Provision of technical assistance to enhance the Borrower’s household surveys so 
as to provide strategic, comprehensive and integrated information for monitoring and 
evaluating the impact of its key social sector reforms and living conditions of the 
Brazilian population, including, 
inter alia
:
1. 
establishment and operation of the Social Statistics Committee that will monitor 
and evaluate the statistical information demands of selected government agencies; 
2. 
implementation of a household expenditure survey in 2007-2008, as well as  
strategic development, testing and yearly deployment of a simplified module of the 
household expenditure survey; 
3. 
planning and testing for improvement of existing national household income and 
employment surveys including merging of the existing household income and 
employment surveys into one continuous survey; 
4. 
inclusion of the rural areas of the Borrower’s north region in the household 
survey to be carried out in 2005; 
5. 
construction of poverty maps including the provision of the equipment and 
training required therefore; 
6. 
design of recurring policy modules for household surveys for tracking indicators 
in the social sectors including the training required therefore; and 
Page  24
-
23
-
7. 
analytical research of the results of the 2002/03 household expenditure survey. 
Part B
:
Strengthening Monitoring and Evaluation in the Education Sector
Provision of technical assistance to design and develop a ministry-wide 
information system to track and monitor key education programs, including, 
inter alia,
 
the creation of mechanisms whereby INEP’s and IBGE’s data can be used in decision 
making and policy design processes in MEC. 
Part C
:
Strengthening and Consolidation of Monitoring and Evaluation Functions in the 
Health Sector
Provision of technical assistance to establish a sustainable and institutionalized 
monitoring and evaluation system at the federal level, to strengthen monitoring and 
evaluation capacity at the state and municipal level, and to support evaluative research of 
health system reform, service delivery and public health programs, including, 
inter alia:
 
1. 
carrying out of an assessment of the monitoring and evaluation capabilities and 
activities at the federal, state and municipal level; 
2. 
establishment of an institutional framework for monitoring and evaluation 
including identification of performance indicators, sources, methods, frequency and 
schedule of data collection, data analysis mechanisms and feedback and dissemination 
channels; and 
3. 
carrying out of research studies to evaluate the quality, cost, system 
effectiveness, patient satisfaction and impact of the Borrower’s health reforms and other 
research topics related thereto as the Bank may agree. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2009. 
Page  25
-
24
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each January 15 and July 15 
 
Beginning January 15, 2011 
 
through January 15, 2022 
4.17% 
 
On July 15, 2022 
4.09% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
Page  26
-
25
-
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
subparagraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  27
-
26
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  If the Borrower employs any procurement or inspection 
agents, it shall ensure that the requirements of Section 3.10 and 3.11 of the Procurement 
Guidelines are met. 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Section I, 
paragraphs 3.15 through 3.20, and Section IV of, and Appendix 2 to, the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” dated May 2004 
(the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Services (other than 
Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding:
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, contracts shall be awarded 
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II and paragraphs 3.14 and 3.15 of the Procurement Guidelines, and the following 
additional procedures: 
 Domestic 
Preference.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto, providing for domestic preference in the 
evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less than $350,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national 
competitive bidding in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.3, 3.4, 3.14 
and 3.15 of the Procurement Guidelines and the following additional provisions: 
Page  28
-
27
-
(a) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined 
to be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and whenever 
appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in paragraph 2.51 
of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall always be based on 
factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for such quantification shall 
be disclosed in the invitation to bid. 
(b) 
Whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised 
for at least one day in a newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil. 
(c) 
The arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for a joint-venture 
(
consórcio
)
of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank in 
each case. 
(d) 
The invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices. 
(e) 
The purchaser shall not, without the Bank’s prior approval, issue any 
change order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the 
quantity of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or other 
terms and conditions of sale. 
2. Shopping
:
Goods, and non-consulting services for printing, minor technical 
services and communication equipment, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Guidelines, 
including, as a form of such shopping, the electronic bidding (
pregão eletrônico
)
procurement system set forth in the Borrowe
r’s Law No. 10 of July 17, 2002. 
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
:
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of quality and cost in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of 
consultants for services estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract may 
comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
Page  29
-
28
-
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Service 
Delivery 
Contractors
:
Services to be provided by survey crews under 
Part A of the Project may be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
3.21 of the Consultant Guidelines on the basis of procedures acceptable to the Bank and 
set forth in the Operational Manual. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3. Individual 
Consultants
:
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraph 5.4, subject to prior approval of the Bank. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
A.  
Prior Review
:
The Procurement Plans shall set forth those contracts which shall 
be subject to the Bank’s Prior Review.
 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Bank. 
B. Post 
Review
1. 
With respect to each contract for goods or services (other than consultants’ 
services) not governed by Part A of this Section, the post review procedures set forth in 
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Procurement Guidelines shall apply. 
2. 
With respect to each contract for consultants’ services not governed by Part A of 
this Section, the post review procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
