Document of
The World Bark
Report Po. 16477-4C£Hi
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
THIRD NATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
April 15, 1998
Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of March 1998)
Currency Name =  Renminbi
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
I Yuan =  100 fen
$1.00 =  Y 8.30
Y 1.00 =  $0.12
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
7FYP      -    Seventh Five-Year Plan
8FYP      -    Eighth Five-Year Plan
9FYP      -    Ninth Five-Year Plan
IOFYP    -    Tenth Five-Year Plan
ADB       -    Asian Development Bank
ADT       -    Average Daily Traffic
BMS       -    Bridge Maintenance System
BOT       -    Build-Operate-Transfer
CITC      -    China International Tendering Company
CMC       -    China Machine Corporation
E&M       -    Electrical, Electronic and Mechanical
EA        -    Environmental Assessment
EAP       -    Environmental Action Plan
EIA       -    Environmental Impact Assessment
EIRR      -    Economic Internal Rate of Return
GNP       -    Gross National Product
GOC       -    Government of China
GOVAI   -    Gross Output Value of Agriculture and Industry
HDM       -    Highways Design and Maintenance Standards Model
HIPCD     -    Hubei Provincial Communications Department
HPEB      -    Hubei Provincial Expressway Bureau
HCPDI   -    Hubei Communications Planning and Design Institute
HRI       -    Highway Research Institute
HSDI      -    Highway Survey and Design Institute
Hurong    -    Shanghai-Chengdu Expressway
Vice President    Jean-Michel Severino, EAPVP
Country Director   Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Manager    Jeffrey Gutman, EASTR
Task Manager      Alfred Nickesen, Senior Transport Specialist, EASTR



ICB       -    International Competitive Bidding
IFC       -   International Finance Corporation
IRP       -   Interconnecting Roads Program
IS        -    Institutional Strengthening
IST       -    Institutional Strengthening and Training
Jingzhu   -    Beijing-Zhuhai Expressway
JST       -    Joint Supervision Team
LA&R    -    Land Acquisition and Resettlement
LAB       -    Levying Administration Bureau
LGTPA    -    Leading Group for Transportation for Poverty Alleviation
MAAP    -    Microcomputer Accident Analysis Package
MIGA      -    Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MOC       -   Ministry of Communications
MOF       -    Ministry of Finance
mte       -    Medium truck equivalent
mvpd      -    Motor vehicles per day
NCB       -   National Competitive Bidding
NH        -   National Highway
NPV       -   Net Present Value
NR        -   National Road
NTHS      -   National Trunk Highway System
PAPs      -    Project-Affected Persons
pcu       -    Passenger car unit
PHRD      -    Policy and Human Resources Development
PIC       -   Public Information Center
PIP       -    Project Implementation Plan
PMO       -   Project Management Office
PMS       -    Pavement Management System
PR        -    Provincial Road
PSB       -    Public Security Bureau
PTS       -    Provincial Traffic School
PTTS      -    Provincial Traffic Technical School
RAP       -    Resettlement Action Plan
RDB       -    Road Data Bank
REO       -    Resident Engineer's Office
RMF       -    Road Maintenance Fee
RO        -    Resettlement Offices
SAA       -    State Audit Administration
SOE       -    Statement of Expenditures
SPC       -    State Planning Commission
STC       -    Staff Training Center
TCU       -    Technical Coordination Unit
TES       -    Traffic Engineering Society
ton-km    -    Ton-kilometer
TOR       -    Terms of Reference
TRL       -    Transport Research Laboratory
VS        -    Vocational School



CHINA
THIRD NATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:             Hubei Province
Poverty Category:        Not applicable
Amount:                  $250 million
Terms:                   20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard interest
rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single-currency loans
Commitment Fee:          0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60
days after signing, less any waiver
Financing Plan:          See para. 3.37
Economic Rate of Return:  23.2 percent for the project overall
Maps:                    IBRD 28749,28750
Project ID Number:       CN-PE-36949



CONTENTS
1. HIGHWAY DEVELOPMENT AND REFORM ............................................1
A. Highway Strategy and Policy ..............................................1
B. Linkage to Country Assistance Strategy ..............................................2
C. Bank Group Participation ..............................................2
D. Lessons From  Private Toll Highway Finance ..............................................                      3
E. Lessons From  Previous Bank Operations ..............................................4
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR IN HUBEI ............................................5
A. Geography and Transport ..............................................5
B. Traffic Growth and Road Safety ..............................................6
C. Highway Administration, Planning and Financing .............................................7
D. Engineering, Construction, Maintenance and Training ......................................9
E. Highway Development Program   1996-2000 .............................................                          10
3. THE  PROJECT  ............................................. .                                                           12
A. Original and Formulation .............................................                                       12
B. Objectives and Rationale for Bank Involvement ............................................. 12
C. Project Monitoring .............................................                                             14
D. Project Components .............................................                                              15
E. Civil Works Construction and Supervision .............................................                        16
F. Institutional Capacity Building .............................................                                18
G. Environmental Assessment .............................................                                       21
H. Land Acquisition and Resettlement .............................................                              22
I. Cost Estimates .............................................                                                 23
J. Financing .............................................                                                       24
K. Implementation .............................................                                                 26
L. Procurement .............................................                                                    27
The project was prepared and appraised by Alfred Nickesen (Senior Transport Specialist,
Task Manager), Jean-Marie Braun (Highway Engineer, Consultant), Ms. Alla Weinstein
(Operations Consultant), Rodrigo Archondo-Callao (Transport Economist), Dick Jonsson
(Institutional/Traffic Safety/Training Specialist, Consultant), Anil Somani (Environ-
mental Specialist), Tosun Aricanli (Resettlement Specialist), and Mitchel Stanfield
(Private Infrastructure Consultant). Mr. Liu E of the Bank's Resident Mission in China
also contributed to the preparation of the project. The peer reviewers for the project were
Jose Irigoyen (Engineering), Colin Gannon (Transport Economics), Stein Lundebye
(Institutional Strengthening, Traffic Safety and Training), and Jeff Ruster (Private
Highway Finance).



- ii -
M. Disbursements ..............................................                                      30
N. Auditing ..............................................                                           32
0. Project Supervision, Monitoring, and Reporting .............................................. 32
4. ECONOMIC EVALUATION ..............................................                                          34
A. Overview ..............................................                                           34
B. Evaluation of the Expressways ..............................................                      34
C. Delayed Yangtze Bridge Construction ..............................................                41
D. Evaluation of Other Roads ..............................................                          42
E. Overall Project Economic Evaluation ..............................................                42
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ................................... 43
TABLES
Table 2.1: Classification of Road Network in Hubei .46
Table 2.2:  Hubei: Comparison of Freight and Passenger Volume by Mode,
1980 and 1995 .47
Table 2.3: Hubei Highway Revenues and Expenditures, 1986-95 .48
Table 2.4:  Hubei: Highway Revenues and Expenditures, 1986-2000 .49
Table 2.5: Highway Construction Plan During 9FYP in Hubei .50
Table 3.1: Interconnecting Roads-Existing Conditions .51
Table 3.2: Estimated Disbursement Schedule .54
Table 4.1: Vehicle Fleet Characteristics .55
Table 4.2: Expressway Sections Data .56
Table 4.3: Typical Road User Costs .57
Table 4.4: EXCEL Economic Evaluation Model Sample .58
Table 4.5: Economic Evaluation Results .59
Table 4.6: Expressway Sections Data .60
Table 4.7: Expressway Sections Results .61
Table 4.8: Risk Analysis Methodology .62
Table 4.9: Risk Analysis Input Multipliers .63
Table 4.10:  Risk Analysis Results: Quanli-Shenshan Section ......................................... 64
Table 4.11:  Risk Analysis Results: Entire Project .............................................               65
ANNEXES
Annex 1: Project Monitoring Indicators .............................................                           67
Annex 2: Environmental Assessment and Action Plan Summary ..................................... 72
Annex 3: Review  of the Resettlement Action Plan .............................................                 76
Annex 4: Implementation Schedule .............................................                                 81
Annex 5: Supervision Mission Plan .............................................                                89



- 111 -
Annex 6: Selected Documents in the Project File ..................................  91
MAPS
1. China: Major Highway Development Program-National Trunk Highway System
(NTHS), IBRD 28750
2. Third National Highway Project, IBRD 28749



- 1 -
1. 1HIGHWAY DEVELOPMENT AND REFORM
A. HIGHWAY STRATEGY AND POLICY
1.1   At the central level, the basic strategy is to develop a National Trunk Highway
System (NTHS). The Ministry of Communications (MOC) is in charge of planning the
NTHS, consisting of 12 interprovincial trunk expressways, with a total length of some
35,000 km and connecting 95 major Chinese cities. While immediate priority is being
given to two north-south and two east-west corridors ("two verticals and two
horizontals") and three other major transport corridors (Beijing-Shanghai, Beijing-
Shenyang, Chengdu-Beihai), the Beijing-Zhuhai (Jingzhu) Expressway, which is one of
the "two verticals," constitutes the highest-priority corridor in this program. This
expressway crosses the provinces of Hebei, Henan, Hubei, Hunan, and Guangdong over a
distance of approximately 2,500 km and will connect, once completed, Beijing with
Guangdong's fast-growing Pearl River Delta and Hong Kong. Shanghai-Chengdu
Highway (Hurong), which is one of the "two horizontals," is also a main route linking the
East to the West of China over a distance of approximately 2,000 km passing through
Shanghai, Jiangsu, Anhui, Hubei and Sichuan. Both routes have the highest priority
among the 12 national trunk routes in the NTHS. Both are designed as high-grade, high-
performance facilities, at a minimum four lane standard, fully access controlled, and will
be operated throughout as toll highways. Jingzhu and Hurong are scheduled for
substantial completion by the year 2003. At the provincial/regional level, the strategy is
to concentrate on network maintenance and the expansion and improvement of provincial
and rural road networks currently totaling more than 1 million km, to provide greater
mobility and to stimulate socioeconomic development, particularly in less developed
areas.
1.2  In terms of highway and road transport policy, growing attention is being paid to
removing administrative barriers to interprovincial trade and to redefining the Central
Government's role in transport, in light of rapid administrative decentralization and
growing private sector involvement in highway development and road transport services.
Provincial and municipal governments are expected to continue mobilizing most
investment resources required, including access to private investment and capital markets,
and to seek greater expenditure efficiency through improved highway planning and
investment strategies, as well as to modernize maintenance management and improve
cost recovery from road users. Local governments are also expected to further the
development of road transport services and the road construction industry through
deregulation and promotion of competition, access to modem technology and improved
management. The Bank has prepared a report (No. 11819-CHA dated February 1994),
CHINA: Highway Development and Management-Issues, Options and Strategies, which
serves as the basis for the Bank Group sector assistance strategy.



-2 -
B. LINKAGE TO COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
1.3  In highways, the key problem facing China is its comparative neglect of the sector
over several decades. Accordingly, China's road network ranks among the sparsest in the
world relative to geographic area or population and is quite unsafe. The Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) for China, presented to the Board on March 18, 1997 and the
progress note to be presented on May 28,1998, support China's needs to rapidly
modernize and expand its highway system. To achieve this, the Government of China
(GOC), with Bank and other multi- and bilateral assistance, is giving high priority to
developing the system of expressways leading to the NTHS. Among other priority
corridors, the Bank is already heavily involved in the construction of substantial sections
of Jingzhu expressway, between Beijing and Guangzhou. Under the still ongoing
National Highway (NH1) Project, two important sections have already been completed in
Hebei and Henan. Under the Second National Highway (NH2) Project, two priority
sections in Guangdong and Hunan are being undertaken. Under the Third National
Highway (NH3) Project, several important expressway sections will be undertaken in
Hubei Province. A Fourth National Highway (NH4) Project would cover two important
expressway sections in Hunan and Hubei, as well as a major Wuhan Yangtze River
bridge under a proposed Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) arrangement. These four National
Highway Projects constitute a well-thought-out and well-balanced series of investment
operations that assist GOC and the concerned provinces in the timely completion of
China's highest-priority expressway corridor. In general, the Bank's program of support
in the highway sector will continue to assist China in the foreseeable fuiture in the
financing, development and management of its priority expressway system.
C. BANK GROUP PARTICIPATION
1.4   The Bank Group has supported initiatives by the Government in the transport
sector through loans and credits totaling $6.0 billion for 34 projects. The dialogue
between the Government and the Bank Group on transport sector strategy and policies
has been strengthened through long-term strategy studies for railways, highways and
ports development, and through project preparation activities and project-financed studies
as well as sector studies carried out in collaboration with Chinese authorities. The most
recent Bank Group reports on the transport sector, besides Highway Development and
Management: Issues, Options and Strategies also include China's Railway Strategy (No.
10592-CHA) issued in February 1993, and Strategiesfor Road Freight Development (No.
12600-CHA) issued in January 1995. In addition, studies on the trucking industry,
highway finance, the road construction industry, interprovincial traffic facilitation, and
improved prioritization of highway investments and highway feasibility methodology
have been undertaken. On the basis of its project and sector work, the Bank is deepening its
involvement and assisting the Government in the design and implementation of institutional
and sectoral reforms in areas such as strategy formulation and investment planning; policy,
legal, and regulatory framework for private transport provision; sector financing;
deregulation of transport services, and transfer of advanced technology through training and



- 3 -
equipment. Chinese authorities and the Bank Group also have prepared a transport sector
strategy paper to help guide sector development in a consistent and cohesive framework.
D. LESSONS FROM PRIVATE TOLL HIGHWAY FINANCE
1.5   China's experience in securing private participation in the development of toll
highways effectively started with Hopewell's Guangzhou-Shenzhen Superhighway
(GSZ). With extensive guarantees at the provincial level to close the debt financing for
this highway, it is clear that China does not want a repetition of this project type and, in
fact, has chosen a more prudent course for future BOT-type expressway projects. The
caution with which the central government is approaching the evolving policy framework
for BOT toll highway projects should not be construed as indecision or confusion on the
part of the State Council. The process that is ongoing in Beijing represents a careful
analysis of global experience and a considered approach with private investors and
lenders that will work in China, given the country's size, diversity, and vast requirements
for highway finance and development. Limited-recourse debt financing of highway
projects in China will materialize in the future, as the result of an evolving legal and
regulatory framework built largely on the success of individual projects.
1.6   Through study tour observation and project analysis, the Ministry of Finance
(MOF), the State Planning Commission (SPC), MOC and the more developed provinces
in the coastal regions are well aware of the characteristics of successful private toll
highway projects. China recognizes that government guarantees are not the answer to a
BOT highway program built on the assumption that qualified infrastructure developers
would be willing to assume the commercial risks for projects that are financially viable.
1.7   China's strategy with its toll highway program is to minimize the risk of defeat,
which is well known in Mexico, and to maximize the chances for success with private
investors and lenders. Government support for minimum traffic and revenue levels may
be necessary to launch the first several BOT projects in the highway sector. The Wuhan
Junshan Yangtze River Bridge BOT Project, which is now part of the proposed Fourth
National Highway Project, is likely to be an important test case for future government
policy in this area. While results of specific BOT highway projects will not be known for
some time, it is clear that China will not rush into offshore debt financing at the risk of
failure or unintended long-term consequences simply to close a few key transactions.
1.8   Private toll highway projects that have been completed in China include equity
financing from a limited number of Hong Kong developers who have used their own
balance sheets and the Shenzhen and Hong Kong stock exchanges to raise additional
capital. Many of China's provinces are actively pursuing development of new
expressways utilizing the securitization of existing traffic volumes and toll revenues to
leverage funds from the equity markets. Although this approach is an expensive
alternative for finding new road development capital, it appears to be working well in
China and can be looked to as the precursor of large-scale project financing in the future.
Bank-financed toll highway assets will continue to play an important role in helping
China make steady progress toward this objective.



- 4 -
E. LESSONS FROM PREVIOUS BANK OPERATIONS
1.9   Previous highway projects in China emphasize the importance of rigorous, early
preparation for major civil and traffic engineering works and for procurement processes,
where tendering often takes longer than expected. Advance preparation of bidding
documentation and independent design reviews have also fostered smooth
implementation and have helped reduce variations during the implementation period. The
design of traffic-engineering facilities (traffic monitoring, telecommunications, tolling
and lighting) must be advanced so that these works would be finished shortly after
completion of the civil works for high-grade highways.
1.10  Land acquisition and resettlement of affected people has also led to
implementation difficulties, including delays, in Chinese highway projects. A large
number of people are typically affected by resettlement in China, particularly along
important economic corridors where highways are being upgraded and constructed. The
institutional requirements for resettlement of these numbers of people are significant.
Under the proposed NH3 project, resettlement has received considerable attention to
ensure institutional capability to provide adequate compensation and to implement
Resettlement Action Plans.
1.11  Experience in the environmental area in China has generally been favorable.
However, more attention should be paid to environmental supervision during
construction, training of environmental personnel, and environmental monitoring during
both the construction and operation phases.
1.12  Bank experience emphasizes the importance of adequate construction quality of
roads. Poorly constructed roads lower economic benefits and vehicle-operating cost
savings. Higher costs also result from premature deterioration, where corrective actions in
the form of increased maintenance and/or rehabilitation are required. Effective remedial
actions include stringent contractor prequalification, careful formulation of supervision
arrangements, including engagement of foreign experts, training of local supervision staff
and equipping the supervision teams.
1.13  Project design must put more emphasis on highway management and operation,
especially in the context of toll expressways. There is also a growing concern that
adequate funding for highway maintenance is not now being generated to cover an
expanding and more expensive highway system. Previously, this was not an issue since
adequate funds were being set aside for this purpose.
1.14 Based on the Bank's experience with institutional and policy aspects of highway
projects, the phasing of studies and technical assistance and the intensity of Bank
supervision are important for positive, sustainable outcomes. Institutional components
that are implemented early in the project period tend to have a greater impact, as
compared with free-standing studies carried out in the advanced stages of a project.



-5-
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR IN HUBEI
A. GEOGRAPHY AND TRANSPORT
2.1   Hubei Province lies in the center of China, in the middle reaches of the Yangtze
River and to the north of Dongting Lake. Its economy is largely dominated by
agriculture, but with well-developed industry and a plenty of natural resources. As of
1997, Hubei had a population of 57.7 million covering an area of 185,900 km2.
Topographically, Hubei is high in the west and low in the east and north, with plains in
the center and opening to the southwest
2.2   The province's commercial and industrial center is Wuhan, its capital with a
population of about 6 million. Wuhan is one of China's key transportation hubs, located
at the crossroads of the new North-South (Beijing-Zhuhai) and East-West (Shanghai-
Chengdu) expressways, of several main railway lines, and of river routes on the Yangtze
River, Asia's longest and most important river. The province is divided into 1 prefecture,
1 autonomous prefecture, 1 forest region, 4 provincial cities, 20 cities at the county level,
43 counties and 2 autonomous counties. The economy of Hubei has grown by 10.4
percent annually since 1980. Gross Output Value of Agriculture and Industry (GOVAI)
per capita in the province was by 1997 at 1.3 times the national average and the growth
has averaged about 13 percent per year since 1980.
2.3   The strategic location of Hubei Province at the crossroads of major North-South
and East-West expressway, waterway and railway corridors will attract large amounts of
traffic. Transport demand has grown substantially over the last five years, in view of
sustained economic growth in the province and the rest of the country.
2.4   Historically inland waterways constitute the main transport mode in Hubei
province. They have a navigation mileage of 8,969 km. The main ports along the Yangtze
River are Badong, Yichang, Jinsha, Shayang, Xiangfan, Ezhou, among others, each
handling over 1 million tons of cargo.
2.5   The railway network in Hubei includes: three longitudinal Beijing-Guangzhou,
Beijing-Jiulong, Jiaozuo-Liuzhou and four lateral Xiangfan-Chongqing, Wuhan-Datong,
Datong-Shashi, Hankou-Danjiangkou railway lines with a total length of 1,978 km. The
principal commodities transported by railroads and inland waterways are coal, petroleum,
grain, mineral ore and construction material.
2.6   Air transport, especially passenger traffic, has been developing rapidly during the
8FYP and 9FYP. Wuhan Tiahe and Enshi airports were constructed and 72 international
and domestic routes were opened. Total mileage of the air line connections was 78,307
km in 1997.



-6-
2.7   The highway network in Hubei comprises about 48,700 kmn, of which only
5,608 km (about 11.5 percent of the total) are class I and class 2 roads. The roads with
bituminous and cement pavements amount to 41,135 km (84 percent of total) (Tabgle2.1).
The administrative classification of the road network in Hubei at the end of 1997 was as
follows:
Hubei Province
Road Classification                       Kilometers          Percent
National                                    3,774                 8
Provincial                                  9,429                 19
County                                      11,014               22
Country (local)                            23,617                49
Special                                       894                 2
Total                                    48,728               100
2.8   As in the rest of the country, most of the highways in Hubei were built in the
1960s and 1970s, and their design standards were suitable for the light vehicles and low
traffic levels prevailing in China at the time. Due to the substantial growth in traffic
levels and steady rise in the use of heavy vehicles, these roads have increasingly become
inadequate to meet present and future needs. In addition, frequent flooding causes a
serious damage every year due to the inadequate drainage and subgrade designs.
2.9   Vehicle Fleet. The vehicle fleet in Hubei grew three times in 10 years between
1986 and 1997, on an average of 11 percent per year. The fleet of agricultural tractors,
large trucks and buses grew between 2 and 10 percent per year. The fleet of passenger
cars, light vans and pickups grew at 20-21 percent per year, reflecting the growth in
prosperity as well as the light-vehicle needs of the growing number of smaller enterprises
in the evolving socialist market economy. The most rapid growth occurred in the
motorcycle fleet at 37 percent per year, reflecting the desire for personal mobility now
made affordable through growing prosperity.
B. TRAFFIC GROWTH AND ROAD SAFETY
2.10 Traffic. In Hubei from 1985 to 1995 freight traffic grew at about 4 percent per
year and passenger traffic at 8.5 percent per year (Tabl2..2). In freight and passenger
traffic, the fastest-growing mode during this period was air transport, which grew at about
28 percent per year. The highway mode followed at about an annual 5 percent in freight
and 11 percent in passenger traffic. By the year 1997, about 75 percent of freight and
about 90 percent of all passenger movements were undertaken by road transport. Around



- 7 -
57 percent of all passenger-km occurred by road while about 32 percent of passenger-km
occurred by rail.
2.11  Safety. Road safety is a serious problem in Hubei Province, as elsewhere in
China. Generally, the number of traffic accidents has increased less rapidly than the
growth in traffic volume or vehicle registration. In Hubei, while the absolute number of
accidents and injuries has declined since 1987, as has the fatality rate per 10,000 vehicles,
the proportion of fatalities has been increasing, suggesting more serious accidents with
higher frequency of death. In 1996, the statistics show 3,000 deaths were caused by traffic
accidents in Hubei Province, with 200 deaths attributed just to the Hubei section of
National Road (NR) 107. The magnitude of losses is likely to accelerate in the future if
appropriate action is not taken. Further, despite recent declines (5 percent per year since
1987), the fatality rates for Hubei, like those for China as a whole, remain higher than
rates in many developed and developing countries.
2.12  Since 1987, primary responsibility for road safety lies with the Traffic Police of
the Public Security Bureau (PSB), including that for vehicle testing and inspection, driver
training and licensing, propaganda on safety, enforcement of traffic laws, including
imposition of fines, operation of traffic signals, highway patrols, and all aspects of
accident reporting, investigation and research. However, HPCD retains responsibility for
all matters concerning safe highway design and traffic signs and markings. HPCD would
launch a road safety program under the proposed project, primarily dealing with matters
within HPCD' s jurisdiction.
C. HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION, PLANNING AND FINANCING
2.13  Administration. HPCD administers most of the highway and waterway transport
activities in the province, and is responsible to the provincial government for highway
planning, budgeting, and financing. HPCD adheres to the general transport policy and
technical guidelines issued by MOC.
2.14  The administration of the road network in the project province takes place at the
levels of: (a) HiPCD, (b) the municipal and prefecture highway bureaus, and (c) the local
highway units of the county highway bureaus. HPCD administers the provincial
highways through the Highway Administration and the Expressway (high-grade
highway) Administration Bureaus while the municipal and county transport bureaus
administer local highways and village roads. The provincial bureaus are responsible for
all highway matters, including construction and maintenance, and these bureaus receive
professional and technical guidance from the Engineering Administration Department of
MOC.
2.15  HPCD administers all nonhigh-grade highways in the province through the
Highway Administration Bureau (HPHAB). This Bureau is responsible for the
management of nonhigh-grade highway construction and maintenance. Local branches in
each prefecture, city and county are responsible for the construction and maintenance of
national, provincial, county and country highways. The Highway Transport



- 8 -
Administration Bureau (HPHTAB) is responsible for management of the entire highway
transport sector. The Expressway Bureau (the High-Grade Highway Administration
Bureau) (HPEB) is in charge of construction, routine and periodic maintenance, toll
collection and overall management of the toll expressways in Hubei Province. The
provincial, municipal and prefectural highway bureaus currently have a total staff of
about 37,000, of which technical personnel comprise about 14 percent.
2.16 Planning. HPCD has overall responsibility for planning, construction, operation
and maintenance of the provincial highway networks. The highway administration units
at the prefecture, county and village levels have considerable autonomy in planning
smaller investments, which are nonetheless subject to approval by HPCD. Each
administrative group prepares investment plans for the highway network under its
jurisdiction and submits these to the planning divisions of HPCD each year for the next
year's plan. HPCD approves the yearly plans for each county or local authority
concerned. Similarly, using inputs from the lower level administrative groups, HPCD
prepares their five-year road development plans, reflecting national and provincial
development policy guidelines and objectives for the planned period. The current 9FYP
(1996-2000) for highway investment and maintenance in Hubei requires a total of Y 16.4
billion.
2.17 Financing. Funding for highway construction and maintenance comes from
several sources, but by far the largest source is the road maintenance fee, which provided
about 36 percent of all highway funding in Hubei during 8FYP. Highway funding sources
and expenditures are summarized in Table 2.3. The Road Maintenance Fee is collected
from all motor vehicles. The total amount collected from cars, vans and trucks is retained
by HPCD, while the amount collected from tractors and other agricultural vehicles is
managed by prefectures, cities and counties. Such vehicles as military and police cars,
fire trucks, city buses and city garbage trucks are exempted from highway maintenance
fees, also the party and government vehicles are partly exempted.
2.18 The Highway Key Construction Fund was established by the provincial
governments for the construction of high-grade highways and bridges and is being
collected from vehicles owned in the provinces and operated in highway passenger and
freight transportation. The Highway Key Construction Fund is determined as 31 percent
of the total Road Maintenance Fee income and exempted from all taxes. Revenues from
the Highway Key Construction Fund increased from Y 300 million during the 7FYP to
Y 1,500 million during the 8FYP. The balance of the revenues from road maintenance
fees (69 percent) is generally distributed as follows: 15 percent to the Energy and
Communications Fund (discontinued in 1995), 10 percent to the National Budget
Adjustment Fund (discontinued in 1996), 2 percent to the Public Security Bureaus and
1.86 percent to the transport fees collection sector (2.1 percent since 1995). The road
maintenance fee retained by HPCD increased from Y 1,700 million for the 7FYP to
Y 2,800 million for the 8FYP.



-9 -
2.19  Other sources of revenue for highways include: (a) subsidies from  MOC;
(b) funds from local governments at prefecture, city and county levels; (c) aid-poverty
fumd; and (d) loans from foreign and local banks (for details on highway financing see
Table 2.3). Subsidies from MOC and local governments also substantially increased from
Y 400 million for the 7FYP to Y 1,700 million for the 8FYP.
2.20 The highway network expended between 1990 and 1997 from about 47,500 km to
about 48,700 km. During the 8FYP (1991-95), expenditures required for highway
construction, rehabilitation, and maintenance totaled Y 8,000 million. Of this total,
construction of new highways and highway improvement amounted to Y 6,350 million
during the 8FYP, or about 80 percent of total highway expenditures (Table 2.3). Figure
2.1 shows the distribution of highway revenues and expenditures for Hubei for the 8FYP.
FIGU]RE 2.1: HUBEI HIGHWAY REVENUES AND EXPENDITURES, 8FYP
REVENUES                              EXPENDITURES
Dorrmestic  Foreigns  ManRoad             Peri  OOverhead and
Loans  Loans 3intenance                 mraintenance  8%
National Aid-  1 %         Fee              Routina  4%
Pbverty            nD maintenance
Subsidy                                     8%
2%                                               dt~
Captal       Highway Key                                Construction
Construction   Constr. Plan                                and
Subsidy        19%                                      hmrovement
22%                                                      80%
D. ENGINEERING, CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE AND TRAINING
2.21   Engineering. Road and bridge projects are engineered by the planning and design
institutes at the provincial, prefecture, and city levels. The provincial planning and design
institutes are responsible for designing all major road and bridge projects in the
provinces. These design institutes are, in general, competent and have on staff
experienced personnel for carrying out highway design tasks. HCPDI designed the major
part of the Jingzhu and Hurong Expressways under this project.
2.22  Construction. Small-scale roads and bridges in the provinces are constructed by
the construction units of the highway department of each city or county. The Highway
Administration Bureau of HPCD is responsible for the construction of large- and
medium-size highways and bridges. The Expressway Bureau in Hubei is responsible for
the construction of high-grade highways. Since SPC directed that all major civil works
are to be awarded after competitive bidding, many of the larger construction divisions are
being reorganized into financially independent contracting companies and have been
awarded contracts either individually or as partners in joint ventures on previous Bank-
financed highway projects.



- 10-
2.23 Maintenance. Highway maintenance for all nonhigh-grade highways is carried
out by county highway bureaus under the control of municipal authorities. Maintenance is
generally well organized and carried out satisfactorily, mainly through labor-intensive
operations. Expenditures for periodic and routine maintenance increased about 58 percent
from the 7FYP to the 8FYP in real terms. However, as a result of a huge increase in new
construction, maintenance funds decreased from about 36 percent during the 7FYP to
about 20 percent during 8FYP (Table 2.3) in relative terms.
E. HIGHWAY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM 1996-2000
2.24 9FYP for Hubei Highway Sector. The 9FYP comprises a total expenditure
volume of Y 16.4 billion (about $2.0 billion equivalent), of which Y 13.7 billion (84
percent) would be for new road construction and Y 2.7 billion (16 percent) for routine
and periodic maintenance (Table 2.4).
2.25 The 9FYP financing volume when compared with the 8FYP highway
expenditures increased by a factor of 2.1. The construction investments in absolute terms
increased by a factor of 2.2 and the maintenance expenditures in absolute tenns increased
by a factor of 1.8. While the relative share of maintenance decreased from 20 to 16
percent, the relative proportion of new construction increased from 80 to 84 percent.
2.26 Highway sector funding for the 9FYP is coming from the following seven
principal sources:
(a)   Y 4.2 billion from Road Maintenance Fund;
(b)   Y 2.7 billion from the Highway Key Construction Fund;
(c)   Y 2.7 billion in subsidies from MOC and MOF;
(d)   Y 0.8 billion financed by prefectures and counties;
(e)   Y 0.1 billion from National Aid-Poverty Highway Subsidy;
(f)   Y 2.4 billion from domestic loans; and
(g)   Y 3.5 billion from World Bank loans and other foreign loans.
2.27  The proposed 9FYP (Table 2.5) contains as the principal investment completion
of the 142 km Huangshi-Huanmei section of Hurong Expressway and 335 km of Jingzhu
Expressway including a section of the outer ring road in Wuhan and the Wuhan Junshan
Yangtze Bridge, costing Y 11.8 billion (about $1.4 billion equivalent), of which Y 10.2
billion will be invested during the 9FYP and Y 1.6 billion during the 1 OFYP.
2.28  Other important investments of the 9FYP comprise: (a) Y 2.3 billion for
construction, upgrading and improvement of about 2,300 km of class 1 and class 2
national and provincial highways; (b) Y 1.6 billion for construction and upgrading of 43
major bridges; and (c) Y 0.42 billion for construction and upgrading of 2,720 km of rural
access roads (72 projects) in poverty areas.
2.29  Counterpart Funding. The total project investment for NH3 amounts to Y 5.6
billion ($679 million), out of which the Bank will finance Y 2.1 billion ($250 million),



- 11 -
Y 1.1 billion ($130.1 million) will be a grant from MOC, and the remaining Y 2.4 billion
($293.5 million) will come from the 9FYP and constitute about 17 percent of the new
construction expenditures for the 9FYP. The Province places the highest priority on this
project.
2.30 Maintenance Funding. The total expenditures for the road maintenance in 9FYP
are projected to total Y 2.7 billion, which amounts to 16 percent of total highway
expenditures. The maintenance funding in the 9FYP is based on the average maintenance
standard for China at about Y 10,000 per 1 km of road. The road maintenance fee (RMF)
is the only source for road maintenance. Routine and periodic maintenance expenditures
would increase by about 75 percent over the 8FYP level.



- 12-
3. THE PROJECT
A. ORIGINAL AND FORMULATION
3.1   China's 9FYP (1996-2000) emphasizes a reduction in transport bottlenecks,
which are now being recognized as a growing constraint to rapid economic development.
The diversification and structural transformnation of the economy, toward more light and
agroindustry and more interprovincial trade, coupled with severe capacity constraints of
the railways, are causing an accelerating demand for road transport. This national pattern
also applies to the project in Hubei. The new Beijing-Zhuhai (Jingzhu) Expressway,
linking the north and south of China, crosses the provinces of Hebei, Henan, Hubei,
Hunan, and Guangdong over a distance of approximately 2,500 km. Once completed, it
will connect Beijing with Guangdong's fast-growing Pearl River Delta and Hong Kong.
The Shanghai-Chengdu Highway (Hurong) is also a main route linking the east to the
west of China over a distance of approximately 2,000 km passing through Shanghai,
Jiangsu, Anhui, Hubei and Sichuan. Both routes have the highest priority among the 12
national trunk routes in the NTHS. Both are designed as high-grade, high-performance
facilities, at a minimum four-lane standard, fully access-controlled, and will be operated
throughout as toll highways. Jingzhu and Hurong are scheduled for substantial
completion by the year 2003.
3.2   The Bank is already heavily involved in the construction of substantial sections of
Jingzhu expressway, between Beijing and Guangzhou (see IBRD map 28750). Under the
still ongoing NH1 Project, two important sections have already been built in Hebei and
Henan provinces. Under the NH2 Project, two priority sections of Jingzhu Expressway in
northern Guangdong and southern Hunan are being undertaken. Under the NH3 Project,
several important sections of Jingzhu and Hurong expressways in Hubei would be
undertaken. Finally, the NH4 Project will cover two important expressway sections in
Hunan and Hubei, as well as a major Wuhan Yangtze River Bridge under a proposed
BOT arrangement. These four National Highway Projects constitute a well-thought-out
and well-balanced series of investment operations that assist GOC and the concerned
provinces in the timely completion of China's highest priority expressway corridor.
B. OBJECTIVES AND RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
3.3   Project Objectives. The proposed project would be the third in the series of NHI-
NH2-NH3-NH4 projects of Jingzhu expressway in Guangdong, Hubei, Hunan, Henan,
and Hebei provinces. It would build on its predecessors NH1 and NH2 and would
precede NH4 by about one year. All four projects in the series would support an
integrated approach to expressway corridor development, with each of the four operations



- 13 -
contributing selected priority sections that would gradually develop into a full corridor
system.
3.4   The specific objectives of the NH3 project would be to:
(a)   relieve road transport congestion and improve the integration of
interregional trade and commerce by assisting in the further development
of the NTHS in the principal North-South and East-West transport
corridors and allowing for early completion of a functional expressway
network in Hubei province, thus enabling through traffic to bypass Wuhan
City;
(b)   strengthen institutional capacity at HPCD and related institutions, through
provision of training, technical assistance and equipment, in planning,
design, construction, operation and maintenance of Hubei's highway
network;
(c)   develop a policy dialogue in the areas of the commercialization and
corporatization of provincial expressway companies and highway
maintenance management; and
(d)   improve the safety of road transport.
3.5   Rationale for Bank Involvement. The Bank's program of support in the
highway sector will continue to assist China in the foreseeable future in the financing,
development and management of this priority expressway system. By helping GOC to
plan and build the NTHS, of which Jingzhu and Hurong Expressways form a central
element, the Bank supports this essential long-term solution to the serious transport
problems facing China, removing bottlenecks, facilitating interprovincial traffic, and
promoting long-distance and transit traffic. This in turn would help arrest a growing
regionalism while furthering the liberalization, facilitation, and cost reduction of
transport, key requirements for market-oriented reforms to succeed. Early completion of
the Jingzhu and Hurong expressway corridors is vital to rapid future economic
development of the affected regions including Hubei province and would help realize the
full economic benefits from large-scale expressway development.
3.6   Since demand for new expressways in China is well beyond any similar
requirement existing in the world today and certainly outstrips available public funding
by a wide margin, Bank involvement in the construction of the new expressways in Hubei
is a positive addition to the resources of China. However, these resources are insufficient
to close the funding gap. By conservative estimates China requires $20-25 billion of
capital from the private sector to meet its highway program goals over the next 10 years.
Through sponsorship of model BOT prequalification and bidding document preparation
and development of a competitive and transparent procurement procedure, the Bank was
able to play an important formative role in the establishment of a BOT concession
framework, conducive to the attraction of private financing for China's highway program.



- 14-
Further, as a result of the Junshan Yangtze bridge BOT project, for which the Bank
funded a feasibility analysis and is prepared to support an international marketing effort
by MOF, SPC, MOC and HPCD, China now has the opportunity to test the international
market with a toll bridge project which is commercially viable. The experience that will
be gained from this first BOT highway/bridge project will be very valuable to the
ongoing development of China's ambitious toll expressway program.
3.7   Bank support is also justified by project assistance to institutional and policy
development, which, besides the provision of training and equipment, would include
studies on expressway commercialization and corporatization, and highway maintenance
management. This would facilitate the introduction of market principles and mechanisms
in highway operation, management and maintenance. Bank involvement is also expected
to benefit the design and quality of construction of expressways as well as the
improvement of road traffic safety. NH3 would also foster improved practices in the areas
of environment and resettlement of project-affected people, thus supporting the Bank's
country and sector assistance strategies.
C. PROJECT MONITORING
3.8   Project impact would be monitored with respect to the project objectives (PO).
The key indicators are as follows.
PO (a):  (i) reduced congestion levels on roads parallel to the proposed new
expressways (traffic volume);
(ii) increased average travel speeds on roads parallel to the proposed new
expressways (km/hr);
P0 (b):  (i) enhanced institutional capacity of HPCD for specifically defined areas
[technical assistance (TA) person-months];
PO (c):  (i) improved policy framework for highway commercialization and
maintenance (in each policy area establishment of action plan and its
implementation); and
PO (d):  (i) reduced numbers of traffic accidents (number of fatalities and injuries
on existing roads).
In Annex 1, the following are delineated:
(a)   More specific description of performance indicators;
(b)   Baseline values;
(c)   Mid-term benchmarks;
(d)   Interim benchmark; and
(e)   Targets for each value.



- 15 -
Parameters, baselines and targeted values were developed by HPCD for review by the
Bank and were confirmed at negotiations.
3.9   The achievement of project output would be tracked by monitoring indicators,
listed below. Project output can be defined as immediate project targets and initial flows
of services, such as physical quantity (percent of the length of road constructed);
institutional strengthening (training achieved), and quality (safety initiatives,
environmental requirements). The following monitoring indicators were set up for some
of the key project components. There are time-bound monitorable targets that would be
described either as actual physical outputs or as a percentage of components
implemented.
Monitoring Indicators:
(a)   Percentage of the length of the Beijing-Zhuhai (Jingzhu) expressway (out
of 143 km) and two short sections of the Shanghai-Chengdu (Hurong)
expressway (out of 54 kmi);
(b)   Percentage of the length of the interconnecting roads (out of 33 km);
(c)   progress made in the implementation of the training component for HPCD
and its affiliated institutions (person-months);
(d)   number of black spots of the highway safety program completed (out of
identified black spots);
(e)   progress made in purchasing equipment for HPCD and its affiliated
institutions (as a percentage of its dollar value); and
(f)   progress made on the studies.
The monitorable targets are shown in Annex 1.
D. PROJECT COMPONENTS
3.10 The project would comprise the following components:
(a)   Construction of two sections of the Beijing-Zhuhai (Jingzhu) expressway
(143 km) and two short sections of the Shanghai-Chengdu (Hurong)
expressway (54 km total) (which would be connected by the Junshan
Yangtze Bridge proposed to be built under a BOT scheme under the
proposed NH4 Project). The works would include construction of
administration, service and maintenance facilities as well as the supply and
installation of electrical, electronic and mechanical (E&M) equipment for
tolling, telecommunication, traffic monitoring, and lighting of
interchanges, toll plazas and service areas;



- 16-
(b)   An interconnecting road program (33 km) connecting the expressway
sections to existing road infrastructure in the North-South (Jingzhu) and
East-West (Hurong) corridors;
(c)   Construction supervision services for all expressway sections and their
interconnecting roads;
(d)   Studies/technical assistance in (i) highway maintenance management,
(ii) expressway commercialization and corporatization; and (iii) several
road traffic safety components;
(e)   Staff training programs, covering all aspects of highway planning, design,
construction, operation, finance and maintenance; and
(f)   Equipment for: (i) control of construction quality and monitoring of the
environment; (ii) operation and maintenance of expressways after their
completion; (iii) maintenance of the provincial road network; and
(iv) bridge information system (BMS), pavement management system
(PMS) and maintenance management system (MMS).
E. CIVIL WORKS CONSTRUCTION AND SUPERVISION
3.11  Construction of Dawu-Yangtze River Crossing and Yangtze River Crossing-
Shenshan Sections of Jingzhu Expressway. The sections Dawu-Yangtze River and
Yangtze River-Shenshan are parts of the Jingzhu Expressway and 143.3 km long.
Between Dawu and Xiaochang Xiaoche, that is 21.4 km, the expressway is planned for
2x2 lanes and designed according to MOC's standards for expressways in heavily hilly
areas. The design speed is 100 km/h and the width of subgrade is 26 m. Between
Xiaochang Xiaoche and Quanli, that is 107.9 km, the expressway is planned for 2x2 lanes
and designed according to MOC's standards for expressways in flat and lightly hilly
areas. The design speed is 120 km/h and the width of subgrade is 28 m. Between Quanli
and the Yangtze river crossing as between the Yangtze river crossing and Shenshan, that
is 14.0 km (19.0 km including the Yangtze river crossing section), the expressway is
common for Jingzhu and Hurong and planned for 2x3 lanes. Expressway standards from
MOC for flat and lightly hilly areas are applied. The design speed is 120 km/h and the
width of subgrade is 35.5 m.
3.12  The Junshan Yangtze river bridge, which is the central part of the 19.0 km long
Quanli-Shenshan expressway section, will be built as part of the proposed NH4 project
(FY99). Accordingly, construction of the Quanli-Yangtze river and Shenshan-Yangtze
river bridge access subsections will be undertaken under NH3 loan financing so as to
coincide with the construction of the Junshan bridge. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that Hubei Province would, in connection with the two bridge access
subsections: (a) prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its confidential use in making its
evaluation and comments, the technical specifications, construction timetable, financing
plan and procurement procedures in regard to the Yangtze bridge at Junshan; and (b)



- 17 -
coordinate closely the construction of the two adjacent sections of the Jingzhu
Expressway with the construction of the said bridge.
3.13 Construction of Quanli-Yongan Section of Hurong Expressway. The section
Quanli-Yongan (10.3 kin) is a part of the Hurong expressway. It connects in the west to
the existing Hurong section Yongan-Yichang and in the east to the foreseen Jingzhu
expressway. This section is planned for 2x2 lanes. Expressway standards from MOC in
flat and lightly hilly areas are applied. The design speed is 100 km/h.
3.14  Construction of Shenshan-Baoxie Section of Hurong Expressway. The section
Shenshan-Baoxie (43.5 km) is part of the Hurong expressway. It connects in the east to
the foreseen Jingzhu expressway and in the west to the existing Hurong section Wuhan-
Huangshi. This section is planned for 2x2 lanes. Expressway standards from MOC in flat
and lightly hilly areas are applied. The design speed is 100 km/h.
3.15  The Jingzhu and Hurong Expressways would also include: (a) construction of 16
interchanges, (b) 5 service areas providing facilities for refueling and vehicle repair,
restaurants, parking and resting, (c) 1 additional rest area providing facilities for
refueling, parking and resting, (d) 5 facilities for expressway administration and
maintenance, and (e) E&M  installations for toll collection, traffic monitoring,
telecommunications and lighting of all interchanges and annex areas. The preliminary
designs have been completed by HCPDI for all civil works and the detailed engineering
design for the expressway is nearing completion. MOC's Highway Research Institute in
Beijing is designing the E&M works. Preliminary designs will be reviewed and approved
by MOC. A detailed description of the technical characteristics of the Jingzhu and
Hurong expressways is contained in the project files. The bidding documents would be
completed before mid-1 998. Engineering designs are being reviewed by a team of French
consultants under French Government trust-funding during January 1997-June 1998.
3.16 Interconnecting Roads Program (IRP). The opening of Jingzhu and Hurong
Expressways would bring significant traffic increases to the existing road system. While
some of these roads have recently been upgraded, HPCD plans to improve the remaining
ones by 2001-02, the time of the planned opening of Jingzhu and Hurong Expressways.
On the basis of a comprehensive review of all existing and planned roads that would
interconnect with Jingzhu and Hurong Expressways at their 16 interchanges, an IRP
comprising about 371 km of roads has been developed, among which three linking roads
with a total length of 33 km would be financed under the project and the rest would be
funded through Hubei's own highway resources and under the proposed NH4 project.
This IRP is shown in Table 3.1. Among the interconnecting roads, the Dawu
interconnecting road will connect the existing NR107 to the Jingzhu expressway until the
expressway to the border with Henan Province will be completed.
3.17  Construction Supervision. Training programs in construction supervision for
local staff would be completed prior to the mobilization of contractors. This training would
be conducted by the international supervision consultant that will be selected. The first



- 18-
phase of the training program, prior to the beginning of construction, would include lecture
courses and site visits while the second phase would comprise on-the-job training to take
place during construction of Jingzhu and Hurong expressway sections.
3.18  The construction supervision organization for Jingzhu and Hurong would consist
of a joint international/local core supervision team to be established around five foreign
engineers (with a total of 206 person-months), with expertise in project/contract
management, earth and pavement works, bridge construction and E&M works. The core
team would also include 291 local supervision staff and would be located in Wuhan
where it would be supported by a central laboratory to be staffed with 15 qualified local
experts. For field supervision of 12 ICB civil works contracts, two resident engineer's
offices (REOs) would be established in Xiaogan and Wuhan, staffed with 32 persons. A
total of 216 local supervisors would be engaged corresponding to one person per km of
expressway construction. Domestic supervising engineers would provide some 7,200
person-months. Supervision of civil works for Jingzhu and Hurong would be carried out
by qualified local supervision teams acceptable to the Bank. These supervision
arrangements were reviewed and confirmed during negotiations. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that HPCD would maintain construction supervision teams with
qualified staff in adequate numbers to ensure that works are carried out in accordance
with technical specifications and that strict quality controls are exercised on site.
Construction quality would also be monitored through routine project supervision and
monthly and quarterly progress reports.
F. INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING
3.19 Highway Maintenance Management. To improve and modernize maintenance
management in Hubei, HPCD would proceed with a highway maintenance management
study. The overall objective would be to create an efficient maintenance organization,
adjusted to modern management philosophy and using modern technology. The study
would: (a) review the institutional arrangements, policies and procedures for highway
maintenance, consistent with the economic reform process; (b) identify expenditures
required to maintain the existing road network, taking budget constraints into
consideration; and (c) formulate and prioritize a multiyear highway maintenance program
for the later part of the 9FYP period. The outcome of the study would include
recommendations on (a) organizational changes; (b) equipment needs; (c) training of
personnel; (d) a model to estimate medium-term maintenance needs; (e) strengthening of
Hubei's Bridge Maintenance System (BMS) and Pavement Management System (PMS);
and (f) introduction of a Road Data Bank (RDB). The final terms of reference (TOR)
prepared by HPCD were reviewed and confirmed at negotiations and are available in the
project file. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that Hubei would: (a) undertake
and, by June 30, 2000, complete the said study in accordance with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank for its review and comments; (b) by December 31, 2000, finalize
and furnish to the Bank recommendations taking into account comments made by the
Bank; and (c) thereafter, take appropriate steps to implement the recommendations of the
said study.



- 19-
3.20 In addition, assurances were obtained at negotiations that HPCD would, by
March 31 of each year commencing in 1999 and ending in 2003, furnish an annual
highway condition report for the Bank's review and comments, which would. (a) show
the length of each class of highway by condition (excellent, good, fair and bad) as of
December 31 of the previous year; (b) show the completed physical works and actual
expenditures o,f the previous year against the planned physical targets and budgeted
funds of that year, for new construction, upgrading/improvement, rehabilitation, periodic
maintenance, and routine maintenance; and (c) show the targets of the highway program
for the current year, including new construction, upgrading/improvement, rehabilitation,
periodic maintenance, and routine maintenance, in terms of planned physical works and
planned expenditures.
3.21  Expressway Commercialization and Corporatization. This study would assist
HPCD in developing modem thinking in how to finance and manage its new expressways
and would analyze the longer-tern options available in financing, managing and
organizing its high-grade highway corporation(s). It would help design a modem
organization in compliance with international standards of financial management, would
ensure that toll revenues are properly collected and managed and that expenditures (both
for investment and for adequate maintenance) are well planned. Given the complexity and
newness of this study approach, it would be conducted in two phases. Phase 1 would be
covered under the NH3 Project while phase 2 would be undertaken during the NH4
Project. The Final TOR prepared by HPCD were reviewed and confirmed at negotiations
and are available in the projectfile. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that Hubei
would. (a) undertake and, by December 31, 2000, complete the said study in accordance
with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank for its review and comments; (b) by
June 30, 2001, finalize and furnish to the Bank recommendations taking into account
comments made by the Bank; and (c) thereafter, agree with the Bank on appropriate
steps to be undertaken during implementation of the future NH4 project.
3.22 Road Safety. The road safety components to be undertaken would concentrate on
institutional improvements, training, increased awareness of the safety problems, safety
for road works, safety audit procedures, and the identification and implementation of
physical measures. Some of these activities will be initiated under the NH3 project and
continued under the NH4 project:
(a)   Hubei's Traffic Engineering Society (TES), during its annual meetings,
vvould start incorporating road safety issues in its agenda. This would form
a basis toward developing a road safety seminar that would become an
annual event. The basic concept for the seminar would be to create a better
understanding of road safety, and to learn lessons from other countries
about road safety work. Domestic and international experts would be
invited to attend the annual seminar;
(b)   HPCD would introduce standards regarding safety at road works issued by
MOC, develop and carry out an implementation plan for improved safety



- 20 -
at road work sites. This would enable the organization of roadworks under
conditions tolerable to road users and workers, and requiring solutions for,
inter alia, comprehensive schemes for work zones and temporary traffic
operations, technological innovations, and monitoring users behavior and
traffic. The overall aim of this effort would be to test the guidelines issued
by MOC. Different types of roadworks would be examined, from mobile
and short-duration to long-duration roadworks. Equipment and accessories
used for temporary signing, traffic guidance and the protection of workers
would be examined. After one year, an evaluation shall be carried out
aiming at further development of the guidelines;
(c)   HPCD would develop, through technical assistance, a safety audit
schedule, consisting of a series of checklists and guidelines enabling
systematic checking of highway engineering designs to ensure that they do
not contribute to but help reduce accidents. A start was already made
through various design improvements on the Jingzhu and Hurong
Expressways, for example, on the shapes of its interchanges, the
connections of annex areas to the expressway, or the locations of the
maintenance centers;
(d)   HPCD  would undertake through technical assistance the in-house
development of a black-spot analysis and improvement system,
comprising the identification of black spots; design, funding,
implementation of remedial measures; and conducting before and after
studies.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that Hubei would: (a) cause TES to
incorporate road safety issues into the agenda of its annual meetings starting in 1999,
and thereafter, organize an annual road safety seminar in Hubei starting 2000; (b) apply
the MOC manual on safety at roadworks; (c) develop through technical assistance a
safety audit schedule, and with own staff carry out a black-spot analysis and
improvement plan, and by June 30, 2000, complete the said TA components in
accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, (d) by June 30, 2000, furnish
the TA results to the Bank for review; and (e) thereafter, take appropriate steps to
implement the recommendations of the said TA components, taking into account the
comments thereon of the Bank
3.23 Training. The training program would mainly focus on highway planning and
engineering design, construction and its supervision, maintenance and operations
management, including, but not limited to quality control, budget planning,
environmental issues, engineering economics, and road safety. The program would aim at
training of personnel needed for the project to guarantee its smooth implementation and
progress. It would also cover professional training on the part of personnel in the
transport sector and professional training for trainers. A training program has been
prepared, which will include the training of 47 people to be trained overseas for 72



- 21 -
person-months while 206 people will be trained in China. Three foreign experts will be
engaged for about 3 person-months in the domestic training program. Detailed
documentation on the proposed training program is available in the project file. The
proposed training program was confirmed during negotiations. Agreement was reached
at negotiations that Hubei would, by June 30 of each year and commencing in 1999,
furnish a rolling two-year training implementation program to the Bank and would carry
out the training under the program acceptable to the Bank
3.24 Equipment. Equipment to be provided under the project has been identified by
HPCD and reviewed by the Bank. Equipment lists including cost estimates are available
in the project file. These lists include equipment items required for expressway operation
and maintenance, strengthening of institutions and central laboratories, and
environmental monitoring. Selected equipment items for BMS, RDB and PMS
development as well as for the maintenance of the provincial highway network are also
included. All equipment lists as proposed by HPCD including cost estimates were
reviewed and confirmed during negotiations.
G. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
3.25  An environmental impact assessment (EIA) for the Dawu-Shenshan section of the
Jingzhu Expressway; the Zhushan-Yongan and Shenshan-Baoxie sections of the Hurong
Expressway and the interconnecting roads was carried out by the Research Institute of
Highways (RIOH) of MOC and two EIA reports (for the Expressways and the
interconnecting roads), and an Environmental Action Plan (EAP) were submitted to the
Bank during the preparation mission in May 1996. Thlese documents were reviewed by
the Bank and discussed with HPCD during the May 1996 mission. Based on the Bank's
comments, the revised EIAs and EAP for the Expressways and its interconnecting roads,
and the Environmental Assessment (EA) Summary were submitted to the Bank in
December 1996 for review. These documents were further reviewed and discussed with
HPCD during the preappraisal mission in March 1997. The final EIA reports, EAP and
EA Summary covering the Expressways and its interconnecting roads were submitted in
April 1997 and found to be satisfactory to the Bank.
3.26  The EIA has ascertained that the proposed highways will not affect sensitive areas
and, if appropriate actions are taken, the construction and the operation of the highways
should have no adverse impact on the environment. The major environmental impacts
during the construction of the highways will include noise, dust, alteration of
hydrological regimes, soil erosion, interference with local people and traffic, impacts on
the local ecology and on irrigation systems. Of these impacts, noise, dust, and soil erosion
would be most serious. Traffic noise, vehicle exhaust emission, soil erosion, and water
pollution from service areas were identified as major adverse impacts during the
operation period.
3.27 The EAP specifies the appropriate mitigation measures, environmental monitoring
plans, institutional arrangements for their implementation, environmental training,



- 22 -
monitoring equipment requirements, and budget needs for environmental protection.
Major mitigation measures in the construction phase will include optimum planning of
earthworks to reduce damage caused by borrow areas, appropriate design of
overpasses/underpasses to minimize social disruptions and interference with local traffic,
reconstruction of irrigation and drainage systems where appropriate, and use of water
sprinklers to reduce dust.
3.28  The engineering design and technical specifications of the highways incorporate
appropriate mitigation measures for environmental protection. In the operational phase,
these will include construction of noise barriers to reduce traffic noise, strengthening of
vehicle emission inspections to minimize air pollution problems, and afforestation to
improve landscape and reduce air pollution. The summary of the EIAs and EAPs is
presented in Annex 2, and copies of the EIAs and EAPs are available in the Project File
and will also be made available through the Public Information Center (PIC). Assurances
were obtained at negotiations from Hubei Province that: (a) the environmental protection
measures stipulated in the EAPs with respect to the Expressways and its interconnecting
roads would be carried out in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) Hubei Province
would furnish to the Bank annual environmental monitoring reports for the Expressways
during their construction phases and for each of the first three years following their
construction completion.
H. LAND ACQUISITION AND RESETTLEMENT
3.29 The Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) for the project was prepared by the Hubei
Expressway Resettlement Office (HERO) of HPCD based on the following laws and
regulations:
(a)   The Land Management Law of the People's Republic of China (Revised
Draft), December 29, 1988;
(b)   Implementation Regulations for Land Management Law of the People's
Republic of China (1991);
(c)   Notice Concerning the Standard of Land Occupation Tax in Highway
Construction (published by MOF), January 1, 1991; and,
(d)   Provincial and municipal regulations as listed in Annex 3.
3.30  Objectives. The RAP establishes the basis for land acquisition and resettlement in
the project and responds to the general Bank guidelines on involuntary resettlement. The
basic objectives of the RAP are to: (a) minimize resettlement; (b) improve the standards
of living of the Project-Affected Persons (PAPs) or at least to restore them; (c) consult
with the affected communities on the project impact, entitlements, and rehabilitation
measures; (d) compensate the villages for land and the PAPs for their lost assets at
replacement value without depreciation; (e) provide land to the PAPs whose land is
affected by readjusting the village land; (f) provide alternative jobs to the PAPs losing



- 23 -
agricultural land if the land endowment of affected villages do not permit readjustment;
(g) ensure that PAPs whose jobs are affected through affected enterprises are provided
with similar employment in new enterprises; (h) compensate the disrupted infrastructure;
(i) establish the time schedule and the budget of the resettlement component of the
project; (j) devise a mechanism for grievance and appeals; and (k) devise internal and
independent monitoring.
3.31  The RAP meets the general standard of transport sector RAPs for China and the
Bank Guidelines for Involuntary Resettlement. The RAP is reviewed in detail in Annex 3.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations from Hubei Provincial Government that all
land acquisition and resettlement activities with respect to the NH3 Project (including the
Jingzhu sections, Hurong sections and their interconnecting roads) would be completed
in accordance with the RAP in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
3.32  Institutional Strengthening. The project addressed this issue by (a) introducing
the unification and computerization of the data, and training the county-level resettlement
staff in the management of the data. College-educated staff familiar with computers were
employed for data management; (b) collaboration between the design institute and HERO
was encouraged in the minimization of resettlement. The resettlement minimization
process, which is regularly done at the feasibility studies level, was carried over to the
preliminary and the final design stages; and (c) the generic RAP for highway projects was
introduced, to the project during the planning process and part of it was successfully
applied.
3.33  Adverse Impact of NH3 Project. The project will lead to permanent acquisition
of 18,322 mu, and temporary acquisition of 2,722 mu of land. A total of 1,091
households and 152,278 m2 of private housing will be relocated. The total number of
households affected by the project will be 4,464, with a total population of 20,569. The
total number of enterprises and public organizations affected by the project will be 37,
with an employment of 1,591 persons. Assurances were obtained at negotiations from
HPCD that the monitoring of the effectiveness and socioeconomic impact of the
resettlement activities with respect to the NH3 Project (including the Jingzhu sections,
Hurong sections and their interconnecting roads) would be carried out in accordance
with the RAP in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
I. COST ESTIMATES
3.34  The total project is estimated to cost Y 5.6 billion or $679 million equivalent,
including land acquisition, and physical and price contingencies as summarized in the
following table. The foreign exchange cost is estimated at $250 million, or about 38
percent of the total. Base costs were estimated in March 1998 prices and confirmed at
negotiations. Physical contingencies are calculated at 10 percent of the base cost of civil
and E&M works and construction supervision services. Price contingencies have been
calculated for foreign costs, using international annual escalation factors of 2.5 percent in
each of 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003 and 2004. Price contingencies for local costs are



- 24 -
based on local annual escalation factors of 6.5 percent in 1999, and 6.2 percent in each of
2000, 2001, 2002, 2003 and 2004.
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
($1.00=Y 8.3, March 1998 prices)
Y million                       $ million            Foreign costs
Local     Foreign     Total     Local    Foreign      Total   as % of total
Civil and E&M Works
Expressway                      2,176.5    1,416.8    3,593.3      262.2     170.7      432.9       39
Annex areas & adm. builds.        140.4       60.2      200.5       16.9       7.3       24.2       30
E & M Express.                     30.5      121.2      151.7        3.7      14.6        18.3      80
Interconnecting Roads              55.2       23.2       78.4        6.7       2.8        9.5      30
Total Works                   2,402.6    1,621.4    4,024.0     289.5      195.4      484.8      43
Supervision                        78.6       35.3      114.0        9.5       4.3       13.7      31
Equipment                           8.2       40.0       48.2        1.0       4.8        5.8       83
Training and Studies                5.6        9.1       14.8        0.7       1.1        1.8       62
Total Base Cost               2,495.1    1,705.9    4,201.0     300.6      205.5      506.1      43
Physical Contingencies            248.1      165.7      413.8       29.9      20.0       49.9      42
Price Contingencies               517.7      203.5      721.2       62.4      24.5       86.9      30
Total Contingencies            765.8      369.2    1,135.0       92.3       44.5      136.7      35
Land Acquisition and Resettlement    299.6     0.0      299.6       36.1       0.0       36.1       0
Total Project Cost            3,560.5    2,075.1    5,635.6     429.0      250.0      679.0      39
3.35    The costs of civil works are based on work quantities calculated from  preliminary
engineering designs. The costs were computed on the basis of MOC's standard manuals
for labor and equipment productivity, the related annually updated costs and the current
market costs of materials, labor, and equipment. The unit rates were checked against the
unit prices provided in recent bids for similar highway works executed under Bank
financing in other provinces.
3.36    The estimated cost of equipment is based on prevailing prices and those quoted by
manufacturers and suppliers and includes the cost of equipment delivered in other
provinces under the Bank's ongoing highway projects, spare parts, and related training, if
needed, to operate and maintain the equipment. The estimated cost of consulting services
is also based on recent contracts for similar services under the Bank's ongoing highway
projects.
J. FINANCING
3.37 The Bank loan of $250 million would finance about 38 percent of the total project
cost and 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost. The Central Government (MOC)
would provide the equivalent of about $130 million (19 percent of the total), while the



- 25 -
Hubei provincial government would provide the equivalent of about $299 million (44
percent of the total) to meet the remaining costs of the project, including contingencies.
MOC's funding would be restricted to the construction of the expressway sections.
FINANCING PLAN
($ million)
Government
Provincial   Central  Bank       Total
Expressway
Civil Works                     132.1      130.1     170.7      432.9
E&M Expressway                    3.7                 14.6       18.3
Admin. and Maintenance. Buildings  16.9                  7.3      24.2
Interconnecting Roads               6.7                  2.8       9.5
Subtotal works                 159.4      130.1     195.4      484.8
Supervision                         9.5                  4.3      13.7
Equipment                           1.0                  4.8       5.8
Training and TA/Studies             0.7                  1.1       1.8
Contingencies                      92.3                 44.5     136.7
Land Acquisition and Resettlement  36.1                  0.0      36.1
Total Project Cost             298.8      130.1     250.0      678.9
Percent of Total                   44        19         37       100
3.38  The Bank loan would be at the standard interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollar
single-currency loans. It would be lent to MOF for a maturity of 20 years, including 5
years of grace. The proceeds of the Bank loan would be onlent to Hubei Province at the
same rate payable to the Bank by the Borrower with 0.75 percent per year commitment
fee on the outstanding balance, beginning 60 days afer loan signing, less any waiver.
Agreement was reached with the borrower at negotiations that it would onlend the
proceeds of the loan to Hubei province on these terms. The Hubei provincial government
would bear the foreign exchange risks on the loan. The Government of China and Hubei
Province have selected LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loan terms for the project
to: (a) facilitate management of the foreign exchange risk of their borrowing by more
closely matching the currency of their liabilities with that of their net trade flows, about
75 percent of which are US dollar denominated; and (b) preserve the full maturity of the
loan and the lower annuity payment in early years, compared to the fixed-rate option that
would have resulted in a 15-year loan and higher level annual payments during the initial
operational period.



- 26 -
K. IMPLEMENTATION
3.39 Implementing Agencies. The World Bank Finance Office of HPCD would be the
executing agency for the Jingzhu and Hurong expressway sections and the
interconnecting roads. HPCD would be the executing agency for the Highway
Maintenance Management and the Expressway Commercialization and Corporatization
studies and the Road Safety Program. The PIP is available in the Project File. The Hubei
PIP was reviewed and confirmed during negotiations.
3.40 Expressways and Interconnecting Roads. Detailed designs and technical bid
documents will be completed before mid-1998. Foreign experts from France are
reviewing the designs between 1997 and mid-1998. Preparation of commercial bid
documents is being carried out by China International Tendering Company (CITC).
Prequalification documents were released to applicants at the end of 1997, and the
prequalification process will be completed by Spring 1998. Acquisition of land and the
resettlement process are expected to be completed by June 1999. Supply and installation
of electrical, electronic, and mechanical systems for operation of Jingzhu and Hurong
expressway sections is scheduled to commence around the end of 2001, and be completed
by the end of 2003. The construction of service facilities along Jingzhu and Hurong
would be a continuous process during the project implementation period. Jingzhu and
Hurong are expected to be completed by 2003.
3.41  Construction Supervision. Construction supervision services for Jingzhu and
Hurong would be carried out by joint local/foreign supervision teams headed by chief
supervision engineers with headquarters located in Wuhan. There would be a resident
engineer for each of the 12 contract sections, located in Xiaogan and Wuhan. About 291
local personnel would be permanently engaged in supervision during construction.
Invitations to foreign shortlisted firms will be issued later in 1998, and the selection of
consulting firms is expected to be completed by Autumn 1998. The consultants are
expected to help set up the supervision organization prior to the commencement of civil
works and to provide training within the province and abroad to selected local
supervision staff. Most of the supervision training is expected to be completed by March
1999. Actual construction supervision of Jingzhu and Hurong is expected to start by
September 1998.
3.42  Training. Formal selection procedures for candidates to be trained would be
developed by HPCD. Those to be trained abroad would be given two to three months of
intensive English language training, and each trainee would be required to submit a report
on training received to his/her parent department or agency. Moreover, HPCD has
indicated that training under the project would be related to the need of know-how within
specific areas of each organization, career development and the professional growth of
the selected staff. The comprehensive training programs would be open to all highway
staff and would be administered by HPCD, in coordination with MOC.



-27 -
3.43  Equipment. HPCD would be responsible for equipment procurement related to
the central laboratories, environmental protection, and operation and maintenance of
Jingzhu and Hurong expressway sections. Preparation of specifications and bid
documents for equipment would be carried out by CITC. Equipment for the central
laboratory and environmental protection would be procured during the first year of
project implementation while that for Jingzhu and Hurong operation and maintenance
would be procured in 2000 and 2001. HPCD would be responsible for the procurement of
equipment related to maintenance of Hubei's highway network, and to RDB/PMS.
3.44 Operation and Maintenance of Jingzhu and Hurong Expressway Sections.
Hubei Province intends to operate the Jingzhu and Hurong expressways as toll facilities
consistent with their designs. HPCD would be responsible for operating and maintaining
the Jingzhu and Hurong sections following their completion. To ensure that the toll rates
would be appropriately structured and that toll levels would not lead to a substantial
reduction in the benefits of highway investment, the rationale for setting the level of
tolling would be determined based on the findings of the study to be undertaken by the
project province, which would take into consideration latest experience with operation of
toll roads in I:unan, Guangdong and the rest of China as well as similar studies
undertaken under Bank-financed highway projects in China. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that Hubei would undertake, and by December 31, 2001, furnish to the Bank
for its review and comments, analyses and recommendations for the structure of toll rates
on the Jingzhu and Hurong sections, taking into consideration the results of the toll rate
structures under Bank-financed highway projects in China and the recent experience with
tolls on high-grade highways in Hunan, Guangdong and other parts of China
3.45  The project is scheduled to be completed by December 31, 2003, with the loan
closing date stipulated as December 31, 2004. The implementation schedule for the
project is presented in Annex 4.
L. PROCUREMENT
3.46 A summary of procurement arrangements is shown below. Goods and works
would be procured in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement Under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits," dated January 1995 and revised in January and August
1996 and Septernber 1997. The procurement arrangements for the project have taken into
account the experience gained from previous Bank-financed highway projects in China.
The procurement documentation, including that for prequalification of contractors,
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and National Competitive Bidding (NCB) for
civil works, ICB3 for goods and consultant services has been standardized for Chinese
conditions in cooperation between the Chinese Government and the Bank. Standard
documents would be used for all relevant procurement processes under the project. Where
such standards are not available industry practice will be followed.



-28 -
SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
($ million)
Procurement Method
ICB      NCB    Other /a  NBF /b  Total Cost
Works
Expressway Civil Works     549.89                               549.89
(208.90)                             (208.90)
Annex areas & admin. bldgs           30.69                       30.69
(8.83)                     (8.83)
Expressway E&M Works        23.22                                23.22
(17.79)                              (17.79)
Interconnecting roads                12.00                       12.00
(2.30)                     (2.30)
Construction Supervision                         17.44             17.44
(5.18)           (5.18)
Equipment                     4.00                3.38             7.38
(3.20)            (2.68)             (5.88)
Consultants and Training c                       2.26              2.26
(1.12)           (1.12)
Land Acquisition and                                    36.10     36.10
Resettlement                                           (0.00)    (0.00)
Total                     577.11    42.69     23.08   36.10    678.98
(229.89)   (11.13)    (8.98)  (0.00)  (250.00)
/a Other includes international shopping and limited international bidding, and
consultants and training.
/b NBF: Not Bank-financed.
/c Selection of consultants according to the Bank's guidelines.
Notes: (1) Figures in parentheses represent the amounts financed by the Bank Group.
(2) All figures are rounded and include estimated physical and price
contingencies but exclude the cost of land acquisition and resettlement
which is shown separately.
3.47 Works. In Hubei the civil works for Jingzhu and Hurong expressway sections
would be divided into 12 contract sections, with an average contract size of $46 million
equivalent. Electromechanical works would be handled as 1 contract amounting to about
$23 million equivalent. Large contracts exceeding $10 million shall be advertised in
accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts. Interconnecting roads,
administration and maintenance buildings, service areas and toll plazas would be carried
out in several small contracts.
3.48  The 12 civil works contracts and 1 electromechanical works contract for Jingzhu
and Hurong, with an estimated total cost of $573 million would be procured following
ICB procedures. Contracts would be bid on a slice and package basis; qualified



- 29 -
contractors would be allowed to bid for more than one contract so as to attract
international and large Chinese contractors. The I contract for electromechanical works
would be bid later during the construction of Jingzhu and Hurong. All bidders for the 12
civil works contracts would be prequalified. Domestic contractors competing under ICB
procedures would be eligible for a 7.5 percent price preference. Domestic bidders are
expected to be competitive for all contracts under this project.
3.49  Other works, including interconnecting roads and small service facilities such as
toll stations, maintenance depots, service and rest areas, and administrative buildings in
Hubei would be awarded following NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. These works
would involve contracts estimated to cost less than $5 million per contract, up to an
aggregate amoumt of about $43 million. Since these contracts are small in value and
scattered along Jingzhu and Hurong and would be implemented over a four-year period,
ICB would be neither justified nor practical, but international firms would not be
precluded from bidding.
3.50 Equipment. Generally, all contracts for goods and equipment costing more than
$250,000 equivalent would be awarded under ICB, in an aggregate amount not exceeding
$4 million. However, for equipment where the number of suppliers is limited and contract
values are small, limited international bidding would be followed in an aggregate amount
not exceeding $1.5 million. All other items or groups of items covering minor
maintenance equipment, equipment for RDB and PMS, laboratories, research and
environmental protection purposes estimated to cost less than $250,000 per contract
package, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $2.6 million, would be procured
following shopping procedures on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited
from at least three suppliers from two countries eligible under the Bank Guidelines for
Procurement. Domestic manufactures with local content more than 30 percent of ex-
factory price competing under ICB would be eligible for a margin of preference in the
comparison of bids of 15 percent for goods, or the prevailing custom duties, whichever is
lower.
3.51  Consultants. All consultants required for construction supervision, staff training,
technical assistance and studies would be selected and employed under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank in accordance with Bank Guidelines on the "Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", dated January 1997 and
revised September 1997. Selection of consultants for Construction Supervision, Highway
Maintenance Management and Expressway Commercialization and Corporatization
studies will be carried out through Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS). Local
expertise available from the various provincial universities and institutes would be used
as much as possible.
3.52 Advance Contracting. HPCD has requested advance contracting and retroactive
financing in the following areas:



- 30 -
(a)   Consultants for Construction Supervision of Jingzhu and Hurong.
This would allow for training of local staff and start-up of construction
supervision by the time contracts are signed with contractors. The amounts
subject to retroactive financing are estimated at $1 million.
(b)   Laboratory Equipment for Joint Local/Foreign Supervision Teams.
This would permit effective and timely construction supervision. The
amounts subject to retroactive financing are estimated at $0.2 million.
(c)   Construction of Jingzhu and Hurong Expressway Sections. Early start
of construction of the 2x2 lane, 130-km Dawu-Quanli section on Jingzhu
Expressway and of the 2x2 lane, 54-km Quanli-Yongan and Shenshan-
Baoxie sections on Hurong Expressway would help alleviate severe traffic
bottlenecks and reduce traffic on the existing North-South and East-West
corridors. The amount subject to retroactive financing is estimated at
$23.8 million.
3.53 Agreement to the above three requests for advance contracting and retroactive
fiznancing is recommended, subject to HPCD completing all Bank requirements,
including those for procurement, environment, and resettlement. The total amount subject
to retroactive financing is estimated at $25.0 million. All of this amount would apply to
expenditures incurred after September 30, 1997.
3.54  Bank Review. Prior review procedures would be used for: (a) civil works
contracts with an estimated cost of $2 million (Y 17 million) or more; (b) equipment with
an estimated value of more than $250,000 per contract, and (c) consulting services with
an estimated contract cost of more than $100,000 for firms and $50,000 for individuals.
This represents about 83 percent and 78 percent of the estimated value of works and
equipment contracts, respectively. For contracts below the above-mentioned limits, post-
review procedures would be carried out during supervision missions on about one in four
works and goods contracts in the first two years and on about one in ten contracts for the
next four years of the project.
M. DISBURSEMENTS
3.55  The proposed Bank loan of $250 million would be disbursed over a period of
about six years, as shown on the following page.
3.56  To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account would be opened with an
authorized allocation of $15 million, the estimated average expenditures for a four-month
period. The account would be opened in US dollars in local banks acceptable to the Bank
and would be managed by the Hubei Provincial Finance Bureau. Applications for
replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted monthly or whenever the
Special Account is drawn down to 50 percent of its initial deposit, whichever comes first.
A schedule of estimated disbursements is given in Table 3.2, which takes into



- 31 -
consideration the project disbursement profile for transport projects in China and the
potential risks of delay in project implementation.
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS
Amount of the
Category            Loan Allocated     Percent of Expenditures to be Financed
($ million)
Civil works
Expressways                       192.9     45% of total expenditures
Annex areas & admin. bldg.         7.6      30% of total expenditures
Interconnecting roads              2.8      20% of total expenditures
Electrical and meclhanical works
E&M works                          10.5     80% of total expenditures
Construction supervision              4.4      100% of foreign expenditures
Equipment                             5.6      100% of foreign expenditures for directly
imported equipment or 100% of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory) for locally manufactured
equipment and 75% of local expenditures for
other items procured locally
Consultants and Training
Training                           0.9      100% of foreign expenditures
TA/Studies                         0.2      100% of foreign expenditures
Unallocated                         25.0
Total                            250.0
3.57   Disbursements would be made against authorized payment requests for work done
under priced contracts for the civil works and for the delivery and installation of the
equipment. Interim certification of civil works completed and estimated at unit rates in
the contracts would be prepared by the contractors, reviewed by the supervision teams/
units and payments authorized by HPCD. Retroactive financing of up to $25 million
would be applied to expenditures made after September 30, 1997, for consultants for
construction supervision of Jingzhu and Hurong expressways, laboratory equipment for
joint local/foreign supervision, and construction of Dawu-Quanli section on Jingzhu
Expressway and Quanli-Yongan and Shenshan-Baoxie sections on Hurong Expressway.
Disbursements for staff training in China or abroad would be made from the Special
Account against the actual costs of travel, subsistence, and tuition or training fees. For
expenditures relating to contracts for works of $2 million or less, training, force account,
and contracts for goods, each valued at $250,000 or less, and contracts for services each
valued at $100,000 equivalent or less for firms and $50,000 equivalent or less for
individuals, reimbursement would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs). Documentation supporting SOEs would be retained by the implementation
agencies and made available for review by the Bank supervision missions.



- 32 -
N. AUDITING
3.58  The Foreign Investment Audit Bureau of the State Auditing Administration
(SAA) would be responsible for auditing the project expenditures. Actual audits would be
carried out for SAA by the Hubei Branch of SAA or the Hubei Provincial Audit
Administration. Agreements were reached with Hubei Province during negotiations that
the project accounts and the Special Account, including SOEs, would be audited annually
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and that audit reports would be sent to
the Bank for review within six months of the close of each fiscal year. In the case of the
SOEs, the audit reports would contain a separate opinion by the auditors as to whether the
SOEs submitted during the fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. The
Bank Group currently accepts SAA audits for this purpose.
3.59 In light of OP/BP 10.02, Financial Management, adopted in August 1997, the
Bank will be working closely with Borrowers and implementing entities to review and
strengthen, wherever necessary, systems and procedures for financial accounting, control
and reporting related to projects so as to ensure that accurate, timely and reliable
information regarding project resources and expenditures would be available for project
managing and monitoring purposes. More specifically, during the implementation of the
proposed project, the Bank will assist Hubei in reviewing its financial management
system in relation to the project.
0. PROJECT SUPERVISION, MONITORING, AND REPORTING
3.60  Supervision. The project would be supervised through Bank missions whose
frequency would be guided by the progress of the works. However, on the average, a
mission at about nine-month intervals would be mounted; a Supervision Mission Plan is
presented in Annex 5. In addition to field missions, staff input would be provided at
headquarters for project-related activities comprising, inter alia, supervision reports,
procurement documentation and contracts, staff training and equipment, and follow-up
and review of the agreed studies. Moreover, the Bank would monitor progress of
implementation of all project components through quarterly progress reports to be
submitted to the Bank independently by HPCD on their respective project components. In
addition, HPCD would submit to the Bank monthly reports on works progress for Jingzhu
and Hurong. It is estimated that over the implementation period of the project, the total
time expended on supervision would be in the order of 60 person-weeks. During
negotiations, agreement was reached with Hubei on the formats of the monthly and
quarterly progress reports.
3.61  Monitoring. During implementation, project performance, including the
achievement of physical targets and attainment of other project objectives would be
monitored by HPCD through the use of performance indicators, reports on the
environment and land acquisition and resettlement, progress reports and auditing of
project accounts. In addition, upon completion, the project will be reviewed in an



- 33 -
Implementation Completion Report. Annex 1 presents the outline monitoring plan for the
project. The plan defines for each of the project components indices that will track annual
progress in attaining targets during implementation and impact objectives after the project
is completed. The plan specifies how, with what frequency and by whom, the data for the
indicators will be collected. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that Hubei would,
on the basis of performance indicators acceptable to the Bank, prepare andfurnish to the
Bank by June 30 of each year commencing in 1999 and ending three years after
completion of the project, an annual monitoring report, in a format acceptable to the
Bank, covering all components of the project and assessing the extent to which different
implementation and development impact objectives are being attained in the course of
project execution and operation.
3.62  Reporting. Based on the monitoring activities described in Annex 1, HPCD will
submit to the Bank an annual monitoring report. This report will be based on the
following reports, which will be submitted to the Bank during the course of a given year:
(a)   A  series of internal and external (independent) monitoring reports
assessing the impact of land acquisition and resettlement on various
segments of the local population, describing the income restoration
strategies followed and the number of people rehabilitated (Annex 3);
(b)   Annual environmental monitoring reports during the construction phase
and the first three years of the operation phase of the Jingzhu and Hurong
expressways (Annex 2);
(c)   Annual audit reports for the project accounts and financial statements
(para. 3.58);
(d)   Quarterly progress reports for all project activities (including highway
safety) and up-to-date performance indicators (para. 3.60);
(e)   Reports, by an independent agency/expert, on the completion of the Hubei
highway safety components within six months of the completion of these
component; and
(f)   A Project Implementation Completion Report would be prepared and
submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the loan closing date.



- 34 -
4. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. OVERVIEW
4.1   The economic evaluation focuses on: (a) the Dawu to Shenshan segment
(148.4 km) of the Beijing-Zhuhai National Main Trunk Highway, which accounts for
81 percent of project cost; (b) east (44.5 kin) and west (9.9 km) Wuhan segments of
Shanghai-Chengdu National Main Trunk Highway, which account for 17 percent of
project cost; and (c) the Dawu, Huayuan and Xiaogan interconnecting roads, which
account for 2 percent of project cost. The Dawu to Shenshan segment was subdivided
into five expressway sections and the east and west segments of the Shanghai-Chengdu
highway were treated as one expressway section each. All sections were analyzed
independently and the project was analyzed in its entirety. Particular attention was given
to the Quanli-Shenshan section of the Dawu to Shenshan segment where the Junshan
Yangtze Bridge will be located. The following table presents each section by length and
base construction costs plus physical contingencies.
Segment                  Section            Length        Cost
(km)      (Y million)
Dawu-Shenshan              Dawu-Huayuan                47.6          921
Huayuan-Sancha              28.1          643
Sancha-Dabati              34.9           899
Dabati-Quanli               18.6          711
Quanli-Shenshan /a          19.2         1,661
East Shanghai-Chengdu      Shenshan-Baoxie            44.5           816
West Shanghai-Chengdu     Quanli-Yongan                9.9           208
Interconnecting Roads     Dawu Road                    9.1            45
Huayuan Road                11.5           46
Xiaogan Road                12.2           34
La Including the Junshan Yangtze Bridge.
B. EVALUATION OF THE EXPRESSWAYS
4.2   Benefits and Beneficiaries. The project is an important part of the "Two Vertical
Two Horizontal" Main Trunk Highways planned by MOC. Beijing-Zhuhai Expressway
passes through Beijing, Hebei, Henan, Hubei, Hunan and Guangdong provinces while
Shanghai-Chengdu Expressway passes through Shanghai, Jiangsu, Anhui, Hubei and



- 35 -
Sichuan provinces. Those provinces are fast-developing zones in the country and the
completion of the project is of great significance both to the national economy and
China's social development. The two provincial sections in Hubei of Beijing-Zhuhai
Expressway and Shanghai-Chengdu Expressway pass through the province from north to
south and from east to west, respectively.
4.3   The major quantifiable benefits of the project are the reduction on vehicle
operating costs and time costs of road users. The expressways will have shorter lengths,
improved surface conditions and riding comfort, and no traffic interference caused by
pedestrians, bicycles and nonmotorized vehicles. Therefore, most of the long-distance
traffic and some of the local traffic is expected to diverge from the existing roads to the
expressways, thus reducing the vehicle operating and time costs for the expressway users.
Since many users will take the expressways, there will also be a reduction on the current
congestion levels on the existing roads. Thus, users who remain on the existing roads will
also benefit in the fonn of time savings due to the resulting higher travel speeds on the
existing roads. Other quantified project benefits are due to the traffic that is newly
generated as a result of the lowering of transport costs and that previously did not exist on
the existing roads or is existing with other transport modes such as rail, inland water and
air transport. This traffic includes traffic resulting from increased industrial and
agricultural production. Other project benefits not quantified in this study are the
generated traffic on the existing roads due to the reduction of the current congestion
levels, diversion of traffic from other modes of transport, and positive effects on the
nonmotorized traffic that uses the existing roads.
4.4   The HDM Model. The project benefits described above were estimated using the
1995 version of the Highways Design and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM)
developed by the World Bank as a result of 17 years of research and analysis carried out
collaboratively by the World Bank and several major research institutions around the
world. The HDM model is widely used to analyze the economic consequences of road
projects. It predicts, for a user-defined set of vehicles and traffic levels, the vehicle
operating costs and travel time costs on a given roadway as a function of the vehicle
characteristics, roadway geometry, roadway surface condition (roughness), and
congestion level. The model first computes the free-flow vehicle speeds as a function of
the road and vehicle characteristics and, using these speeds, it computes the actual speeds
as a function of the congestion level. The computed actual speeds are then used to
estimate the physical quantities of resource consumption (for example: liters/km of fuel
consumption or hours of delay) that are multiplied by unit costs to finally obtain the road
user costs.
4.5    Data Collection. Data were collected on vehicle fleet characteristics, utilization
and unit costs, which are given in Table 4. 1. The average number of passengers for buses
is 40 and the average payload for medium trucks is 3 tons and for heavy trucks is 6 tons.
The number of kilometers driven per year is 65,000 for buses, 50,000 for medium trucks
and 75,000 for heavy trucks. The economic costs were derived from financial costs by
deducting taxes and duties; and the value of time was estimated to be Y 2.0/hour,



- 36 -
calculated on the basis of annual income for the region, and assuming that 40 percent of
passengers are traveling on work/business purposes and the value of nonworking time is
25 percent of the average income.
4.6   Data describing the existing road characteristics and their current traffic were also
collected in the field. Table 4.2 shows the data collected for each expressway section. For
the economic evaluation, the Dawu to Shenshan segment of the Beijing-Zhuhai vertical
corridor was subdivided into five sections to take into account different traffic levels,
design standards and construction costs. The Wuhan segments (Shenshan to Baoxie and
Quanli to Yongan) of the Shanghai-Chengdu horizontal corridor were not subdivided into
sections due to their relatively uniform condition. Thus, the number of expressway
sections identified and evaluated for the entire project is seven. Each expressway section
captures the traffic currently on a network of existing roads, which is represented in the
analysis by a representative existing road based on the data collected in the field. With the
exception of the Quanli-Shenshan expressway section, which is a common section to both
vertical and horizontal corridors and where the Junshan Yangtze Bridge will be located,
the expressway sections will be constructed to 2x2 lanes with an average construction
cost of Y 25 million per km. The Quanli-Shenshan section will be constructed to 2x3
lanes with a construction cost of Y 21 million per km without including the Junshan
Yangtze Bridge cost, and Y 87 million per km including the Junshan Yangtze Bridge cost
(Y 1,367 million). All sections are being designed according to MOC's expressway
standards with access restricted to normal motor traffic; agricultural tractor and
nonmotorized traffic would be excluded. From Dawu to Dabati, the expressway runs
parallel to National Highway 107, a class 2 highway that is taken as the main passage in
the north-south direction, with average distance savings of 10 percent. From Dabati to
Shenshan, the expressway bypasses Wuhan city traffic with average distance savings of
44 percent. From Quanli to Yongan, the expressway runs parallel to National Highway
318, a class 1 highway, with distance savings of 10 percent. From Shenshan to Baoxie,
the expressway runs parallel to the southern ring of Wuhan City, a class 3 highway, with
distance savings of 9 percent.
4.7   Projected Traffic. Comprehensive origin-destination (OD) surveys were
conducted, covering 22 influence areas providing a good basis for estimating the diverted
and the generated traffic. The survey revealed the following: (a) the current average daily
traffic (ADT) is on average around 8,600 vehicles per day; (b) trucks constitute about 60
percent of ADT; (c) medium trucks represent about 26 percent of ADT and heavy trucks
represent 9 percent of ADT; (d) current measured vehicle speeds during the most
congested hour are about 40 km/hour on National Highway 107 and 30 km/hour in
Wuhan City; (e) current measured vehicle speeds at night are about 55 km/hour on
National Highway 107 and 40 km/hour in Wuhan City; (f) the expected speeds on the
expressways are 80 km/hour; and (g) the traffic in the peak hour is about 7 percent of the
average daily traffic. The following table presents for each section the motorized traffic
on the existing roads in 1996 and the expected diverted and generated traffic on the
expressways in 2002.



- 37 -
Section                Existing       Diverted       Generated
in 1996        in 2002        in 2002
Dawu-Huayuan                          6,100          6,000            990
Huayuan-Sancha                        6,400          7,000          1,000
Sancha-Dabati                         7,800          7,400          1,050
Dabati-Quanli                        12,150          7,500            860
Quanli-Shenshan                      12,750          9,800          1,200
Shenshan-Baoxie                       7,800          7,150          1,000
Quanli-Yongan                         7,500          9,800          1,500
4.8   On the basis of the OD surveys, the diversion of traffic from the existing roads
was estimated to be about 60 percent and the generated traffic to be about 8 percent of the
current traffic. Based on the expected economic growth in the areas of influence, the
traffic is projected to increase on average at the following annual rates: (a) for the period
1998-2002, 14 percent for cars and 13 percent for commercial vehicles; (b) for the period
2003-12, 10 percent for cars and commercial vehicles; and (c) for the period 2013-22, 6
percent for cars and commercial vehicles.
4.9   Methodology. For each expressway section, the unit road user costs, in Yuan per
vehicle-km, were estimated using the HDM model for vehicles traveling on the
expressway and the representative existing road based on the vehicle data shown in Table
4.1 and the road data shown in Table 4.2. A sample of these unit road user costs is given
in Table 4.3. The road user costs are a function of the congestion level of a road.
Therefore, they were computed for a series of traffic levels and a relationship between
road user costs and traffic was established for each road. This relationship was then
introduced into a customized economic evaluation model created on an Excel
spreadsheet.
4.10  The Excel model estimates the benefits due to the diverted and generated traffic
on the expressways and the remaining traffic on the existing roads. For the diverted
traffic, the benefits were taken to be the reduction on total transport costs; and for the
generated traffic, the benefits were taken to be one-half of the unit benefits of the diverted
traffic assuming the traffic would have developed in proportion to the reduction in
transport costs. The Excel model takes as inputs the unit road user costs given by HDM
for the "with" and "without" project cases, the length of the expressways and the existing
roads, the construction and maintenance costs, and the traffic assumptions; and gives as
outputs the rate of return and the net present value, at a discount rate of 12 percent, of the
proposed project. The expressways are assumed to be constructed in four years, opening
to traffic in 2002, the economic life of the expressways was assumed to be 20 years, and
the residual value to be 50 percent of the initial construction cost. Table 4.4 shows, as an
example, the resulting outputs for the Dawu-Huayuan section.



- 38 -
4.11  Results. The following table presents the resulting EIRR and NPV (at 12 percent
discount rate in million Yuan) obtained for each expressway section and the entire
project. The project EIRR is 26.2 percent and none of the sections evaluated obtained an
EIRR below 12.0 percent. The sections with lower EIRRs are the Quanli-Yongan section,
which has small distance savings and where the existing road is a class 1 highway, and
the Dawu-Huayuan section, which has the lowest traffic of all sections. The sections with
higher EIRRs are the Dabati-Quanli and Sancha-Dabati sections, which have distance
savings of 44 and 14 percent, respectively, and high traffic. The Quanli-Shenshan section
where the Junshan Yangtze Bridge will be located has a EIRR of 24.8 percent. Table 4.6
and Table 4.7 present a graphical representation of the basic data and the results per
expressway section and for the entire project.
Section      EIRR (%)  NPV (Y million)
Dawu-Huayuan         21.7         1,520
Huayuan-Sancha       25.4         1,691
Sancha-Dabati        28.8         2,902
Dabati-Quanli        31.9         2,768
Quanli-Shenshan      24.8         3,147
Shenshan-Baoxie     27.8          2,374
Quanli-Yongan        18.4           178
Entire Project    26.2        14,580
4.12  Sensitivity Analysis. Table 4.5 presents the results of the sensitivity tests done for
this study. In the first sensitivity case, construction costs are increased by 25 percent; in
the second case, user benefits are reduced by 25 percent; and in the third case,
construction costs are increased by 25 percent and user benefits are reduced by 25
percent. The results of the third case indicate that all sections are justified even if this
pessimistic scenario occurs and the EIRR of the entire project will be 20.7 percent. The
fourth sensitivity case eliminates the value of time and yields a small reduction on the
resulting EIRRs. In this case, the entire project EIRR is 22.5 percent, which indicates the
low value of time in China and the low percentage of cars and buses on the traffic
composition. The fifth sensitivity case reduces the generated traffic by 25 percent and
yields a negligible reduction on the resulting EIRRs. In this case, the entire project EIRR
is 25.1 percent, which indicates the low percentage of generated traffic adopted in the
analysis and the fact that the generated traffic receives only half the unit benefits of the
diverted traffic. The sixth, seventh and eighth sensitivity cases reduce the diverted traffic,
traffic growth rate and unit net benefits by 25 percent. In these cases, the entire project
EIRR is reduced to 24.4, 18.6, and 23.0 percent, respectively, which shows that the
estimated traffic growth is the major factor affecting the project EIRR.
4.13  Switching Values Analysis. Table 4.5 presents the results of the switching values
analysis done for this study. The table shows that, for the entire project, construction



- 39 -
costs have to be multiplied by a factor of 4.56 to yield an EIRR of 12.0 percent and that
net user benefits have to be multiplied by a factor of 0.23 to yield an EIRR of 12.0
percent. For each expressway section, the construction costs multiplier factor varies from
2.04 to 5.67 aind the net user benefits multiplier factor varies from 0.16 to 0.51. The
analysis shows that there is a good allowance for possible construction costs increases or
reduction of net benefits. One can state that to yield a project EIRR of 12.0 percent,
construction costs would have to be multiplied by around 5 or net benefits divided by
around 5.
4.14 Risk Analysis. A risk analysis was undertaken using the @RISK software that
adds risk analysis capabilities to an Excel spreadsheet following the methodology that is
explained briefly in Table 4.8. For this analysis, all the input estimates defined in the
previous paragraphs were adopted and the uncertainty for the following inputs was
defined using a triangle distribution: (a) construction costs, (b) existing traffic on existing
roads, (c) diverted traffic, (d) generated traffic, (e) traffic growth rate, and (f) unit net
benefits computed by the HDM model. Considering possible sampling errors associated
with measured data, probability distributions associated with estimated parameters, model
uncertainty, and uncertainties due to forecasting by judgment (e.g., optimistic and
pessimistic scenarios of economic growth), it was defined that: (a) there is a higher
probability that construction costs will be higher rather than lower than the estimated
values, (b) there is a higher probability that diverted traffic, generated traffic, and traffic
growth rates will be lower rather than higher than the estimated values, and (c) there is an
equal probability that the existing traffic and the unit net benefits will be lower or higher
than the estimated values.
4.15   For the construction costs, the most likely value was set to the estimated
construction costs, the minimum possible value was set to be 90 percent of the estimated
construction costs, and the maximum possible value was set to be 150 percent of the
estimated construction costs. These assumptions indicate that there is a 17 percent
probability that the construction costs will be lower than the estimated values, 83 percent
probability that they will be higher than the estimated values, and 62 percent probability
that they will be between 100 and 125 percent of the estimated values. For the diverted
traffic, generated traffic and traffic growth rate inputs, the most likely values were set to
the estimated values, the minimum possible values were set to be 50 percent of the
estimated values, and the maximum possible values were set to be 110 percent of the
estimated values. These assumptions indicate that there is a 83 percent probability that
the actual values will be lower than the estimated values, 17 percent probability that they
will be higher than the estimated values, and 62 percent probability that they will be
between 100 and 75 percent of the estimated values. For the existing traffic and unit net
benefits inputs, the most likely values were set to the estimated values, the minimum
possible values were set to 80 percent of the estimated values, and the maximum possible
values were set to 120 percent of the estimated values. These assumptions indicate that
there is a 50 percent probability that the actual values will be lower or higher than the
estimated values and 74 percent probability that they will be between 90 and 110 percent
of the estimated values. Table 4.9 shows the frequency distributions adopted in the study.



- 40 -
4.16 With this information, the @RISK software evaluated 400 what-if scenarios,
varying the inputs described above accordingly to the defined input probability
distributions, yielding an estimated EIRR for each what-if scenario. The resulting
frequency histogram graph and cumulative frequency distribution graph is given in Table
4.10 for the Quanli-Shenshan section and in Table 4.11 for the entire project. These tables
also present the resulting mean EIRR, the EIRR standard deviation, the probability (in
percent) that the EIRR will be lower than 12.0 percent, and an assessment of a worst
scenario, most likely scenario, and best scenario. In this study, the worst scenario EIRR is
defined as one that has a 10 percent probability that the actual EIRR will be lower than it
(10 percentile), the best case scenario EIRR is defined as one that has a 90 percent
probability that the actual EIRR will be lower than it (90 percentile), and the most likely
scenario is defined as one that has a 50 percent probability that the actual EIRR will be
lower than it (50 percentile). The results obtained for all the expressway sections are
given in Table 4.5 and summarized below.
Section                    Mean EIRR        EIRR STD          Prob.<12%
Dawu-Huayuan                 15.0               3.6             12.6
Huayuan-Sancha               19.6               3.7              3.8
Sancha-Dabati                22.9               3.7              0.7
Dabati-Quanli                25.5               3.8              0.0
Quanli-Shenshan              19.7               3.0              1.4
Shenshan-Baoxie              21.7               3.8              0.0
Quanli-Yongan                13.0               3.1             38.2
Entire Project               20.5               3.4              1.3
Section              Worst          Most Likely         Best
Scenario EIRR    Scenario EIRR     Scenario EIRR
Dawu-Huayuan                 11.6              15.2             20.6
Huayuan-Sancha               14.8              19.9             24.4
Sancha-Dabati                18.2              22.9             27.6
Dabati-Quanli                20.3              25.4             30.3
Quanli-Shenshan              15.6              19.7             23.4
Shenshan-Baoxie              16.9              21.7             26.6
Quanli-Yongan                 9.1              12.9             17.2
Entire Project               16.2              20.6             25.0
4.17  The risk analysis shows that all sections and the entire project have an EIRR
greater than 12.0 percent for the most likely scenario and best scenario. The entire project
EIRR is 25.0 percent for the best scenario and 20.6 percent for the most likely scenario.
For the worst scenario, the Quanli-Yongan section, which has 9.9 km and comprises 3



-41 -
percent of the project cost , has 9.1 percent EIRR, and the entire project has 16.2 percent
EIRR.
4.18  Conclusion. The single-point estimation and sensitivity analysis indicate that the
EIRRs are greater than 12.0 percent for all sections and for the entire project. The risk
analysis indicates that the most likely EIRRs are also greater that 12.0 percent for all
sections and for the entire project and that the probability that the entire project EIRR will
be lower than 12.0 percent is 1.3 percent. Therefore, the project is economically justified.
C. DELAYED YANGTZE BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION
4.19 A scenario under which the Junshan Yangtze Bridge would be delayed for a longer
period, i.e., only the traffic that does not use the bridge would materialize on the
expressways, was evaluated. Under this scenario, it was estimated that, if the bridge is not
built, 38.5 percent of the estimated traffic would materialize on the Dabati-Quanli
section, 25.0 percent on the Shenshan-Baoxie section and 60.0 percent on the Quanli-
Yongan section yielding an EIRR of 23.2 percent for the entire project and EIRRs greater
than 12.0 percent for all sections. The following tables present the economic results.
Junshan Yangtze Bridge Delay
Section      EIRR(%)  NPV (Y million)
Dawu-Huayuan         21.7         1,520
Huayuan-Sancha      25.4          1,691
Sancha-Dabati       28.8         2,902
Dabati-Quanli        21.7          832
Quanli-Shenshan      NA            NA
Shenshan-Baoxie      16.4          365
Quanli-Yongan        16.5          118
Entire Project    23.2         7,428
Entire Project Mean EIRR               17.5%
Entire Project EIRR Standard Deviation  3.2%
Probability EIRR < 12%                  4.0%
Entire Project Worst Scenario EIRR     13.7%
Entire Project Most Likely Scenario EIRR  17.5%
Entire Project Best Scenario EIRRv     21.2%



- 42 -
D. EVALUATION OF OTHER ROADS
4.20  Interconnecting Roads. In order to make this project link rationally with other
roads in the area, at least three interconnecting roads, which are Dawu, Huayuan and
Xiaogan, are planned to be constructed as part of this project. The Dawu link road
(9.1 km) will be a class 2 highway and runs from the Dawu interchange to National
Highway 107. The Huayuan link road (11.5 km) will be a class 2 highway and runs from
Huayuan interchange to nearby Huayuan City and National Highway 107. The Xiaogan
link road (12.2 km) will be a class 2 highway and runs from Sancha interchange to nearby
Xiaogan city. The construction costs are Y 45, Y 46, and Y 34 million for the Dawu,
Huayuan and Xiaogan link roads, respectively, and the traffic in 2000 is estimated to be
3,200, 2,700, and 6,300 vehicles per day, respectively.
4.21  Results. The following table presents the resulting EIRR and NPV (at 12 percent
discount rate in million Yuan) obtained for each interconnecting road. The risk analysis,
similar to the expressway sections, indicates that the most likely EIRRs are 15.4, 15.0 and
15.1 percent for the Dawu, Huayuan and Xiaogan link roads, respectively. Therefore, the
interconnecting links are economically justified.
Section                 EIRR (%)  NPV (Y million)
Dawu Link Road           20.0             29
Huayuan Link Road        19.6             26
Xiaogan Link Road        22.1             59
E. OVERALL PROJECT ECONOMIC EVALUATION
4.22  The overall project, which includes the expressway sections and the
interconnecting roads but does not include the Junshan Yangtze River Bridge section,
yields a net present value of Y 7,541 million and an economic rate of return of 23.2
percent. The sensitivity analysis and risk analysis indicate that the project is economically
well-justified with the most likely economic rate of return of 17.5 percent.
4.23  In case the Junshan Yangtze River Bridge section is completed in time, the overall
project including the expressway sections with the bridge and the interconnecting roads
yields a net present value of Y 14,694 million and an economic rate of return of 26.2
percent. The sensitivity analysis and risk analysis indicate that, also in this case, the
project is economically well-justified with the most likely economic rate of return of
20.6 percent.



- 43 -
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1   Agreement was reached with the Borrower (the People's Republic of China) at
negotiations that it would onlend the proceeds of the loan to Hubei Province on the same
terms as those of the Bank loan to it: 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the same rate
payable to the Bank by the Borrower, with 0.75 percent per year commitment fee on the
outstanding balance, beginning 60 days after signing, less any waiver (para. 3.38).
5.2   During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a)   Hubei Province would, in connection with the two bridge access
subsections: (i) prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its confidential use in
making its evaluation and comments, the technical specifications,
construction timetable, financing plan and procurement procedures in
regard to the Yangtze bridge at Junshan; and (ii) coordinate closely the
construction of the two adjacent sections of the Jingzhu Expressway with
the construction of the said bridge (para. 3.12).
(b)   Hubei Province would employ and maintain construction supervision
teams on Beijing-Zhuhai (Jingzhu) and Shanghai-Chengdu (Hurong)
expressways, as applicable, with qualified staff in adequate numbers to
ensure that all works are carried out in accordance with technical
specifications and that strict quality controls are exercised on all sites.
Construction quality would also be monitored through routine project
supervision and monthly and quarterly progress reports (para. 3.18);
(c)   Hubei Province would (i) by June 30, 2000, carry out and complete the
study on the management of highway maintenance in accordance with
TOR satisfactory to the Bank and furnish a draft final report thereof to the
Bank for its review and comments; (ii) by December 31, 2000, finalize and
furnish the final report of said study, taking into account comments made
by the Bank, to the Bank not later than six months following receipt of
comments made by the Bank on said draft final report; and (iii) thereafter,
take all appropriate steps to implement the recommendations set out in
said final report (para. 3.19);
(d)   Hubei Province would, by March 31 of each year commencing in 1999
and ending in 2003, frnish an annual highway condition report for the
Bank's review and comments for the previous year, which would: (i) show
the length of each class of highway by condition (excellent, good, fair and
bad) as of December 31 of the previous year; (ii) show the completed
physical works and actual expenditures of the previous year against the



- 44 -
planned physical targets and budgeted funds of that year, for new
construction, upgrading/improvement, rehabilitation, periodic mainte-
nance, and routine maintenance; and (iii) show the targets of the highway
program for the following year, including new construction, upgrading/
improvement, rehabilitation, periodic maintenance, and routine
maintenance, in terms of planned physical works and planned expenditures
(para. 3.20);
(e)   Hubei Province would    (i) by December 31, 2000, carry out and
complete the study on the commercialization of expressways in
accordance with TOR satisfactory to the Bank and furnish a draft final
report thereof to the Bank for its review and comments; (ii) by June 30,
2001, finalize and furnish the final report of said study, taking into account
comments made by the Bank, to the Bank not later than six months
following receipt of comments made by the Bank on said draft final
report; and (iii) thereafter, take all appropriate steps to implement the
recommendations set out in said final report (para. 3.21);
(f)   Hubei Province would (i) cause TES to incorporate road safety issues into
the agenda of its annual meetings, starting in 1999, and organize an annual
road safety seminar in Hubei starting 2000; (ii) develop through technical
assistance a safety audit schedule, and with own staff carry out a black-
spot analysis and improvement plan, and by June 30, 2000, complete the
said TA components in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank, (iii) by June 30, 2000, furnish the TA results to the Bank for
review; and (iv) thereafter, take appropriate steps to implement the
recommendations of the said TA components, taking into account the
comments thereon of the the Bank.(para. 3.22);
(g)   Hubei Province would, by June 30 of each year and commencing in 1999,
furnish a rolling two-year training implementation program to the Bank
for approval and would carry out the training under the approved program
(para. 3.23);
(h)   the environmental protection measures stipulated in the EAP with respect
to the expressways and its interconnecting roads would be carried out in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank; and Hubei Province would furnish to the
Bank annual environmental monitoring reports for the expressways during
their construction phases and for each of the first three years following
their construction completion.(para. 3.28);
(i)   all land acquisition and resettlement activities with respect to the NH3
Project (including the Jingzhu sections, Hurong sections and their
interconnecting roads) would be completed in accordance with the RAP in
a manner satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.31);



- 45 -
(j)   the monitoring of the effectiveness and socioeconomic impact of the
resettlement activities with respect to the NH3 Project (including the
Jingzhu sections, Hurong sections and and their interconnecting roads)
would be carried out in accordance with the RAP in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank.(para. 3.33);
(k)   Hubei Province would undertake, and by December 31, 2001, furnish to
the Bank for its review and comments, analyses and recommendations for
the structure of toll rates on the Jingzhu and Hurong expressways, taking
into consideration the results of the toll rate structures under Bank-
financed highway projects in China and the recent experience with tolls on
high-grade highways in Hunan, Guangdong and other parts of China (para.
3.44);
(1)   the project account and the Special Account, including SOE, would be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and that
audit reports would be sent to the Bank for review within six months of
the close of each fiscal year (para. 3.58); and
(m)   Hubei Province would, on the basis of performance indicators acceptable
to the Bank, prepare and furnish to the Bank a quarterly report, and by
June 30 of each year commencing in 1999 and ending three years after
completion of the project, an annual monitoring report, in a format
acceptable to the Bank, covering all components of the project and
assessing the extent to which different implementation and development
impact objectives are being attained in the course of project execution and
operation (para. 3.61).
5.3   Subject to the foregoing, the proposed project would be suitable for a US Dollar
Single Currency Bank Loan of $250 million to the People's Republic of China. The loan
would be for a term of 20 years, including a grace period of 5 years, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollar denominated single currency
loans.



- 46 -
TABLE 2.1: CLASSIFICATION OF ROAD NETWORK IN HUBEI
(kin)
1981                       1985                        1997
Paved %                    Paved %                     Paved %
Total  Paved  of Total     Total  Paved  of Total     Total   Paved  of Total
Expressway
Class 1                                                               641     641    100
Class 2         76      76   100           191    191   100         4,967   4,967    100
Class 3      4,161   4,161    100        4,310  4,310   100         5,063   5,063    100
Class 4      15,552  15,552   100       15,849  15,849   100       20,239  20,239    100
Unclassified   25,110  14,446    58       24836  14,384    58        17,818  10,225     57
Total      44,899 34,235    76         45,186 34,734    77        48,728  41,135     84
Source: Hubei Provincial Highway Administration Bureau.



-47 -
TABLE 2.2: HUBEI: COMPARISON OF FREIGHT AND PASSENGER VOLUME BY MODE,
1980 AND 1995
A. Freight Traffic
1985                 1990                   1995          Compound
Transport           Proportion           Proportion             Proportion    annual
mode      Tons     of total     Tons    of total       Tons     of total   growth rate,
('000)  traffic (%)    ('000)  traffic (%)  ('000)  traffic (°/O)  1980-95 (%)
Road       22,136      72.9      25,697      73.8       28,849      74.6         2.7
Rail         3,659      12.1      3,931      11.3        3,986      10.3         0.9
Waterway    4,466      14.7       4,904      14.1        5,462      14.1         2.0
Air           0.3       0.0         0.1       0.0            3       0.0        25.9
Pipeline       85       0.3         289       0.8          353       0.9        15.3
Total    30,346     100.0      34,821     100.0      38,653      100.0        2.4
B. Passenger Traffic
1985                 1990                   1995          Compound
Transport           Proportion           Proportion             Proportion    annual
mode   Passengers  of total    Passengers  of total    Passengers  of total   growth rate,
('000)  traffic (%)    ('000)  traffic (%)  ('000)  traffic (%) 1980-95 (%)
Road       28,114      82.1      36,484      87.5       48,282      91.2         5.6
Rail        3,353       9.8       2,107       5.1        2,300       4.3        -3.7
Water       2,753       8.0       3,099       7.4        2,163       4.1        -2.4
Air          14.2       0.0         16.3      0.0         215        0.4        31.2
Total    34,234     100.0      41,706     100.0      52,960     100.0         4.5



- 48 -
TABLE 2.3: HUBEI HIGHWAY REVENUES AND EXPENDITURES, 1986-95
(Y million)
7FYP                Total              8FYP                  Total
1986  1987  1988  1989  1990         - 1991  1992  1993  1994  1995
REVENUES
Road maintenance fee              344   402   456   531   529 2,262   546   587   757   782   759  3,431
Transfer to Energy and            56    64    71    92    86   369    86    86    86    72    17   347
Communication Fund
Transfertopublicsecurity           -    12    13    14    14    53    14    16    17    18    18    83
Transfertofeecollectionsector      8     5    10    18    16    57    16    20    28    39    44   147
Remaining road maintenance fee    280   321   362   407   413  1,783   430   465   626   653   680  2,854
Highway Key Construction Plan      26    53    59    67   113   318   179   200   319   378   427  1,503
Capital construction (subsidy)
Central government (MOC)          38    49    54    73    61   275   116   283   292   226   203  1,120
Local government                 21    23    29    20    25   118    79    75   157   145   150   606
National aid-poverty road subsidy  42    24       -     3    12    81    17        7    21    52    53   150
Domestic Loan                        -          35    35    33   103    73    74   380   445   481  1,453
Foreign Loans                        -            -      -            -    30    37    20    43    73   203
Total                          407   470   539   605   657 2,678   924  1,141  1,815  1,942  2,067  7,889
EXPENDITURES
Construction and Improvement
Expressway                       42    71    74    99   185   471   411   604   713   819   742  3,289
Other National and Provincial
Roads and Bridges               139   162   244   280   216  1,041   232   249   748   700   775  2,704
Aid-Poverty Roads                70    52    24    16    28   190    28    23    61   105   140   357
Routine maintenance                92   122   128   132   142   616   171   182   202   226   282  1,063
Periodic maintenance               64    63    69    78    86   360    82    83    91    92   128   476
Total                          407   470   539   605   657 2,678   924  1,141  1,815  1,942  2,067  7,889
Source: Hubei Provincial Communication Department.



- 49 -
TABLE 2.4: HUBEI: HIGHWAY REVENUES AND EXPENDITURES, 1986-2000
(Y million)
Compound annual
7FYP   8FYP    9FYP         growth rate,
1986-90 1991-95 1996-2000   1986-2000 (%)
REVENUES
Road Maintenance Fee                           2,262   3,431    4,490         5.0
Transfer to Energy and Communication Fund      369     347
Transfer to public security                     53      83       102         4.8
Transfer to fee collection sector               57     147      200          9.4
Remaining road maintenance fee                 1,783   2,854    4,188         6.3
Highway Key Construction Plan                   318   1,503    2,695         16.5
Capital construction (subsidy)
Central government (MOC)                       275   1,120    2,700         17.7
Local government                               118     606      800         14.6
National Aid-Poverty Highway Subsidy              81     150      120         2.8
Domestic Loans                                   103   1,453    2,361        25.1
Foreign Loans                                      -    203    3,510         37.3
Total                                       2,678   7,889   16,374         13.8
EXPENDITURES
Construction and limprovement:
Expressway                                    471   3,289   10,240         24.6
Other National and Provincial Roads and Bridges   1,041   2,704    3,037    7.9
Aid-Poverty Roads                             190      357      420         5.8
Routine maintenance                             616   1,063    1,696          7.5
Periodic maintenance                            360      476      981         7.4
Total                                       2,678   7,889   16,374         13.8
Source: Hubei Provincial Communication Department.



- 50 -
TABLE 2.5: HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PLAN DURING 9FYP IN HUBEI
Express-     Construction Standard & Mileage   Construc- Estimated
Project                  way   Class  Class  Class  Class                tion       Cost        Financing (Y million)
(kim)    1      2      3      4      Bridge    Period  (Y million)  8FYP    9FYP   IOFYP
A. Huangshi-Huanmei section ofHurong         142                                        96-98        2,230             2,230
trunk highway
B. Hubei section of Jingzhu trunk highway    335                                        97-2002      9,639              8,010    1,629
1. North section of Hubei Province          229                                        97-2000      5,680              5,680
2. South section of Hubei Province          103                                        98-2002      2,929              1,300    1,629
3. Wuban Junshan Yangtze bridge               3                                 2,010/1 97-2000     1,030              1,030
C. National and provincial Class I
and Class 2 highway                            70  2.230                          95-2000      2,479      179     2,300
D. Independent bridge                                                         11,554143 95-2000       259       99       160
E. Aid-poverty roads (72 projects)                                     2,720            96-2000       420                420
Total                                     477    70  2,230          2,720  13,564/44             15,027     278    13,120    1,629



TABLE 3.1: INTERCONNECTING ROADS-EXISTING CONDITIONS
Existing Road                                        -Intercon ectin road
Interchange     Name    Class          Name          Class Length  Financed   Date of   Date of  If under NH3  If not included in          remarks
name                                                               under NH3  start of completion cost estimates NH3 cost estimates
_awu            Songbu-     3      Dawu-Xinduwu        2             yes/no   the works of works  (Y million)    (Y million) works__Y_million)__Y_million)
Dawu           Songbu-      3      Dawu-Xinduwu        2     9.1      yes       1999     2001       40.61            -              to be financed under NHIII
Interchange    Yingshan               (NRI07)                     I_I
Dawu-      4       Dawu-Xuanhua       3    53.6       no       1996      2001         -            42.21          financed by local govemment
Xuanhua                                                                                                                   construction
Songbu-     3       Dawu-Hong'an       2     69        no       1999     2001                      131.76           to be financed under NHIV
Yinshan__ _ _ _ _                                             _ _ _ _   __ _ _ _
Dawu-Jiepai   4   Dawu Citygate-Dawu    2       2       no        1996     1998                      2.16         financed by local govemment, under
Intemconnecting Road                                                                                     construction
Dawu-Jiepai   4   Dawu Interconnecting    4    33.5     no              -         -                    -            parallel with future jingzhu, no
Road-Jiepai                                                                                      improvement planned
Xiaohoe         Dawu-       3       Dawu-Xiaohe        3    27.5       no             -         -                    -          parallel with NHIII no improvement
Interchange     Huayan                                                                                                                      planned
Dawu-      3      Xiahoe-Huayuan      2     13.0      no       2005      2007                      39.79       existing road meets traffic demand in
Huavan                                                                                                                   the near future
Huayan       Wangjiawan-   4    Huayuan Interchange    2     11.5     yes       1999     2001       41.93                           to be financed under NHIII
Interchange    Yangdian           Huayuan (NRI07)
Wangjiawan-  3-4   Huayuan Interchange    2    3.0       no       2005      2006        -             9.08        existing road meets traffic demand in
Yangdian            Zhouxian town                                                                                         the near future   _
Chanchuan      Huangpi-    3      Xiaogan-Yangdian     2    24.0       no       1996     2000                      66.23        financed by local govemment, under
Interchange    Xiaogan                                                                 __construction
Huangpi-    3    Yangdian Huangpi    2    24.0         no       2005      2007         -            69.92      existing road meets trffic demand in the
Xiaogan                                                                                                                    near future
Sancha         Xiaogan-    2-3     Sancha-Xiaogan      2     12.2     yes       1999     2001       30.99            -              to be financed under NHIII
Interchange     Tianhe                (NR107)
(Sancha-
Xiaogan)                             _ _ _          _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _
Xiaogan-    3       Sancha-Tianhe      2    25.0       no       1995      1999                      68.99        financed by local govemment, under
Tianhe                                                                                                                    construction
(Sancha-
__________ Tianhe)           _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _                             _ _ _    _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _    _  _ _ _  _ _
Dabadi          NRI07       I      Dabadi-Hankou       1    16.0       no        _                                                completed, good road condition
Interchange
NRI07       I      Dabadi-Xiaogan      1    37.0      no    I                                                 I   completed, good road condition
Hebaohu-    2      Hebaohu (NR107)-    2    20.0       no                                                          completed, good road condition
Shavang   _           Hanchuan      _



Existing Road                                        Interco       road 
Interchange     Name    Class         Name          Class Length  Financed   Date of   Date of  If under NH3  If not included in         remarks
name                                                              under NH3  start of completion cost estimates NH3 cost estimates
yes/no  the works of works  (Y million)    (Y million)
Caidian        Shilipu-    3       Caidian-Shilipu    2     16.0     no        1996     1998        _            48.77        financed by local govemment, under
Interchange    Yong'an                                                                                                                  construction
(Caidian-
Shilipu)
Shilipu-    2     Caidian-Yong'an     2    20.0       no        -           . _                                 completed, good road condition
Yong'an
(Caidian-
Y ong'an)         I__  _ _ _ _ _ _                                      _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ ___                    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Caidian-    3     Caidian-Hanchuan    2    30.6       no       1995      1998                    137.53        financed by local government, under
Hanchuan                                                                                                        construction (included a Han river
____________   ___________                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bridge)
Quanli         NR31 8      2       Quanli-Shilipu     1    18.0      no        1995     1997                     55.64        financed by local govemment, under
Interchange                     __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                 _____     _ _ _ _______construction
NR318       2      Quanli-Yong'an     1    11.0      no        1995     1997                     27.89        financed by local govemment, under
______I_                                                               _construction
Yong'an         NR318      2    Yong'an-Chenggong    2    22.0       no         _ -            -                   -            completed, good road condition
Interchange
Wuhan-   Expr.   Yong'an-Yichang    Expr.  280.0      no             -         -                   -            completed, good road condition
Yichang                                              I_I
Zhangwan      Xiaojialing-   3    Zhangwan-Shamao     2     10.1     no        1994     1999                     25.82       7.3 KM completed, 2.8KM financed by    v
Interchange    Shuihongkou              I_local government under construction                                                                                       t'
South Ring    3    Tanshuao-Junshan    3    20.3       no        -         -          -              -         parallel with NHIII, no improvements
_________               _______________              ~~~~~~~planned
Jinkou        Wuchang-    3       Wutaizha-Jinkou     3    26.0      no         -        -          -              -         road is on the dyke of Yangtze river, no
Interchange      Puqi      _                                                                                                        permit to be improved
Wuchang-   2-3    Jinkou-Panjiawan    2-3   38.0       no        -         -          -             -          parallel with NHIV no improvements
Pugi                                        _                                                                            planned
South Ring    3    Tanshuao-Junshan    3    20.3       no        -         -          -              -          financed by local govemment, under
construction
Shenshan          _        _-                                              -                        -              -            connecting Jingzhu and Hurong
Interchange                                                                _
Zehgdian       NR107       2    Zhengdian-Wuchang    2    26.0       no         -        -          -              -            completed, good road condition
Interchange
NR107       2        Zhengdian-       2    36.0      no         -        -          -              -            completed, good road condition
Heshenggiao
South Ring    2    Zhengdian-Zhifang   2      6.0      no        -         -          -              -            completed, good road condition
Zhifang        Zhifang-     1     Zhifang-Wuchang     1    20.0      no         -        -          -              -            completed, good road condition
Interchange    Wuchang                (Nanhu)                                                                    .
Zhifang-    2     Zhifang-Wuchang     2      17.0     no        -         -          -              -            completed, good road condition
Zhengiiagiao          (Zhengiiagiao
Zhifang-    2   Zhifang-Henshengqiao   2    33.3      no        -         -          -              -            completed, good road condition
HesIengIiao
South Ring    3     Zhifang-Wulijie    2    10.0       no       1996      1999        -            27.80       financed by local govemment, under
________________           construction



Existing Road                                          Interconnecting road
Interchange      Name      Class        Name           Class  Length  Financed   Date of   Date of  If under NH3  If not included in            remarks
name                                                                 under NH3  start of completion cost estimates NH3 cost estimates
_   _                                     v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~es/no   the works ofwrs (   illion)  (Y million)
Fenghuangsha  South Ring    4       Fenghuangshan-      2      11.6      no       2000      2002         _             26.96        to be financed by local government
n Interchange                           Wuliiie
South Ring    4      Fenghuangshan-      2      11.6      no       2000      2002                       10.6         to be financed by local government
Baoxie          Wuhan-   Exp/I   Baoxie-Wuchang    Exp/[  13/6           no        -         -                          -             completed, good road condition
Interhange Huangshi
Wuhan-   Expr.   Boaxie-Huangshi    Expr.  57.0         no                                              -             completed, good road condition
Huangshi  _                                                                     .
Total                                                                                                 113.53          827.29



- 54 -
TABLE 3.2: ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
($ million)
Disbursement
profile of
Bank FY          Semester    Cumulative   Cumulative  transport projects
& Semester       ($ million)   ($ million)     (%)        in China (%)
FY99
December 31, 1998         15          15             6             6
June30, 1999              10          25            10            11
FY2000
December31, 1999         25           50            20            16
June 30, 2000            25           75            30            26
FY2001
December 31, 2000        25          100            40            38
June 30, 2001            35          135            54            48
FY2002
December 31, 2001        30          165            66            60
June 30, 2000            25          190            76            69
FY2003
December 31, 2002        25          215            86            78
June 30, 2003            25          240            96            90
FY2004
December 31, 2004         10         250           100           100



- 55 -
TABLE 4.1: VEHICLE FLEET CHARACTERISTICS
Small             Light  Medium      Heavy  Articulated
Cars    Buses    Buses  Trucks   Trucks   Trucks           Trucks
Gross vehicle weight of fully loaded average vehicle (tons):  1.20  2.40   13.00     7.00     11.50     25.00       40.00
Payload of fully loaded average vehicle (tons):         0.40      0.80      3.00     1.56      4.80      9.60        15.00
Load
Gross vehicle weight of average vehicle (tons):          1.04     2.08     11.80     6.38      9.58     21.16       34.00 Factor
Payload of average vehicle (tons):                      0.24      0.48      1.80     0.94      2.88      5.76         9.00    0.6
Number of passengers (#):                                  3         8       40        0         0         0            0
Service life (years):                                     10        10       10       12        12         9            9
Kilometers driven per year (km):                      30,000    65,000    65,000   50,000    50,000    75,000      75,000
Hours driven per year (hours):                         1,000     2,000     2,000    1,500     1,500     2,000        2,000
Economic Costs
New vehicle price (Yuan):                            200,000   120,000    96,000   68,800   136,000   184,000     304,000
One new tire price (Yuan):                               560       400     1,040     400      1,040     1,200        1,200
Maintenance labor cost for vehicle repairs (Yuan/hour):  1.9       1.9       2.5      1.9       1.9       2.5          2.5
Driverwages(Yuan/hour):                                  2.8       2.8       3.1      2.8       2.8       2.9         3.1
Time costs (Yuan/hour):                                  2.0       2.0       2.0      2.0       2.0       2.0          2.0
Gas/Petrol price (Yuan/liter):                           2.1
Diesel price (Yuan/liter):                               2.0
Lubricants price (Yuan/liter):                           11.5
Income   Income                  Working Nonworking
Yuan/   Yuan/    % traveling    time          time
Year     Hour   work/business   value        value     Yuanihr
7,600      3.7      40%           100%      25%             2.0
Real (without inflation) interest
charge on the purchase of a new vehicle:               10
Typical Vehicle Composition
Articulated Tmrcks
8%    Cars
Heavy Trucks   22%
10%  _gf-  Small Buses
9%A
MadumTrucks         Buses
Ught Trucks
12%



- 56 -
TABLE 4.2: EXPRESSWAY SECTIONS DATA
Dawu-  Huayuan- Sancha- Dabati-  Quanli-   Shenshan-  Quanli-
Expressway section name:                                          Huayuan  Sancha   Dabati  Quanli Shenshan    Baoxie    Yongan
Expressway financial construction cost (Y million):                  920.5    642.6    898.8  710.9    1,660.8         815.8    207.5
Expressway economic construction cost (Y million):                   771.6    538.7    753.4  595.9    1,392.2         683.8    174.0
Expressway length (km):                                               47.6      28.1     34.9   18.6        19.2        44.5      9.9
Expressway width (m):                                                  26.0     26.0     26.0   26.0        33.5        26.0     26.0
Expressway average gradients (%):                                       2.0      1.0      0.0    0.0         0.0         0.0      0.0
Expressway average roughness (IRI):                                     3.0      3.0      3.0    3.0         3.0         3.0      3.0
Existing representative road length (km):                              51.4     30.3     40.5   33.0        34.4        49.0      11.0
Existing representative road width (m):                                14.0     14.0     22.0   22.0        22.0        14.0     26.0
Existing representative road average gradients (%):                     2.0      1.0       0.0    0.0        0.0         0.0      0.0
Existing representative road average roughness (IR1):                   5.0      5.0       5.0    5.0        5.0         5.0       5.0
Motorized traffic on existing roads in 1998 (ADT):                   6,100     6,400    7,799  12,150     12,750       7,800    7,500
Motorized traffic on existing roads in 2002 (ADT):                   9,400    10,100   12,600  20,400    21,400       13,100   12,500
Diverted motorized traffic on expressway in 2002 (ADT) (diverted from  6,000   7,000    7,400   7,500      9,800       7,150    9,800
existing roads at opening of the expressway:
Generated motorized traffic on expressway in 2002 (ADT):               990     1,000    1,050    860       1,200       1,000    1,500
(generated due to reduction on transport costs)
Percent ofcars:                                                         18        22       23      23         25          22       21
Percent of small buses:                                                  7         9        9       9         10           8        8
Percent of medium buses:                                                 9         9       12      12         10           8        8
Percentoflighttrucks(grossweight3.0to6.5t):                             15        12       16      16         10          22       13
Percent of medium trucks (gross weight 5.0 to 16.0 t):                  25        30       24      24         34          26       28
Percent of heavy trucks (gross weight 6.0 to 22.0 t):                   11        10        6       6          4           9       12
Percent of articulated trucks (gross weight 13.0 to 45.0 t):            15         8       10      10          7           5        9
Growth rate for cars for period 1998-2002 (%):                          13        13       13      13         15          15       15
Growth rate for cars for period 2003-2007 (%):                          12        13       11      11          9           9        9
Growth rate for cars for period 2008-2012 (%):                          12        13       11      11          9           9        9
Growth rate for cars for period 2013-2022 (%):                           6         6        6       6          6           6        6
Growth rate for commercial vehicles for period 1998-2002 (%/):          11        12       13      13         13          13       13
Growth rate for commercial vehicles for period 2003-2007 (%/6):         10        12       10      10          8           8        8
Growth rate for commercial vehicles for period 2008-2012 (%):           10        12       10      10          8           8        8
Growth rate for commercial vehicles for period 2013-2022 (%/):           6         6        6       6          6           6        6
Cars speeds on existing roads on most congested hour (km/hr):           40        35       40      40         18          30       50
Cars speeds on existing roads at night (kmnhr):                         45        50       50      50         30          40       60
Med. trucks speeds on existing roads on most congested hour (km/hr):    45        40       45      45         15          25       45
Med. trucks speeds on existing roads at night Ion/hr):                  60        55       55      55         25          35       55
Predicted passenger cars speeds on new expressway (km/hr):              79        77       76      76         72          77       78
Predicted medium trucks speeds on new expressway (km/hr):               74        72       71      71         67          72       73
Construction cost per kmn (Y million):                                  19        23       26      38         87          IS       21
Distance savings (%/.):                                                  7         7       14      44         44           9       10
Diverted traffic as percent of normal traffic, in 2002 (%):             64        69       59      37         46          55       78
Generated traffic as percent of normal traffic, in 2002 (%/o):          It        10        8       4          6           8       12



- 57 -
TABLE 4.3: TYPICAL ROAD USER COSTS
Small              Light    Medium      Heavy   Articulated
Cars    Buses    Buses    Trucks    Trucks    Trucks    Trucks
Typical Road User Costs (Vehicle Operating and
Time Costs)
Yuan per vehicle-kilometer
New Expressway                               1.50    0.94      2.13     0.63       1.24       1.89      2.55
Existing Class 2 Road (1,250 ADT)            1.80    1.18     2.48      0.76       1.40      2.10       2.88
Existing Class 2 Road (5,000 ADT)            1.82    1.20      2.53     0.76       1.40      2.11       2.89
Existing Class 2 Road (10,000 ADT)           1.87    1.24      2.67     0.78       1.42      2.11       2.93
Existing Class 2 Road (20,000 ADT)           2.25    1.56      3.58     0.97       1.74      2.42       3.38
Existing Class 2 Road (30,000 ADT)           3.90    3.29      9.48     1.63       2.85       3.49      4.93
Existing Road
10.00
9.00--                                                                                   Car
.c  8.00--                                                                           ---Bus
0.0
,  7.00-
X                                                                /                   - -- - -- Light
6 6.00-                                                                                      Truck
?.5.00-                                                                            ----Medium
Truck
o                                                                                    -4 00Heavy
3.00                                                                                     Truck
2.00>                                                                                     Truck
f;  .  .  ~~..._.  ...   .......Bu
o   0- - - -- - - -                                                                       Small
Bus
0.00 I                         
5000         10000         15000         20000         25000         30000
Average Daily Traffic (ADT)
Typical Road User Costs Composition
Vehicle Operating Costs
Fuel and Lubricants                    0.23    0.21      0.59      0.27      0.55       0.84       0.96
Tires                                  0.05     0.06     0.12      0.09       0.11      0.21       0.27
Maintenance Labor and Parts            0.66    0.37      0.13      0.21       0.40      0.63       1.04
Crew                                   0.05    0.06      0.06     0.06       0.06       0.07      0.07
Depreciation and Interest              0.74    0.22      0.18     0.15       0.30       0.37      0.58
Time Costs
Passenger Time                         0.14    0.32      1.59     0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
Total                               1.87    1.24      2.67     0.78       1.42      2.11       2.93



TABLE 4.4: EXCEL ECONOMIC EVALUATION MODEL SAMPLE
Daily Traffic (ADT)      Financial            Net Economic Benefits (M Yuan)                  Sensitivity Analysis
New Expressway   Existing Road    Constr.  Constr.  Maint.   New Expressway   Existing  Total 25 % Incr. 25% Decr. Combined
Di-    Gen-    With  Without   Costs    Costs   Costs  Diverted Generated   Road            Construct.    User    (a) & (b)
Year verted  erated   Project Project (M Yuan)                   Traffic   Traffic    Traffic       Costs (a)  Benefits (b)
Economic
Evaluation  1998                   6,100   6,100     200.4  -154.3      0        0         0         0   -154       -193       -154      -193
and     1999                    6,796   6,796     300.6  -231.5      0        0         0         0   -231      -289        -231      -289
Sensitivity  2000                 7,572   7,572      300.6  -231.5      0        0         0         0   -231      -289        -231      -289
Analysis  2001                    8,437   8,437     200.4  -154.3       0        0         0        0   -154       -193       -154      -193
2002   6,000     990   3,402   9,402                0.0   -11.9       26         2        0     17         17          9         9
2003   6,618    1,092   3,756  10,374               0.0   -11.9       33         3        0    24         24          15        15
2004  7,301    1,205   4,146  11,447                0.0   -11.9       43         4        4    39         39          26        26
2005   8,054    1,329   4,578  12,632               0.0  -11.9        58         5       12    62         62          44        44
2006   8,886    1,466   5,055  13,941               0.0   -11.9       78         6       23    96         96          69        69
2007   9,804    1,618   5,582  15,387               0.0   -11.9      107         9       38   143         143        104       104
2008  10,818    1,785   6,165  16,983               0.0   -11.9      147        12       60   208        208         153       153
2009  11,938    1,970   6,809  18,746               0.0   -11.9      202        17       89   296        296         219       219
2010  13,174    2,174   7,520  20,694               0.0   -11.9      275        23      128   413        413         307       307
2011  14,539    2,399   8,307  22,846               0.0   -11.9      370       31       178   567        567         423       423
2012  15,395    2,540   8,797  24,192               0.0   -11.9      438        36      214   676        676         504       504
2013  16,301    2,690   9,316  25,617               0.0   -11.9      516        43      253   800        800         597       597
2014  17,260    2,848   9,866  27,126               0.0   -11.9      604        50      298   940        940         702       702
2015  18,276    3,016  10,448  28,724               0.0   -11.9     703         58      348  1,097      1,097        820       820
2016  19,352    3,193  11,064  30,416               0.0  -142.8      814        67      403  1,140      1,140        820       820
2017 20,491    3,381  11,717  32,208                0.0   -11.9      934        77      461  1,460      1,460       1,092     1,092
2018 21,697    3,580  12,409  34,106                0.0   -11.9    1,064        88      522  1,661      1,661       1,243     1,243
2019 22,974    3,791  13,141  36,116                0.0   -11.9    1,199        99      583  1,869      1,869       1,399     1,399
2020 24,327    4,014  13,917  38,244                0.0   -11.9    1,336       110      641  2,075      2,075       1,553     1,553
2021  25,759    4,250  14,738  40,497             385.8   -11.9    1,466       121      691  2,652      2,748      2,083      2,179
Total (M Yuan)                                      1,002.1
Total per km (M Yuan)                                 21.1
Internal Rate of Retum (%/o)                                                                            21.7%      19.8%      19.1%     17.3%
Net Present Value at 12% Discount                                                                        1,523     1,366        965        809



- 59-
TABLE 4.5: ECONOMic EVALUATION RESULTS
Sensitivity Analysis (in 0%)
Economic Internal Rates of                 Case I       Case 2     Case 3    Case 4    Case 5     Case 6      Case 7     Case 8
Return (EIRR)
25% Incr.   25% Decr.             Value of  25% Deer. 25% Deer.  25% Decr.  25% Decr.
Expressway Section/          Base         Construct.     User    Combined    Time   Generated  Diverted       Traffic    Unit User
Road Link                   Case          Costs       Benefits  (1) & (2)    =0       Traffic    Traffic    Growth    Benefits
Dawu - Huayuan Section        21.7           19.7         19.1       17.2       19.0      21.6        20.8    13.1         19.1
Huayuan - Sancha Section      25.4           23.3         22.5       20.5      22.1       25.3        24.5    16.6         22.5
Sancha - Dabati Section       28.8           26.2         25.4       23.0      24.3       28.7        27.2    20.6         25.4
Dabati-Quanli Section         31.9           28.9         28.1       25.4      27.4       31.8        29.2    24.2         28.1
Quanli - Shenshan Section     24.8           22.3         21.6       19.3      21.0       24.7        22.6    18.6         21.6
Shenshan - Baoxie Section     27.8           25.2         24.4      22.0       24.0       27.7        26.3    19.3         24.4
Quanli-YonganSection          18.4           16.5         15.8       14.1      16.5       18.3        17.5    11.2         15.8
DawuLinkRoad                  20.0           17.4         16.6       14.3      25.3       20.0        16.2    17.5         16.6
Huayuan LinkRoad              19.6           17.0         16.1       13.8      25.4       19.6        15.5    17A          16.1
Xiaogan Link Road             22.1           20.3         19.7       18.1      20.9       22.1        19.7    14.5         19.7
Entire Project                26.2           23.7         23.0       20.7      22.5       26.1        25.0    18.6         23.0
Switching Values Analysis                                   Risk Analysis (in %/D)
Construction    Net User                                                          Percentile
Costs Multiplier Benefits Multi-                   Standard  Probability 10% Worst 50%Likely  90%/ Best
Factor to    plier Factor to           Mean    Deviation  that EIRR   Scenario    Scenario   Scenario
Yield 12%     Yield 12%                 EIRR      EIRR       < 12%      EIRR       EIRR        EIRR
Dawu - Huayuan Section         3.42           0.32                   16.0        3.6      12.6       11.6      16.2        20.6
Huayuan - Sancha Section       4.81           0.22                   19.6       3.7        3.8       14.8      19.9        24.4
Sancha - Dabati Section        5.73           0.19                   22.9       3.7        0.7      18.2       22.9        27.6
Dabati - Quanli Section        6.67           0.16                   25.5        3.8       0.0      20.3       25.4        30.3
Quanli - Shenshan Section      3.77           0.27                   19.7        3.0       1.4       15.6      19.7        23.4
Shenshan - Baoxie Section      5.27           0.21                   21.7       3.8        1.0       16.S      21.7        26.6
Quanli - Yongan Section        2.23           OA7                    13.0       3.1       38.2       9.1       12.9         17.2
Dawu Link Road                 2.15           0.48                   15.4        2.6       9.6       12.1      15.4         18.8
Huayuan Link Road              2.04           0.51                   15.0        2.6      12.0       11.7      15.0         18.2
Xiaogan Link Road              4.11           0.27                   15.9        4A       17.8       10.2      16.1        21.4
Entire Project                 4.56           0.23                   20.5        3.4       1.3       16.2      20.6        25.0



- 60 -
TABLE 4.6: EXPRESSWAY SECTIONS DATA
Average Construction Costs
(Y  million per km)                                                         0      10    20    30    40    50    60    70    60            90
Dawu-Huayuan          =
Huayuan - Sancha  w            n
Sancha - Dabati
Dabati - Quanli
Quanli-Shenshan  77-    ,.77              v. -  -& -, 7
Shenshan - Baoxie   E
Quanli - Yongan
Entire Project
Distance Savings (%)
0%    5%    10%   15%   20%   25%   30%   35%   40%   45%
Dawu - Huayuan
Huayuan - Sancha
Sancha - Dabati
Dabati-Quanli  w ;
Quanli - Shenshan
Shenshan - Baoxie
Quanli - Yongan
Entire Project
Diverted Traffic as % of Normal
Traffic (%)                                                                0%      10%    20%    30%    40%    50%    60%    70%    80%
Dawu - Huayuan
Huayuan-Sancha
Sanr a - Dabati      U                _     _       G     I
Dabati - Quanli
Quanli - Shenshan       717M   -7?7E7T5 B   Me
Shenshan - Baoxie
Quanli - Yongan        _
Entire Project =



-61 -
TABLE 4.7: EXPRESSWAY SECTIONS RESULTS
Generated Traffic as % of Normal
Traffic (%)                                                                0%         2%        4%        6%        8%/       10%       12%
Dawu - Huayuan                                                .
Huayuan - Sancha
Sancha - Dabati
Dabati - Quanli
Quanli - Shenshan
Shenshan - Baoxie
Quanli - Yongan
Entire Project
Net Present Value at 12% (Y million)
0    2000   4000   6000   8000  10000  12000  14000  16000
Dawu - Huayuan |_
Huayuan - Sancha
Sancha - Dabati
Dabati - Quanli
Quanli - Shenshan
Shenshan - Baoxie r 
Quanli - Yongan
Entire Project _
Economic Internal Rate of Return (%)
0%      5%       10%     15%      20%      25%      30%      35%
Dawu - Huayuan
Huayuan - Sancha
Sancha - Dabati
Dabati - Quanli
Quanli - Shenshan
Shenshan - Baoxie
Quanli - Yongan
Entire Project



- 62 -
TABLE 4.8: RISK ANALYSIS METHODOLOGY
Standard spreadsheet models analyses combine single "point" estimates of the model's input variables to
predict a single result. Estimates of the input variables are used because the actual values are not known
with certainty. For example:
Revenues= 100    Costs = 90          ==>               Profits = 10
In reality, however, things don't always turn out as planned because too conservative or optimistic
estimates may have been adopted. The combined errors in each input variable estimate could lead to real-
life result that is different from the estimated result. With risk analysis, one can explicitly include the
uncertainty present in the estimates to generate results that show all possible outcomes. For example,
consider a simple case where there is uncertainty in both input variables:
Revenues = 100 or 120                Costs = 90 or 80
Possible Profits = >                 100-90 = 10                          100-80 = 20
120-90 = 30                          120-80 = 20
In a risk analysis, one includes the estimate of an input variable and some measure of the likelihood of
occurrence for that variable. The risk analysis will then use this information to analyze every possible
outcome, executing hundreds of what-if scenarios adopting in each case random inputs accordingly to the
input probability distribution. For example, consider this more complex case:
Revenues          Estimated most likely value = 100    (triangle distribution)
Estimated minimum possible value = 90
Estimated maximum possible value  130
Costs             Estimated mean value = 90            (normal distribution)
Estimated standard deviation = 20
Results:          Scenario I         Revenues = 105.9   Costs = 116.8     Profits = -10.9
Scenario 2        Revenues = 119.5   Costs = 87.2      Profits = 32.3
Scenario 300      Revenues = 103.4   Costs = 86.6      Profits = 16.8
In this case, the results are presented as probability distributions and statistics that give the decisionmaker a
complete picture of all possible outcomes. For example, for the case above we have the following results:
Mean Profits = 16.7
Standard Deviation of Profits = 22.4
Probability that profits will be lower than
zero = 24.1 percent
Profits



- 63 -
TABLE 4.9: RISK ANALYSIS INPUT MULTIPLIERS
Construction Costs
C
I      ~n 
IL
o o 0 00   0   0   0   0   0   0
o   0    0   0   0~    -   -   -    - 
Multiplier Factor
Existing Traffic
Unit Net Benefits
U-
IntO (0       CD  a> O~ 0 °   N    e~  't   ° 
o   O    O   O   0   -    _   _   _   -   -
Multiplier Factor
Diverted Traffic
Generated Traffic
Traffic Growth
6
IL.
°~ Z3 D   O0) _Ml                N F a co
Multiplier Factor



- 64 -
TABLE 4.10: RISK ANALYSIS RESULTS: QUANLI-SHENSHAN SECTION
Quanli - Shenshan Expressway Section
Mean = 19.7%
11.5 Std. Deviation = 3.0%
o     Probalility EIRR < 12% = 1.4%
M
I...
U-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
LO   ol      -  cM  L O      a, -) cE  L   r- e           CO  tw o0
~~~~N  04  CI  04  N   ce)  CV   m 
Economic Internal Rate of Return (%)
Quanli - Shenshan Expressway Section
100%   Best Scenario
90%e
70%
,0c   60%
U. ~=   0    Most LikelVyScenario  -
40%-
5.!2 30%
20%
10%   Worst Scenario 
0% I
r -  o       M-c  10  r- a0  r-, CO  LO  r-- a) '- Cn  LO
Economic Internal Rate of Return (%)



- 65 -
TCABLE 4.11: RISK ANALYSIS RESULTS: ENTIRE PROJECT
Entire Project
Mean = 20.5%
Ir-     Std. Deviation = 3.4%
Probalility EIRR < 12%   1.3%
A
U
9101
CU-
to   N   0)  a-  CS  to  aN  0)  S-  cS  to           0)  a-  Cme  t
-   'N  CS'           C'J(   N   N (   CQ  CS) e )
Economic Internal Rate of Return (%)
Entire Project
9 0%
S0c   60%-
Most Likey Scenario
o0$ '§ 50%     --- --         ....... .........
40% -
.r0  30%
E  20%
o   10%  ~Worst Scenai
0%                    II
to  N   0)  N-  CM)t   N   0)  o-c~   o  N   )-C)It
LOonomic Itn  Rat of Retrn (% )
Economic Internal Rate of Return(%






- 67 -                    ANNEX I
ANNEX 1: PROJECT MONITORING INDICATORS
A. PERFORMANCE AND MONITORING INDICATORS FOR KEY PROJECT COMPONENTS
1.    The effectiveness of project implementation, in terms of alleviating infrastructure
bottlenecks in Hubei at which the project is targeted, will be measured by reference to a
number of monitoring indicators. The specific project objectives and the associated
monitoring indicators are listed in Table 1. Each indicator will require a baseline level
against which the effectiveness of the project in achieving the design objectives can be
measured. The base data would be 1998, and HPCD should take the following action to
obtain the necessary baseline data and develop the necessary methodologies for
monitoring. The parameters, baseline and targeted values shown in the table are
tentatively estirnated by the project team; the baseline data/ methodologies were reviewed
and discussed with HPCD during appraisal and were finalized during negotiations.
2.    The achievement of project output will be monitored by monitoring indicators.
The current monitorable targets are set as shown in Table 2.



-68-                            ANNEX 1
TABLE 1: DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS
2003
Benchmark
Project       Monitoring                             2000      (1st year of   2005
Objectives      Indicators        1998 Baseline     Benchmark   operation)   Benchmark
Development  Reduced traffic    Traffic volume
of road       congestion on roads Section A-B = 6,100   7,600       3,400        4,600
infrastructure  parallel to the  Section B-C = 6,400   8,000        3,100        4,400
proposed road    Section C-D = 7,800     9,900        5,300       7,100
Section D-E = 12,100    15,700     12,900       16,400
Section E-F = 12,800    16,500     11,600       14,800
Section F-G =  7,800    10,100      5,900        7,600
Section G-H = 7,500     9,700       2,800        3,500
Increased average  Travel speed (km/hr)
travel speed on  Section A-B =    50        45           55          55
roads parallel to the Section B-C =    50   45           55          55
proposed road    Section C-D =    45        40           50          50
Section D-E =    35       30           40          40
Section E-F =   35        30           40          40
Section F-G =    45       40           50          50
Section G-H =    60       55           65          65
Increase      Reduced number of Number of accidents   Number of   Number of   Number of
highway safety traffic accidents    with fatalities per  accidents    accidents    accidents
involving fatalities: number of vehicles:    with fatalities with fatalities with fatalities
40/10,000 vehicles   per number  per number  per number
of vehicles:  of vehicles:  of vehicles:
35/10,000    35/10,000    25/10,000
vehicles    vehicles     vehicles
Notes: (1) A-B: Dawu-Huayuan; B-C: Huayuan-Sancha; C-D: Sancha-Dabati; D-E: Dabati-Quanli; E-F: Quanli-
Shenshan; F-G: Shenshan-Baoxie; G-H: Quanli-Yongan.
(2) Traffic measurement unit: medium-size truck/bus.



-69 -                            ANNEX I
TABLE 2: IMPLEMENTATION INDICATORS FOR KEY PROJECT COMPONENTS
Key Monitoring Indicators     1997    1998    1999    2000   2001  2002   2003         2005
ICR Year
% of civil works completed of   --       30    25         55    75    95  100           100
Jingzhu
% of civil works completed of   --              30        60    90    100    --         100
Hurong
% of civil works completed of   --      --      --       20      60    100    --      100
interconnecting roads
Number of person-months of
completed training
Domestic               57       125    16          8     --    --   --          206
Overseas                2        29    26         13    --    --   --            70
Highway safety: a              --        --    --          --    --    --   --            --
% of Equipment purchased       --         3    45         80   100      --   --         100
Highway Maintenance Study    06/30/b                   12/31L/ 06/30Ld
Expressway Commercialization  06/30/b                  12/31/c 06/3OLd
and Corporatization Study
Road Safety Study            06/30/b                   12/3 1L 06/30Ld
/a  Number of black spots to be improved would be agreed between the WB and HPCD during
implementation of the project.
/b Establishment of Leading Group and Agreement on TOR.
/c Draft Final Report.
/d Final Report.
B. MONITORING INDICATORS FOR ENVIRONMENT
Construction Period
3.     Environmental Supervision. Environmental protection measures specified in the
Environmental Action Plans (EAPs) and integrated in the bid documents will be
supervised by environmental supervisors. The results will be included in the engineering
supervision reports and reported periodically to the environmental protection staff at the
district level. The results of environmental supervision will be annually reported to the
World Bank through the annual report to the World Bank. The monitoring items will
include:
(a)    brief description  on  environmental protection  measures  supervised/
inspected during the reporting period; and
(b)    brief description of problems related to environmental protection measures
and their reasons and possible solutions.



-70 -                     ANNEX 1
4.    Environmental Monitoring. Environmental monitoring  items, methods,
frequencies, monitoring sites, etc. are specified in the EAP (see Annex 2). During the
construction of the highway, all monitoring will be carried out by the Environmental
Protection Office of HPCD. Following the hand-over of the project, environmental
monitoring during the operational phase will be carried out by the local environmental
protection agencies under contract with the Provincial Motorway Administration Bureau.
The results will be reported to the environmental protection staff at the district level and
annually to the World Bank through the annual report to the World Bank.
Construction Phase  Air quality: TSP, bitumen smoke, dust
Monitoring        Noise/vibration
Water Quality: BOD, COD, suspended solids (SS), oil
Operational Phase   Air quality: NO,, CO, HC, TSP and dust
Monitoring        Noise/vibration
Water quality: BOD, SS, oil, temperature, pH, and DO
C. MONITORING OF LAND ACQUISITION AND RESETTLEMENT
5.    The monitoring and evaluation of the Resettlement Action Plans (RAP) agreed
between the Bank and the Borrower will be carried out both internally and externally
(Annex 3). Internal monitoring will be carried out by the Planning Department and the
Land Acquisition and Resettlement Department of ROs of HPCD. An internal monitoring
report will be submitted to the Bank every six months, with the first one that was due on
May 31, 1997, and the last one on the completion of the land acquisition and resettlement
activities. The Academies of Social Sciences of Hubei will conduct the external
monitoring of resettlement and will submit a monitoring report every six months, with the
first one to be submitted by June 30, 1998, and the last one at the completion of the
project (December 31, 2003).
6.    The main indicators of land acquisition and resettlement monitoring have been
identified. They are:
(a)   Timely payment of compensation to affected entities of various categories;
(b)   Progress of construction of new houses and quality of construction, also
distance from old houses;
(c)   Progress in land redistribution;
(d)   The type of productive use to which compensation amounts have been put
by the local (township and village) governments;
(e)   Restoration of production/business activities of affected enterprises.
Payment of all types of compensation to affected enterprises and workers;



-71-                                            ANNEX 1
(f)   'Propose linkage of resettlement activities with the project implementation
schedule (resettlement to be completed at least one month before start of
construction);
(g)    Restoration of civic infrastructure at the new sites;
(h)    Levels of satisfaction of the affected persons;
(i)    lncome levels and standards of living after resettlement.
D. MONITORING PLAN FOR INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
Implementation Indicators                       Impact I dicators                  Remarks and
Elements               Process             Completion             Short-term             Long-term             Comments
Strengthened          INDICATOR:             INDICATOR:            INDICATOR:            INDICATOR:             Baseline Performance in
Institutional Capacity  Number of Organization Establishment of new    Staff trained are sharing Improvement of per-   sector functions are spe-
Structural Changes    units and staff training   new knowledge and    formance in specific    cified in Development
Intensive institutional                                            exercising new skills   functions and activities  Needs Profiles that are
strengthening programs Management System    Proposal on system to  Implementation and    System in operation   kept on file in Project
Development           be used               testing of system                            Execution Office.
Intensive institutional                                                                                        Managing system is a
strengthening programs  SOURCE:              SOURCE:               SOURCE:               SOURCE:               part of the new manage-
at the Support and      * Organizational      * Mid-term Develop- * Reports of workshops Implementation Com-   ment philosophy
Research units        Structure Report       ment Report           held by retuming      pletion Review
* TORs for Study     * Project Implemen- trainees                 * Assessment of      Additional baseline data
Intensive institutional   Maintenance       tation Completion      * Supervision inter-  institutional perform-   are included in TORs
strengthening programs    * TORs for Study   Report                views and their reports  ance in Activities iden-  for Study and TORs for
at the Schools and    Expressways                                  on trainees performance tified at start of project  Investigation/Study.
Training institutions                                                                    as requiring Training    Both of these are
INDICATOR             INDICATOR             INDICATOR             and other institutional  included as part of
Equipment procured    Equipment procured in  Equipment used suc-   strengthening measures  annual submission of a
within time and budget  operation           cessfully for purposes                       2-year rolling Training
allowed                                     intended                                     Plan.
SOURCE:               SOURCE:               SOURCE:
* Annual              * Equipment Status    * Reported use of
Procurement Plan      reports               eqcuipment
Training              INDICATOR:             INDICATOR: Training  INDICATOR: Trainees  INDICATOR: Critical  Performance on critical
Training In Hubei     # of Trainees selected   programs completed in  assigned to jobs where  Function and activities  functions and activities
and sent for timely   timely manner (as per   new skills are effec-    (for which training was  assessed tbrough inter-
Training in Other China training in China and    periodic Plans provided  tively utilized  identified as key factor) views with Supervisors
abroad:               by HPCD)                                    demonstrate improved   of Units that requested
Short-Term Training                                                                      performance           training: e.g. type of
Abroad                                                                                                          analyses undertaken;
SOURCE:               SOURCE:               SOURCE:               SOURCE:                successful completion
Investigation Study     *Annual Training      * Mid-term Report      * Reports from      Assessment of         of certain tasks,; opera-
Tour                  Report                  *  Implementation   interviews of former   institutional         tion of certain kind of
* Annual Training   Completion Report    trainees               perfonrance (as above) equipment, etc.. (infor-
Plan                                          *  Reports from                            mation included as part
former trainees'                            of Training Needs Pro-
supervisors                                 files. Interviews are
conducted as part of
assessment of institu-
tional perfonmance for
Function (activities)
identified at start of
project as requiring
Training and other
institutional strengthen-
ing measures.



- 72 -                    ANNEX2
ANNEX 2: ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT AND ACTION
PLAN SUMMARY
1.    Background. An environmental impact assessment (EIA) for the Dawu-Shenshan
section of the Jingzhu Expressway; the Zhushan-Yongan and Shenshan-Baoxie sections
of the Hurong Expressway and the interconnecting roads was carried out by the Research
Institute of Highways (RIOH) of MOC. Two EIA reports (one for the Expressway and
one for the interconnecting roads), and an Environmental Action Plan (EAP) were
prepared as per the policy and administrative requirements for environmental assessment
of development projects in China and the Bank's Operational Directive 4.01 on
Environmental Assessment. The development and review of these documents involved
inputs from various units in the province, the environmental protection bureaus, research
institutions and the affected groups along the highways. These documents were reviewed
by the Bank and discussed with HPCD during the preparation mission in May 1996.
Based on the Bank's comments, the revised EIAs and EAPs for the Expressways and its
interconnecting roads, and the Environmental Assessment (EA) Summary were submitted
to the Bank in December 1996 for review. These documents were further reviewed and
discussed with HPCD during the preappraisal mission in March 1997. The final EIA
reports, EAPs and the joint EA Summary covering the Expressways and their
interconnecting roads were submitted to the Bank in April 1997 and found to be
satisfactory. Copies of the environmental reports are available in the project files.
2.    Brief Project Description. The main civil components of NH3 consist of the
construction of a four-lane expressway between Dawu and Shenshan (144 km, part of the
Jingzhu Expressway); the Quanli-Yongan (10 km) and Shenshan-Baoxie (44 km) sections
of the Hurong Expressway; and three, two-lane interconnecting roads. Other components
include institutional strengthening, training programs, highway safety and construction
supervision.
3.    Baseline Environmental Description. The proposed alignment of NH3 lies in
the eastern part of the Hubei province and in the middle reaches of the Yangtze River.
The terrain is higher in the north (Dawu county) than in the south (Wuhan). While most
of the road traverses areas with good soil and geological conditions, about 22.7 km of the
road sections pass over soft soil, requiring stabilization and import of subgrade and
pavement materials from a long distance. Soil erosion is a serious problem in the upper
reaches of the highway (Dawu county-5,500 ton/km2/year) compared to the lower
reaches in areas of Caidian, East-West Lake where it averages about 1,000 ton/km 2/year.
4.    The area along the proposed highway is characterized by a tropical continental
monsoon type of climate with high rainfall (1,100-1,450 mm) and an annual average
temperature of 15-17°C. Flooding is a serious problem in the hilly areas. The area is
abundant in surface water resources of good quality, which form a major source of water



- 73 -                    ANNEX2
for industrial and agricultural production. Groundwater is used as the major source of
drinking water.
5.    The area along the route is relatively well developed. The original vegetation has
been gradually replaced by the present state of scattered secondary forest and
nonindigenous vegetation, mainly mason pines, and Chinese firs. The main agriculture
crops include rice, wheat, barley, cotton, canola, peanuts and tobacco. No rare or
endangered anirnals or plant species were found within the 500-m zone on either side of
the proposed roads. Lead concentrations in soil samples ranged between 14.1 and
97.4 mg/kg, significantly lower than the 300 mg/kg value recommended by the Ministry
of Agriculture as the criterion for basic soil.
6.    The areas along the Expressways are rich in tourism resources including scenic
spots and historical sites such as the Double-Peak mountains, the tomb of Dongyong (a
Chinese fairytale character), Jiuzong and Yellow Grass Mountains, Cemetery of
Revolutionary Martyrs, etc. A cultural relics survey along the proposed highway.and the
alternative alignments revealed two ancient cultural ruins (Zhuge City ruins and Buddhist
Monk Tomb) along the proposed alignment and five ruins along the alternative
alignments.
7.    Atmospheric monitoring data of the past years and air quality monitoring at 30
sites along the proposed alignment indicate that TSP (except for a few locations), NO,
and CO concentrations meet the Class II standards. The connecting roads were also
monitored and found to be acceptable. Daytime and nighttime noise levels at 26 sites
along the alignment were found to be below the noise standard.
8.    Potential Environmental Impacts and Their Mitigation Measures. The major
potential environmental impacts of the proposed expressways and their connecting roads
and their mitigation measures are incorporated in their respective EAPs. The EAPs
stipulate how the environmental impacts identified in the EIA will be dealt with in the
design, construction and operation phases, and what institutional arrangements have been
made for the implementation of the EAPs during the three distinct phases. The key
elements of the EAPs are summarized below.
Design Phase
9.    A number of alternative alignments for various sections of the highways were
considered in the project design phase of the Jingzhu and the Hurong Expressways. The
final alignments were selected to minimize land acquisition and resettlement costs,
potential environmental impacts of the project on farmlands, residences, schools, cultural
relics, irrigation and flood control, geographical and geological conditions, etc. The
design includes approximately 350 passageways and underpasses to facilitate the crossing
of the expressways by local people, animals and vehicles. To reduce soil erosion, side
slopes will be grassed and disturbed areas will be reclaimed. Additional measures such as
subgrade drairnage systems are integrated in the project design, and temporary and
permanent drainage systems will be constructed to minimize soil erosion and alteration of
hydrological regimes. Extreme care has been taken to minimize flooding. Particular



- 74 -                     ANNEX2
attention was paid to balance cuts and fills, to locate borrow areas in wasteland, to
minimize the use of arable land, and to minimize dust and noise problems.
10.   During the initial operating phase (year 2002), noise levels at several sensitive
locations will exceed the noise standards used in the initial phase. In later years, as the
traffic increases, the noise levels will significantly exceed the standards at many more
sensitive sites. To mitigate the short- and medium-term noise problems, a combination of
measures such as resettlement and installation of noise barriers will be undertaken. In the
long term (2020), noise monitoring will be continued and appropriate mitigation
measures will be taken when the noise monitoring results significantly exceed the
standards. Construction of schools and hospitals will not be allowed within 200 m on
either sides of the proposed highways and construction of other buildings, within 50 m of
the highways will be prohibited. Up to the year 2020, CO concentration at all sites is
expected to meet the Class II air quality standards. In the medium to long term, NO,
concentration at 15 to 140 m from the road center will exceed the maximum standards
while the daily average NO, concentrations will exceed the standards. The long-term air
pollution problems caused by vehicle exhaust gases will be dealt with by improving
vehicle emission controls.
11.   During the cultural relics survey, two ancient ruins-Zhuge City ruins and a
Buddhist Monk tomb-were discovered. The Zhuge City ruins were avoided by
alignment optimization. Plans for further excavation and salvage operations of the
Buddhist monk tomb will be developed and integrated in the NH3 Project. All the salvage
activities will be carried out before the start of construction of the highway.
12.   Additional design measures include provisions for adequate drainage, wastewater
treatment facilities at the service areas, strengthening of crash barriers at pollution
sensitive locations, and adequate bridge and culvert design to minimize flooding.
Construction Phase
13.   To minimize dust during construction, road surfaces, excavation areas, material
stockpiles, storage areas, and construction sites will be sprayed with water specially near
towns and villages, water supply sources and near sensitive locations. Asphalt and lime
stone mixing plants will be equipped with dust collectors and will be located at least
500 m from residential areas on the leeward side. Additional precautions will include
covering of haul trucks and material storage piles, control of exhaust gas, etc.
Construction activities within 200 m from residences will be suspended between
10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., except under exceptional circumstances when a prior written
approval of the local government and the environmental protection bureau will be
required.
14.   Where possible, borrow areas will be restricted to nonforest and nonarable lands,
and topsoil will be saved and returned to the land. Spoil disposal sites will be carefully
selected to minimize disruption to the farmlands. Damage to irrigation systems will be
minimized by construction of temporary channels and conduits and measures will be
taken to prevent direct discharge of polluted waters and silt from construction activities



-75 -                     ANNEX2
into rivers and irrigation channels. Construction camp wastes and sewage will be
collected and treated and disposed of in an environmentally sound manner. Trees and
grass will be planted on side slopes, and along the roadside, particularly on sections with
high fills and deep cuts.
15.   During construction, effective safety and warning measures will be adopted to
reduce accidents. This will include minimization of traffic jams, provision of efficient
lighting equipment and safety signs, restriction on blasting time and implementation of
stringent controls at quarries, development of a materials transport plan, etc.
Operation Phalse
16.   During the operation phase, emphasis will be placed on better vehicle
maintenance and management to promote safety and to minimize vehicle emissions.
Low-speed, badly maintained old vehicles will be barred from using the expressway and
a minimum 60 km/hr speed limit will be enforced. Periodic campaigns will be undertaken
to educate drivers about the unnecessary use of horns, reduction in night time speed, safe
transport of hazardous materials, etc. To avoid future noise and air pollution problems,
construction of residential buildings and schools/hospitals will be prohibited within 50 m
and 200 m, respectively from the center of the highways.
17.   Environmental Monitoring. During the construction and operation of the
Jingzhu and the Hurong Expressways, and its connecting roads, environmental
monitoring will be carried out to verify the actual impacts on the environment, identify
unexpected environmental problems at an early stage, and to adjust environmental
protection measures as appropriate. The Environmental Protection Office (EPO) of
HPCD will be responsible for all environmental monitoring of the Expressways and its
connecting roads during the construction phase. During the operating phase, all
environrmental monitoring will be carried out by the local EPBs under contract with the
Provincial Motorway Administration Bureaus.
18.   The major items to be monitored during the construction and operation phases
will include air quality, noise and water quality. A number of noise level meters,
computers to process environmental data, laboratory equipment, etc. will be procured
under the project. The detailed monitoring plan is presented in the EAP.
19.  Institutional Arrangements. The EPO in HPCD will be responsible for the
overall environmental protection and management of the highways. The six staff in the
EPO will be assisted by four environmental staff in the Engineering Supervision Station
who will be responsible for the environmental aspects of the project during the
construction phase. Environmental monitoring during the construction and the operation
phases will be carried out by the local EPBs through contract with the Provincial
Motorways Administration Bureaus. Environmental training will be undertaken to
provide adequate training for environmental staff at all levels. The detailed staffing and
training plan is presented in the EAP.



- 76 -                          ANNEX3
ANNEX 3: REVIEW OF THE
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN
A. BACKGROUND
1.     This Annex presents the Land Acquisition and Resettlement aspects associated
with the National Highways III (NH3) project. It is based on the Resettlement Action
Plan (RAP) prepared by the Hubei Expressway Resettlement Office (HERO) of the Hubei
Province Communications Department (HPCD) in cooperation with the Resettlement
Offices (ROs) of affected cities and counties, as well as Institutes associated with the
project.
B. DIMENSIONS OF RESETTLEMENT
2.     Project Impact. The NH3 project (including the Jingzhu section and Hurong
section) will affect 178 villages in 39 towns, 6 counties and 2 cities. The impact of the
project is summarized in Table 1.
TABLE 1: PROJECT IMPACT
Effect                     Unit      Jingzhu      Hurong      Total
Section    Section
Permanent land acquisition: Total             mu         13,764       4,558      18,322
Land under agricultural/economic use  mu          12,285      4,176      16,461
Residence base                        mu            189          60         249
Others                                mu           1,290        322       1,612
Temporary land occupation: Total              mu          2,610        112        2,722
Arable                                mu          2 231          90       2,321
2
Affected structures: Total area               m
Private residence           m~~~2 186,729
Private residence                      m        118,036      34,243     152,279
Enterprises                            m2    :     .      :       .::   26,078
Public buildings                       ni 28.7
Affected persons                              no.        16,241       4,328      20,569
Households                            no.         3,403       1,061       4,464
PAPs affected by: Land acquisition only       no.        11,818       3,449      15,267
House relocation only                 no.         1,336          28       1,364
Both house and land                   no.         2,822         819       3,641
Temporary land acquisition            no.           265          82         347
Economically Active PAPs                      no.         5,734       1,068       6,802
Persons to be resettled into enterprise jobs  no.          494          38         532



- 77-                     ANNEX3
3.    Resettlement Action Plans. The HERO of HPCD prepared a RAP for the project
based on the Laws and Regulations of China and Hubei Province as well as the Bank's
Operational Directive 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement.
C. POLICY AND STRATEGIES FOR RESETTLEMENT
4.    Legal Framework and Resettlement Policy. In addition to the national laws and
regulations mentioned in the main text, the following local regulations govern land
acquisition and resettlement in Hubei Province:
*  Hubei Province Land Management and Enforcement Measures (September 3,
1987)
* Notice on the Management Fees of Land Acquisition. Financial Department of
the Hubei Province (March 15, 1995)
o Notice Concerning the Resettlement of Surplus Labor after Land Acquisition
and Transferring the Registration of the Surplus Laborers from Agricultural to
Nonagricultural Registration. The Planning Committee, Labor Department
and the Land Administration Bureau of Hubei Province (September 1991)
5.    Resettlement Compensation. The average annual output value for land was set at
the highest level of all the acquired land. The compensation multiplier is adjusted
according to the productivity of the affected land (6 for irrigated land and 5 for dry land).
The multiplier for resettlement grant is set at 3, the highest multiplier in the Land Law.
6.    Land Redistribution. Preference will be given to land-based resettlement by
readjusting the village land among the laborers in the village, to the extent that the
average land per person in the village does not fall below the threshold of 0.4 mu.
Whenever the average falls below the threshold, the surplus labor will be resettled in
enterprise jobs. After the readjustment of land, the HERO, local governments, City ROs
(CIROs) and County ROs (COROs) will take rehabilitation measures to increase the
productivity of agricultural land according to plans prepared at the village level.
7.    House Relocation. Compensation for affected buildings will be paid at
replacement cost (without depreciation). PAPs will be relocated in original villages, near
their original house. Construction of new housing will be completed before the
destruction of the affected structures. Vulnerable groups and those who need assistance,
such as the old, sick and the handicapped, will be assisted by the local authorities while
they reconstruct their houses.
8.    Affected Public Buildings and Enterprises. Affected enterprises will be rebuilt
and will reemploy all the original workers. Construction of new facilities will be
completed before old structures are demolished so that production losses are minimized.
Compensation of lost output, work stoppage allowance and production stoppage
allowance will be incorporated into the compensation rates for the facilities.



- 78 -                     ANNEX3
9.    Transfer of PAPs from  Agriculture to Enterprise Jobs. Some 532
economically active laborers (or 1,360 PAPs including all family members) will be
transferred from agricultural to enterprise jobs due to lirnitations of availability of
agricultural land. The waiting period will not be more than three months. During the
waiting period, PAPs' income will not be lower than their income from agricultural
employment. PAPs will sign employment agreements with the enterprises, which will
ensure a minimum employment for three years. HERO will be responsible for the
employment of the surplus labor during the life of the project.
10.   Job Creation. To provide jobs for the eligible PAPs, 35 enterprises were chosen
along the route that are willing to employ the 532 laborers. Currently, these enterprises
employ between 21 and 750 workers each. After resettlement, they will be employing
between 5 and 86 additional PAPs each. Over the last three years, the rate of growth of
output in these enterprises was between 15 and 29 percent, and the rate of growth of
output has surpassed the employment growth. This record provides a favorable indication
on their future performance. PAPs' income will increase as a consequence of enterprise
employment. Work environment in these enterprises has been screened to ensure that it
will not cause employment-related health problems.
11.   Infrastructure. Affected infrastructure will be rehabilitated either by the project,
or compensation will be paid, at replacement cost, to the owners of infrastructure.
Improvement of the standards of affected infrastructure will be ensured through
consultation with the PAPs during the rehabilitation of the infrastructure.
D. INSTITUTIONS
12.   Institutional Responsibility. Leading groups at the project, city and county
levels have been established with the responsibility of coordinating and implementing
resettlement. Actual implementation of resettlement will be the responsibility of CIROs
and COROs. These offices have been equipped with the necessary staff and equipment.
The responsibility of the ROs at all levels are to distribute compensation, guarantee the
implementation of the RAP, and assist the PAPs to improve their standards of living.
13.   Staffing of the ROs. HERO has eight staff members including the director. Two
CIROs have a total of 10 staff members, six COROs have a total of 30 staff members and
39 Township Resettlement Offices (TROs) have a total of 156 staff members. The
monitoring database that the Village Administration Committees (VACs) and TROs will
utilize is also available at the CIRO, CORO and HERO level in electronic form.
Monitoring results will flow to COROs, where the information will be processed in
electronic form and transmitted to HERO to complete the monitoring cycle.
E. SCHEDULING
14.   Implementation Schedule. The HERO was established in July 1995 and the first
draft of the RAP was competed in January 1996. The census survey, consultation with
PAPs, establishment of local ROs and consultation on compensation rates and



- 79 -                          ANNEX3
rehabilitation packages have already taken place. The schedule for the remaining
activities associated with the implementation of the RAP is presented in Table 2.
TABLE 2: IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Activity                                           Date             Executing Unit
Baseline Survey (Standards of Living Survey-SLS)   Apr-May 1997    Independent Monitoring
Organization (IMO)
Signing of resettlement agreement                 Apr-May 1998    HERO, CIROs, COROs
Allocation of funds to CIROs & COROs               May-Jun 1998    HERO
Payment of Compensation                            Jun-Jul 1998    CIROs, COROs, TROs,
VACs
Preparation for House Construction                 Jun-Jul 1998    TROs, PAPs, VACs
Completion of Land-Use Procedure                  Jun-Jul 1998     TROs
House Construction and House Relocation            Jun-Sep 1998    TROs, PAPs
Constr. & Relocation of Public Buildings & Infrastructure  Jul-Oct 1998  HPCD, Power and
Telecom Bureau, TROs
PAPs to be Relocated into Enterprises              Sep-Oct 1998    Enterprises
Removal of Vacated Buildings                       Aug-Oct 1998    TROs
Land Readjustment                                  Sep-Oct 1998    TROs, HERO
Supervise Resettleiment and Approval               Oct 1998        HERO
Commencement oi Civil Works                        Dec 1998        HPCD
Independent Monitoring                             Throughout      IMO
SLS after Resettlement                             Aug 2003        IMO
F. Budget
15.    Resettlement Budget. The budget for the project is presented in Table 3. Physical
and price contingencies as well as the administrative cost have been included in the
budget.
TABLE 3: RESETTLEMENT BUDGET
(Y million)
Cost item                 Jingzhu Section  Hurong Section      Total
Land compensation                                81.74           24.66          106.40
Land occupation tax                              16.03            5.23           21.26
Temporary land occupation                         5.03            0.22            5.25
Resettlement subsidy                             35.56            8.65           44.21
Private house and asset compensation including   31.11            9.20           40.31
moving and transition allowance
Public buildings compensation                     5.43            1.23            6.66
Infrastructure compensation                       8.19            7.70           15.89
Administrative costs (4%)                         7.32            2.28            9.60
Monitoring and RAP preparation                    1.83            0.57            2.40
Contingencies:  Physical                         18.31            5.69           24.00
*Price                            18.31            5.69           24.00
Total                                   228.86           71.12          299.98



- 80 -                    ANNEX3
G. GRIEVANCE, PARTICIPATION AND CONSULTATION
16.   Grievance Process. PAPs with grievances on resettlement and rehabilitation shall
submit their complaint to the village resettlement offices and TROs. If the results are not
satisfactory to the PAPs, the complaint can be submitted to the COROs, CIROs and the
HERO in stages and within the time limits as specified in the RAP. If the issue cannot be
resolved by the project authorities, then the grievance will be brought to the People's
Court in accordance with the Civil Procedure Act.
17.   Participation and Consultation. PAPs have been consulted on the impact of the
project and resettlement measures since the beginning of RAP preparation through
surveys, public meetings, etc. The PAPs are informed about the project and already know
the location of their new houseplots. Consultation will continue during the
implementation.
H. MONITORING AND REPORTING
18.  Internal Monitoring. The HERO is responsible for internal monitoring of
resettlement. All levels of ROs will coordinate their monitoring activities. During
implementation, TROs and COROs will record their resettlement and rehabilitation
activities at the individual and household level into their databases and transmit the
information to the HERO.
19.  Independent Monitoring. The implementation of the RAP will be monitored by
IMO to evaluate its progress and the compliance of the implementing organizations with
the principles of the RAP. In addition, IMO will conduct surveys to monitor the standard
of living of the PAPs to ascertain that remedial action will be taken if the living standards
fall below preproject levels. IMO will also be responsible for monitoring (a) coordination
between the schedule of resettlement and civil works; (b) grievance issues; (c) job
creation; (d) rehabilitation of infrastructure; and (e) satisfaction of the PAPs.
20.   Reporting. Local ROs will report on the progress continuously to the HERO.
IMO will report to the HERO twice a year during implementation and annually (on
December 31 of each year) thereafter. The HERO will report to the Bank semiannually
during the implementation and annually thereafter (on January 31 of each year).



-81-                        ANNEX4
ANNEX 4: IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
This annex presents the implementation schedule for the various components of the
project. Table 1 summarizes the overall implementation schedule for the project as a whole.
Table 2 shows the detailed implementation schedule for the National Highways III project.
This schedule shows the estimated time requirements for construction activities, as well as
for preconstruction activities, such as preparation of bid documents, the prequalification
process, the bidding process, evaluation of bids, negotiations, and signing of contracts.



1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008
ID   Task Name                                                     Duration   '98   '99   '00   '01   '02   '03    04   '05   '06   '07 _L'08
1    CIVIL WORKS                                                      1495d   _      _     _               _      -
2        Contract Section for ICB                                     1235d      .
3            Prequalification documents (PQ) available for sale          Id
4            Last date to submit PQ documents                            ld   h
5           PQ documents evaluation report & MOC review                 86d
6            Bank review and no objection to PQ documents evaluation rep  23d
7            Review documents by MOC                                    21d
8           Review documents by the Bank                                22d
9           Sell bidding documents to prequalified contractors           ld
10           Conference before bidding and site investigation             2d     .
11           Last date to receive bid documents                           1 d
12           Bid evaluation report and review by MOC                     32d
00
13           Bank review evaluation report and no objection              22d
14           Notify successful bidder                                     Id
15           Negotiate and sign contracts                                 ld
16           Construction period                                        920d
17
18       Contract Section for ICB (Contracts 9 and 10)                1234d
19           Prequalification documents (PQ) available for sale           ld
20           Last date to submit PQ documents                             ld
21           PQ documents evaluation report & MOC review                 86d
Task                                  Summary                               Rolled Up Progress
Project:                            ProresAolld_p_as
Date: 4/8/98                        Progress                              Rolled UpTask
Milestone        *                    Rolled Up Milestone 0
Page 1



1998  1999  2000 1 2001 [ 2002 | 2003 |2004  2005  2006  2007 [2008
ID   Task Name                                                    Duration   '98 | '99   '00   '01   '02   '03   '04   '05   '06   '07   '08
22           Bank review and no objection to PQ documents evaluation rep  23d   .       I
23           Review documents by MOC                                    21 d
24           Review documents by the Bank                               22d
25           Sell bidding documents to prequalified contractors          l d
26           Conference before bidding and site investigation            2d
27           Last date to receive bid documents                          Id
28           Bid evaluation report and review by MOC                    32d
29           Bank review evaluation report and no objection             22d
30           Notify successful bidder                                    ld
31           Negotiate and sign contracts                                ld
32           Construction period                                       919d                  *ii m ii
33
00
34                                                                         .  
35
36       Annex Areas (NCB)                                             804d
37           Complete bidding documents                                  ld
38           Sell bidding documents                                      Id
39           Conference before bidding and site investigation            3d
40           Last date to receive bid documents                          Id
41           Bid evaluation report and review by MOC                     1d
42           Negotiate and sign contracts                                1d                          .                                                  Z
._        _       _       _       _       __               _    _                                                                              z
Task                                 Summary                               Rolled Up Progress
Project:
Date: 4/8/98                       Progress                              Rolled Up Task
Milestone                            Rolled Up Milestone O
Page 2



1998 199912000] 2001] 2002  2003  2004  2005 L2006  200712008
ID   Task Name                                                    Duration  '98   '99   '00   '01   '02   '03   '04   '05   '06   '07   '08
43           Construction period                                       501 d
44
45           Interconnecting Roads                                    804d      . .             _
46               Bidding documents available for sale                    ld
47               Last date to submit bid documents                       1 d
48               Bid documents evaluation report & MOC review           65d
49               Sell bidding documents                                  ld
50               Conference before bidding and site investigation        3d     .
51               Last date to receive bid documents                      1 d
52               Bid evaluation report and review by MOC                85d
53               Negotiate and sign contracts                           22d
54               Construction period                                   521d                         -
554-
56   2. E&M WORKS CONTRACTS (ICB)                                      871d     . .
57       Complete bidding documents                                      ld
58       Review documents by the Bank                                   24d
59       Sell bidding documents                                          Id
60       Conference before bidding and site investigation                3d     .
61       Last date to receive bid documents                              ld
62       Bid evaluation report and review by MOC                         ld
63       Bank review evaluation report and no objection                  ld     .
Task                                 Summary                +              Rolled Up Progress
Project:                                             _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Date: 4/8/98                       Progress                              Rolled Up Task
Milestone                            Rolled Up Milestone 0
Page 3



-85 -                               ANNEX4
COW
....................................................0...................................................
.         ..................................  ......................................................................
I-
0cm
N
00
CD                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
C,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
0 0l
10 p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
C14~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
U  .....  ...... ................................................. ...................................
C%l-
................0......................................   ..........  .I L.... .........    .................
C 0DV
N -
00
00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
N -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  0-
Co~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 
0   V     V   V   V   V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ >   V  C   co   V                   V V V 
0~~~                                                  II. 
CU                                         0~ 0  0   -
i        m   co  CL       .C2CD
~~~~0~~
C         2~                                            toE   0
t:       7-   V   -r             C
Cu   0
0    LU                                           16       -a >C          0        =          n 
o   2   0  E   S             0                  0              en C~~~~~~~ -j 0 
0                           E~~~~0                               V         .     
c    ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    o 0.0             C   0                      0 C  0>
Lm       0   0        co  *0   0                                o La
Z   C   0                         0         0        E                           I-
o     -002   V                                                    .0C
C                                              E) ~~        =                           >   0
m   0      E   m   .c                 co0 V    ~0.  0                           .00     
.L,V     0   02   V   0                                C    >
C            0~~~~~~~~~~ -   V 8                  -            . 0. B    -  0   V      0
C                      MaC  0         0   2,   C   *-   0a 0                           -    t
IM  r_       r_    ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    V         ~   0    be
en   0         2 . 0         0   2    0   0   0   0 0        0        0            0 a.t
00   C        U)  M         a.  C)   U   Cu      0   C C 0 E                            x   co
Z.~~~~   cS    ~~~~~~   .!~~~~  ~~~.  o  w  w  Z  0   C.)  0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~         co-J 0
C-i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
co~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



1998 11999 | 2000 J 2001 | 2002 | 2003  2004 | 2005  2006 J 2007 | 2008
ID   Task Name                                                     Duration   '98   '99   '00   '01   '02   '03   '04   '05   '06   '07   '08
85       HPCD negotiates and awards contract                              Id
86       Consultants mobilize                                             ld
87       Execution of Study                                             326d
88
89   5. Highway Maintenance Management Study                            631d
90       TOR, short list and LOI reviewed and approved by the Bank        ld
91       Letter issued to consultants                                     ld
92       Consultants prepare and submit proposals                         ld
93       HPCD evaluates Consultant's proposals                            ld
94       Bank approves evaluation report                                  ld
95       HPCD negotiates and awards contract                              ld
96       Consultants mobilize                                             I d
00
97       Execution of Study                                             521 d
98
99   6. Road Safety Program                                             522d
100      Bank approves TOR, short list and LOI                            1d
101      Mobilize consultant/ Study group                                 1d
102      Final proposal, review by Bank and no objection                  1d
103      Execution of Study                                             392d
| Task               __ Summary                                             Rolled Up Progress
Project:                            Progress                              RolPed 5
Date: 4/8/98 Pors oldU ak_
Milestone         *Rolled Up Milestone o
Page 5



- 87 -                           ANNEX4
TABLE 2: IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM OF NATIONAL HIGHWAYS III PROJECT
1. Civil Works
Contract Section for ICB
Prequalification documents (PQ) available for sale                       Oct 5, 1997
Last date to submit PQ documents                                         Dec 1, 1997
PQ documents evaluation report & MOC review                 Dec 1, 1997 - Mar 31, 1998
Bank review and no-objection to PQ documents evaluation report    Apr I - May 1, 1998
Review bid documents by the Bank                               Jun 1, 1998 - Jul 1, 1998
Sell bidding documents to prequalified contractors                        Jul 1, 1998
Conference before bidding and site investigation                     Aug 14-16, 1998
Last date to receive bid documents                                       Sep 1, 1998
Bid evaluation report and review by MOC                           Sep I - Oct 15, 1998
Bank review bid evaluation report and no-objection              Oct 15 - Nov 15, 1998
Notify successful bidder                                                Nov 15, 1998
Negotiate and sign contracts with contractors                           Nov 30, 1998
Start construction                                                      Dec 20, 1998
Complete construction                                                   Jun 30, 2002
(Note: Contracts 9 and 10 will be one year later than the above-mentioned schedule.)
Annex Area (NCB)
Complete bidding documents                                              Jun 30, 1999
Sell bidding documents                                                    Jul 1, 1999
Conference before bidding and site investigation                        Sep 1-3, 1999
Last date to receive bid documents                                      Sep 30, 1999
Complete bids evaluation report & MOC review                             Jan 31, 2000
Negotiate and sign contracts with contractors                           Mar 31, 2000
Start construction                                                       May 1,2000
Complete construction                                                   Apr 30, 2002
Interconnecting Roads (NCB)
Prequalification documents (PQ) available for sale                       Jun 1, 1999
Last date to submit PQ documents                                         Jul 31, 1999
PQ documents evaluation report & MOC review                      Aug 1 - Oct 31, 1999
Sell bidding documents                                                   Nov 1, 1999
Conference before bidding and site investigation                       Dec 1-3, 1999
Last date to receive bid documents                                      Dec 31, 1999
Complete bid evaluation report and review by MOC                  Jan I - Apr 30, 2000
Negotiate and sign contracts with contractors                         May 1-31, 2000
Start construction                                                      Jun 30, 2000
Complete construction                                                   Jun 30,2002
2. E&M Works Contract (ICB)
Complete bidding documents & National E&M Products Import & Export               ---
Management Office review                                                Feb 28, 2000
Bank review and no-objection to bidding documents                       Mar 31, 2000
Sell bidding documents                                                   Apr 1,2000
Conference before bidding and site investigation                        Jun 1-3, 2000
Last time to receive bid documents                                      Jun 30,2000
Bid evaluation report and govermment review                             Sep 30, 2000
Bank review bid evaluation report and no-objection                      Oct 31, 2000
Negotiate and sign contracts with contractors                            Jan 1, 2001



- 88 -                           ANNEX4
Agreement takes effect                                                    Jan 1, 2001
Complete construction                                                    Jun 30, 2003
3. Construction Supervision
Review and no-objection of Bank to terms of reference (TOR), letter of
invitation (LOI) and shortlist of consultants                         Apr 30, 1998
Issue invitations to consultants                                         May 1, 1998
Conference before bidding and site investigation                      May 20-21, 1998
Last date to receive proposals                                            Jun 1, 1998
Complete proposal evaluation report and MOC review                       Jun 30, 1998
Bank review proposals evaluation report and no-objection                  Jul 31, 1998
Negotiate with consultant and sign contract                              Aug 31, 1998
Consultant to prepare training material                                Sep 1-30, 1998
Train local personnel in China                                    Oct I -Nov 30, 1998
Train local personnel abroad                                           Nov 1-30, 1998
Start supervision of construction                                        Dec 20, 1998
Complete supervision of construction                                     Jun 30, 2003
4. Expressway Commercialization and Corporatization Study
Review and no-objection of Bank to TOR, LOI and shortlist of consultants  Dec 31, 1998
Issue invitations to consultants                                          Jan 1, 1999
Last date to receive proposals                                           Feb 28, 1999
Complete proposal evaluation report                                      Apr 30, 1999
Bank review proposal evaluation report and no-objection                 May 31, 1999
Negotiate with consultant and sign contract                               Jul 31, 1999
Start study                                                               Sep 1, 1999
Complete study                                               Oct 1, 1999 - Dec 31, 2000
5. Hubei Province Highway Maintenance Study
Review and no-objection of Bank to TOR, LOI and shortlist of consultants  Jul 31, 1998
Issue invitations to consultants                                          Aug 1, 1998
Last date to receive proposals                                           Aug 31, 1998
Complete proposal evaluation report                                      Sep 30, 1998
Bank review proposal evaluation report and no-objection                  Oct 31, 1998
Negotiate with consultant and sign contract                              Nov 30, 1998
Start study                                                                Jan 1, 1999
Complete study                                               Jan 1, 1999 - Dec 31, 2000
6. Road Safety Activities
List of Chinese experts, shortlist of foreign consultants and LOI available
for Bank review                                                       Dec 31, 1998
Mobilize consultant/study group                                           Jan 1, 1999
Final proposal and work program review by Bank and no-objection           Jun 30, 1999
Execute study                                                 Jul 1, 1999 - Dec 31, 2000



-89 -                           ANNEX5
ANNEX 5: SUPERVISION MISSION PLAN
Timing                   Main Activities                  Skills Requirement   Staff-weeks
10/98  Project Launch                                   Highway engineering      4.0
The review of all key procedures for Bank Executing  Procurement
Agency interactions, such as procurement, disbursement, Disbursement
environment and resettlement, implementation schedule,  Environment
and progress reporting requirements. Review progress on Resettlement
preparation of studies.
02/99  General Supervision                              Highway engineering      3.0
* Review of overall progress for each component, identi- Procurement
fication of pending issues, and agreement on follow-up  Training
actions;
. Agreement on resettlement monitoring arrangements;
* Review of proposals for equipment for maintenance of
highway network and institutional strengthening; and
. Review of proposals for training programs.
10/99  Major Supervision                                Highway engineering      4.0
In-depth review of implementation status with particular  Procurement
emphasis on:                                     Environment
* Contractors' performance;                      Transport economics
* Effectiveness of supervision;                  Highway capacity
* Adequacy of environmental protection measures;
- Review of proposal for equipment procurement for the
operation and maintenance of the highway network and
the expressway;
* Review of bidding documents for E&M supply and
installation contract for the expressway; and
* Review of progress on a highway maintenance
management study,a high-grade highway
commercialization and corporatization study, and an
expressway safety study
06/00  General Supervision                              Highway engineering      3.0
* Review of overall progress for each component,  Procurement
identification of pending issues and agreement on  Training
follow-up actions;
* Review of progress for procurement of equipment for
operation and maintenance of the expressway;
. Review of progress on studies; and
* Review of progress on training programs.



- 90 -                          ANNEX5
Timing                   Main Activities                  Skills Requirement   Staff-weeks
02/01  Major Supervision                                Highway engineering      4.0
In-depth review of implementation status with particular  Environment
emphasis on:                                     Resettlement
. Contractors' performance;                      Transport economics
. Effectiveness of supervision;                  Traffic engineering
* Adequacy of environmental protection measures;
. Staff training programs; and
* Review of progress on implementation of studies and
their recommendations.
10/01  General Supervision                              Highway engineering      3.0
Review of overall progress for each component, identifi-  Training
cation of pending issues and agreement on follow-up
actions, with emphasis on training and studies.
06/02  Major Supervision                                Highway engineering      4.0
In-depth review of implementation status with particular  Environment
emphasis on:                                     Capacity study
 Contractors' performance;                      Tolling
. Effectiveness of supervision;
* Adequacy of environmental protection measures;
* Staff training programs;
* Review of progress on implementation of recommen-
dations of studies; and
* Review of results of toll studies and discuss operation
and maintenance of tolling agencies.
02/03  General Supervision                              Highway engineering      3.0
Review of overall progress for each component, identifi-  Training
cation of pending issues and agreement on follow-up  Tolling
actions.
10/03  General Supervision                              Highway engineering      2.0
Review of overall progress for each component, identifi-
cation of pending issues and agreement on follow-up
actions. Agreement on actions for preparation of Project
Implementation Completion Report.
06/04  PICR Mission                                     Highway engineering      4.0
A consolidated review of project implementation.  Transport economics
Environment
Resettlement
Training
Total                                                                  34.0



-91-                       ANNEX6
ANNEX 6: SELECTED DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
ECONOMIC AND ENGINEERING STUDIES
1.  Feasibility Study Report of NH3 Project in Hubei Province, August 1996.
2.  Annex Area Scheme Report of NH3 Project in Hubei Province, December 1996.
3. Electrical and Mechanical Engineering Design Report, September 1997.
4.  Prequalification Document of Hubei NH3 Project, October 1997.
5. Letter of Invitation and TOR for Construction Supervision Consulting Service,
January 1998.
6. Technical Characteristics of the Expressway Section, January 1997.
7. Project Implementation Plan (updated version), March 1998.
EQUIPMENT
1. List of Equipment for NH3 Project (updated version), February 1998.
ENVIRONMENTAL DOCUMENTS
1. Environmental Impact Assessment Report of NH3 Project in Hubei Province, March
1997.
2. Environmental Impact Assessment Report of Interconnecting Roads of NH3 Project
in Hubei Province, March 1997.
3. Environmental Action Plan of NH3 Project in Hubei Province (updated version),
February 1998.
4. Environmental Assessment Summary of NH3 Project in Hubei Province (updated
version), March 1998.
RESETTLEMENT DOCUMENT
1. Resettlement Action Plan (updated version), March 1998.



- 92 -                    ANNEX6
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE/TRAINING/STUDIES
1. Terms of Reference for Expressway Commercialization and Corporatization Study,
January 1998.
2. Terms of Reference for Highway Maintenance Study, February 1998.
3. Proposal on a Pilot Safety Program for Han-Yi Expressway in Hubei Province,
February 1998.
4. Program for Development of Safety Audit Procedures for Road Design and Planning
in Hubei Province, February 1998.
5. Program on How to Create Understanding of the Importance of Improved Road
Safety, February 1998.
6. Training Program, February 1998.
7. Institutional Development Plan, February 1998.



d,               1 i2-                  1 112  iS             11411,                  114                   01
-d- nn  w  o dO Or h.
16 ,,)d -kG,IH  ia,                                                                                                               THIRD  NATIONAL
32    ~               lorny                 IIP    HIGHWAY PROJECT
0  20      40       0
-            1~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~HIGHWAY PROJECTS:
C                                                  See detail below                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD FINANCING
@1                                     U       ~~~~~~~~~~~INTERCHANGES
ROT BRIDGE
31,  Yi,,k..q  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.EXISTING EXPRESSWAY, ADB FINANCEG
ahan  9"                                  A   ~~~~~~~~LOCAL FINANCING
BRIDGE UNDER CONSTRUCTION
--  4                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FUTURE
ogling               A                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
MAIN ROADS
I                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAILROADS
-30                                                                                    I4                                                             SELECTEG CITIES AND TOWNS
o.anning  N       >                   ®   ~~~~~~PROVINCE CAPITALS
0  /  oqi                                                     *   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL IINSETI
0  '  -                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WUHAN CITY BOUNDARY
[LilibLp.
G                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
---INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES (INSETI
Li.yong                             ->'           r         S Heron Proon- Dao-, 30 w,D ooe
20,                                                                                                                               208osroin   oe  oo   rnn
--                                I 0     5  ~~~~~~~~~~Nation1 Higonnoy, Ill, Dawo H-,on  *135Lw
--1nl pno1n-l wonh World Ror, fItr-nig
5 Notional  Higowoys Ill. H-,ron  Wool, 14.5ow
- f  'n~~~~~~~~~~                                                    onnonl~~~~~~--I pnoject with Worl Bono fioncimg
if      ')                       ~     ~ ~       ~ ~~ ~          ~       ~       ~~~~3  5  1,0  15  No.nlIihosI  rn    ol
~~~~  ,,                                   T~~~~~~~~~~~~ItOMETERS                5hm, -,-ot pnoecr with WorldI Bor.,roouc-m
(                                                        oo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~No-High,-y0n II Yon Izo Rionoonig
¾                                                      Ohm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5.   _ _o pn-oroith'BOTfin....rg
Nat ona H ghwoyo III, H-rog Loor 40.5 k,wI
t                        '1                                                          _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .. tp..t,t W,dB1   -.
0--                     /                      F--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.i .   ihwy  V  .,f   i     u,     .d,
K          x,,x    ~~~~~~~~                      4)   ~~~~~~   ¾oodRono~~~N.i.    InHonoy~IV, H,,b,i lhordor, Ch-o,,oro
SANCHA
I                   oowo eNd  orgtar. 45ok,r, ADB firon..
51~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
HAN*                                     UHAN
rIAtrKGL OJYLE RING 
J            cwoon    P
.rc 
J,ho     tim        E I~H'o                                                                                      *
F-                        OHENGOIAN                                                                                                                               Sos~E
I~~~~~~~~~~I



IBRD 28750
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
55
KAZAKHSTAN                                                                         .            . 
.~~~    K                                     -. - .                  ..,                     ., ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HIL-IDLNG!(ANG
UZBEKISTAN                                   .--                                                                                                                                             ARBIN 
..<'   N    IN  .                               .                                                                                   2~~~M 0     G     LI 
N.,~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~                                                                . / ~~~~~~~~~~~~CHAF,GC-L
'.KYRGYZ                *..r.
R~EPUBLIC               . S. 
4  *7                                                                                                                                                'O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ EM.
-½  ~~~~~~  C  N                                                                              ..L~~~~~~~~~~~~..     -                      /   ~~~~~~~~PEOPLE'S /09
-     ooe-?      REP- OF
ES                                                                                              -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~% KOREA',
N       OTIANJIPI        Too,,~        ~      RP. O
-....o-e-, o                                                                                                 YINICHJOA II!           .TeoKOREA
0<    N G     A 
CA                                * HENGZOOI9N-NGS
X Z 4 N G                                                                   S~~~~J-#ANI    I'-NEN  -      N
18R0 28749                                                                      30'
--                      -                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SHANGIHA(
N.,               ~~~~~LHASA 55CHENGDU14                                                                                                                             C,o
\.,~~~ ~~0A  -            - ~~SHFJ/ANGISe
-         /                       ~~~~~~~~~~H UNA            NANCHNNO 6
CHINA                     I                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CHANGSASI 
CHINA  ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~UIHUJiANO-XI
THIRD NATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                           HOU. H-N 
MAJOR HIGHWAYS                                     SELECTED TOWNS                  .-           .. !                                                                   A,           AIWAN
-   COMPLETED                                  ®     PROVINCE CAPITALS                     UN1 NA N                              NGXI        .           G             9C)NC
UNDER CONSTRUCTION                               NATIONAL CAPITAL                C                                                     GUANDGAHOU
- PLANNED ERRORS 2005-.-   PROVINCE BOJNDARIES                                         .VNANNING
PLANNED AFTER 200)5                      -       ITERNAT ONAL BOUNDARIES          L *I                                                                HONG; KONG                                             20'
I       VIETNAMMA O,PR
,,E .2D  e,                                                                       EDO   200    390   400   500 hMLES
jQ      I LAO PEOPLE'S                               ?Io                              200      400      600     800 KELOMETERS
'J GEM, REP 
THAILANG                                                HAINAN                                         PHILIPPINES
APRIL / 999



