                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 31459

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                   (SCL-43270 TF-29398)

                                          ON A

                                          LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$250 MILLION

                                         TO THE

                               PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                        FOR THE

                            THIRD NATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT




                                       June 24, 2005




Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective December 28, 2004)

                  Currency Unit = Yuan
                      Yuan 1.00 = US$ 0.1207
                      US$ 1.00 = Yuan 8.2782

                        FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1 to December 31

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

     BMS     -     Bridge Maintenance System
     BOT     -     Build-Operate-Transfer
     E&M     -     Electrical and Mechanical
     EA      -     Environmental Assessment
     EAP     -     Environmental Action Plan
     EIA     -     Environmental Impact Assessment
     EIRR    -     Economic Internal Rate of Return
     GOC     -     Government of China
     HDM     -     Highways Design and Maintenance Standards Model
     HPCD -        Hubei Provincial Communications Department
     Hurong -      Shanghai-Chengdu Expressway
     ICB     -     International Competitive Bidding
     IFC     -     International Finance Corporation
     IRP     -     Interconnecting Roads Program
     Jingzhu -     Beijing-Zhuhai Expressway
     LA&R -        Land Acquisition and Resettlement
     MOC     -     Ministry of Communications
     MOF     -     Ministry of Finance
     NCB     -     National Competitive Bidding
     NH3     -     Third National Highways Project
     NPV     -     Net Present Value
     NTHS    -     National Trunk Highway System
     PHRD -        Policy and Human Resources Development
     PMS     -     Pavement Management System
     RAP     -     Resettlement Action Plan
     SPC     -     State Planning Commission
     TOR     -     Terms of Reference



                 Vice President:     Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
              Country Director       David R. Dollar, EACCF
               Sector Manager        Jitendra N. Bajpai, EASTR
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Christopher R. Bennett

                                            CHINA
                        THIRD NATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             38
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             41
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                42
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            43
Map        IBRD 28749R

Project ID: P036949                                                  Project Name: CN-Nat Hwy3-Hubei
Team Leader: Christopher R. Bennett                                  TL Unit: EASTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 24, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: CN-Nat Hwy3-Hubei                                        L/C/TF Number: SCL-43270; TF-29398
   Country/Department: CHINA                                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (99%); Sub-national government
                            administration (1%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); State enterprise/bank
                            restructuring and privatization (S); Pollution management and
                            environmental health (S); Municipal governance and institution
                            building (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/25/1995                                     Effective: 09/24/1998                09/11/1998
     Appraisal: 06/05/1997                                         MTR:
      Approval: 05/29/1998                                      Closing: 12/31/2004                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA/HUBEI PROVINCIAL COMMUNICATIONS
                                           DEPARTMENT
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               David R. Dollar                                Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:                 Jitendra N. Bajpai                             Jeffrey S. Gutman
Team Leader at ICR:             Christopher R. Bennett                         Alfred H. Nickesen
ICR Primary Author:             Alberto Nogales


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The Third National Highway Project (NH3) was the third in the series of national highway projects (NH1 ­
NH2 ­ NH3 ­ NH4) of the Beijing-Zhuhai Expressway (Jingzhu) connecting Guangdong, Hunan, Hubei,
Henan, and Hebei provinces. All four projects supported an integrated approach to expressway corridor
development, with each operation contributing selected priority sections to gradually develop a full corridor
system.

The specific objectives of NH3 project were to:

(a)     relieve road transport congestion and improve the integration of interregional trade and
        commerce by assisting in the further development of the National Trunk Highway System
        (NTHS) in the principal North-South and East-West transport corridors and allowing for
        early completion of a functional expressway network in Hubei province, thus enabling through
        traffic to bypass Wuhan City;

(b)     strengthen institutional capacity at Hubei Provincial Communications Department (HPCD)
        and related institutions (in the area of planning, design, construction, operation and
        maintenance of Hubei's highway network), through provision of training, technical
        assistance and equipment;

(c)     develop a policy dialogue in the areas of the commercialization and corporatization of
        provincial expressway companies and highway maintenance management; and,

(d)     improve the safety of road transport.

The project objectives were clear and responsive to the national and provincial priorities to develop the
NTHS as a long-term solution to remove bottlenecks and facilitate inter-provincial long-distance traffic. In
addition to physical investments in key expressway sections, the project also prioritized institutional
development and sector reforms aimed at modernizing the management of the highway system through
training and the provision of equipment. These objectives were consistent with the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) for China, presented to the Board in March 1997, and responsive to the needs to
rapidly modernize and expand the highway system.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The original project objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

The project included the following original components:

(a)     Construction of two sections of the Beijing-Zhuhai (Jingzhu) expressway (143 km)
        and two sections of the Shanghai-Chengdu (Hurong) expressway (54 km total). Both corridors
        were to be connected by the Junshan Yangtze Bridge proposed to be built using a Build Operate
        and Transfer (BOT) scheme. The works included the construction of administration,
        service and maintenance facilities, as well as the supply and installation of electrical and
        mechanical (E&M) equipment for tolling, telecommunications, traffic monitoring, and lighting
        of interchanges, toll plazas and service areas;




                                                      - 2 -

(b)      an interconnecting road program (33 km) to link the expressway sections to the existing road
         infrastructure in the North-South (Jingzhu) and East-West (Hurong) corridors;

(c)      construction supervision services for all expressway sections and their interconnecting roads;

(d)      studies and technical assistance in: (i) highway maintenance management; (ii) expressway
         commercialization and corporatization; and (iii) road traffic safety;

(e)      staff training programs, covering all aspects of highway planning, design, construction,
         operation, finance and maintenance; and,

(f)      equipment for: (i) control of construction quality and monitoring of the environment;
         (ii) operation and maintenance of expressways after their completion; (iii) maintenance of the
         provincial road network; and (iv) bridge management system (BMS), pavement management
         system (PMS) and maintenance management system (MMS).

3.4 Revised Components:

The original project components were not revised. The initial project concept proposed the construction of
the Junshan Yangtze Bridge under a Build Operate and Transfer (BOT) scheme but the bridge was actually
financed separately by the central and provincial governments.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The project was well prepared, and quality at entry is rated satisfactory. The actual preparation of the
project started in 1993. The project objectives and components were defined based on the lessons learned
from previous Bank interventions in the highway sector and particularly NH1 and NH2. The technical,
financial, and economic analyses were of high quality and appropriate attention was given to the very
complex environmental, land acquisition, and resettlement issues. The procurement activities carried out in
advance contributed to the success of the project.

A key element of the original project concept was to develop a pilot BOT scheme that could be later
replicated. As part of the evolving policy and regulatory framework for private toll highway finance in
China, PHRD funds (TF-29398, Yen 70 million and TF-29276, Yen 14.6 million) were approved
(December 1995) for the NH3 project. These grant funds of about US$840,000 were used to prepare the
model bidding and concession documents for privately-financed toll highway projects, and the feasibility
study for the Junshan Yangtze bridge BOT scheme.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The project substantially achieved its major development objectives and its overall outcome is assessed as
satisfactory.

(a)      On the road sections parallel to the new expressways, the travel speeds increased and the
         congestion was reduced after the completion and opening to the traffic of: (i) two sections in the
         Jingzhu expressway; (ii) two sections in the Hurong Expressway; (iii) the Junshan Yangtze river
         crossing domestically financed); and (iv) three interconnecting roads and key interchanges. The
         project had also a positive impact on the Wuhan city development by providing an alternative route
         for heavy and long-distance traffic to by pass the city center.




                                                      - 3 -

(b)       On the institutional capacity of the HPCD, through training and technical assistance, three major
          achievements should be highlighted:

     (i) International competitive bidding process in the provincial projects was internalized, and was used
          for other projects. Further, the provincial government began to appreciate the benefits of a
          competitive approach in terms of reduced costs and shorter construction periods.

     (ii) Specialized units on environmental, quality control, and road safety were established. These units
          have substantially contributed to reduce the traffic accidents and enhance the efficiency of
          managing the overall provincial road network. They have proven to be sustainable, and not only
          remain active, but have actually enhanced their operations since they were first created.

    (iii) The resettlement process followed by the project produced a positive impact on the local economy.
          The project affected areas benefited from the accelerated development of the region, and the people
          living in the area of influence of the project took full advantage of the opportunities, such as new
          jobs and provision of services during the construction phase, thereby generating an overall positive
          impact on the local economy.

(c)       The development impact of the studies on road maintenance and expressway commercialization
          and corporatization was limited. These studies took much more time to complete than was
          originally planned mainly due to lack of client ownership. The delays on completing the studies
          later translated into only partially applying some of the key recommendations of the studies.

4.2 Outputs by components:

The agreed component outputs were fully achieved. The construction of the Dawu-Quanli and
Yongan-Baoxie Expressways were completed in December 2001 and the interconnecting roads, and
installation of the electrical and mechanical equipment were completed by December 2002. The major civil
works were divided in twelve civil works contracts, and one for electrical and mechanical works.
Procurement for all thirteen works contracts used international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures. The
last Bank field visit to the expressways in November 2004 found the construction quality to be good.

(a)       Expressway Civil Works. (US$549.9 million, SAR; US$509.4 million, ICR)
          195 km of expressways of a very good quality were completed under the project along key
          sections of the Jingzhu (Beijing ­ Zhuhai) and Hurong (Chengdu ­ Shanghai) Expressways
          with design speeds from 100 to 120 km and mostly 2x3 lanes: 149 km were completed
          in the Jingzhu Expressway (starting in Dawu, crossing the Yangtze river at Junshan town,
          but not including the bridge, and ending in Zhengdian); 38 km in the Hurong Expressway
          (from Zhengdian to Baoxie) in the East section of the Wuhan Ring-Road; and 8 km
          (from Quanli to Yongan) in the West section of the Wuhan Ring-Road.

(b)       Electrical and Mechanical Works. (US$23.2 million, SAR; US$10.8 million, ICR)
          There was only one contract for the supply and installation of electrical and mechanical
          works for both expressways corridors. These were contracted in November 2001 and all the
          works were finished and accepted in December 2002.




                                                        - 4 -

(c)  Interconnecting Roads. (US$12.0 million, SAR; US$9.8 million, ICR)
     In addition to the expressways, the following three sections of interconnecting roads totaling
     about 33 km of national road Class II standard and the corresponding interchanges were
     completed satisfactorily: (i) Dawu city to Dawu interchange; (ii) Huayuan city to Huayuan
     interchange; and (iii) Huayuan City to Sancha interchange.

(d)  Annex Areas and Administrative Buildings. (US$30.7 million, SAR; US$14.4 million, ICR)
     Other works included the construction of small service facilities and administrative buildings.
     A total of 23 annex areas were successfully completed and these included: 15 toll stations,
     four service areas, three parking lots, and one maintenance area.

(e)  Construction Supervision. (US$17.4 million, SAR; US$8.9 million, ICR)
     The construction supervision was carried out by a joint international/local supervision team.
     A single foreign consultant was hired and five domestic supervision consulting firms were
     contracted following the Bank's guidelines on selection and employment of consultants. The joint
     supervision team performed satisfactorily in assuring the quality of the works but there is no
     evidence that the domestic firms benefited from the experience of the foreign consulting firm.

(f)  Studies/Technical Assistance. (US$2.3 million, SAR; US$3.3 million, ICR)
     The resources allocated for this component had four main elements: institutional strengthening,
     studies, road safety, and training, as follows:

     (i)      As part of the institutional strengthening the following three units were established
              under the HPCD:

              ·   The Environmental Unit was made responsible for the environmental protection
                  measures implemented during the construction phase and the environmental
                  monitoring and reporting at the operation phase.

              ·    The Quality Control Unit was established to carry out the quality control audits,
                   to develop a system for continuous follow-up, to make recommendations on
                   quality improvement measures and systematically document lessons learned.

              ·    The Road Safety Unit's main tasks were to carry out road safety audits,
                   road accident analysis and statistics collection, give recommendations on safety
                   measures and activities, and monitor the safety measures taken during and after
                   the construction of civil works.

     (ii)     The studies on road maintenance and expressways commercialization and
              corporatization were delayed but finally completed. These studies developed some
              reform models and presented some proposals for highway management sectors in
              Hubei. The studies on road safety and the series of workshops implemented were
              found to be useful.

     (iii)    In addition to the establishment of a road safety unit, four road safety activities
              were successfully completed: the road safety pilot plan on Han-yi highway, road
              safety activities at work sites, identification and remedy of black spots, and road
              safety audits during the design and planning phases. These activities improved the
              safety awareness in HPCD and developed some practical safety manuals.




                                                    - 5 -

        (iv)     A large-scale training program was implemented for the HPCD staff and related
                 organizations in the management, production, and engineering areas. Through domestic
                 training, a total of 1,081 participants (342 man-months) improved their skills and
                 updated their knowledge, which is about five time the number of people expected (206).
                 A total of 79 people were exposed to the latest techniques and experiences in developed
                 countries: 22 people (11.5 man-months) through overseas study-tours; and 57 people
                 (72 man-months) through overseas training courses.

(g)     Equipment. (US$7.4 million, SAR; US$8.5 million, ICR)
        A set of equipment was procured using both NH3 and NH4 funds to increase HPCD's working
        efficiency and management. The equipment was used for organizational strengthening,
        expressways operation and maintenance, environmental monitoring, and for the central
        highways laboratory.

(h)     Land Acquisition and Resettlement. (US$36.1 million, SAR; US$42.1 million, ICR)
        The land acquisition and resettlement activities were carried out successfully. Six districts,
        33 townships, and 165 villages were involved in the resettlement activities of the project.
        In total, the project acquired 20,205 mu of land, 214,000 square meters of housing, 32,213
        square meters of agricultural land (not suited for rice), 326 wells, 12,197 tombs, and 58,924
        timber trees. There were 4,464 households and 20,586 people resettled, and 63,548 fruit
        trees were transplanted. Most of the project affected persons expressed their satisfaction
        with the compensation and resettlement and their overall living conditions improved after the
        project was completed. Land acquisition decreased the available land for agricultural purposes,
        but the investment from the compensation funds generated new jobs in the project area. An
        independent post evaluation report on resettlement was performed in June 2002 and is available
        in the ICR project files.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The economic evaluation is comprised of two major components: (a) the two expressways in Hubei
province (Jingzhou and Hurong), including the interchanges and (b) the three connecting roads for the two
expressways. The economic evaluation covers all subcomponents as well as the entire project. Both costs
and benefits reflect December 2004 prices.

The economic internal rate of return (EIRR) of the two expressways is estimated at 22.4 percent; the net
present value (NPV), at a discount rate of 12 percent, is estimated at Y 4,982 million, compared to the
SAR estimate of 26.2 percent in EIRR and Y 14,580 million in NPV. The EIRR and NPV of the three
connecting roads is estimated at 21.2 percent and Y 144 million, respectively, compared to 20.6 percent
and Y 114 million estimated by the SAR.

The recalculated EIRR and NPV for the entire project is estimated to be 22.4 percent and Y 5,126 million
which is lower than anticipated at appraisal (23.2 percent and Y 14,694 million) mainly because of the
lower traffic demand on the total corridor and on the new expressways, despite some project cost savings.

The results of the two expressways and the three connecting roads, compared to the SAR, are summarized
in the following table. The detailed economic analysis is presented in Annex 3.




                                                      - 6 -

                           EIRR (in %) AND NPV (12%, Y million) OF THE PROJECT
                                                        SAR                       ICR
                                                  EIRR      NPV            EIRR         NPV
                  Expressways:
                   1. Jingzhou expressway          26.5     12,028          22.3       3,821
                   2. Hurong expressway            23.1      2,552          22.7       1,161
                        Total expressway           26.2     14,580          22.4       4,982
                  Three connecting roads           20.6       114           21.2         144
                  Total project                    23.2     14,694          22.4       5,126




4.4 Financial rate of return:

The two expressways opened to traffic in 2001. Hubei province formed a financially independent entity,
responsible for the day-to-day management, operations and maintenance of the expressway. The tolls
charged to the road users are the main income of the entity. The toll rates are set by the provincial
government. The entity is planning to use the toll revenue to cover amortization charges of the Bank and
domestic loans. Based on the current toll revenue and operating costs, the entity would be able to generate
enough total revenue over the loan period to finance the operation, maintenance, and debt services. The
profits, however would be low during the early years of operation due to the high portion of the borrowing
(about 70 percent of total capital investment) and the lower than forecasted traffic demand.

The low profitability and high portion of the borrowing will dilute the equity and cause a lower financial
leverage for the company in the early years of operations. However, this will not affect its liquidity because
it has strong cash flows, resulting from the large sum of depreciation reserves. In 2004, for example, the
total depreciation reserve is estimated to be Y 252 million. The amount of depreciation reserve is about 3.3
times higher than its total 2004 working cost, or equivalent to about 50 percent of its total annual operation
revenue. This will generate a strong internal cash flow to provide sufficient funds for the life of the project.

Based on the current financial status, the two expressways may not need any additional external financial
assistance. However, the low profit margin produces a negative impact on the financial internal rate of
return (FIRR) for the capital investments. The result of the financial evaluation for the project shows that
the FIRR of the project will be 2.3 percent with a NPV (4.63 percent) of Y -1,299 million. There was no
financial analysis in the SAR. The detailed financial analysis is in Annex 3 and summarized as follows.

                        FIRR (in %) AND NPV (4.63%, Y million) OF THE PROJECT
                                                     SAR                       ICR
                                                EIRR      NPV           EIRR         NPV
                      Total project              --        --           2.3%        -1,299



4.5 Institutional development impact:

The project had a substantial institutional development impact particularly, as shown below:

(a)      The institutional strengthening components undertaken under NH3 and continued under NH4
         provided a good basis for the implementation of key institutional reforms needed in Hubei
         province in the road sector. The final outcome was the improved quality of the human resources
         of the Hubei province in the road sector.




                                                     - 7 -

(b)      The environmental, quality control and road safety units established under the project were not
         only instrumental in the successful implementation of NH3, but also for the identification of
         the other Bank projects (NH4, Xiaoxiang, Shiman); and other projects in the province
         that were not financed by the Bank.

(c)      The resettlement process was properly conducted and excellent achievements were obtained.
         Most of the project affected persons expressed their satisfaction with the compensation and
         resettlement, and their overall living conditions improved after the project was completed. Most
         importantly, and in spite of substantive cultural differences, the Bank's resettlement practices
         and policies had great influence and a positive impact in developing new methodologies and
         approaches to handling resettlement issues in the province.

(d)      The introduction of international competitive bidding procedures and the methodologies
         for contracting civil works, equipment and consultants were found useful at the provincial level.
         These procedures have been internalized and are being presently applied in other projects.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

At the time of preparation, China (SDPC, MOF and MOC) was interested in BOT financing for highways,
power generation and water treatment. Having identified pilot projects for power generation and water
treatment the focus was on finding a suitable highway BOT project. Given the timing of the NH3
preparation, and the strategic location of the Junshan bridge (traffic coming in from four directions:
Beijing, Guangzhou, Chengdu and Shanghai), it was selected as the BOT candidate.

While the NH3 and Junshan BOT were prepared, PHRD funding was used to assist SDPC to establish the
BOT legal framework. At the time of the NH3 appraisal and Board presentation, the BOT legal framework
was still incomplete. Without a proper regulatory framework for BOT operations, it was decided that the
bridge would be removed from the NH3 project, either to be part of NH4 or to be domestically financed.
Hubei financed Junshan from its own resources and the construction advanced very rapidly.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The development plans of the city of Wuhan, located at the cross roads of the major expressways, were not
fully taken into account at the initial project design. Late in the project preparation phase it was found that
the city officials had plans to build a bridge that would have had a negative impact on the traffic forecast of
the Junshan Bridge. The local plans should have been better coordinated with the definition of the National
Trunk Highway System (NTHS) and incorporated early in the project design. More interaction between the
national, provincial, and local governments, could have contributed to maximize the development impact of
the project.

The adoption of a single policy for defining the tolls along major expressways of the national trunk
highway network is subject to the control of the central and provincial governments. In the expressway
sections financed under NH3 in Hubei, the methodology and procedures for defining the tolls are not
consistent with other neighboring provinces. The project did not seize the opportunity to maximize the
benefits from toll collection.




                                                       - 8 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

There were several design changes due to geological conditions and pavement design. The adverse
geological conditions found during construction were due to insufficient geotechnical investigations prior to
the project design. However, the change of specifications in the expressway's surfacing was the single most
important factor for increasing the overall construction costs. The change of the surface type from concrete
to bituminous pavement was not well justified technically and generated a substantial increase in the cost
due to the need to import bitumen, instead of using cement which is produced locally.

5.4 Costs and financing:

At the time of appraisal, the total cost of the project was estimated at US$643 million (including US$137
million for contingencies and excluding $36 million for land acquisition and resettlement) and total actual
cost (excluding US$42 million for land acquisition and resettlement) was US$565 million or about 88% of
the appraisal. The civil works including the expressways, E&M, the interconnecting roads and interchanges
were estimated (including contingencies) at US$616 million and the actual costs for civil works were
U$545 million or 88% of the cost estimate at appraisal.

The successful bidders won the civil works of the expressways contracts with much lower prices than
estimated. The aggregated original contract price for was only 69% of the official cost estimate. The actual
cost of civil works was only 90% of the appraisal estimate, in spite of the substantial cost increase of more
than 30% of the original contracts. The original contract prices increased due to the need to reinforce the
slopes of cuttings in places where adverse and unexpected soil conditions were found, and to allow for the
change of specifications in the surfacing of the expressways from concrete to bituminous surface.

The actual supervision costs (US$8.9 million) were substantially lower (51%) than the estimates (US$17.4
million); while the final costs for training and studies (US$3.3 million) were much higher (143%) than the
estimated at appraisal (US$2.3 million). The land acquisition and resettlement costs were estimated at
US$36 million and the actual cost was US$42 million, or 117% of the cost estimate. At the end, overall
project savings were realized primarily due to the low original contract prices and because the initial
allocation of price contingencies were much higher than the actual amounts obtained from the application
of the price adjustment clauses of the contract.

With regard to the financing sources: (i) the central government financed US$127 million which is almost
the entire (98%) US$130 million cost estimate; (ii) the provincial government provided US$257 million of
the US$299 million committed (86% of estimate); and (iii) the Bank financed only US$223 million of the
total US$250 million loan (89% of loan).

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The sustainability of the project is rated highly likely for the following reasons:

(a)      The relative importance of the location of the assets financed by the project ensures the
         continued commitment of the central and provincial governments. In addition, the transport
         demand has increased substantially due to the sustained economic growth in the province and
         the rest of the country, and especially because of the constantly growing traffic and rapid
         development of the commercial and industrial city of Wuhan. Wuhan, located at the crossroads



                                                       - 9 -

         of the North-South and East-West Expressways, of several railway lines, and next to the Yangtze
         River, is one of China's key transportation hubs.

(b)      The establishment of specialized units in quality control, environmental issues and road safety has
         proved to be an effective and sustainable instrument for enhancing the quality of the highway
         projects. The timely and independent reports prepared by the units established by the
         project allowed the HPCD to identify and resolve many issues early in the project cycle. These
         units have maintained their status and role even after the project was completed and they continue
         to provide inputs and directly benefit the new projects. Their functions were integrated as part of
         the HPCD mandate and they include project monitoring and reporting to other Bank-financed
         projects, to projects of other lenders and donors, and to projects financed with local funds.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The expressways sections, interconnecting roads, interchanges and electrical & mechanical equipment
financed under the project have been in service for more than two years. They all have a
satisfactory performance even after the construction liability period. The maintenance of these
expressways and road sections has been appropriate and the medium and long-term maintenance
plans prioritize the resources required to preserve these investments.

The level of tolls and revenues collected provide sufficient funds for the operation and maintenance of the
assets financed. Furthermore, the road sector staff at the provincial level developed a high level of
expertise on road asset management contributing to increase the level of confidence on the sustainable
operation of the project outputs.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's performance at the project identification and preparation is rated satisfactory. The task team
ensured that the project objectives were consistent with the Government and Bank strategies. The Bank
assigned a qualified team with an appropriate skill mix that delivered a well designed project. Based on the
extensive previous Bank experience in the highway sector in China, the economic, environmental and social
aspects were properly appraised and the main risks identified correctly. The preparation of the project, in a
province without a previous experience of working with the Bank, permitted the transfer of technical
knowledge to the local counterparts. The project documents and project implementation plan were
adequately detailed and of high quality.

7.2 Supervision:

The Bank's supervision is rated satisfactory. The project had three task team leaders throughout the project
cycle. One was responsible for project preparation, appraisal and a substantial part of the implementation;
the second performed primarily supervision activities; and the third team leader, closed the project and led
the project evaluation. The task management transition processes were performed smoothly, the project
reporting by the Bank was of high quality, and the Bank's policies and procedures were applied
consistently. Two unique features of project supervision were: (i) several components of the NH3 project,
like road safety, training and equipment, were defined and well coordinated with the NH4 project, and (ii)
the simultaneous supervision on NH3 and other Bank projects in Hubei province.




                                                     - 10 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory. The Bank task team provided timely attention to the
client's requests while adhering to agreed procedures and maintaining good control of the project and
monitoring quality.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The performance of the government during project preparation was satisfactory. The quality of the
technical studies, performed mostly by Chinese research institutes, local universities, and provincial and
local road-related agencies, was instrumental in overcoming several potential problems experienced in
previous Bank highway operations in China. The procurement activities that were performed prior to the
loan effectiveness had a positive impact on accelerating the project implementation. The staff and local
counterpart team assigned by the provincial government to the project were very committed and assumed
ownership of the project early in the process.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The performance of the central and provincial governments during project implementation was satisfactory.
The central government provided overall support to the project. The provincial government demonstrated a
strong commitment to the project as reflected in their forthright support to the project's components, the
timely provision of funds, and complying with all the agreed loan financial and legal covenants.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The project management led by the HPCD was highly satisfactory. In spite of serious challenges posed by
substantial changes in the project design and the technical complexity of the project, the overall support
that the HPCD provided during implementation was extraordinary. All the components were completed
before the closing date and actual project savings were generated.

The implementing agency had a strong leadership and consistently maintained its commitment to the
project. The HPCD was very responsive in taking corrective implementation measures, dealt effectively
with some very complex environmental and resettlement issues, and complied with the high level standards
set by the Bank's policies.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

The overall performance of the Borrower and HPCD is rated satisfactory.




                                                    - 11 -

8. Lessons Learned

The development plans of large urban centers should be incorporated early in the project design of
national and provincial transportation links. The project design should ensure that the local, provincial
and national plans complement each other to maximize the development impact and reduce the risk of
failure. In NH3, the Wuhan city development plans should have been incorporated earlier and more
consistently with the objectives of developing the national trunk highway system.

In large-scale infrastructure projects the Bank's influence on the design and overall technical-related
issues is limited. In the construction of expressways in countries like China, where there is an extensive
experience in developing the national road network and there are already well defined standards, the Bank's
influence in the definition of technical issues is limited. This is mostly due to the complexity of the projects
and partly because the client's perception is that the Bank's role should be focused on project financing.

The preparatory activities greatly contributed to the success of the project. Substantial preparatory
work, including land acquisition, resettlement and high quality feasibility and design studies helped the
project to meet key procurement milestones. The prequalification of contractors for the major civil works
was performed during project preparation; the bids were received and evaluated shortly after the project
was approved; and the contracts were awarded almost immediately after the loan became effective. Early
completion of the lengthy international competitive bidding procurement processes greatly contributed to
finish the project on time and within budget.

The introduction of international competitive bidding processes at the provincial level increased the
efficiency and economy of the project. In spite of the inability of foreign companies to compete in large
expressway contracts, the implementing agency was able to compare and contrast its experience in
contracting practices with the local private construction industry and with state-owned enterprises. The
competitive bidding procedures were internalized and the provincial government began to appreciate the
benefits of a competitive approach, in terms of reduced costs and shorter construction periods.

A clear commitment and strong client ownership to carry out policy-related studies must be a
prerequisite to include them as part of a project. The frequent delay in carrying out the studies on road
maintenance and commercialization of expressways was linked directly to the client's low level of
ownership and that was later translated in lack of commitment to introduce the recommendations. The
efficiency of the technical assistance of the project has been questioned by the provincial staff in terms of
its high cost, the capacity and experience of the consultants selected, and its limited effectiveness.




                                                      - 12 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

                 Contribution from the Hubei Provincial Communications Department

This section summarizes the HPCD's implementation experiences of the NH3 project.

Project Description

Objectives of this Project

There were four principal objectives:

    l By means of the construction of south-north and east-west transportation channels within the
        national trunk highway system, and building an expressway network in Hubei province, the
        through-traffic can bypass Wuhan City and thus alleviate traffic jams and improve the regional
        transportation and trade;

    l Strengthening the capability of relevant institutions in the sectors of planning, design, construction,
        transportation and maintenance of the road network in Hubei Province through measures such as
        training, technical assistance and, equipment;

    l Having policy dialogue in the commercialization and corporatization of the provincial expressway
        sector as well as in the road maintenance area; and,

    l Improving road transport safety.


Scope of this Project

The project had the following scope:

    l Between Xiaogan and Wuhan of Hubei, two sections within Beijing-Zhuhai Expressway and two
        sections of Shanghai-Chengdu Expressway were constructed with total mileage of 195.9 km and
        which are fully access controlled. The works included the construction of management/service/
        maintenance facilities, as well as the supply and installation of equipment for tolling,
        telecommunication, traffic monitoring, interchange illumination, tolling stations and service areas;

    l The construction of 31.7 km Class II interconnecting roads which connect existing roads;


    l Construction supervision for NH3 and the interconnecting roads;


    l Equipment procurement for road operation, maintenance, materials testing, road database,
        pavement and bridge management systems; and,

    l Technical training and study tours.




                                                    - 13 -

Project Achievement

By means of the successful implementation of following components, the major objectives under the project
were achieved:

   l The successful construction of NH3 with total expressway mainline mileage of 195.5 km, and the
        Class II interconnecting roads of 31.7 km.

   l According to stipulations in FIDIC Contract Conditions, the construction supervisor is designated
        to control the progress, quality and cost. With regard to progress control, a detailed construction
        organization design was established and problems were treated as opportunities. Through
        management and feasible scheduling, the construction period was shortened by one year. With
        regard to quality control, a three-level quality assurance system was strictly followed, which
        ensured the engineering quality on the basis of technological innovation. In the takeover/completion
        acceptances, the engineering quality was evaluated as sound. With regard to cost control,
        optimization and variations on design were made according to technical requirements so as to
        reduce engineering investment. Moreover, strict control was made in measurement and payment so
        as to ensure the smooth progress of works, which led to significant cost savings.

   l After opening to traffic in 2001, the traffic and toll income on the expressway grew dramatically.
        Average daily traffic on the Jingzhu section grew from 4,858 veh/day in 2002 to 9,729 veh/day in
        2004, an annual growth rate of about 41.5%; annual tolls grew from 269 million RMB in 2002 to
        491 million RMB in 2004, an annual growth rate of 35%. These growths are due to the rapid
        development of national economy and the obvious advantages of the expressway over NH107
        which is parallel to the expressway. Thus the problem of traffic jams on NH107 was also solved.

   l As for traffic safety, after the opening to traffic of NH3, the casualty rate and economic losses of
        traffic accidents on NH107 came down drastically.

   l After opening to traffic in 2001, the social and economic conditions in regions along this
        expressway were greatly improved, indicators with respect to education, medical
        treatment and health, living standard etc. were also improved to some extent.

Project Initiation and Preparation

The initiation and preparation of the project resulted from the contributions of various entities. Since 1993,
relevant state ministries, Hubei People's Government and relevant institutions under Hubei Provincial
Communications Department took part in the initiation and preparation of Hubei Highway projects.

The preparation of NH3 began in 1992. On July 5 1997, the State Planning Commission in its official No.
1111 document [1997] approved the Project Recommendation Report. In October 1997, the "Feasibility
Study Report of the North Section in Hubei of the Jingzhu National Trunk Highway" passed
the review performed by China International Engineering Consulting Company entrusted by State Planning
Commission.The preliminary design was approved in November 1998.




                                                     - 14 -

During the same period, the State Planning Commission in 1993 listed this project as one of the projects to
be financed by the World Bank; in July 1994, the World Bank carried out the pre-identification of this
project. In April 1995, the Bank carried out the identification of this project. In March 1997, the Bank
carried out the pre-appraisal of this Project, and in June of the same year the project appraisal. Loan
negotiations were held in March 1998 in Washington. The Loan Agreement and Project Agreement were
signed on June 26, 1998. The loan amount was US$250 million.

Project Implementation

Design

NH3 was designed by the Hubei Communications Planning and Design Institute (HBCPDI). The design
speed was 120 km/hr. During the construction period, the HBCPDI sent a design representative team to
take charge of variations and updating drawings.

Construction

The total mileage of NH3 is 195.5 km, which was divided into 12 contract sections. Contractors were
selected on the basis of ICB. Within the 12 contract sections, contracts 1-8 and 11-12 were commenced in
December 1998, and contracts 9 and 10 were commenced in May 1999. On November 20, 2001, the
project passed the takeover acceptance and was opened to traffic on a trial basis. In August 2003, the
project passed the completion acceptance. According to the acceptances issued by the takeover/completion
acceptance committee, the quality and comprehensive score of this project is sound.

Supervision

NH3 was the first transport project in Hubei financed by the World Bank. According to the Bank
requirements and international practices, the FIDIC Contract Conditions were introduced for construction
management.

A joint supervision team of foreign engineers was used to supervise the construction. The foreign
supervision engineers were selected according to the Bank's consultant selection guidelines. For the
domestic team, five supervision consulting companies were selected on the basis on NCB. They conducted
controls on quality, progress and investment as well as contract management and information within
governed contract sections.

A three-grade management mode was applied in supervision sector, i.e., the Chief Engineer's Office under
the direction of Chief Engineer, the Office of Senior Resident Engineers, and Resident Engineer Office in
various Contracts.

During overall supervision period, the control on quality, cost and progress as well as management of
contract and information was executed.




                                                      - 15 -

Environment Monitoring, Assessment and Acceptance

The environmental assessment for NH3 was made by Road Science Research Institute of MOC. The
organization began its work with the reconnaissance survey and investigation carried out in March, 1994.
In October 1994, the State Environmental Protection Agency (SEPA) approved the environmental TOR of
North Section in Hubei of Jingzhu National Trunk Highway. According to this approved TOR, the Road
Scientific Research Institute of MOC in 1996 finished all the data preparation for the Environmental
Impact Statement (EIS). In October 1996, the EIS of NH3 passed the expert review sponsored by the
SEPA. In October 2002, Jingzhu Expressway Construction Headquarter in Hubei prepared the
"Completion Implementation Report of Environmental Protection in North Section in Hubei of Jingzhu
National Trunk Highway", which was submitted and finally approved by the Bank.

Great attention was attached to the monitoring of the environment during construction and later in the
operational stage. During the project construction period, monitoring of atmospheric sensitive spots,
acoustic sensitive spots, surface water environment, fumes from the asphalt mixing plants, and dust from
construction activities was done regularly along the road. On the basis of the monitoring data, effective
measures were taken promptly to ensure that all environmental indicators were within acceptable levels.
After the expressways were opened to traffic, monitoring of the eight indicators in three categories, (i.e.
atmosphere, water, acoustic environment) was performed. The monitoring frequency of atmosphere twice
per year, that of the surface water environment three times per year, and that of acoustic environment four
times per year.

The environmental acceptance inspection of NH3 was performed at project completion by the SEPA and
Hubei Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau in October 2002. Results of the acceptance inspection
were satisfactory. The expressway projects met all conditions and standards required by state
environmental regulations. The whole process of environmental protection activities enabled staff of HPCD
to heighten their environmental consciousness, learn about environmental protection, and establish a team
capable of performing works to satisfy the requirements of environmental protection for all expressway
projects.

The expressway was equipped with all necessary environmental protection facilities. A total investment of
47.5 million RMB was made in the environmental protection under NH3, increasing by 10.5 million RMB
the budgetary estimate, or 28.5% more than the original budget.

Procurement of Equipment

The equipment procured under NH3 in Hubei was divided into three phases and a total of twelve contract
packages. The first phase included four contracts with a total costs of US$1.99 million (the exchange rate
adopted in the bid evaluation). The second phase included seven contracts with a total costs of US$1.07
million (the exchange rate adopted in the bid evaluation). The third phase included one contract, of
US$0.15 million. The first and second phases were done on the basis of ICB while the third phase was
procured using International Shopping method.




                                                   - 16 -

E & M Works

The E & M Works under NH3 was jointly designed by the Highway Scientific Research Institute of MOC
and the Hubei Provincial Communications Planning and Design Institute. The bidding was carried out on
the basis of ICB in two steps. The first step of bidding started in April 2000, and ended on June 28, 2000.
A total of 16 suppliers submitted their bids and five bidders successfully passed the review and evaluation
in May 2001 and became the qualified bidders. The second step of bidding began in July 2001, with five
bidders submitting their bids. After the evaluation and review a joint venture won the contract, and the
contract price was US$504,902 + 85,168,250 RMB. This component was commenced in November 2001,
put into operation in September 2002, and passed the takeover acceptance in December 2002.

Training

Under NH3, a total of 72 man-month of overseas training courses and 11.5 man-month overseas study
tours were organized by HPCD. The main training courses were related to the Bank procurement
methodologies and procedures, financial management, training management, operation and maintenance
management, construction quality supervision and control, traffic engineering, environmental management,
road safety management. This improved the expressway management level of HPCD and its subordinates,
and provided a firm foundation for the smooth implementation of the Project. The foreign firm providing
the supervision consulting service for NH3 and their foreign experts spent 8 person-months in the training
of domestic supervision engineers, including a group of overseas supervision training, 13 person-months in
total.

Technical Assistance Studies

The following 11 studies were carried out under this Project:

(1)     Study on key techniques regarding coal ash powder embankment for soft ground treatment
        of expressways in flood detention zone;
(2)     Study on bituminous concrete pavement structure and construction techniques under
        Jingzhu Expressway Project;
(3)     Study on Commercialization of Jingzhu Expressway in Hubei;
(4)     Study on optimization of high road slope design and construction techniques;
(5)     Study on overall landscape design of expressways;
(6)     Study on subgrade and pavement drainage system of expressways;
(7)     Quality inspection and evaluation methods and standards of E & M system in communications;
(8)     Road maintenance study;
(9)     Safety audit procedures of road design;
(10)    Traffic safety management booklet at construction site; and,
(11)    Road safety seminar.

Following are the names of institutes which provided effective cooperation:

(1)     Chongqing Road Science Research Institute of MOC;
(2)     Southeast University;
(3)     Wuhan University of Science and Technology, Songzhisheng Law Office in Hubei,
        Ingerop Company in France;
(4)     Engineering College of China Geologic Science University;


                                                    - 17 -

(5)     Gaoge Bridge Landscape Center at Xiamen;
(6)     Wuhan University of Science and Technology;
(7)     Chongqing Road Science Research Institute of MOC;
(8)     Hubei Highway Administration, Ingerop Company in France;
(9)     Hubei Highway Administration, HBCPDI;
(10)    Hubei Highway Administration, HBCPDI; and,
(11)    Hubei Highway Association, Traffic Police Team of Hubei Provincial Police Department.

Land Acquisition and Resettlement

Land acquisition and resettlement were completed successfully. Under the guidance of Bank experts, the
Employer prepared a "Resettlement Action Plan" (RAP). During the project implementation period, the
resettlement work strictly followed the clauses of the RAP and went smoothly. An independent monitor, the
Population Research Institute of Wuhan University, and the Bank specialists performed the monitoring on
site, and the results were satisfactory. The permanent land acquisitions under NH3 in Hubei was 20,025
mu, house dismantlement area is 214,000 m2, and resettlement capital was US$41.1 million. The
compensation capital was 17% higher than planned. According to statistics, the rate of residents who lived
in stored buildings (i.e., brick or concrete buildings, usually with two or more floors) before dismantlement
was 18.1%, whereas after resettlement, this rate was 80.3%, increasing by 62%. Before dismantlement, the
area of brick and concrete structures was 40.2% of the total, after dismantlement, it was 91% of the total,
increasing by 51%. Monitoring shows that: (i) engineering activity promoted the economic development
along the expressway, (ii) the residential standard and dwelling quality of PAPs have been obviously
improved, (iii) social and economic structures have been optimized and improved, and (iv) the income of
PAPs, compared with overall level in project location regions, grew greatly.

Closing Date

As all components under the project were achieved on schedule, the project was smoothly closed as
scheduled on December 31, 2004.

Implementation Institution

In order to build the first expressway in Hubei to be financed by the World Bank, the HPCD established
the World Bank Financed Project Office in June 1995, which was in charge of the project preparation. In
July 1998, the Hubei People's Government established the Hubei Provincial Expressway Construction
headquarter and the Chief Engineer's Office of Jingzhu Expressway in Hubei, which were directly in
charge of the implementation of each component under the Project. Under the Chief Engineer's Office,
there was the technical division, engineering division, financial division, machine and material division,
land acquisition and resettlement coordination division, central laboratory, and administrative office which
conducted the three-controls, two-management in construction, as well as procurement, review of
substantial design variations and claims, land acquisition and resettlement.




                                                      - 18 -

Main Problems and Suggestions:

As per the principle that "the contract shall be awarded to the qualified bidder with the lowest bidding
price", the actual contract prices were relatively low, which led to loan savings. Therefore, extra
commitment costs were charged under this project which led to the increase of capital mobilization cost.
Suggestions:

   l The communication between the World Bank and the Borrower shall be strengthened. A procedure
         to solve the problem of potential loan savings shall be established as early as possible, and
         measures such as raising drawing ratio in advance or adding project components etc. shall be
         applied so as to ensure the full use of the loan.

   l It is suggested that the World Bank's loan agreement allow a floating withdrawal percentage
         system with an agreeable band of disbursement percentage. During the project implementation
         period, if the loan savings can be predicted, the Borrower shall be allowed to reduce loan amount in
         a percentage within allowable band. On the understanding that there is a loan saving, the Borrower
         should be allowed to withdraw the loan proceeds at a higher withdrawal percentage within the
         allowable band.

   l It is suggested that the drawing, disbursement and payment procedures of the Bank shall be
         simplified to avoid construction capital scheduling on account of delayed special account.

   l The Bank financed project has exerted great influence on resettlement policy, management
         methodologies and approaches in project location, which plays a positive role on regulating
         resettlement works. However, it is suggested that the resettlement works of the Bank could be
         improved in the following aspects: (i) during the preparation and pre-appraisal phase, on account
         of engineering restrictions, the requirement on depth of RAP should not be higher. The
         investigation on living standards survey of PAPs shall be performed after the final drawing design,
         and when the road right of way lines are being set out; (ii) the Bank actively asks the China
         resettlement management to adopt international practices, which takes time to achieve. The land
         ownership system in China and the network feature of the administrative management system in
         China needs to be appropriately considered. The Bank policy should appropriately adapt to the
         Chinese land management system and policy as well as the social tradition in China, which will be
         more favorable for the smooth progress of resettlement practice in China. For example, on
         resettlement issues the Chinese conditions shall be taken into consideration and the focus shall be
         put on agricultural resettlement instead of the emphasis on non-agricultural resettlement.

   l On the implementation of institutional strengthening component under NH3, the Bank, in order to
         bring overseas experiences, required HPCD to invite foreign consultants to take part in the road
         maintenance study and the study on commercialization of expressway companies. This experience
         showed that overseas consultants, due to limited understanding of Chinese conditions and limited
         working period in China, were unable to provide much guidance or realistic advice. They merely
         provided operational cases of some foreign companies, which led to the waste of manpower, capital
         and time. In this regard, it is suggested that in the implementation of institutional strengthening
         components under the Bank financed projects, the selection of overseas consultants shall be
         cautious, and where possible, domestic study teams take overseas study tours and investigations to
         learn advanced overseas experiences.




                                                       - 19 -

   l Under the institutional strengthening component of NH3 in Hubei, there were many studies, for
         example, under the road safety component, there were four activities. Some studies, as they were
         not in accordance with existing conditions in Hubei, could not be internalized in the province.
         Moreover for some components, other provinces were doing similar studies. It is suggested that the
         selection of components under institutional strengthening shall be cautious, and it shall be planned
         taking into consideration the existing conditions of employment and institutional development. The
         number of studies should be less, more appropriate, and without redundancy.

The Works of the World Bank

Cooperation with the World Bank. It has been more than ten years since listing NH3 in the proposed
projects to be financed by the Bank. Currently, the Fourth Hubei highway project is ongoing. During this
period, the HPCD and the World Bank have achieved close and effective cooperation. On account of
differences in the areas of economy and cultural background, and the different understandings on the
aspects of engineering design, construction management, land acquisition and resettlement, and
environmental protection during the project implementation period, many exchanges of views and dialogues
were made between the members of Bank missions and the HPCD. By means of this dialogue, the World
Bank's staff have a deeper cognizance of China's national conditions, and practical conditions in Hubei
province. They expressed understanding on practical decisions of Hubei Province for some project
components. The HPCD, based on project preparation and implementation procedures, introduced
advanced ideas and scientific development concepts in the areas of engineering design, construction,
resettlement, environmental protection, institutional strengthening, and industrial policy reform.

Sharpened Understanding of and Benefits from the FIDIC Conditions. Since NH3 was financed by the
World Bank, in line with the requirements set forth by the World Bank, the contractors and supervision
engineers were selected on the basis of international competitive bidding. Project management was in
accordance with the FIDIC Conditions. Strict technical and organizational measures were taken to exercise
management and control of works in combination with the national and Hubei provincial conditions. Since
this was the first time for Hubei Province to make use of a World Bank loan and conduct engineering
management completely on the basis of FIDIC Contract Conditions, it was inevitable that such an
introduction would have an impact on the existing construction management system. As the World Bank's
procurement practices require an award of contract to the lowest price bidder, the HPCD was cautious at
the beginning on how effective and applicable such a requirement was to the local situation. However, with
the constant development and adjustment of the market economy in China, the Bank's procurement rules
and the FIDIC Conditions for project management have now been widely accepted in Hubei. At present, the
construction management of all expressways in Hubei is exercised fundamentally on the basis of the FIDIC
Conditions.

Benefits from the Training Program. As for most of the training courses, the participants were mainly
composed of engineers and technicians in the relevant fields. Appropriately designed training programs
enable them, on the macroscopic basis, to keep abreast of the management experiences and practices in
foreign countries to be applied by taking into account the specific situation in Hubei. Via training, the new
technologies, the updated knowledge and new methodologies learnt abroad have been applied and
internalized by the participants. In addition, the training program provided the engineers and operational
staff with an opportunity to widen their horizons by understanding and updating their knowledge, which is
regarded as a critical factor for their intellectual growth.




                                                       - 20 -

Heightening of Consciousness of Environmental Protection. Environmental protection plays a very
important role in expressway construction. NH3 was the first expressway ever constructed in Hubei. At
every step, during the project identification, preparation and implementation, the HPCD carried out
strictly the related laws and regulations of China and the relevant requirements set forth by the World Bank
in respect of the environmental protection for highway project construction. All the environmental
protection facilities required for NH3 were implemented. The current achievements on environmental
protection for NH3 were attributed not only to the constant development and perfection of policies of
environmental protection of China and the strengthening of environmental design, but also to the guidance
from the Bank environmental specialists during the project preparation period as well as the strict
supervision carried out during the implementation stage. During the process, environmental protection
issues were emphasized to the staff of the HPCD and the related contractors. The heightening of
consciousness of environmental protection greatly benefits the implementation of China's sustainable
development policy and the construction of other expressway projects in Hubei Province.

Local Communications and Economy have been Promoted. The implementation of this project had (i)
great impact on the south/north port opening and communication with domestic and overseas regions in
Hubei; (ii) on promoting economic and trade exchanges between Hubei and other domestic provinces
and coastal special economic zones; and (iii) on speeding up Hubei's economic development. It greatly
promoted the exchange of economic information between Hubei and other regions, accelerated the tourism
development, and promoted the exploitation of new tourism resources. A great change in the
investment environment was also achieved. Among the 14 domestic metropolitan areas whose GDP is over
100 billion RMB, 12 are within a 1,000 km economic circle with Wuhan at the center. This condition
makes Hubei a lever and key point which connects areas all around. During the construction
period, the project provided 1.62 billion RMB income of local construction materials, 250,000 jobs, some
400 million tons transported, labor income reached over 1.0 billion RMB, and poverty conditions of over
70,000 people were alleviated. Moreover, the achievement of this expressway also greatly promotes the
adjustment on agricultural structure. Governments of each region, on the basis of Jingzhu Expressway,
actively promoted the agricultural structure adjustment, and an economic strip based on the Jingzhu
Expressway has been created. According to the statistics, the contribution rate of Jingzhu Expressway to
local GDP is over 8%. By the end of 2002, there were: 5,710 mu special agricultural production base
including Chinese herbs, chestnut, rice, tea etc.; over 80 km road with some grade have been built which
takes the Jingzhu Expressway as the axis; foreign capital of over US$8 million and domestic capital of 270
million RMB have been invested into these regions; and direct investment of 1.8 billion RMB has been
attracted with 29 new joint ventures, 102 new private enterprises and over 13,000 individual
industrial/commercial enterprises.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                     - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

       Outcome / Impact Indicators:
               Indicator/Matrix                 Projected in last PSR1    Actual/Latest Estimate

(1) Reduced congestion levels on roads            2003 Benchmark           December 31, 2003
parallel to the proposed new expressways
(traffic volume in no. of vehicles per day):
A-B: Dawu - Huayuan                                    3,400                      2,713
B-C: Huayan - Sancha                                   3,100                      3,571
C-D: Sancha - Dabati                                   5,300                      6,610
D-E: Dabati - Quanli                                   12,900                     6,811
E-F: Quanli - Shenshan                                 11,600                     6,166
F-G: Shenshan - Baoxie                                 5,900                      5,346
G-H: Quanli - Yongan                                   2,800                     3,866


(2) Increase average speed on roads parallel          Year 2003                Year 2003
to the proposed road (km/hr):
A-B: Dawu - Huayuan                                      55                        80
B-C: Huayuan - Sancha                                    55                        80
C-D: Sancha - Dabati                                     50                        80
D-E: Dabati - Quanli                                     40                        80
E-F: Quanli - Shenshan                                   40                        80
F-G: Shenshan - Baoxie                                   50                        80
G-H: Quanli - Yongan                                     65                        80


                                                      Year 2003                Year 2003
(3) Reduced numbers of traffic                           35                        12
accidents (number of fatalities and injuries
on existing roads per 10,000 registered
vehicles).


(4) Traffic on new expressway
(not included as KPI in the SAR)
Jingzhu
2001                                                                             3,488
2002                                                                             4,858
2003                                                                             6,854
2004                                                                             9,729
Hurong
2001                                                                             3,694
2002                                                                             4,850
2003                                                                             6,424
2004                                                                             8,730




                                                    - 22 -

           Output Indicators:
            Indicator/Matrix                 Projected in last PSR1    Actual/Latest Estimate

                                                     2003                  May 15, 2005
% of civil works of Jingzhu completed                100                       100
% of civil works of Hurong completed                 100                       100
% of civil works of interconnecting roads            100                       100
completed
% of equipment purchases                             100                       100
No. of person-months of completed
training
- Domestic                                           206                       342
- Overseas                                            70                       83.5


Completion of Final Report Date
- Highway Maintenance Study                       06/30/2001                12/16/2003
- Expressway Commercialization and                06/30/2002                12/16/2004
  Corporatization Study
- Road Safety Study                               06/30/2003                12/16/2004




                                                   - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

 Table 2a: Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)


                                           Appraisal         Actual/Latest
                                           Estimates           Estimates         Percentage of
                                         US$ million          US$ million          Appraisal


 Civil Works
 Expressway Civil Works                      549.89              509.44                93%
 Expressway E&M Works                         23.22               10.75                46%
 Annex Areas and Admin. Bldgs.                30.69               14.43                47%
 Interchange Roads                            12.00                 9.84               82%

        Subtotal Civil Works                 615.80              544.46                88%

 Construction Supervision                     17.44                 8.93               51%
 Equipment                                      7.38                8.45              114%
 Training and Studies                           2.26                3.26              144%

         Total Project Cost                  642.88              565.10                88%

 Land Acquisition and Resettlement            36.10               42.11               117%

      Total Financing Required               678.98              607.21                89%



 Note: The SAR contains two tables with slightly different costs by component. The values used in
        this ICR are from the SAR "Project Cost Summary'.




                                                   - 24 -

Table 2b: Appraisal Project Cost by Procurement Arrangements (US$ million equivalent)

                                                   ICB               NCB           Other /a          NBF /b         Total
  Works
     Expressway Civil Works                       549.89                                                            549.89
                                                 (208.90)                                                          (208.90)
     Expressway E&M Works                          23.22                                                             23.22
                                                  (17.79)                                                           (17.79)
     Annex Areas and Admin. Bldgs.                                   30.69                                           30.69
                                                                     (8.83)                                         (8.83)
     Interchange Roads                                               12.00                                           12.00
                                                                     (2.30)                                         (2.30)
  Construction Supervision                                                           17.44                           17.44
                                                                                     (5.18)                         (5.18)
  Equipment                                         4.00                              3.38                           7.38
                                                   (3.20)                            (2.68)                         (5.88)
  Consultants and Training                                                            2.26                           2.26
                                                                                     (1.12)                         (1.12)
  Land Acquisition and Resettlement                                                                   36.10          36.10

             Total Project Cost                   577.11             42.69           23.08            36.10         678.98
                                                 (229.89)           (11.13)          (8.98)           (0.00)       (250.00)




Table 2c: Actual Project Cost by Procurement Arrangements (US$ million equivalent)

                                                    ICB              NCB            Other /a         NBF /b          Total
  Civil Works
     Expressway Civil Works                       509.44                                                            509.44
                                                 (203.04)                                                          (203.04)
     Expressway E & M Works                        10.75                                                             10.75
                                                   (6.95)                                                           (6.95)
     Annex Areas and Admin. Bldgs.                                   14.43                                           14.43
                                                                     (4.18)                                         (4.18)
     Interchange Roads                                                9.84                                           9.84
                                                                     (1.97)                                         (1.97)
  Construction Supervision                          2.51              6.42                                           8.93
                                                   (2.51)                                                           (2.51)
  Equipment                                         4.20              4.25                                           8.45
                                                   (3.77)                                                           (3.77)
  Consultants and Training                                                            3.26                           3.26
                                                                                     (0.74)                         (0.74)
  Land Acquisition and Resettlement                                                                   42.11          42.11

             Total Project Cost                   526.90             34.94            7.00            42.11         607.21
                                                 (216.27)            (6.15)          (0.74)            0.00        (223.16)
/_a: Other include force account, international shopping, limited international bidding, consultants and training.
/_b: NBF means not Bank-financed.
Note: 1. Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.




                                                              - 25 -

Table 2d: Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                     Appraisal Estimate     Actual/ Latest Estimate  Percentage of Appraisal

                                   Prov.  Central   Bank   Prov.    Central   Bank   Prov.  Central   Bank
 Civil Works
  Expressway Civil Works            210.89 130.10   208.90  179.17   127.23    203.04  85%      98%      97%
  Expressway E&M Works               5.43             17.79   3.80              6.95   70%               39%
  Annex Areas and Admin. Bldgs.     21.86              8.83  10.25              4.18   47%               47%
 Interchange Roads                   9.70              2.30   7.87              1.97   81%               86%


        Subtotal Civil Works       247.88  130.10   237.82  201.09   127.23    216.14  81%      98%      91%

 Construction Supervision           12.26              5.18   6.42              2.51   52%               48%
 Equipment                           1.50              5.88   4.68              3.77  312%               64%
 Training and Studies                1.14              1.12   2.52              0.74  221%               66%


         Total Project Cost        262.78  130.10   250.00  214.71   127.23    223.16  82%      98%      89%


 Land Acquisition and Resettlement  36.10                    42.11                    117%


      Total Financing Required     298.88 130.10    250.00  256.82   127.23    223.16  86%      98%      89%




                                                   - 26 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


                           Table 3a: Economic and Financial Evaluation Summary
                                             SAR                                          ICR
                             EIRR       ENPV       FIRR                  EIRR     ENPV      FIRR          FNPV
                              (%)     (12%, mY)    (%)      FNPV          (%)   (12%, mY)   (%)        (4.63%, mY)

 Expressways:
  1. Jingzhou                 26.5      12,028       --        --        22.3     3,821        --           --
  2. Hurong                   23.1       2,552       --        --        22.7     1,161        --           --
    Total expressway          26.2      14,580       --        --        22.4     4,982        --           --

 Interconnecting roads        20.6         114       --        --        21.2       144        --           --

       Total project          23.2      14,694       --        --        22.4     5,126       2.3         -1,299




Traffic

The sections of Jingzhu and Hurong expressways in the Hubei province opened to traffic in 2001. The total
corridor traffic for 2001 was about 80 percent of the SAR's estimates. After four years of operation, in 2004, the
total corridor traffic has improved to about 90 percent of the SAR's estimate. For the two new expressways,
despite the rapid traffic increases during 2001- 2004 (averaging about 35 percent per year), the traffic in 2004 still
only about 75 percent of the SAR's estimate. The expressway diversion ratio (the portion of the road users using
the expressway) has increased rapidly from about 35/37 (Jingzhu/Hurong) percent in 2001 to about 54/52 percent
in 2004, which is still lower then the SAR's estimates of 57/71 percent. The fast increases in the expressway
diversion ratios reveal that the road users are accepting the toll expressway concept. Considering the lower traffic
demand, the long­term traffic projections for the two expressways and the three interconnecting roads were
estimated to be 4.5-5.8 percent from 2004-2020. Compared to the SAR, the traffic growth rate projections were
7.5-8.5 percent for the two expressways. There is no traffic data in the SAR for the three interconnecting roads.

The traffic and distribution between the old and the new highways are presented in the following table, indicating
SAR projection and actual traffic census data.




                                                         - 27 -

                       Table 3b: Number of Motorized Vehicle Per Day (2001-2020)
                                      SAR                                     ICR
                                                 Diversion                              Diversion
                  Old Road New Road       Total    ratio     Old Road New Road   Total    ratio
                      (1)         (2)    (3=1+2) (4=2/3)       (1)       (2)    (3=1+2) (4=2/3)
1. Jingzhu Expressway (Hubei section):
       2001        13,100          -      13,100    --        6,386     3,488    9,874  35.3%
       2002         7,200        7,100    14,300 49.7%        6,565     4,858    11,423 42.5%
       2003         8,000       10,500    18,500 56.8%        6,848     6,854    13,702 50.0%
       2004         8,900       11,700    20,600 56.8%        8,344     9,729    18,073 53.8%
       2005         9,800       13,000    22,800 57.0%        8,900     10,400   19,300 53.9%
       2010        16,300       21,900    38,200 57.3%        12,100    14,800   26,900 55.0%
       2015        23,800       32,300    56,100 57.6%        15,200    19,500   34,700 56.2%
       2020        31,900       43,200    75,100 57.5%        19,000    25,600   44,600 57.4%
    Average growth pa
     2004-2020      8.3%         8.5%     8.4%                5.3%      6.2%     5.8%
2. Hurong Expressway (Hubei section):
       2001        11,300          -      11,300    --        6,309     3,694    10,003 36.9%
       2002         4,300        9,700    14,000 69.3%        6,619     4,850    11,469 42.3%
       2003         4,700       11,300    16,000 70.6%        6,109     6,424    12,533 51.3%
       2004         5,100       12,300    17,400 70.7%        8,027     8,730    16,757 52.1%
       2005         5,600       13,400    19,000 70.5%        8,500     9,300    17,800 52.2%
       2010         8,600       20,600    29,200 70.5%        11,100    12,600   23,700 53.2%
       2015        12,200       29,200    41,400 70.5%        13,400    16,000   29,400 54.4%
       2020        16,300       39,000    55,300 70.5%        16,200    20,200   36,400 55.5%
    Average growth pa
     2004-2020      7.5%         7.5%     7.5%                4.5%      5.4%     5.0%
3. Interconnecting Roads /1:
                    Dawu       Huayuan   Xiaogan              Dawu     Huayuan  Xiaogan
                    Road         Road     Road                Road      Road     Road
       2001            -           -        -                 3,121      963     2,194
       2002            -           -        -                 3,308     1,039    2,333
       2003            -           -        -                 4,627     2,000    3,164
       2004            -           -        -                 4,366     2,160    3,208
       2005            -           -        -                 4,700     2,300    3,400
       2010            -           -        -                 6,400     3,100    4,700
       2015            -           -        -                 8,100     4,000    5,900
       2020            -           -        -                 10,400    5,100    7,600
    Average growth pa
     2004-2020         -           -        -                 5.6%      5.5%     5.5%
/1: The renovation of the existing roads.

Sources: HPCD and the Bank staff.




                                                   - 28 -

                    Table 3c: EIRR: Jingzhu Expressway in Hubei (million Yuan)
                        Costs                          Benefits (Savings)            Net cash
               Capital  O & M    Total       VOC    Congestion Accident      Total    flow

  1998           342.98           342.98                                               (343.0)
  1999          1,025.42         1,025.42                                            (1,025.4)
  2000           910.41           910.41                                               (910.4)
  2001           638.45   14.27   652.72      220.73       0.44        2.56   223.7    (429.0)
  2002           315.81   14.27   330.08      322.28       1.02        1.98   325.3      (4.8)
  2003           104.39   24.68   129.07      469.93       2.08        2.42   474.4      345.4
  2004                    24.68    24.68      713.54       3.51        3.53   720.6      695.9
  2005                    24.68    24.68      799.39       3.77        3.78   806.9      782.3
  2006                    24.68    24.68      895.88       4.06        4.05   904.0      879.3
  2007                    24.68    24.68    1,004.37       4.36        4.34  1,013.1     988.4
  2008                    24.68    24.68    1,126.42       4.71        4.66  1,135.8  1,111.1
  2009                    24.68    24.68    1,263.77       5.10        5.01  1,273.9  1,249.2
  2010   /_1             147.00   147.00    1,418.43       5.55        5.43  1,429.4  1,282.4
  2011   /_1             147.00   147.00    1,575.88       5.97        5.70  1,587.6  1,440.6
  2012                    24.68    24.68    1,751.18       6.44        5.99  1,763.6  1,738.9
  2013                    24.68    24.68    1,946.42       6.94        6.30  1,959.7  1,935.0
  2014                    24.68    24.68    2,163.90       7.49        6.64  2,178.0  2,153.4
  2015                    24.68    24.68    2,406.22       8.11        7.00  2,421.3  2,396.7
  2016                    24.68    24.68    2,676.27       8.77        7.39  2,692.4  2,667.8
  2017                    24.68    24.68    2,977.31       9.50        7.81  2,994.6  2,969.9
  2018                    24.68    24.68    3,312.98      10.31        8.26  3,331.6  3,306.9
  2019                    24.68    24.68    3,687.37      11.19        8.75  3,707.3  3,682.6
  2020                    24.68    24.68    4,105.00      12.22        9.37  4,126.6  4,101.9

  Total         3,337.46                                                    3,5069.8 3,1014.9

                                                                         EIRR        22.3%
                                                                      NPV (12%)      3,821.5


/_1: Major maintenance




                                                 - 29 -

                    Table 3d: EIRR: Hurong Expressway in Hubei (million Yuan)
                        Costs                         Benefits (Savings)             Net cash
               Capital  O & M    Total     VOC     Congestion Accident      Total     flow

  1998           129.83           129.83                                             (129.83)
  1999           389.73           389.73                                             (389.73)
  2000             86.04           86.04                                               (86.04)
  2001           245.11    7.39   252.50     76.04        0.46        1.61    78.11  (174.39)
  2002           108.66    7.39   116.05     109.56       1.07        1.95   112.58       -3.5
  2003             30.79   7.39    38.18     154.03       1.32        2.50   157.85      119.7
  2004                     7.39     7.39     223.92       2.13        3.63   229.68      222.3
  2005                     7.39     7.39     248.80       2.42        3.92   255.14      247.8
  2006                     7.39     7.39     276.45       2.75        4.24   283.44      276.1
  2007                     7.39     7.39     307.17       3.12        4.58   314.87      307.5
  2008                     7.39     7.39     341.30       3.54        4.95   349.79      342.4
  2009                     7.39     7.39     379.23       4.02        5.35   388.60      381.2
  2010   /_1              14.31    14.31     421.35       4.58        5.79   431.72      417.4
  2011   /_1              14.31    14.31     464.01       4.57        6.15   474.73      460.4
  2012                     7.39     7.39     510.99       4.56        6.53   522.08      514.7
  2013                     7.39     7.39     562.73       4.55        6.93   574.21      566.8
  2014                     7.39     7.39     619.71       4.54        7.35   631.60      624.2
  2015                     7.39     7.39     682.46       4.53        7.80   694.79      687.4
  2016                     7.39     7.39     751.56       4.53        8.28   764.37      757.0
  2017                     7.39     7.39     827.66       4.53        8.79   840.98      833.6
  2018                     7.39     7.39     911.47       4.53        9.33   925.33      917.9
  2019                     7.39     7.39    1003.76       4.53        9.90 1,018.19   1,010.8
  2020                     7.39     7.39    1105.40       4.54       10.50 1,120.44   1,113.0

  Total          990.16                                                    10,168.50  9,016.7

                                                                        EIRR         22.7%
                                                                     NPV (12%)       1,161.5


/_1: Major maintenance




                                                - 30 -

                       Table 3e: EIRR: Interconnecting Roads (million Yuan)
                        Costs                          Benefits (Savings)            Net cash
               Capital  O & M     Total      VOC     Congestion Accident     Total    flow

  1998             21.50            21.50                                             (21.50)
  1999             53.60            53.60                                             (53.60)
  2000             47.45            47.45                                             (47.45)
  2001             19.48   0.51     19.99      15.97        0.00       0.09   15.97     (4.02)
  2002              3.55   0.51      4.06      18.34        0.00       0.05   18.34      14.28
  2003              1.83   1.74      3.57      29.31        0.02       0.06   29.33      25.76
  2004              0.00   1.74      1.74      31.58        0.01       0.05   31.59      29.85
  2005                     1.74      1.74      34.92        0.01       0.05   34.93      33.19
  2006                     1.74      1.74      38.62        0.01       0.05   38.63      36.89
  2007                     1.74      1.74      42.71        0.01       0.05   42.72      40.98
  2008                     1.74      1.74      47.23        0.01       0.05   47.24      45.50
  2009                     1.74      1.74      52.24        0.01       0.05   52.25      50.51
  2010   /_1             10.35      10.35      57.74        0.01       0.08   57.75      47.41
  2011   /_1             10.35      10.35      63.40        0.01       0.08   63.41      53.07
  2012                     1.74      1.74      69.63        0.01       0.08   69.64      67.90
  2013                     1.74      1.74      76.47        0.01       0.08   76.48      74.74
  2014                     1.74      1.74      83.98        0.01       0.08   83.99      82.25
  2015                     1.74      1.74      92.23        0.01       0.08   92.24      90.50
  2016                     1.74      1.74     101.29        0.01       0.08  101.30      99.56
  2017                     1.74      1.74     111.24        0.01       0.08  111.25    109.51
  2018                     1.74      1.74     122.17        0.01       0.08  122.18    120.44
  2019                     1.74      1.74     134.17        0.01       0.08  134.18    132.44
  2020                     1.74      1.74     147.30        0.09       0.13  147.39    145.65

  Total          147.41                                                     1,370.81 1,248.95

                                                                         EIRR        21.2%
                                                                      NPV (12%)       143.5
/_1: Major maintenance




                                                 - 31 -

                          Table 3f: EIRR: Total Project (million Yuan)
                        Costs                         Benefits (Savings)             Net cash
               Capital  O & M   Total      VOC      Congestion Accident     Total     flow

  1998           494.31            494.3                                               (494.3)
  1999          1468.75         1,468.8                                              (1,468.8)
  2000          1043.90         1,043.9                                              (1,043.9)
  2001           903.04  22.17     925.2    312.74          0.90      4.27    317.9    (607.3)
  2002           428.02  22.17     450.2    450.18          2.09      3.88    456.2        6.0
  2003           137.01  33.81     170.8    653.27          3.42      4.98    661.7      490.9
  2004                   33.81      33.8    969.04          5.65      7.22    981.9      948.1
  2005                   33.81      33.8   1083.11          6.20      7.75   1,097.1  1,063.3
  2006                   33.81      33.8   1210.95          6.82      8.34   1,226.1  1,192.3
  2007                   33.81      33.8   1354.25          7.49      8.97   1,370.7  1,336.9
  2008                   33.81      33.8   1514.95          8.26      9.66   1,532.9  1,499.1
  2009                   33.81      33.8   1695.24          9.13     10.41   1,714.8  1,681.0
  2010   /_1            171.66     171.7   1897.52        10.14      11.29   1,919.0  1,747.3
  2011   /_1            171.66     171.7   2103.29        10.55      11.93   2,125.8  1,954.1
  2012                   33.81      33.8   2331.80        11.01      12.60   2,355.4  2,321.6
  2013                   33.81      33.8   2585.62        11.50      13.31   2,610.4  2,576.6
  2014                   33.81      33.8   2867.59        12.04      14.07   2,893.7  2,859.9
  2015                   33.81      33.8   3180.91        12.65      14.88   3,208.4  3,174.6
  2016                   33.81      33.8   3529.12        13.31      15.75   3,558.2  3,524.4
  2017                   33.81      33.8   3916.21        14.04      16.68   3,946.9  3,913.1
  2018                   33.81      33.8   4346.62        14.85      17.67   4,379.1  4,345.3
  2019                   33.81      33.8   4825.30        15.73      18.73   4,859.8  4,826.0
  2020                   33.81      33.8   5357.70        16.85      20.00   5,394.6  5,360.7

  Total         4,475.03                                                   46,610.43 41,206.78

                                                                        EIRR         22.4%
                                                                     NPV (12%)       5,126.3
/_1: Major maintenance




                                                - 32 -

       Table 3g: FIRR: Third National Highway Project (million Yuan)
                        Costs                      Financial        Net cash
        Government      Loans         Total        benefits          flow

1998           233.3         256.2        489.6                          (489.6)
1999           581.4         930.5       1,511.9                       (1,511.9)
2000           514.4         846.3       1,360.8                       (1,360.8)
2001           189.8         818.1       1,007.9          -142.8       (1,150.7)
2002                         505.0        505.0              10.9        (494.1)
2003                         164.6        164.6             104.7         (59.9)
2004                                                          0.5            0.5
2005                                                         81.1           81.1
2006                                                         89.9           89.9
2007                                                        122.7          122.7
2008                                                        157.4          157.4
2009                                                        258.3          258.3
2010                                                        303.2          303.2
2011                                                        321.7          321.7
2012                                                        363.4          363.4
2013                                                        406.9          406.9
2014                                                        539.5          539.5
2015                                                        583.3          583.3
2016                                                        629.4          629.4
2017                                                        678.1          678.1
2018                                                        729.3          729.3
2019                                                        922.4          922.4
2020                                                     1,027.1         1,027.1

Total        1,519.0       3,520.8       5,039.8         7,187.0         2,147.2

                                                         2.3%
                                                       (1,299.1)




                                           - 33 -

                                      Table 3h: Income Statement - Consolidated
                                        (million Yuan, year ending 31, December)
                             2001    2002 2003        2004      2005  2006   2007   2008   2009    2010     2011

Traffic (million veh-km)     10.77 381.38 447.29 572.85        708.63 758.49 811.76 868.91 930.04 995.24 1,010.87

Revenue
Tolls                        6.80   268.90 352.17 503.63       623.59 667.47 714.35 764.64 939.34 1,005.19 1,020.98
Others                        -        -       -        -          -    -      -      -      -       -        -
Total                        6.80   268.90 352.17 503.63       623.59 667.47 714.35 764.64 939.34 1,005.19 1,020.98

Operating Taxes
Business tax                 0.34    13.45 17.61     25.18      31.18 33.37  35.72  38.23  46.97   50.26    51.05
City tax                     0.02    0.94    1.23     1.76      2.18   2.34   2.50   2.68   3.29    3.52     3.57
Education levy               0.01    0.40    0.53     0.76      0.94   1.00   1.07   1.15   1.41    1.51     1.53
Total                        0.37    14.79 19.37     27.70      34.30 36.71  39.29  42.06  51.67   55.29    56.15

Net Revenue                  6.43   254.11 332.80 475.93       589.29 630.76 675.06 722.58 887.67 949.90   964.83
Operating Costs
Wages and benefits           7.75    41.91 28.26     29.62      36.79 39.38  42.15  45.11  55.42   59.31    60.24
Maintenance                  4.24    26.74 28.08     29.48      36.17 38.71  41.43  44.35  54.48   58.30    59.22
Administration               4.65    25.15 16.95     17.77      21.83 23.36  25.00  26.76  32.88   35.18    35.73
Others                        -        -       -        -          -    -      -      -      -       -        -
Total working costs          16.65   93.80 73.29     76.87      94.79 101.45 108.58 116.22 142.78 152.79   155.19
  Depreciation                -        -       -     251.99    252.30 252.46 252.62 252.79 252.97 253.15   253.34
Total operating costs        16.65   93.80 73.29 328.86        347.09 353.91 361.20 369.01 395.75 405.94   408.53
Operating Profit            (10.22) 160.31 259.51 147.07       242.20 276.85 313.86 353.57 491.92 543.96   556.30
Financial charges:
  IBRD                       39.36   56.15 61.63     59.00      52.00 65.60  61.57  57.37  53.00   48.46    43.74
  Local Bank                 93.22   93.22 93.22     87.57      82.32 77.07  69.19  61.32  53.44   42.94    32.44
  Others                      -        -       -        -          -    -      -      -      -       -        -
Other income (expenses)       -        -       -        -          -    -      -      -      -       -        -
Profit Before Taxes/1      (142.80) 10.94 104.66      0.50     107.88 134.18 183.10 234.88 385.48 452.56   480.12
Income tax                    -        -       -        -       26.79 44.28  60.42  77.51  127.21 149.34   158.44


Net Profit After Taxes     (142.80) 10.94 104.66      0.50      81.09 89.90  122.68 157.37 258.27 303.22   321.68

Actual: 2001- 2003, best estimate: 2004, forecast: 2005 thereafter.




                                                            - 34 -

                             Table 3i: Sources and Applications of Funds - Consolidated
                                       (million Yuan, year ending 31, December)
                   1998    1999     2000     2001    2002     2003     2004     2005 2006  2007 2008 2009        2010

Sources:
Net profits          -       -        -     (142.80) 10.94   104.66    0.50    81.09 89.90 122.68 157.4 258.27 303.22
Depreciation         -       -        -        -       -        -     251.99 252.30 252.46 252.62 252.79 252.97 253.15
State contribution 162.22 404.19   357.62    131.97    -        -        -       -     -     -      -      -       -
Provincial
  contribution     71.12 177.21    156.79    57.86     -        -        -       -     -     -      -      -       -
Borrowing: IBRD      -    292.11   281.48    609.66  505.01  164.60      -       -     -     -      -      -       -
             Local 256.22 638.42   564.86    208.45    -        -        -       -     -     -      -      -       -
Others               -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -     -     -      -      -       -


       Total       489.56 1,511.93 1,360.75 865.14   515.95  269.26   252.49 333.39 342.36 375.30 410.16 511.24 556.37

Applications:
Capital
  expenditure      489.56 1,511.93 1,360.75 1,007.94 505.01  164.60    30.29   31.20 32.14 33.10 34.09 35.11     36.16
Other expenditure  13.98   56.33    98.32    132.58  149.37  154.85      -       -     -     -      -      -       -
Loan repayment:
       IBRD          -       -        -        -       -        -      92.26   95.99 99.87 103.90 108.10 112.47 117.01
       Local         -       -        -        -       -        -     100.00 100.00 150.00 150.00 150.00 200.00 200.00
Change w/ capital (13.98) (56.33)  (98.32) (132.58) (292.18) (143.90) (181.14) (39.96) -     -      -      -       -


       Total       489.56 1,511.93 1,360.75 1,007.94 362.20  175.55    41.41 187.23 282.01 287.00 292.19 347.58 353.17


Net Funds Flow       -       -        -     (142.80) 153.75   93.7    211.08 146.16 60.35 88.30 117.97 163.66 203.20

 Open balance        -       -        -        -    (142.80)  10.94   104.66 315.74 461.90 522.25 610.55 728.52 892.18
 Closing balance     -       -        -     (142.80) 10.94   104.66   315.74 461.90 522.25 610.55 728.52 892.18 1,095.38

D/S Cover                    --       --       --      --       --     1.31     1.70  1.37  1.48   1.59  1.64     1.76




                                                       - 35 -

                                 Table 3j: Balance Sheet - Consolidated
                                  (million Yuan, year ending 31, December)
                            2001        2002       2003       2004     2005    2006     2007     2008
Assets:
Fixed Assets
 At cost                   4,370.19   4,875.21   5,039.80   5,039.80 5,045.94 5,049.15 5,052.46 5,055.87
 Less: Depreciation           -           -          -       251.99   504.29  756.75   1,009.37 1,262.16
       Net fixed assets    4,370.19   4,875.21   5,039.80   4,787.81 4,541.65 4,292.40 4,043.09 3,793.71


Current Assets
 Inventory                    -           -          -           -       -       -        -        -
 Receivable                   -           -          -           -       -       -        -        -
 Cash                      (142.80)     10.94     104.66     315.74   461.90  522.25   610.55   728.52
           Subtotal        (142.80)     10.94     104.66     315.74   461.90  522.25   610.55   728.52

Other Assets                  -           -          -           -       -       -        -        -

        Total Assets       4,227.39   4,886.15   5,144.46   5,103.55 5,003.55 4,814.65 4,653.64 4,522.23

Liabilities & Equity
State funds- Equity        1,376.19   1,529.94   1,623.65   1,775.00 1,870.99 1,931.96 2,024.85 2,151.54

L/T loans: IBRD            1,183.25   1,688.26   1,852.86   1,760.60 1,664.61 1,564.74 1,460.84 1,352.74
             Local         1,667.95   1,667.95   1,667.95   1,567.95 1,467.95 1,317.95 1,167.95 1,017.95
           Subtotal        2,851.20   3,356.21   3,520.81   3,328.55 3,132.56 2,882.69 2,628.79 2,370.69

Current Liabilities           -           -          -           -       -       -        -        -

Other Liabilities             -           -          -           -       -       -        -        -

Total Liabilities & Equity 4,227.39   4,886.15   5,144.46   5,103.55 5,003.55 4,814.65 4,653.64 4,522.23

Debt- to- capital ratio      67.4        68.7      68.4       65.2     62.6     59.9     56.5     52.4
Debt- to- equity ratio      67/33       69/31      68/32      65/35    63/37   60/40    56/44    52/48




                                                      - 36 -

                                Table 3k: Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
1. Toll and Traffic (AADT):
                          Small   Medium       Large        Small     Medium       Large      Tractor
                           car      bus         bus         truck       truck      truck      -Trailer  Total

   Toll (Y/v-km) /_a       0.40     0.75        1.00         0.40       0.75        1.00       1.35

   1. Jingzhou Expressway:
             2001             219       91           784         294         214      1,831          54  3,488
             2002             356      140        1,051          421         328      2,454         106  4,858
             2003             586      217        1,418          611         507      3,309         207  6,854
             2004             934      322        1,942          891         750      4,532         358  9,729
             2010           1,567      483        2,915        1,338       1,125      6,802         537 14,766
             2020           3,082      824        4,979        2,285       1,922     11,619         917 25,628
  2. Hurong Expressway:
             2001             646      166           655         277         387      1,525          39  3,694
             2002             806      233           857         345         546      1,998          66  4,850
             2003           1,021      330        1,127          437         770      2,629         112  6,424
             2004           1,500      441        1,508          585       1,030      3,518         150  8,730
             2010           2,380      625        2,139          829       1,461      4,990         212 12,635
             2020           4,262      971        3,322        1,287       2,269      7,749         330 20,189

  /_a: 15 % increase every 5 years.

2. Operating Taxes
     Business tax                  5.0% of the total revenue.
     City tax                      5.0% of the business taxes.
     Education levy                3.0% of the business taxes.

3. Operating Cost:                      .
      a. Wages and benefits        5.9% of total revenue
      b. Maintenance               5.8% of total revenue
      c. Administration            3.5% of total revenue
      d. Depreciation                 20 Year straight-line method.

4. Capital maintenance (MY/km):
      Increase 5% p.a.
                                      Routine                  Major
                                    maint./ year         maint./ 10 years
                                       0.154                   2.310



5. Income tax rate                 33.3%, after the tax credit.

6. Borrowing:        The IBRD      4.0%, 20 year maturities, LIBOR US$ based single currency,
                                          5 years grace period and the foreign exchange risks.
                     Local Bank    5.3%, 10 year maturities, flexible principal payment.




                                                             - 37 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              04/9/1995                 6    Task Manager (1);
                                             Highway Consultant (1);
                                             RMC Project Officer (1);
                                             Institutional Specialist (1);
                                             Environment Specialist (1)
                                             Resettlement Specialist (1)
              08/11/1995                6    Task Manager (1);
                                             Highway Consultant (1);
                                             RMC Project Officer (1);
                                             Institutional Specialist (1);
                                             Environment Specialist (1)
                                             Resettlement Specialist (1)
              12/7/1995                 6    Task Manager (1);
                                             Highway Consultant (1);
                                             RMC Project Officer (1);
                                             Operations Consultant (1);
                                             Environment Specialist (2)
              05/08/1996                6    Task Manager (1);
                                             Transport Specialist (1);
                                             Highway Consultant (1);
                                             Institutional Specialist (1);
                                             Environment Specialist (1);
                                             Resettlement Specialist (1)
              10/27/1996                5    Task Manager (1);
                                             Transport Specialist (1);
                                             Highway Consultant (1);
                                             Private Infrast. Consultant (1);
                                             Resettlement Specialist (1)
              03/16/1997                7    Task Manager (1);
                                             Transport Specialist (1);
                                             Highway Engineer. (1);
                                             Institutional Specialist (1);
                                             Private Infrast. Specialist(1);
                                             Operations Consultant (1);
                                             Resettlement Specialist (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/11/1997                6    Task Manager (1);
                                             Highway Consultant (1);
                                             Institutional Consultant (1);
                                             Environment Specialist (1);
                                             Resettlement Specialist (1);
                                             Private Infrast. Cons. (1);




                                              - 38 -

Supervision

           11/22/1998    7 Task Manager (1);                    S    S
                           Highway Consultant (1);
                           Institutional Consultant (1);
                           Environmental Specialist (1);
                           Resettlement Specialist (1);
                           Procurement Specialist (1);
                           Disbursement Specialist (1)
           03/23/1999    2 Task Manager (1);                    S    S
                           Highway Engineer (1)
           03/23/1999    4 Task Manager (1);                    S    S
                           Highway Engineer (1);
                           Institutional Specialist (1);
                           Resettlement Specialist (1)
           03/12/2000    6 Task Manager (1);                    S    S
                           Highway Engineer (1);
                           Institutional Specialist (1);
                           Resettlement Specialist (1);
                           Environment Specialist (1);
                           Procurement Specialist (1)
           07/30/2000    4 Task Manager (1);                    S    S
                           Highway Engineer (1);
                           Institutional Specialist (1);
                           Resettlement Specialist (1)
           04/19/2001    3 Private Transport Fin. Spec.(1);     S    S
                           Institutional Development (1);
                           Engineering (1)
           11/02/2001    5 Team Leader (1);                     S    S
                           Institutional Development (1);
                           Engineering (1);
                           Resettlement (1);
                           Environment (1)
           05/14/2002    1 Task Manager (1)                     S    S
           11/21/2002    2 TTL/Private Fin. Trp. Specialist     S    S
                           (1); Institutional Consultant (1)
           03/08/2003    4 TTL/Private Trp. Fin. Spec.(1);      S    S
                           Engineering Consultant (1);
                           Senior Environment Specialist
                           (1); Senior Road Safety Specialist
                           (1)
           10/25/2003    2 TTL/Private Trp. Fin. Spec.(1);      S    S
                           Senior Environment Spec. (1)
           11/17/2004    4 Environmental (1); TTL (1);          S    S
                           Highway Engineer (1);
                           Environment X-Training (1)

ICR
                         4 TLL/Sr. Transp. Spec. (1);           S    S
                           Transport Consultant (1);
                           Engineering Consultant (1);
                           Research Analyst (1)



                           - 39 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                              Actual/Latest Estimate
                                             No. Staff weeks                       US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                          92.7                              286.5
  Appraisal/Negotiation                               32.7                              122.7
  Supervision                                         50.5                              385.5
  ICR                                                 10.0                                21.0
  Total                                             185.9                               815.7
Cost incurred up to and including FY99 were increased by 15% to take into account changes in
accounting practices starting in FY00.




                                                          - 40 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Resettlement
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 41 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 42 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1.   CHINA: Hubei Shiman Highway Project. Project Appraisal Document. World Bank Report
     No. 27681-CHA. May 25, 2004.

2.   The State Road Project III in Hubei Province. Environmental Monitoring Report in Operation Phase
     (2004). Hubei Provincial Environmental Monitoring Central Station of Communications
     (HBPEMCSC). January 2004.

3.   National Highway III. World Bank Project. Environmental Monitoring Report on National Project III in
     Hubei Province in Operation Phase. Hubei Provincial Environmental Monitoring Central Station.
     January 2004.

4.   National Highway III. World Bank Project. Highway Maintenance Study in Hubei Province. Final Report.
     Hubei Provincial Highway Administrative Bureau. December 2003.

5.   National Highway III. World Bank Project. The Implementation Report on Institutional Strengthening
     Plan. Project Office of Hubei Provincial Communications Department. December 2003.

6.   National Highway III. World Bank Project. The Implementation Report on Noise Abatement and
     Reduction in the Phase of Operation. Hubei Provincial Environmental Monitoring
     Central Station. December 2003.

7.   Toll Rate of Beijing-Zhuhai Expressway in Hubei Section. Hubei Jingzhu Expressway Operation Ltd.
     Company. June 23, 2003.

8.   Hubei Province. Highway Maintenance Expressway Corporatization Study. Final Report.
     The headquarters of Hubei Jingzhu Expressway. Wuhan University of Technology. February 2003.

9.   CHINA: Hubei Xiaogan ­ Xiangfan Highway Project. Project Appraisal Document.
     World Bank Report No. 23909-CHA. August 19, 2002.

10.  Post Evaluation Report of Resettlement. The World Bank Financed Hubei Expressway Project III.
     Involuntary Resettlement Center. Wuhan University. June 2002.

11.  The Working Report of Excavation and Preservation of Tucheng Site of Scheme III on National Way
     of Hubei Province. The Institute of Cultural Relics and Archaeology of Hubei Province. December 2001.

12.  Hubei National Highway III Project. Engineer's Office. IBRD Loan No. 4327CHA.
     Quarterly Progress Report No. 9. March 2001 ­ June 2001.

13.  CHINA: National Highway Project. Implementation Completion Report.
     World Bank Report No. 21499-CHA. December 19, 2000.

14.  Hubei National Highway III Project. Engineer's Office. IBRD Loan No. 4327CHA.
     Annual Progress Report December 1999 ­ December 2000.

15.  CHINA: Fourth National Highway Project. Project Appraisal Document.
     World Bank Report No. 19287-CHA. May 19, 1999.

16.  CHINA: Third National Highway Project. Staff Appraisal Report.
     World Bank Report No. 16477-CHA. April 15, 1998.

17.  CHINA: National Highway Project. Staff Appraisal Report.
     World Bank Report No. 12552-CHA. March 22, 1994.




                                                   - 43 -

                                   111°                                                 112°                                                  113°                                         114°                        115°                     116°

                    This map was produced by the
                    Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C H I N A
                    The boundaries, colors, denominations                                                                                                                               Xinyang
                    and any other information shown on                                              Xiangfan
                    this map do not imply, on the part of                                                                                                                                              H     E     N     A   N                                            THIRD NATIONAL
                    The World Bank Group, any judgment

              32°   on the legal status of any territory, or                                                                                                                                                                                    32°                    HIGHWAY PROJECT
                    any endorsement or acceptance of
                    such boundaries.

                    0          20           40                          60

                                 KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                                                          ANHUI

                                                                                                                                                                                                    See detail below                                                              HIGHWAY PROJECTS:
                                                                                         Jingmen                     Han                                                                           1                                                                                         IBRD FINANCING
                                                                                                                            Shui                                                                                                                                                                INTERCHANGES
              31°                       Yichang                                                                                                                                                                                                 31°                                             BRIDGE
                                                                                                           H                               U                    B             E        I  2      Wuhan                                                                                       ONGOING

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BRIDGES
                                                                                                                                                                  7
                                                                                                                                                                                          3             6              Huangzhou                                                  EXISTING EXPRESSWAYS
                                                                                                    Jiangling                                                                              4           5                         8                                                MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Chang
                                                                                              Chang                                                                                                                                                                               RAILROADS
                                                                                                 Jiang                                                                                       9                                      Jiang                                         RIVERS
              30°                                                                                                                                                                                                                               30°                               SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                                 Hong
                                                                                                                                                                  Hu                                Xianning                                                                      PROVINCE CAPITALS

                                                                                                                                                                          Jiang           Puqi                                                                                    NATIONAL CAPITAL (INSET)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WUHAN CITY BOUNDARY
                                                                         Linli                                                                                    Chang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                Yueyang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES (INSET)


                                                                          Changde
              29°                                                                                                                                                  10                                                                           29°
                                                   Jiang

                                              Yuan                                        Dongting Hu                                                                                                     J I A N G X I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Nanchang




                                                                                                             Changsha
                                                 H                     U       N            A    N                                                                                  Liuyang


              28°                                                                                                                                            11                                                                                 28°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                116°                1    National Highways III, Dawu - Quanli, 128 km,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         current project with World Bank financing


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2    National Highways III, Hurong West, 8 km,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         current project with World Bank financing
                                                                                         DAWU                                                                                                          0            5         10            15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         National Highways III, Hurong and Jingzhu,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     KILOMETERS                                     3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         22 km, current project with World Bank financing

                                                                                       XIAOHE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4    National Highways III, Yangtze River crossing,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5 km, current project with local financing

                                                                                       XIAOCHANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5 & 6             National Highways III, Hurong East, 38 km,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         current project with World Bank financing


                                                Xiaogang                                                                                                                                                                                               7 & 8 Existing expressways


                                              CHANCHUAN                                                                                                                                                                                                             9    National Highways IV, Zhengdian-Hunan border,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         110 km, completed with World Bank financing


                                                                                 SANCHA                                                                                                                                                                             10   National Highways IV, Hubei border-Changsha,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         185 km, completed with World Bank financing
                                            SANCHA-XIAOGAN
                                                       (NR107)                     SANCHA
                                                                                              -
                                      Maochen                                                     TIANHE                                                                                                                                                            11   Changsha-Xiangtan, 45 km, with ADB financing,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         completed




                                                                                                                            W                U                   H          A       N
                                                   DABADAI-   XIAOGAN
                              HANKOU OUTER RING
                                            (PLANNED)

                                            HUAN
                             (NR107)  -HANC
                                             Zoumaling                         DABADI
                    HEBAOHU                                                       DABADI-                                                                                                   GOING
                                                                                  HANDOU                                                                         ONGOING                  ON

                                                                                   CAIDIAN-
                                                  CAIDIAN                            SHILIPU



                                                                                                                                                                             BAOKIE-
                                                                                                                                                                            WUCHANG
                                                                     QUANLI-                                                                                                   EXPR.
                                     EXPR.                                         QUANLI                                                                                               BAOXIE
                     -   YICHANG                                YONG'AN
                                                                     TANSHUAO-
              YONG'AN                 YONG'AN                                                                                                  Liufangling
                         -  Zhuru                                    JUNSHAN Tushan                                                                                              JIANGXIA                                     Chang       Jiang                      M O N G O L I A                           L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            O                LIAONING
                 YONG'AN                                                                                                                                                         OUTER RING                                                                                                               G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N                                  DEM. PEOPLE'S
                 CHENGGONG                                           Huangling                     JINKOU                                                         WULIJIE-
                                                                                                                                                                       ANG                              BAOXIE-HUANGSHI
                                                                                                             Huangjinqiao                                                                                                                                                                             O                                    REP. OF KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                   LIUF      FENGHUANGSHAN                                                                                                          M        BEIJING Beijing
                                                                     ZHANGWAN                                                                                                                                                                                                   N E         I                  SHI
                                                                                                   Jinkou                                     ZHIFANG-                                                                                                                                                               TAINJIN SHI
                           NH3                             SHENSHAN                                                                            WULIJIE                                             NH3                 EXPR.                                                                                   HEBEI                             REP. OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 KOREA
                                                                                  AN-             JINKOU-
                                                                                               ZHENGDIAN                                                                                                                                                                                               SHANXI
                           NH4                                                                                                              ZHIFANG                                                NH4                                                                                                             SHANDONG         Ye l l o w
                                       -SHUIHONGKOU

                                                                                SHAMAO
                                                                                    AIZHA-WAN ZHENGDIAN                                                                                                                                                      QINGHAI                 NINGXIA                                          S e a
                                                                            ZHANGW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GANSU                                           JIANGSU
                                 SHAMAO                                                             ZHENGDIAN-                                                                                                                                                                               SHAANXI      HENAN
                                                                                                      ZHIFANG
                                                                                 WUTPANJIA

                                                                                                                                               HESHENGQIAO                                                                                                                                                HUBEI
                                                                                                    NH4          OAIQGNEHSEH    -NAIDGNEHZ                                                                                                                                                                                           SHANGHAI SHI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ANHUI

                                                                                                                                                         ZHIF                                                                                                                                                                                    E a s t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SICHUAN                                              ZHEJIANG
                                                                                                                                                            ANG-                                                                                                                                         Area of                                C h i n a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       XIZANG                                CHONGQING  main map   JIANGXI                        S e a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HUNAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GUIZHOU                                  FUJIAN


FEBRUAR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TAIWAN
                                                           Jiang                                                                                                                                                                                                      YUNNAN                    GUANGXI     GUANGDONG                                    IBRD
                                       Chang                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HONG KONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MACAO, PORT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             28749R
       Y                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ANMAR            VIETNAM                                 South
        2005                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MY      LAO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PEOPLE'S                                   China Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HAINAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      THAILAND            DEM.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          REP.                                                      PHILIPPINES

