Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4327 CHA
Project Agreement
(Third National Highway Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
HUBEI PROVINCE
Dated June 26, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4327 CHA 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 26, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and HUBEI PROVINCE (Hubei). 
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's Republic of 
China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to lend to the Borrower an 
amount of two hundred fifty million Dollars ($250,000,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Hubei agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS Hubei in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the 
Page  2
respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
Section 2.01. (a) Hubei declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, and technical practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and Hubei shall otherwise agree, Hubei shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. (a) Hubei shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, Hubei shall: 
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Bank and Hubei, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and 
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Hubei on said 
plan. 
Section 2.04. (a) Hubei shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Loan. 
(b)
Hubei shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by Hubei of its obligations under this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Financial Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) Hubei shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of Hubei responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
Hubei shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
Page  3
such audit by said 
auditors of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request. 
ARTICLE IV 
Effective Date; Termination 
Cancellation and Suspension 
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Hubei 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Hubei of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE V 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Hubei Province:
Hubei Provincial 
People’s Government 
1 Beihuan Road 
Wuhan, Hubei  430071 
People’s Republic of China
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Hubei may be 
taken or executed by a Vice Governor of Hubei or by such other person or persons as 
said Vice Governor shall designate in writing, and Hubei shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person. 
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
Page  4
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
  AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jean-Michel Severino
Regional Vice President 
East Asia and Pacific
HUBEI PROVINCE
By /s/ Liu Xiaoming
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and in September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Prequalification 
Bidders for all contracts for works shall be prequalified in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors, excluding goods manufactured in and works 
carried out by contractors from Hong Kong Special Administrative Region.
(c)
Dispute Review Board 
Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or more shall 
include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding 
documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines.
(d)
Notification and Advertising 
Page  5
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
Limited International Bidding 
Goods, which the Bank agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of 
suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $48,300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
3.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for: (i) works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$2,000,000 or more, and (ii) goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of 
Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 
3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedure for the Selection of Consultants 
Page  6
Individual Consultants Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth 
in paragraph 5.01 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program 
A.
Environment, Land Acquisition and Resettlement
1.
Hubei shall: 
(a)
implement the Project in accordance with the Highway EAP and the RAP (the 
Plans), in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(b)
furnish any proposed revision to the Plans to the Bank for its prior 
approval.
2.
Hubei shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the implementation of the Plans; and
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and, by December 
31 of each year commencing in 1998, furnish to the Bank: 
(i)
an annual environmental monitoring report during the construction 
phase of the 
Project, and for each of the first three (3) years following 
Page  7
completion of 
construction; and 
(ii)
internal monitoring reports prepared by appropriate agencies of 
Hubei, and 
external monitoring reports prepared by an 
independent agency acceptable to 
the Bank regarding the implementation 
and impact of resettlement activities in 
Hubei during the previous 
twelve (12) months. 
B.
Part A of the Project 
1.
Hubei shall employ and maintain during the implementation of Part A of the 
Project, construction supervision teams with qualified staff in adequate numbers to 
ensure that all works are carried out in accordance with technical specifications and 
that strict quality controls are exercised on all sites. 
2.
In connection with Part A.1 (b) of the Project, Hubei shall: 
(a) furnish to the Bank for its confidential use in making its evaluation and 
comments, the technical specifications, construction time-table, financing plan and 
procurement procedures in regard to the Yangtze bridge at Junshan; and 
(b) coordinate closely the construction of the two sections of the Jingzhu 
Expressway with the construction of said bridge.
C.
Part B of the Project: Institutional Strengthening and Training
1.
Hubei shall: (a) carry out the training under Part B.3 of the Project in 
accordance with a training program acceptable to the Bank; and (b) to that end, 
furnish to the Bank for its prior approval, by June 30 of each year commencing in 
1999, a rolling two-year training program. 
2.
Hubei shall, by December 31, 2001, carry out an analysis of the structure of 
toll-rates on the Jingzhu and Hurong Expressways, in accordance with terms of 
reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank for its review and comments, 
the findings of said analysis and recommendations regarding the structure of said 
toll-rates.
3.
Hubei shall: (a) by June 30, 2000, carry out the study on the management of 
highway maintenance referred to under Part B.1 of the Project in accordance with terms 
of reference acceptable to the Bank and furnish to the Bank for review and comments 
the findings and draft recommendations thereof; (b) finalize and furnish to the Bank 
not later than December 31, 2000 said recommendations taking into account comments 
made by the Bank on said draft recommendations; and (c)  thereafter, take all 
appropriate steps to implement said finalized recommendations.
4.
Hubei shall prepare under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and furnish 
to the Bank for its review and comments, by March 31 of each year from 1999 until 
2003, an annual highway maintenance report for the previous calendar year which shall: 
(a) indicate the condition of each class of highway in Hubei as of December 31 of the 
preceding year; and (b) measure the physical results and the actual expenditures of 
the past year against the targets and the funds budgeted therefor; and (c) establish 
targets for the following year, including new construction, upgrading/improvement, 
rehabilitation, periodic maintenance and routine maintenance, both in terms of planned 
works and budgeted expenditures.
5.
Hubei shall: (a) by December 31, 2000, carry out the study on the 
commercialization of expressways referred to under Part B.2 of the Project in 
accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and furnish the findings and 
draft \0crecommendations thereof to the Bank for review and comments; (b) finalize and 
furnish to the Bank not later than June 30, 2001 said recommendations taking into 
account comments made by the Bank on said draft recommendations; and (c) thereafter, 
take all appropriate steps to implement said finalized recommendations.
6.
With a view to increase the awareness of the importance of road safety issues, 
Hubei shall:  
(a)
cause the Hubei Traffic Engineering Society to:  
Page  8
(i)
incorporate road safety issues into the agenda of its annual 
meetings as of 
1999; and 
(ii)
organize an annual road safety seminar in Hubei starting in 2000; 
and 
(b)
(i)
prepare a safety audit schedule, carry out a black spot analysis 
and, based on 
said analysis, develop, and furnish to the Bank for 
review by not later than 
June 30, 2000 a black-spot improvement plan in 
accordance with terms of 
reference acceptable to the Bank; and  
(ii)
thereafter, take all appropriate steps to implement the said plan 
in 
accordance with its terms, whilst taking into account the 
Bank’s comments 
thereon.  
D.
Monitoring and Reporting
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions: 
1.
Hubei shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof.
2.
Hubei shall: 
(a)
prepare under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
the Bank (i) a quarterly report starting with the first calendar quarter of 1999; and 
(ii) by June 30 of each year commencing in 1999 and ending three (3) years after 
completion of the Project, an annual report, in a format acceptable to the Bank, 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to paragraph 1 of this Part D, on the progress achieved in the carrying out the 
Project during the period preceding the dates of such reports and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such dates; and 
(b)
review with the Bank by such subsequent dates as the Bank shall request, 
the reports referred to in sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 2 and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said reports and the Bank’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 3 
Monitoring Indicators
Table 1:  Development Indicators
(PLEASE SEE ORIGINAL DOCUMENT FOR MONITORING INDICATORS TABLE,
FORMAT WILL NOT FIT INTO AGREEMENT)
