Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4327 CHA
Loan Agreement
(Third National Highway  Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 26, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4327 CHA 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 26, 1998, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Hubei Province (Hubei) with the 
Borrower ’s assistance, and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to Hubei the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
Hubei;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
Page  2
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Affected Persons” means persons who on account of the execution of the 
Project had or would have their: (i) standard of living adversely affected, or (ii) 
right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and 
grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily 
or permanently, or (iii) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat 
adversely affected; and “Affected Person” means individually all those who qualify as 
Affected Persons. 
(b)
“Highway EAP” means the Environmental Protection Action Plan for the 
National Road Project III in Hubei Province prepared by Hubei Provincial 
Communications Department, dated February 1998, which sets out environmental 
protection measures for Part A of the Project, as well as administrative and 
monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said measures, as such Highway 
EAP may be revised from time to time in agreement with the Bank. 
(c)
“RAP” means the Resettlement Action Plan for the National Highway III 
Project (Beijing-Zhuhai Expressway) issued by the Hubei Province Jingzhu Expressway 
Resettlement Office, dated March 1998, which set out the procedures governing land 
acquisition, resettlement and compensation of Affected Persons for Part A of the 
Project, as well as monitoring and reporting arrangements to ensure compliance with 
said plan measures, as such RAP may be revised from time to time in agreement with the 
Bank.
(d)
"Hubei" means Hubei Province, a political sub-division of the Borrower 
and any successor thereto. 
(e)
“Plans” means collectively the Highway EAP and the RAP. 
(f)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and Hubei of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement. 
(g)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to two 
hundred fifty million Dollars ($ 250,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
Page  3
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement. 
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall cause Hubei to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement all the obligations of Hubei therein set forth, shall take or cause to be 
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Hubei to perform such obligations, and 
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with 
such performance.
Page  4
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to Hubei on 
the following principal terms:
(i)
the principal amount so made available to Hubei shall be the 
equivalent in 
Dollars (determined on the respective dates of 
withdrawal from the Loan 
Account) of the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn; 
(ii)
Hubei shall repay such principal amount in Dollars over a period 
of twenty 
(20) years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) 
years; 
(iii)
the Borrower shall charge interest on such principal amount 
withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal 
to the rate applicable from time 
to time pursuant to Section 2.05 (a) of 
this Agreement; and  
(iv)
the Borrower shall charge a commitment charge on such principal 
amount not 
withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to 
three-fourths of one percent 
(3/4 of 1%) per annum.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement. 
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Hubei 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made; and 
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, including a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and 
Page  5
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon 
to support the related withdrawals; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Hubei shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Hubei will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement  has been 
duly authorized or ratified by Hubei and is legally binding upon Hubei in accordance 
with its terms. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address: 
Telex:
FINANMIN Beijing 
22486 
MFPRCFN
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
  Reconstruction and Development
Page  6
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Liu Xiaoming
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jean-Michel Severino
Regional Vice President 
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
     % of            
(Expressed in
 Expenditures   
Category
     Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works under
(a) Parts A.1 (a) and (c)
166,300,000
45%
    of the Project
(b) Part A.1 (b) of the
 26,700,000
45%
    of the Project
(c) Part A.2 of the 
  7,600,000
30%
    of the Project
(d) Part A.3 of the 
  2,800,000
20%
    of the Project
(2)
Supply and installations
        10,500,000
80%
of electronic, electric
and mechanical 
equipment under
Part A of the Project
Page  7
(3)
Goods
  5,600,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 75%
of local expenditures
for other items procured 
locally
(4)
Consultants’ services
  5,500,000
100% of foreign
and training
expenditures
(5)
Unallocated
 25,000,000
 __________
TOTAL
       250,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; provided, however, that 
expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower for goods and services supplied from said region shall be deemed to be 
“foreign expenditures”; and 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures under Category (1)(b) until the Bank has 
received the documents to be provided by Hubei pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 
B (2) (a) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; and 
(b)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$25,000,000 may be made in respect of Categories (1) (a), 3 and 4 on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after September 30, 1997.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:
(a)
goods under contracts costing less than $250,000 equivalent;
(b)
works under contracts costing less than $2,000,000 equivalent;
(c)
consultants’ services under contracts with firms or individuals costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent and $50,000 equivalent, respectively; and
(d)
training,
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to support the continuing development of 
the Borrower’s national trunk highway system in the principal North-South and 
East-West corridors; (b) to improve interregional economic integration; (c) to 
strengthen the highway sector institutional capacity in Hubei; and (d) to improve the 
safety of road transport in Hubei.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
Page  8
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Construction of Highways
1.
Construction of: (a) two sections of the Beijing-Zhuhai expressway (the Jingzhu 
Expressway) between Dawu and Xiaochang Xiaohe and between Xiaochang Xiaohe and Quanli 
(of about 130 kilometers (km)); (b) two sections of the Jingzhu Expressway between 
Quanli and the Yantgze River crossing and between the Yangtze River crossing and 
Shengshan (of about 14 km): and (c) two sections of the Shanghai-Chengdu expressway 
(the Hurong Expressway) between Quanli and Yongan (of about 10 kilometers km) and 
between Shengshan and Baoxie (of about 44 km), including the supply and installation 
of electronic, electrical and mechanical equipment for toll collections, lighting and 
traffic monitoring. 
2.
Construction of administration and maintenance buildings and service facilities 
for the expressway sections to be constructed under Part A.1 of the Project. 
3.
Construction of about thirty-three (33) km of interconnecting roads to connect 
the expressway sec tions to be constructed under Part A. 1 of the Project with the 
existing road infrastructure in the North-South (Jingzhu) and East-West (Hurong) 
corridors.
4.
Strengthening of Hubei highway agencies, through the provision of equipment and 
consultant’s services for the control of construction quality and environmental 
monitoring; and provision of equipment for: (a) expressway operation and maintenance; 
(b) maintenance of the provincial road network; and (c) information and management 
systems for bridge information, as well as road pavement and maintenance management. 
5.
Resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons under Parts A.1, A.2 and A.3 
of the Project.
Part B:
Institutional Strengthening and Training 
1.
Carrying out of a highway maintenance management study to improve and modernize 
maintenance management in Hubei. 
2.
Carrying out of an expressway commercialization and corporatization study to 
develop and analyze options for the financing and managing of toll highways. 
3.
Strengthening of the institutional capabilities of Hubei’s highway sector, 
specifically in the areas of highway planning, design, construction, operation, 
safety, maintenance and finance, through the provision of consultants’ services, 
training and equipment.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
 (expressed in Dollars)*
January 15, 2004
  5,285,000 
July 15, 2004
  5,440,000 
January 15, 2005
  5,605,000 
July 15, 2005
  5,770,000 
January 15, 2006
  5,940,000 
July 15, 2006
  6,115,000 
January 15, 2007
  6,295,000 
July 15, 2007
  6,485,000 
January 15, 2008
  6,675,000 
July 15, 2008
  6,875,000 
January 15, 2009
  7,080,000 
Page  9
July 15, 2009
  7,290,000 
January 15, 2010
  7,505,000 
July 15, 2010
  7,725,000 
January 15, 2011
  7,955,000 
July 15, 2011
  8,190,000 
January 15, 2012
  8,435,000 
July 15, 2012
  8,685,000 
January 15, 2013
  8,940,000 
July 15, 2013
  9,205,000 
January 15, 2014
  9,480,000 
July 15, 2014
  9,760,000 
January 15, 2015
 10,050,000 
July 15, 2015
 10,350,000 
January 15, 2016
 10,655,000 
July 15, 2016
 10,970,000 
January 15, 2017
 11,295,000 
July 15, 2017
 11,630,000 
January 15, 2018
 11,975,000 
July 15, 2018
 12,340,000
________________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Sections  4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories 1 through 4 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$15,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $8,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $80,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
Page  10
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
Page  11
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
