Report No. PID2405
Project Name                     China-Third National Highway(@#) ...
Project
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Transport
Project ID number                CNPE36949
Borrower                         People's Republic of China
Implementing Agency
Hubei Provincial Communication Department
Mr. Shao Hongshan
Deputy Director
Hubei Provincial Communication
Department
Date of this PID                 June, 1998
Appraisal Date                   June, 1997
Board Date                       May, 1998
Project Cost/Financing:          IBRD                             250 million
Central Government               129 million
Provincial Government            300 million
Total costs                      679 million
Background
1.      China's economic development since the opening of its economy in the
late 1970s has resulted in a 9.5 percent average annual rate of economic
growth. Key facets of this growth are rapidly increasing domestic and foreign
trade as well as increasing personal mobility and consumption of energy.
These, in turn, have caused the demand for transport to surge. Supply
capacity, however, is constrained, and this is now being recognized as one of
the most serious bottlenecks to future economic growth and efficiency. In
particular, motorization is growing rapidly, but road transport, for
historical reasons, has not been widely developed in much of China outside its
cities. China's road network ranks among the sparsest in the world relative to
geographic area or population.
2.      China's Ninth Five'Year Plan (9FYP, 1996'2000) emphasizes a reduction in
transport bottlenecks, which are now being recognized as a growing constraint
to rapid economic development. The diversification and structural
transformation of the economy, toward more light and agroindustry and more
interprovincial trade, coupled with severe capacity constraints of the
railways, are causing an accelerating demand for road transport. This national
pattern also applies to the highway project in Hubei. The new Beijing'Zhuhai
(Jingzhu) Expressway, linking the north and south of China, crosses the
provinces of Hebei, Henan, Hubei, Hunan, and Guangdong over a distance of
approximately 2,500 kilometers (km). Once completed, it will connect Beijing
with Guangdong's fast'growing Pearl River Delta and Hong Kong. The Shanghai'
Chengdu Expressway (Hurong) is also a main route linking the east to the west
of China over a distance of approximately 2,000 km, crossing the provinces of



Shanghai, Jiangsu, Anhui, Hubei and Sichuan. Both routes have the highest
priority among the 12 national trunk routes in the National Trunk Highway
System (NTHS). Both are designed as high'grade, high'performance facilities,
at a minimum four'lane standard, fully access'controlled, and will be operated
throughout as toll highways.
Project Context
3.      The Bank is already heavily involved in the construction of substantial
sections of Jingzhu expressway, between Beijing and Guangzhou. Under the still
ongoing National Highway (NH1) Project, two important sections in Hebei and
Henan provinces have already been completed and are open to traffic. Under the
Second National Highway (NH2) Project, two priority sections of Jingzhu
expressway in northern Guangdong and southern Hunan are presently being
undertaken. Under the proposed Third National Highway (NH3) Project, several
important sections of Jingzhu and Hurong expressways would be undertaken.
Finally, the proposed Fourth National Highway (NH4) Project will cover two
important expressway sections in Hunan and Hubei, as well as a major Wuhan
Yangtze River Bridge under a proposed build'operate'transfer (BOT)
arrangement. These four National Highway Projects constitute a well'thought'
out and well'balanced series of investment operations that assist the
Government of China (GOC) and the concerned provinces in the timely completion
of China's highest priority expressway corridor between Beijing and Guangzhou.
4.      Hubei Province. Hubei Province lies in the center of China, in the
middle reaches of the Yangtze River and to the north of Dongting Lake. Hubei
has a population of 57.7 million covering an area of 185,900 km2.
Topographically, Hubei is high in the west and low in the east, south and
north, with plains in the center and opening to the southwest. The province's
commercial and industrial center is Wuhan, its capital, with a population of
about 6 million. Wuhan is one of China's key transportation hubs, located at
the crossroads of the new North'South (Beijing'Zhuhai) and East'West
(Shanghai'Chengdu) expressways, of several main railway lines, and of river
routes on the Yangtze River, Asia's longest and most important river. The
economy of Hubei has grown by 10 percent annually since 1980 while the vehicle
fleet in Hubei grew three times in 10 years between 1986 and 1997, on an
average of 11 percent per year. The highway network in Hubei comprises about
48,700 km, of which only 5,608 km (about 11.5 percent of the total) are class
1 and 2 roads.
Project Objectives
5.      The proposed project would be the third in the series of NH1'NH2'NH3'NH4
projects for the Jingzhu expressway in Guangdong, Hunan, Hubei, Henan, and
Hebei Provinces. It would build on its predecessors NH1 and NH2 and would
precede NH4 by about one year. All four projects in the series would support
an integrated approach to expressway corridor development, with each of the
four operations contributing selected priority sections that would gradually
develop into a full corridor system. The specific objectives of the NH3
project would be to: (a) relieve road transport congestion and improve the
integration of interregional trade and commerce by assisting in the further
development of the NTHS in the principal North'South and East'West transport
corridors and allowing for the early completion of a functional expressway
network in Hubei province, thus enabling through traffic to bypass Wuhan City;
(b) strengthen institutional capacity at HPCD and related institutions through
provision of training, technical assistance and equipment in planning, design,
construction, operation and maintenance of Hubei's highway network;
-2 -



(c) develop a policy dialogue in the areas of the commercialization and
corporatization of provincial expressway companies and highway maintenance
management; and (d) improve the safety of road transport.
Project Components
6.      This highway project would comprise:
(a)     Construction of the northern section of the Beijing'Zhuhai
(Jingzhu) expressway (143 km) and two short sections of the Shanghai'Chengdu
(Hurong) expressway (54 km in total) (which would be connected by the Junshan
Yangtze Bridge proposed to be built under a BOT scheme under the proposed
Fourth National Highway Project). The works would also include construction of
administration, service and maintenance facilities as well as the supply and
installation of electrical, electronic and mechanical (E&M) equipment for
tolling, telecommunication, traffic monitoring, and lighting of interchanges,
toll plazas and service areas;
(b)     An interconnecting road program (33 km) connecting the expressway
sections to existing road infrastructure in the North'South (Jingzhu) and
East'West (Hurong) corridors;
(c)     Construction supervision services for all expressway sections and
their interconnecting roads;
(d)     Studies/technical assistance in (i) highway maintenance
management, (ii) expressway commercialization and corporatization; and (iii)
several road traffic safety components;
(e)     Staff training programs, covering all aspects of highway planning,
design, construction, operation, finance and maintenance; and
(f)     Equipment for: (i) control of construction quality and monitoring
of the environment; (ii) operation and maintenance of expressways after their
completion; (iii) maintenance of the provincial road network; and (iv) bridge
information system (BMS), pavement management system (PMS) and maintenance
management system (MMS).
Project Cost and Financing
7.      The total project cost is estimated to be $679 million equivalent,
excluding loan commitment charges and interest during construction. The Bank
loan of about $250 million would be onlent to Hubei Province. The remainder
of the cost would be met through contributions from the Ministry of
Communications (MOC) and the Provinces.
Project Implementation
8.      HPCD would have overall responsibilities for implementation of all
project parts. The Jingzhu and Hurong Expressways would be constructed under
12 contract sections to be awarded following international competitive bidding
(ICB) procedures. All contractors for these sections would be prequalified.
National competitive bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank would be
used for all interconnecting roads, and for service areas, toll plazas, as
well as administration and maintenance buildings along Jingzhu and Hurong
Expressways. Construction supervision would be provided by a joint
international/local supervision team. The project implementation arrangements
as proposed in Hubei's Project Implementation Plan are satisfactory. The
project would be implemented during the period 1998'2004.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
9.      The proposed project is consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy for China, presented to the Board on March 18, 1997 and the progress
note to be presented on May 28, 1998, which support China's need to rapidly
-3 -



modernize and expand its infrastructure, including the highway system. By
helping the Government to plan and build the NTHS, of which the Jingzhu and
Hurong expressways are key elements, the Bank supports this essential long'
term solution to the serious transport problems facing China, removing
infrastructure bottlenecks, facilitating interprovincial trade, and promoting
long'distance road traffic. This would help arrest a growing regionalism while
furthering the liberalization, facilitation, and cost reduction of transport--
key requirements for market'oriented reforms to succeed. Early completion of
the two expressways would be vital to the future economic development of Hubei
Province since this would open up this inland province for much needed
increases in interprovincial trade with fast'growing Guangdong, Hong Kong and
Shanghai and help realize the full economic benefits from large'scale
expressway development.
10.     Since demand for new expressways in China is well beyond any similar
requirement existing in the world today and certainly outstrips available
public funding by a wide margin, Bank involvement in the construction of the
new expressways in Hubei is a positive addition to the resources of China.
However, these resources are insufficient to close the funding gap. By
conservative estimates China requires $20 to 25 billion of capital from the
private sector to meet its highway program goals over the next 10 years.
Through sponsorship of model BOT prequalification and bidding document
preparation and development of a competitive and transparent procurement
procedure, the Bank was able to play an important formative role in the
establishment of a BOT concession framework, conducive to the attraction of
private financing for China's highway program. Further, as a result of the
Junshan Yangtze Bridge BOT Project, for which the Bank funded a feasibility
analysis and is prepared to support an international marketing effort by MOF,
the State Planning Commission (SPC), MOC and HPCD, China now has the
opportunity to test the international market with a toll bridge project that
is commercially viable. The experience that will be gained from this first BOT
highway/bridge project will be very valuable to the ongoing development of
China's ambitious toll expressway program.
11.     Bank support is also justified by project assistance to institutional
development, which, besides the provision of training and equipment, would
include studies on expressway commercialization and corporatization, and
highway maintenance management. This would support the introduction of market
principles and mechanisms in highway financing, operation, management and
maintenance. Bank involvement is also expected to benefit the design and
quality of construction of expressways as well as road traffic safety. NH3
would additionally foster improved practices in the areas of environment, land
acquisition and resettlement of project'affected people.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Sector
12.      The Bank has accumulated substantial experience through the preparation
and implementation of 20 highway projects in China, seven of which have been
closed. While the overall performance of highway projects is by and large
satisfactory, some problems have occurred, including inadequate quality of
construction, cost overruns and a late start in the engineering design and
procurement of traffic engineering facilities, which have delayed completion
of highway projects. Preparation of the proposed NH3 project has specifically
addressed the above issues. The engineering designs and bid documents for the
project expressways are being reviewed by international experts, and
-4 -



construction will be supervised by a joint international/local consulting
team, with the local team receiving both formal (in China and abroad) and on'
the'job training in supervision of construction activities and environmental
aspects of road development. The conceptual designs of the traffic engineering
facilities have already been completed and approved by MOC.
13.     Several of the most important lessons learned in implementation of
highway projects worldwide concern road maintenance. Bank policy papers in
1979 and 1988 underscored the fact that neglect of road maintenance can
ultimately result in very high costs to restore infrastructure, and that new
road construction must be balanced with the need for road maintenance.
Previously, this was not an issue in China--adequate funds were being set
aside for this purpose and maintenance was adequately carried out. However,
with the expansion of the NTHS, with its high costs, the rapid increase in
traffic volumes, and the trend toward using larger trucks with heavier axle
loads, concern is growing about the accelerating maintenance requirements in
the future. An analysis of the sources and uses of highway funds during the
next five years in Hubei revealed that the project province would be able to
meet their highway expenditure plans.
14.     The Bank's recent, albeit limited, experience with the operation and
management of tolled expressways in China indicates the need for improvement
in this area. The proposed project therefore provides training for staff and
equipment for efficient and safe operation and maintenance of the project's
high'grade highways. Moreover, the project province would benefit from the
results of high'grade highway commercialization and corporatization as well as
maintenance management studies that will be undertaken as part of NH3. Limited
experience with highway safety programs in China has pointed to the difficulty
of their implementation due to poor coordination between the traffic police
and the highway departments. The proposed project addresses this problem by
focusing on highway safety, which, in view of the rapid expansion of the road
network and fast motorization in Hubei, is becoming an important issue.
15.     Experience in the area of land acquisition and resettlement has
generally been satisfactory. However, the lesson has been that the Bank should
make its requirements well known to the Chinese agencies at an early stage in
the preparation of a new project. Experience in the environmental area in
China has generally been favorable; however, more attention should be paid to
environmental supervision and monitoring during construction, and to training
of personnel. The resettlement and environmental aspects of the project were
properly addressed throughout preparation, resulting in specific environmental
plans for the design, construction and operation phases of the project as well
as in resettlement action plans. Both plans would be monitored throughout
implementation. Moreover, the proposed project would provide equipment for
environmental supervision and monitoring as well as training of staff.
Environmental Aspects
16.     The two expressways and interconnecting roads are classified as category
A from an environmental perspective. Their Environmental Impact Assessments
(EIAs) were prepared, and together with their Environmental Action Plans
(EAPs), reviewed by the Bank and found to be satisfactory. The Bank also
reviewed and found satisfactory the basic policies, planning proposals and
institutional arrangements used in the preparation of all EIAs and EAPs. The
EIAs indicate that the proposed alignments for the high'grade highways will
- 5 -



not adversely affect ecologically'sensitive areas and, provided that the EAPs
are implemented properly, the construction and operation of the highways
should have no adverse impacts on the environment. Major environmental impacts
during construction will include noise and dust, alteration of hydrological
regimes, soil erosion, interference with local traffic, impact on local
ecology, and irrigation systems.
Land Acquisition and Resettlement Aspects
17.     A Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) has been prepared for the NH3 project
by the Hubei Expressway Resettlement Office of HPCD. The RAP is based on the
National Resettlement Policy of China and the Bank's Operational Directive
4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement, and forms the basis of implementation of
land acquisition and resettlement of the proposed project. In the preparation
of the resettlement component of this project, attention was paid to ensure
that the resettlement policies are effectively implemented and monitored. The
main objective of the resettlement program is to improve the standards of
living of the Project'Affected Persons (PAPs) or at least to restore them to
the levels before resettlement.
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending July 3, 1998.
- 6 -



