Document of
The World Bank   F|LUE Copy
FOR OFFIMIAL USE ONLY
Reprt No. P-2407-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT AND LOAN
TO INDIA
FOR THE
REGUNDAM  THERMAL POWER PROJECT
December 11, 1978
I  This dwmsat hm a ra&kt" dtubboimd my be mnd by rhelest may in te pwoma.ce of
ther OUcid duti. lb cmsiI ama guewie be dsclsd wihu Wod Rik _wboht.I



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     =      Rupee (Rs)
Rs 1                     Paise 100
US$1               =     Rs 8.6
Rs 1               =     US$0.1163
Rs 1 million       =     US$116,279.07
(Since September 25, 1975, the Rupee has been officially
valued relative to a "basket" of currencies. As these
currencies are floating, the US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate
is subject to change. As of December 8, 1978, the exchange
rate was Rs 8.32 to US$1.0.)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED IN THIS REPORT
G01   -   Government of India
NTPC  -   National Thermal Power Corporation, Ltd.
CEA   -   Central Electricity Authority
SEB   -   State Electricity Board
kV    -   kilovolt = 1,000 volts
kWh   -   kilowatt-hour = 1,000 watt-hours
MW    -   megawatt = 1,000 kilowatts
km    -   kilometer



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
RAMAGUNDAM THERMAL POWER PROJECT
CREDIT, LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:           National Thermal Power Corporation, Ltd.
Amount:                US$250 million (US$200 million IDA,
US$50 million IBRD).
Interest Rate
(IBRD portion):      7.35 percent.
Commitment Fee
(IBRD portion):      Standard.
Term (IBRD portion):  Payment over 20 years, including five years'
grace.
Project
Description:          Construction of the first three 200 MW generating
units, together with ancillary equipment and related
facilities, at the Ramagundam thermal power station
in the State of Andhra Pradesh, and about 1,200 km
of associated transmission. The risks involved are
no greater than can normally be expected with
operations of this type.
Estimated Cost:                                             (US$ millions)
Item                     Local    Foreign   Total
Preliminary Works                2.8        -        2.8
Main Civil Works                59.6       1.0      60.6
Electrical and
Mechanical Plant             147.8      32.3    180.1
Coal Handling and
Transportation               28.5        3.1      31.6
Transmission                   100.4      12.4    112.8
Sub-total                339.1       48.8    387.9
Contingency (Physical)          19.8       2.5      22.3
Contingency (Price)             62.5       9.4      71.9
Engineering and
Administration               25.2        3.7      28.9
Total Project Cost       446.6       64.4    511.0
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofRcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Financing Plan:                                                (US$ millions)
Local    Foreign   Total
IDA                             185.6       64.4    250.0
GOI Loans and Equity            261.0         -      261.0
Total                     446.6       64.4    511.0
Estimated                                                (US$ millions)
Disbursements:        Bank FY             FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85
Annual                48      67     85      35       7      8
Cumulative            48    115    200    235    242   250
Rate of Return:         10% (using bulk supply tariff as indicator of benefits).
Appraisal Report:       No. 2175-IN, dated December 11, 1978.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
AND LOAN TO THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA FOR THE
RAMAGUNDAM THERMAL POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India in an amount equivalent to US$200 million on
standard IDA terms, and a proposed loan to India in an amount equivalent
to US$50 million, to help finance a project for the construction of the
first phase of a proposed 2,100 MW thermal power station. Amortization
of the loan would be over 20 years, including five years' grace, at the
standard Bank interest rate. The proceeds of the credit and loan would be
re-lent by the Government to the National Thermal Power Corporation for 20
years, including five years' grace, at an interest rate of 10-1/4% per annum.
This is the rate at which the Government normally lends to industrial enter-
prises. The exchange risk would be borne by the Government.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2008-IN dated April 17, 1978), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 18, 1978. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is a vast, continental country with over twenty States divided
on linguistic and ethnic grounds with a population of over 620 million people,
almost as many as live in Africa and Latin America combined. It has a dual
economy. While 79% of its population lives in rural areas, their productivity
is low. Agriculture's share in value added declined only gradually from about
50% to 43% over the last twenty years. The share of manufacturing has in-
creased slowly and, since the late 1960s, has remained approximately constant
at about 16%. Industry has a highly diversified structure with import substi-
tution and self-sufficiency pushed to the point where India has the capacity
to produce virtually every type of consumer and capital good required for a
modern economy. As in the case of many other large economies, the foreign
sector plays a relatively minor role; both exports and imports represent about
7% of GDP; foreign saving has supplied only about 5% of gross investment in
che recent past.
4.        Even though growth has been slow in the past, the economy enjoys
many of the prerequisites for sustaining faster growth and development.
Although literacy is far from universal, India has large resources of well
trained administrative, scientific and technical manpower and a dynamic entre-
preneurial class. Per capita consumption of commercial energy is low by
1/   Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as Parts I
and II of the President's Report for the Composite Agricultural
Extension Project (Report No. P-2381-IN), dated November 30, 1978.



international comparison and power shortages are a way of life; but India is
relatively well-placed with regard to primary fuel sources. There are very
large reserves of coal and nuclear ores, and considerable hydro-electric
potential. Recent petroleum and gas discoveries have begun to be exploited
and prospects are bright for further discoveries. The basic elements of the
infrastructure needed to serve the economy have been established; in absolute
terms the irrigation, railway, telecommunication, road and power systems are
each among the largest in the developing, and in some cases the developed,
world. However, considerable gaps remain as the situation varies greatly
from State to State.
5.        Given the size of India's population, its annual increase of 13 mil-
lion people is such as to absorb a large portion of any provision to increase
standards of living. It is not possible to discern any significant increase
in the incomes of the vast mass of the rural and urban poor, who number 250
million with a per capita income of US$70 per annum or less. Although food-
grain production may be persistently underestimated, there has been no perma-
nent increase in per capita foodgrain consumption recorded in aggregate
statistics since 1960/61. Many years after the initial target, primary educa-
tion is still not universal. The labor force has grown faster than employment
and a considerable backlog of unemployed exists. Nevertheless, there has been
progress, with per capita income increasing on trend 1%-1.5% per annum; birth
rates falling to below 37 per thousand from levels of 45-50 per thousand at
the start of the 1950s, life expectancy increasing from about 32 years in
the 1940s to 45-50 years in the 1970s, school enrollment rising from 32%
to 65% of children of primary school age and from 5% to 29% of children of
secondary school age since 1950/51.
6.        The rate of growth of GDP has been 3.5% per annum over the period
since Independence and 2.8% per annum over the period 1969/70 to 1976/77.
These low rates of growth are only partly due to low availability of inves-
tible resources, although there have been times that foreign exchange was a
severe bottleneck. The net transfer of resources from abroad has never been
above 3% of GDP and fell to as little as 0.8% between 1969/70 and 1973/74.
India's saving effort has grown steadily since the beginning of planning in
1951, when it was 9% of GDP, to its recent level of 20% of GDP, which compares
well with other countries' saving performance at the same level of per capita
incomes. Despite a doubling in the rate of investment, from about 10% of GDP
in the early 1950s to about 20% at present, the trend rate of GDP growth has
not increased. This marks a decline in the efficiency of capital use which
transcends fluctuations due to weather, war or international terms of trade
shifts.
Recent Trends
7.        In many respects economic conditions during the last three years
have been significantly different from those prevailing in previous years.
In the late 1960s and early 1970s, the economy faced several shortages--
foodgrains, agricultural and industrial inputs and foreign exchange--which
retarded production and investment and often led to price increases. An ad-
verse shift in terms of trade, starting with the oil price hike in 1973 and



- 3 -
continuing with the foodgrain and fertilizer price rises in the following
year, greatly increased the cost of acquiring these essential commodities
abroad. These external shocks combined with a spate of bad weather played
havoc with the economy through 1974/75, causing slow growth in production
and investment and a record level of inflation.
8.         Since the excellent monsoon in the summer of 1975, a new situation
has arisen. The period 1975 to 1978 has been characterized by much greater
price stability, enhanced agricultural and industrial output and comfortable
foodgrain and foreign exchange reserves. The new situation was a combined
result of domestic policies and fortuitous circumstances. The increase in
foodgrain stocks was only in part due to improved policies and programs. The
more decisive factor has been the three good-to-excellent monsoons coming on
top of substantial foodgrain imports in 1975 and 1976. Industrial output
increased on average by 7% a year in 1975-1978 compared to 3% in 1970-75,
due to greater power availability, better management in the public sector,
improved labor relations, better transport and some increase in demand derived
from increased incomes due to improved harvests, greater exports and h.gher
levels of public investment. The most dramatic turnaround occurred in the
balance of payments, with a sharp real reduction of the import bill helped by
good harvests and increased domestic production of iron and steel, fertilizer
and oil, which reduced demand for imports. The supply of foreign exchange was
also greatly increased by a significant step-up in the volume of exports, an
increase in foreign aid and a substantial juLmp in remittances from Indians
working in the Middle East, Europe and America.
9.         In 1977/78, the growth of GDP was about 5%, a recovery over the
rate of 1.6% in 1976/77 but less than the 8.5% reached two years earlier.
Prices, which had been rising during 1976/7,7 after a decline in 1975/76,
were stabilized; wholesale prices at the endl of March 1978 stood at about the
same level as in March 1977, and the yearly average was only 5.4% above that
of the previous year. Exports in 1977/78 are estimated at US$6.4 billion and
imports at US$6.6 billion.  The inflow of invisibles from abroad at US$1.4
billion and net aid disbursements of US$1.2 billion more than offset the small
trade deficit of US$200 million and IMF repurchases of US$330 million to in-
crease reserves by US$2.1 billion to US$5.8 billion by end of March 1978.
10.       The 1977/78 foodgrain crop may exceed the 1975/76 record level of
121 million tons due to very good weather and increased input use. Support
purchases could result in peak foodgrain stocks as high or even higher than
in 1977, when they were 21 million tons. In addition to ample and evenly
distributed rainfall, more intensive and widespread use of three crucial
inputs--irrigation water, fertilizer and extension advice--contributed to
the bumper harvest. Fertilizer consumption surged 30% in 1977/78, continuing
its recovery from the depressed level of 1974/75. Annual additions to irri-
gated area have averaged 2 million hectares since 1975/76 compared with 1.3
million hectares per annum achieved from 1969 to 1975. An improved extension
system, which has been getting heartening results, has been introduced in
several States and is slated for further coverage.



-4-
Development Prospects
11.       India faces the future with large stocks of foodgrains, high and
rising external reserves, excellent crop expectations, price stability and
good prospects for sustaining the improved supply of foreign exchange. The
circumstances present a great opportunity for further promoting the develop-
ment of the Indian economy. The Draft Five Year Plan for 1978-83, discussed
though not yet approved by the National Development Council, responds to this
challenge by projecting a rapid growth in real terms of both overall invest-
ment and public Plan expenditures. Investment is to rise on average by 10.7%
per annum and the economy is expected to grow on average by 4.7% per annum
during the years 1978-83.
12.       The new Draft Plan reveals an intention to reorient the country's
development toward improving the living conditions of the poor. This is
reflected in its principal objectives: (i) the removal of unemployment and
significant underemployment; (ii) an appreciable rise in the standard of
living of the poorest sections; and (iii) the provision of basic needs to
low-income groups. To achieve these objectives, the Government proposes to
emphasize agricultural development, cottage and small-scale industries, area
planning for integrated rural development and the provision of minimum needs.
As a first step toward complete removal of unemployment, the Plan envisages
the creation of a large number of new jobs through a considerable expansion
of construction activity as well as a boost in the consumption levels of the
poor--which in turn would require the production of the necessary wage goods,
largely in small-scale, labor-intensive units. Specific programs to achieve
these objectives are still in the making.
13.       In order to achieve a sizable rise in the income of the poorest
classes of society, the Draft Plan--in conformity with the Janata Party policy--
places prime emphasis on the development of rural areas. A major impulse for
agricultural development will be provided by the expansion of irrigation and
related agricultural inputs, such as fertilizers and better farming techniques.
The Draft Plan argues that efforts to increase productivity should be sup-
plemented by measures with a redistributive impact such as supporting small
farmers and small industry with institutional credit and material supplies
and assistance for marketing. The Draft Plan also intends to complement the
creation of employment and the increase in rural productivity by providing
basic services to those groups which have so far been unaffected. For this
purpose, the minimum needs program launched at the onset of the Fifth Plan
is being revitalized and accelerated.
14.       The allocation of the Draft Plan outlay for the next five years
reflects these priorities. Out of a total expected spending of US$81 billion,
US$35 billion--43%--has been earmarked for rural development programs includ-
ing agriculture, irrigation, fertilizer and social infrastructure expenditures
directly benefitting the rural areas. The share of these sectors amounted to
37% during the Fifth Plan period and to 40% in the Annual Plan for 1978/79.
It can thus be expected to rise further during the next four years.  Si4i1a_1y-
spending on the minimum needs program in 1978-83 will absorb 6% of the Plan
resources, as compared to less than 3% in the Fifth Plan. On the other hand,
the shares of industry and of transport and communication have been reduced.



15.       There is considerable scope for stepping up growth in agriculture.
The most promising development is the sharp increase in government outlays
and improved project implementation for irrigation. There are also indica-
tions that private investment in tubewells is picking up again after a slump
in the early 1970s. Other favorable indicators include the spread of an
improved system of extension to more States and the recovery of fertilizer
demand. With regard to more productive use of existing capacity, there is an
increased awareness in the Government that the benefits of irrigation projects
can be much increased, not only through command area development, but also
through improved design standards in major surface irrigation infrastructure.
Nevertheless, comprehensive improvement in water management remains a distant
goal, particularly in existing systems and where farms are small and frag-
mented. The bulk of the increase in private tubewell development in the last
few years has come from the Eastern Region, where more and more farmers are
sinking wells to enable them to grow a winter crop of wheat in addition to
providing better water control for the summer rice crop. Improved water man-
agement would make such investments even more productive. Increased farmer
incomes from the recent good harvests, somewhat lower fertilizer prices, and
grain prices supported at incentive levels have encouraged farmers to apply
considerably more fertilizer. Finally, the reorganized and improved extension
and research system which has been introduced recently in several States in
northern and eastern India holds out the hope that sound advice will reach
many more farmers in both irrigated and rainfed areas and will raise their
productivity significantly. The improved extension system is an excellent
example of how the growth effort can and must be structured so as to increase
the incomes of small and marginal farmers, who work 25% of the cultivated
land and account for somewhat more than 25%; of production; more importantly,
these farmers make up about 70% of the rural population and constitute the
majority of those living below the poverty level in India.
16.       Industrial prospects are somewhat: more difficult to discern.
Moderate growth in 1977/78 after an excellent year in 1976/77 suggests the
persistence of problems plaguing the sector since the mid-1960s--large un-
utilized capacity, stagnant capital formation in the private sector and low
productivity growth. Lower investment than expected, of course, is one of
the reasons for low capacity utilization in capital goods industries, which
make up a significant portion of the sector. Sluggish demand for industrial
products from all sources--not only from investments but also from agricul-
ture, exports and import substitution--has been a basic constraint. Further
import substitution cannot be a major source of growth for manufactured goods
in the future because most opportunities for efficient import substitution
have been exploited. Increased growth of real incomes from greater produc-
tivity in both agriculture and manufacturing, sustained increases in exports
and increased investment, particularly by the public sector, all can raise
demand for industrial production.
17.       The new industrial policy of the Janata government and the orienta-
tion Of Lile DLaft Five YEar Plar. cmphasize small-scale industry over heavy
industry and have accordingly promoted suclh measures as product reservation,
credit rationing and, within the small-scaLe sector, plans to initiate special
efforts for the growth of the "tiny" sector.  While the priority accorded to



the small-scale sector is laudable, there are doubts about the efficacy of
the policy measures chosen. Past experience indicates that other factors
are also crucial to its development, particularly effective demand, quality
control, prices and marketing techniques. Some small-scale industry is cap-
ital intensive and not well suited to as rapid employment generation as is
hoped; nor can all goods be efficiently produced using small-scale technology.
18.       India's population growth rate of about 2% is not high in comparison
with that of most developing countries. Moreover, the rate is on the decline,
after growing steadily census to census from 1920 through 1970, both because
the birth rate continues to fall and because mortality is not falling as
steeply as in the past. Family planning acceptor rates slowed down in the
wake of the abandonment of the 1976 population policy after the 1977 general
elections and the momentum of the program has yet to be recaptured, particu-
larly in Northern India. However, the new Government has reaffirmed its com-
mitment to a voluntary family planning program and has budgeted the resources
to carry it out. Over the longer term, with a sustained family planning
effort, it should be possible to bring the birth rate down from its 1970-75
level of about 37 per thousand to about 23 per thousand by the end of the
century, implying a population growth rate somewhat under 1.1%. Our "best
guess" projection of India's population in the year 2000 is 885 million. Many
of the benefits of family planning policy will only be felt beyond the turn of
the century; the decline in fertility will, however, bring about an earlier
change in the age structure of the population. The school age group will grow
more slowly or not at all after 1981, thereby reducing the pressures on the
primary and secondary education systems. However, the labor force will con-
tinue to grow at a faster rate -- 2.5% per annum -- until well into the 1990s,
resulting in an increasing proportion of the population in the labor force
from 40.8% to 45% in 1991.
19.       The Government's goal of eliminating unemployment in 10 years implies
an expansion of the number of jobs at the rate of 9 million per annum -- 7
million new entrants to the labor force and the absorption of 2 million or
so formerly unemployed. The majority of these will have to continue to be
absorbed -- judging from the prevailing composition of the labor force -- in
agriculture and the unorganized small-scale sector. The absorptive capacity
of the modern organized sector is unfortunately low; its employment elasticity
is expected to be no more than 0.5. Given its low current share of output,
even rapid growth of this sector would not make much of a dent in the backlog
of the unemployed. Employment in the organized sector has been growing at
about 2.2% per annum in the past ten years, less than the labor force growth
rate, and all of this in the public sector. Private sector employment has not
grown at all since 1966. While the labor absorption elasticities of the small-
scale sector may be higher in some cases than that of the large-scale sector,
a major effort to expand production must succeed before an appreciable employ-
ment impact will materialize.
20.       In the short run India's balance of payments should not be a con
straint on growth and development. With good medium-term prospects for
India's exports, the expected continuation of growth in invisible receipts
and the potential for an increase in net aid disbursments, the net availability



- 7 -
of foreign exchange to finance merchandise imports is projected to rise over
the next five years, in current prices, from US$8.7 billion in 1977/78 to
US$16.7 billion in 1982/83, an average of 14% per annum. Given the unlikely
need to increase rapidly imports of some traditionally important items -- e.g.,
petroleum, fertilizer, foodgrains, edible oil and cotton -- other imports can
increase at the rate of 20% a year over the next five years.
21.       Altogether, these currently favorable circumstances present the
*             opportunity to double India's trend rate of growth of per capita income from
the average annual rate of 1.5% that prevailed for the last thirty years to
3% over the next five, and thereafter. This requires a continued fall in the
rate of population growth to below 2% per annum and a rise in the growth of
GDP from the historical rate of 3.5% to 5.0% per annum. Both of these targets
are within reach. The first should be achieved barring a total abandonment
of the family planning program. The second requires improved efficiency and
increased investment by both the public and private sectors; it also means
more fully harnessing the gains from trade through international specializa-
tion, implying a strong export effort and continued easier access to imports.
In addition to enabling a faster rate of per capita income growth, the pre-
sent situation allows for increasing the coverage of the population's minimum
needs. This requires formulating and administering effective, efficient
programs of public investment and, of course, requires larger public outlays.
22.       With the enhanced resources at India's disposal, the economy is
poised for a higher rate of economic growth. The Government is moving to
take advantage of this opportunity with increased public expenditure envi-
sioned over the next five years, and the liberalized trade policies recently
announced. It is yet too early to know whether the moves made so far will
be sufficient to achieve the desired targets or whether additional steps will
be necessary. Assured international support for India's development effort
will be an important factor in moving the Government to take greater risks
in pursuing a dynamic development program directed at meeting the huge needs
of its large and impoverished population.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
23.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 55 loans and 108 development
credits to India totalling US$2,236 million and US$6,077 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$934 million had been
repaid, and US$1,652 million was still undisbursed as of September 30, 1978.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of September 30,
1978, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
24.       Since 1957, IFC has made 15 commitments in India totalling US$63.6
million, of which US$14.7 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$34.4 million, US$26.7 mil-
lion represents loans and US$7.7 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of September 30, 1978, is also included in Annex II (page 2).



-8-
25.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capac-
ity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in support-
ing infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and railways.
Family planning, education, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
26.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, command area development of existing irrigation schemes,
intensification and streamlining of extension systems, and seed production
form an important aspect of the Bank Group's program for the next several
years. Special emphasis will be given to projects benefitting small farmers.
Projects supporting water supply, sewerage, and urban development also form
an integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several
years. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will
focus on agriculture-, export- and energy-related projects.
27.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in large part to the response of the aid community, India has success-
fully adjusted to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need
for foreign assistance, to augment domestic resources, stimulate investment
and accelerate economic growth, remains. As in the past, Bank Group assist-
ance for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of
local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of
the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods industry. Con-
sequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in most projects.
This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors as agriculture,
irrigation, rural water supply and medium- and small-scale industry.
28.       Although the growth prospects of the economy have improved, India's
poverty and needs are such that as much as possible of India's external capi-
tal requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly, the
bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to be,
provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be
allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for external
support, and India may be regarded as creditworthy for some supplemental Bank



- 9 -
lending. As of September 30, 1978, outstanding loans to India totaled
US$1,343 million, of which US$539 million remained to be disbursed, leaving
a net amount outstanding of US$804 million.
29.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 62%, 27% and 38%,
respectively, in 1977/78. On March 31, 1977, India's outstanding and dis-
bursed external public debt was US$13.3 billion, of which the Bank Group's
share was 28%. Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in
the form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
In 1977/78, about 16% of India's total debt service payments were to the
Bank Group.
PART III - THE POWER SECTOR
30.       The Indian power sector is within the concurrent jurisdiction of
the Central Government and the State Governments. The Electricity (Supply)
Act, 1948, assigns extensive responsibilities to the State authorities, but
it also provides for broad guidance and coordination by the Central Government.
The principal agencies in the industry are the State Electricity Boards (SEBs),
which are responsible for the generation, transmission and distribution of
electricity within each State; the Central Electricity Authority (CEA); and
the two Central Power Corporations, the National Thermal Power Corporation
(NTPC) and the National Hydro Power Corporation.
31.        In the 1950s and 1960s, power generation and the expansion of in-
stalled capacity kept pace with consumption, growing on average by about 12%
annually. Since 1970, the situation has deteriorated and power shortages
have grown in frequency and duration as demand for power has outstripped
supply. Between 1970/71 and 1974/75 growth in power generation averaged only
6% annually. The main reason for this poor performance was delays in complet-
ing new power projects, which led to shortfalls in capacity below planned
levels. Moreover, poor monsoons and an unreliable coal supply meant that
even available hydro and thermal capacity was not fully utilized. Weakness
in the management of thermal power stations also contributed to the problem.
In the following years the situation improved, the result of two good mon-
soons, of much improved coal supply, and also of a concerted effort in the
power sector to improve project implementation, thermal capacity utilization
and overall system management. Capacity grew by 10% in 1975/76 and 7% in
1976/77, while generation grew by 13% and 11.5%, respectively. In 1977/78
generation increased by less than 4% in spite of an 11% increase in capacity.
This was due to a number of factors, including damaged turbine blades in one
of the nuclear generating units, long outage periods in some other major
units, and longer-than-anticipated periods of stabilization in new units,
most of which did not come into service until late in the year. As a result,
shortages of power persist in many parts of India. Generating capacity
throughout India, excluding 2,200 MW of non-utility capacity, stood at about
24,000 MW as of March 31, 1978.



- 10 -
32.       While per capita demand for electricity has been rising in India,
it remains among the lowest in the world at about 140 kWh per annum. Overall,
demand is dominated by industry, which accounts for about 62% of all electri-
city sold. Agriculture and irrigation account for another 14-15% of demand.
Growth of consumption has been particularly rapid in the rural areas, where
more than 80% of the total population live. The number of electrified vil-
lages grew from just over 3,000 in 1950/51 to some 211,000, or over one-third
of all villages in India, by 1976/77. During the next five years, the Govern-
ment plans to electrify a further 110,000 villages and to increase the number
of connections in villages already electrified. The number of irrigation
pumpsets and tubewells which have been energized increased from 21,000 in
1950/51 to 3.3 million by the end of 1977/78. An additional 3 million are
expected to be energized by the end of 1982/83.
33.       To help cope with the power scarcity and to strengthen Central
planning and coordination of the power system, the Government of India has
undertaken to construct and operate large Centrally owned generating stations.
For this purpose, the National Thermal Power Corporation and the National
Hydro Power Corporation were established in November 1975, with authority
to design, construct, own and operate generating and transmission facilities
and supply power in bulk directly to State Electricity Boards.
34.       The Centrally owned generating stations will ultimately form part
of the national power system, but in the medium term they are intended to
supply power to the SEBs in the Region in which they are located. The
Ramagundam thermal power station is to be installed in the Southern Region,
and its power will be available to the SEBs in that region -- Andhra Pradesh,
Kerala, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. These SEB systems are interconnected at
220 kV and the Southern Region already operates on an integrated basis.
In 1983/84, the year during which the first two units under the project are
expected to be commissioned, Andhra Pradesh and, to a lesser degree, Kerala
are forecast to have surplus capacity and energy, while Karnataka and Tamil
Nadu are forecast to have capacity and energy shortages. The transmission
system included in the project provides for power to be "wheeled" through
Andhra Pradesh to Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, and through Karnataka to Kerala.
Planning and Coordination in the Power Sector
35.       State Electricity Boards.  Planning of power in India has, in the
past, been on a State basis. Given the organization of the sector, SEBs
have been concerned only with developments within their own State boundaries,
and, until recently, little attempt has been made to evaluate the least-cost
method of meeting demand on a broader regional or national basis. Histori-
cally, the financial situation of the SEBs has been weak; in particular,
financial returns have been adversely affected by inadequate tariff policies.
However, there has been some progress in recent years. Under the power trans-
mission credits, SEBs were expected to work toward a rate of return target
of 9-1/2% on the capital base. By 1977/78 ten SEBs, out of a total of 18,
had achieved this target, and a further five SEBs should do so in 1978/79.



- 11 -
As a first step toward more comprehensive tariff reforms, an analysis of the
tariff structure of Andhra Pradesh State was carried out in 1975. Since then,
tariffs in the State have been increased and their structure has been brought
more closely in line with the study's recommendations. Nine other SEBs have
recently completed pricing studies based on marginal cost pricing principles
and one is on the process of carrying out such a study, as a result of under-
takings given under previous Credits. 1/ The Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu
SEBs will carry out similar studies in connection with the proposed Ramagundam
project. Thus, most of the States of India will have at their disposal basic
data and analyses needed for establishing improved tariffs. Furthermore,
amendments to the financial provisions of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948,
have recently been enacted. The Act, as amended, requires among other things,
that tariffs be set to ensure that revenues will at least meet operating
expenses, depreciation and interest, and provide from internal resources a
reasonable contribution to capital investment.
36.       Central Electricity Authority.  Power planning nationwide is to be
coordinated by the Central Electricity Authority (CEA). The CEA was set up
in 1950 to be responsible for developing a national policy for power develop-
ment and for coordinating the activities of the various planning agencies in-
volved in electricity supply. However, without any staff of its own and with
no clear and accepted functions to perform, it could not operate effectively.
In October 1974, responsibility for the power sector was placed in a newly
constituted Ministry of Energy, which was also placed in charge of the coal
mining industry. Following the establishment of the Ministry of Energy, the
functions of the former Central Water and Power Commission were divided, with
its power functions and staff transferred to the CEA, reporting to the Ministry
of Energy. The Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948, was amended, with effect from
October 8, 1976, to assign to the CEA new functions, including, in particular,
the formulation of short-term and perspective plans for power development,
training of personnel, interconnected system operations, and research and
development; these are in addition to its general responsibility for develop-
ing a sound, adequate and uniform power policy and coordinating the activities
of the planning agencies in relation to the control and utilization of national
power resources.
37.       With the rapid growth of the power sector and with the resultant
increasing complexity of operation, the need for coordination at the national
level has increased. In recognition of this, the Government has decided to
pursue an integrated national approach to sector development. The unified
operation of power systems on a regional basis has already commenced; the
Southern Regional Grid has been operating on an inter-connected basis at 220 kV
since August 1972; inter-connection of power systems in other regions is also
progressing and will pave the way for an all-India grid. IDA Credit 604-IN
(Fourth Power Transmission Project) includes provision to help finance the
cost of consultants to study the technical, economic and financial aspects
of the long-term national plan for power development in India. GOI has estab-
lished a committee to agree on the standard design parameters to be adopted in
L/  Maharashtra, West Bengal, Gujarat, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan,
Punjab, Haryana, Delhi Electricity Supply Undertaking (DESU) and Madhya
Pradesh.



- 12 -
developing the national grid which will comprise initially a 400 kV network.
Teshmont Consultants, Inc. of Canada has been engaged by CEA to assist in the
detailed studies for developing the system.(This consultancy is being financed
by IDA under credit 604-IN.) The work on ttie 400 kV systems studies, which
are basic to the ultimate establishment of a national power system, is pro-
gressing satisfactorily and the report on Stage I, which provides for inte-
grated operation on a regional basis by the mid 1980s, has been published.
CEA is also working on the development of a 15-20 year plan which would
include, inter alia, detailed demand forecasts, investigations of power gen-
eration schemes to meet load growth requirements, determination of resource
requirements and definition of responsibilities and operational policies at
the State, regional and national levels.
38.       Thus, the Government is demonstrating its commitment to improved
performance in the sector. As a first priority, the efficiency of operation
of existing facilities is being promoted by close monitoring of factors such
as capacity utilization, planned and unplanned outages, and fuel consumption.
In addition, the implementation of new projects is closely monitored to mini-
mize delays in the installation of new capacity. The progressive integration
of the existing power systems will also contribute significantly to increased
efficiency. The financial performance of the sector is being improved by the
implementation of the recent amendments to the Act (para 35). These areas
of concern and others -- organizational structure, management practices,
planning systems, tariff structures and legislative framework -- are now
being reviewed by a high-level committee under the chairmanship of
V. G. Rajadhyaskha, Member, Planning Commission, which is examining all
aspects of the working of the power supply industry in India under very
broad terms of reference and which is expected to report to the Ministry
of Energy within a year.
Bank Group Operations in the Power Sector
39.        The Bank has made eight loans to India for power projects amounting
to US$284.5 million and IDA has made ten credits totalling US$796 million.
Nine of the twelve loans and credits for generating plant, the Beas project
(Credit 89-IN) and the first three transmission projects (Loan 416-IN and
Credits No. 242-IN and 377-IN) have been completed. The Korba and Trombay
thermal power projects (Credit 793-IN and Loan 1549-IN) are still at an early
implementation stage; as of November 1978, commitments in respect of contracts
awarded were US$1 million and US$40 million, respectively. In the cases of
the Singrauli thermal power project (Credit 685-IN) and the Rural Electrifi-
cation project (Credit 572-IN), commitments to November 1978 were US$104
million and US$55 million, respectively. Of the finance made available for
the remaining transmission project (Credit 604-IN), approximately US$94
million had been committed by November 1978. The ongoing power transmission
project and the rural electrification project are proceeding satisfactorily
notwithstanding delays in initial implementation and, in the case of the power
transmission project, in preparation of specifications for the more sophisti-
cated load dispatch equipment. The three ongoing generation projects are also
proceeding satisfactorily.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.       The project was appraised by a mission which visited India in April/
May 1978. A report entitled "India - Staff Appraisal Report - Ramagundam
Thermal Power Project" (No. 2175-IN, dated December 11, 1978) is being dis-
tributed separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in
Washington in November/December 1978. GOI, CEA and NTPC were represented by
a delegation headed by Mr. J. K. Sibal of the Department of Economic Affairs,
Ministry of Finance. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as
Annex III.
Project Description
41.       The proposed project consists of construction of the first 600 MW
of capacity in the Ramagundam thermal power station, together with ancillary
equipment and related works and 400 kV transmission facilities to convey bulk
power to recipient SEBs. The power station will be constructed in the vicinity
of the South Godavari coal fields in the State of Andhra Pradesh. Its gen-
eration capacity is expected to reach 2,100 MW -- comprising three 200 MW
and three 500 MW generating units -- by July 1987. The first 200 MW unit is
expected to be commissioned by July 1, 1983, and the commissioning of the
remaining two 200 MW units will follow at six-month intervals. The principal
components of the project include civil works; three 200 MW turbo-generating
units and three 680 tonnes-per-hour boilers, complete with all auxiliaries,
and ancillary electrical and mechanical equipment; coal transportation and
handling equipment; and about 1,200 km of 400 kV transmission line, together
with associated equipment.
Project Cost and Financing
42.       The total Ramagundam 2,100 MW power development, including asso-
ciated transmission, is estimated to cost about US$1.3 billion. The project
cost, including contingencies, is estimated at US$511 million equivalent, of
which about US$64 million represents the estimated foreign exchange costs.
Interest during construction adds about US$65 million to the financing
required. The proposed Bank Group financing of US$250 million would provide
49% of the project cost, and 43% of the total financing requirement. The
balance of the financing would be made available by the Government in the
form of loans and equity contribution.
Procurement and Disbursement
43.       All equipment financed under the proposed credit would be procured
through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines. The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against the cost
of turbo-generators, boilers, electrical equipment and other power station
equipment; coal handling and transportation equipment; transmission equipment;
and consultants' services. Indian manufacturers competing under international
competitive bidding would be granted a preference margin of 15% or the current
rate of import duty, whichever is less, and are expected to win most of the
contract awards.



- 14 -
Project Implementation
44.       The National Thermal Power Corporation Limited (NTPC), which would
own and operate the Ramagundam station, was established in 1975 under the
Companies Act, 1956, with an initial authorized share capital of Rs 1,250
million (US$145 million). It is managed by a Board, which presently consists
of seven Directors, of whom two are full-time. Steady progress has been made
in building up this institution since early 1976, when a competent and ex-
perienced Chairman and Managing Director was appointed. The Mechanical,
Electrical Design, Civil Design, Systems Engineering and Operation Services
Departments have been established and NTPC is making good progress in the
appointment of key staff. As a relatively new organization entrusted with
an important task, NTPC places special importance on the need for training
of engineers and operating staff and plans to establish a training school
equipped with a simulator (financed under Credit 793-IN) and other modern
training facilities.
45.       A detailed master plan for project implementation has been pre-
pared by NTPC. Soil conditions at the power plant site have been investiga-
ted and the availability of adequate coal reserves has been confirmed. The
Covernment has agreed to take all necessary steps to ensure adequate coal
supplies for the power station by the time the first generating unit is
commissioned (Section 3.04 of Development Credit Agreement). For transpor-
tation of coal from the mine to the power station, a "merry-go-round" railway
system would be used. Cooling water arrangements are adequate.
46.       Designs and specifications for the turbo-generators, boilers and
auxiliary plant and for the transmission towers are being prepared. NTPC
will carry out basic engineering and preliminary design. As in the case of
Korba, consultants would be retained to review designs and specifications;
since these would be closely similar to those for the Singrauli and Korba
projects, the consultants' services will be required mainly for items involv-
ing deviations from earlier designs. Consultants would also be appointed to
assist as necessary in the design and supervision of construction of the
400 kV transmission. NTPC has developed a comprehensive integrated project
management system. In view of the importance of NTPC's overall program to
the development of the power sector in India and the high cost of delay,
consultants with experience in major construction programs of this nature
would be appointed to review NTPC's project management and information systems
and their initial implementation (Section 2.02 of Project Agreement).
47.       Adequate measures would be taken to minimize the adverse ecological
effects of the project, including stack emissions, heat dissipation and ash
disposal. The approval of the National Committee on Environmental Planning
and Coordination has been obtained, and appropriate occupational safety stand-
ards would be observed (Section 2.10 of Project Agreement).
NTPC Finances
48.       NTPC is expected to construct and put on stream four large-scale
thermal power stations with an aggregate generating capacity of 7,300 MW --
one 2,000 MW station at Singrauli in Uttar Pradesh; two 2,100 MW stations,



- 15 -
one at Korba in Madhya Pradesh and the other at Ramagundam in Andhra Pradesh;
and one 1,100 MW station at Farakka in West Bengal (to be extended to 1,600
MW) -- together with some 6,000 circuit km cf associated 400 kV transmission.
49.       NTPC would not begin to earn revenues until the first 200 MW gene-
rating unit is commissioned at Singrauli, scheduled for January 1, 1982. As
the generating capacity increases, NTPC's arnual revenue is expected to in-
crease at a faster rate than its operating expenses and produce a rate of
return on the capital base rising gradually from 1.8% in 1982/83 to 9.5% by
1988/89. By the end of 1985/86, NTPC is scheduled to have commissioned four-
teen 200 MW generating units, including those of the Ramagundam project, and
six 500 MW units, as well as almost 5,000 kli of associated 400 kV transmission.
The overall investment cost for the years 1976/77 through 1985/86 is estimated
to amount to almost US$5,600 million equivaLent. The Government would provide
funds so that NTPC's debt/equity ratio would not exceed a ratio of 1:1, in
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, and NTPC would inform the
Association of any proposal to modify existing limitations on the borrowing
powers (Section 3.03 of Project Agreement). Loans would be repayable by NTPC
in 20 years, including periods of grace of up to five years, with interest at
a rate of 10-1/4% per annum. This compares with about 11% charged by domestic
lending institutions for similar types of lending. Inflation over the past
three years has averaged about 2% per annum, and the expected rate of infla-
tion for the next three years is about 5%.
50.       NTPC has agreed to achieve in 1988/89 and maintain thereafter a rate
of return of not less than 9-1/2% on the cost of the average net assets in
service, and to set tariffs from the time of commissioning of its first 200
MW generating unit at Singrauli at levels not lower than those estimated to be
required to meet this target in 1988/89.  (Section 4.03 of Project Agreement).
In view of the high capital investment in the early stages and the time in-
volved in commissioning generating units, this approach to setting the tariff
and reaching the target rate of return in 1'388/89 would be appropriate.  The
forecast average bulk supply price per kWh for the sale of energy is about 26
paise (US$0.030), excluding fuel surcharge.  This rate has been adopted for
the purposes of forecasting revenues from 1981/82.  NTPC's cash generation
would not begin to cover annual debt service and working capital increases
fully until 1986/87. The shortfalls of funds during the initial five years
(1981/82-1985/86) would be financed from capital provided by GOI.
51.       NTPC's capitalization as of March 31, 1982 when NTPC begins to
earn revenues would be US$2,468 million equivalent, consisting of GOI loans
(including the relending of the Association's Credits) and equity in a ratio
of 48/52. By March 31, 1985, following completion of the project, NTPC's
capitalization would have doubled to about US$5,206 million equivalent,
financed by GOI capital in a debt/equity ratio of 49/51.
52.       As in the case of the Singrauli and Korba thermal projects, NTPC
is required to agree to sell the project's output of power undezL bulk supply
contracts satisfactory to the Association (Section 2.09 of Project Agreement).
Since determination of the appropriate level of tariffs has to be consistent



- 16 -
with the financial viability of NTPC, the tariff would be adjusted, as neces-
sary, to meet the financial requirements. The States of Andhra Pradesh,
Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu and the Union Territory of Goa have agreed
to purchase not less than 85% of the output from the Project.
Project Justification and Risks
53.       The proposed Ramagundam development offers economies of scale and
relatively low fuel costs due to its location at the coal pithead. Of the
other alternatives considered, the only practicable one was the development
of smaller thermal units at the load centers. Ramagundam was found to be
preferable when compared with this alternative, the equalizing discount rate
being 27%. Assuming a bulk supply tariff of about 26 paise per kWh, the
internal rate of return, which equalizes the present worth of revenues and the
economic costs of the project, is satisfactory at about 10%.
54.       The principal risk involved in project implementation is the possi-
bility of delay, with consequent increased costs and loss of revenues. How-
ever, delays will be kept to a minimum through careful coordination and super-
vision. Problems at the engineering and design stage will be minimized by
the use of experienced consultants, and the fact that a number of 200 MW units
will have been in operation in India for some years before the project is
commissioned will reduce the possibility of "teething troubles" during the
early stages of operation. The prospects for attainment of the project's
institutional objectives -- namely, the strengthening of power planning by the
Central Government and the development of a national power system -- must be
viewed with some caution, because the power sector is a "concurrent subject"
under the Indian Constitution and is, therefore, influenced to a significant
extent by sensitive Center/State relations.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.       The draft Development Credit and Loan Agreements between India, and
the Association and the Bank, respectively, the draft Project Agreement between
the Association and NTPC, the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association and
the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Bank Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
56.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and the Bank.



- 17 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit and loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
December 11, 1978






ANNES I
Page 1
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
INDIA
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                  - HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           3280.5                                                    SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL    1797.5                                 MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb        REGION L.   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   60.0        90.0      150.0            167.4      182.9        432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      142.0       181.0      221.0            65.7        88.9        251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                       434.9        547.6     631.7 /f
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9         19.8       20.6             12.8       15.0         24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       133.0       167.0      193.0            85.2        46.8         42.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    247.0        308.o      351.0           322.6       254.1         95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          41.0        41.6       40.1             44.0       43.6         44.9
15-64 YRS.                          55.9        55.3       56.7            52.9        53.3         52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.1         3.1        3.2              2.9        2.9          3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.0         2.3        2.1              2.2        2.4          2.7
URBAN                               2.5 L/       3.2       3.1              4.2        4.0          8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      43.2        41.0       37.0             45.1       44.3         42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      23.9         19.0      17.0             17.3       19.7         12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.2         2.9        2.8              3.2        2.9          3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..      3782.0    6821.0
USERS (PERCENT OP MARRIED WOMEN)    ..         12.0       16.9             13.7       14.6         14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              98.1       100.0       96.2 /h          95.6       96.4        104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    95.0        92.0       89.0             91.1       92.3         99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           51.0        53.0       48.0             49.6       50.0         56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        19.0        16.o       12.6             12.6       13.9         17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      44.0           ..        ..               ..         ..          7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    41.7         47.z       49.5             43.1       45.8         53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           139.0 /L    122.0      130.0             99.5      102.7         82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                .,         17.0      31.0             30.0       26.4         31.1
URBAN                                ..        60.0       80.0             66.3       63.5         68.5
RURAL                                ..         6.0       18.0             17.2       14.1         18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         18.0      20.0             15.7        16.1        37.5
URBAN                                ,,        B5.o       87.0             66.9       65.9         69.5
RURAL                                *-          1.0       2.0              2.5        3.4         25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           5840.0 /i   4890.0    4220.0            8830.8    13432.7       9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      5310.0 /i   5220.0    3680.0            8479.3     6983.3       2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            2590.0 /j   2020.0         *-           1624.5     1157.6        786.5
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..               ..      183.3        278.4
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..               ..     1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..        ..               ..        19.5        19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.2          ..        5.2               ..        5.2
URBAN                               5.2          ..        4.8               ..        4.8
RURAL                               5.2          ..        5.3               ..         5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2.6          2.8        ..
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..               ..         1.8         2.3
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELL INGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..               ..        25.9        28.3
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..               ..         8.7         10.3



ANNEX I
Page 2
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
INDIA                                                   /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP Ld    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 41.0        63.0       65.0             59.1       62.9         75.8
FEMALE               27.0         48.0      52.0             38.4        45.9        67.9
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 23.0        30.0       29.0             19.9       14.4         17.7
FEHALE                11.0        18.0      18.0              9.9         8.8        12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 8.0           6.0 /k                      1.5        6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            29.0        38.0       40.0             38.2       38.5         34.3
SECONDARY                          16.0        17.0         ..            23.5        19.8         23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        28.0         33.0      36.0             35.6       36.7         63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.7          1.0       1.0              2.2        3.1          7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          5.0        21L0       25.0             14.9       31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         0.1        0.5              ..         2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  11.0         16.0      16.0              6.4        6.0         16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0          6.3        4.1               ..        1.4          1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   175000.0    218000.0  261000.0 /1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   31.3        32.6       32.2            21.3        24.2         28.0
AI,RICULTURE (PERCENT)             71.0        69.0       69.0            62.8        60.7         54.1
SIDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 11.3        13.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                43.0        40.2       39.2             35.8       39.8         37.8
MALE                                 57.1         52.3      51.3             52.4       53.3         50.3
FEMALE                               27.9         27.1      26.2             15.6       19.6         20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.1          1.1       1.1              1.3        1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.7         25.0 /m      ..            18.6        20.3        19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7         53.1 Im      ..            42.8        45.1        48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.1          4.7 Ia      ..             7.3         5.7         5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6         13.1 I.      ..            19.3        16.8        15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..       80.0            80.2        88.5       155.9
RURAL                                ..           ..      65.0            67.2        71.9        97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..              ..       100.8       143.7
RURAL                                ..          ..       41.0            39.8       42.0         87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..      53.0             50.3       46.0         22.9
RURAL                                ..          ..       46.0            44.6        48.0        36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric mans, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    South Asia;  /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income (S281-550 per capita,
1976);  /f  1978 mid-year population is estimated at 640.4 million;   /i  1951-60;   /h  1977;   /i  1962;
/I  1958;   /k  1967;  /1  1978 mid-year labor force is estimated at 261 million;   /m  1967-68.
September, 1978



ANNEX I
Page 3
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
loin.  I'het u.iostd grouy  averages for each indicator are population-seighted geometric means.  eoluding the extreme values of the indiator and the meat
i,olaced; cl try in each group.  Coverage of -ouetrief  among the indicators depends oe  availability sf data and is not omifsm.  Due to lack of data,
grco. a overages f- Capital Surplu. Oil Eiporters and indicaorsr  of access to water and excrete disposa1, husi.ng, income distribution sad poverty *re
lirplic poptilaticv-t_eighted geometric means withoot the exclusion of extreme values.
uANh AREA  cLhcvs.,-d sq. k)                                                           Ppoultisn per hospita1 bed - total. urban. and rcroc  - Population (tota1,
local - lota1 surface area comprising land area and inland waters.                      urban, and rcral) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Al,ir-clt-rai   -oot recent estimate of agricultura-l  rea axed temporarily             available In poblic and private generl and speelalined hospital and re-
,'4 yvermaoectif  for c-ops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to               habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
I.e (.1 lou.                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally coxtodia1
care are not included.  Rural hospitals, bhever.  include health and medi-
INP' LER CAPITA (UnS) - GiP per capita estimates at torrent sarket prices,               c.l centers not peran ently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
alculated hy same convernion method as World Bsnk Atlas (1975-77 basis);               istant, muase, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient  -ccomn-dation sod
1900, 1970, and 1977 data                                                             provide a limited range of medic-1 facilities.
Admissions Per hospital bed - Total uober of adnissiena to Pt discharges
ECIfSY C'NSUiPION PER CAPITA - Annual consunptios of commercial energy                    from hospitals divided by the nmmber of beds.
(cool end iigsice, petroleu=, matcral gas snd hydro-, nmcleer and geo-
thermal eIeCtrioity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                  HOUSING
Average sine of household (persons opr household) - total, urban, and rural-
f:l.oTION AND VITAI SIATISTICS                                                           A household consists of a group oP individuals who share living quarters
TLnloi popltII,   d...-vear (millions) - As of July 1; if nst available,.                and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of tru  sod-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                        the hossehold for statistical puoposes.  Statistical definitions  of house-
Urban population (orrcoct of tote1) - Ratio of urban tn tota1 popula-                   hold vary.
tion; different defisitions of orban areas may eff-ct compar-bility                 Average numbmr of persons pear room - tota1, orban, and rural - Average non-
cr data among contrie.s                                                               ber of parsons per room is all, urban, and coral occupied conventiomal
P         pulation density                                                              dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings esclude nan-penrmnent structures and
Per  sqg  kr. - Mid-yaar populatitn per square kiloeeter (10 hectores)                 unocurpied parts,
of  total area                                                                      Acces  t  electricity (percent of dwellings) - total., urban, and rural -
Per A   hs=_agricultare land - Coeputed as above for ogricolcorol land                 Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
onto.                                                                                 of total.  urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Popultaion age structure (pero-nt) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-             EDUCATION
year population,                                                                   Adjusted anrollment ratios
Population  growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Cnmpound annoal                Priry school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of tota1 and urban mid-year pcpulstin.s for 1950-6h,                     at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-sge
1960-I0, and 197i-751                                                                 populati.ns; normally includes children aged 6-11 yaeas but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thosnd) - Annual live births per tbsand of                        different lengths of primary education; for countries with univermal edo-
aid-year pnpulation; ten-year arithxetic averages ending in 1960 and                  cation  enrollmend may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are belpv or
1970 and five-year ovsrsge ending is 1975 for most recent estimate                    above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thoosand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                  Sec2ndary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                 tion requires at least fsur years of approved primary instrrctien; pro-
and five-year overage ending in 1975 for mast recent estiate.                         vides general vocational, or teacher training insttrctioss for pupils
Iroas r-productian rate - Average number of daughters a  nman will bear                 usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her -orma1 reproductive period if she experiences present age-                     excluded.
Specific fertility rates; usoally five-year averages ending in 1960,                Vocational enr-llment (Percent of secondary) - V.cactioual institotions in-
1970, and 1975                                                                        cluds tmchnical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
FamilP  planin  -acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual nu bee of                       or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of osuiena1 f(oily               PuPil-teaxher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total stadents en.olled in
cplcning pn ogran                                                                     primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
family  lannin  - uxers (percent of m-rried wemn) - Percantage of                       sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control             Adlt literacv rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all married vocex in name age group.                                       a percentage of toatl adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD A.9D NTRITION                                                                   CONSUHPETION
Index of food production per capita (1970-100) - Index nmuber of per                 Passenger cars (per thoucead Psoulation) - Passenger cars comprise mator cars
capita ennol production of all focd commodities,                                   seating 1ess then eight personsi excludes obolances, hearses and military
Por copis supply of calories (paercent of resoireents) - Compoted from                vehicles.
-emrgy equivalent of net food supplias available in coontry per capita             Radio recevers (Per thousand nopulation) - All types sf receIvers for radis
Per day   Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less             broadcasts to general public per thousand of pepolatien; excludes unlicend
exports, and changes in  tock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,            receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantitcis used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Ra-                effect; data for recent years may net be comperable since most to.ntries
qaitomente were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-              abolished licensing.
m _l activity and health considering environmentaL temperature, body               TV receivers (per thousand opopltion) - TV r.civers for broadcast to gansse
ceightp, age snd ss distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                 Pabiic per thousand poeplation; exuiodes anlicr ne d TV receivers in coon-
cent for waste at house.hold level,                                                   tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Por capita supply of protein (rtoms per day) - Protein cont-et of per                Nemepaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average cincull-
copice sac supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                  tion of "daily generel interest neVspaper * defined as a periodical publi-
hov.e   Requiremento for  11 coun,tries established by CSDA provide for               cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
sinimum allowance of 60 grams of tot-1 protein per day and 20 grams                 be "daily" if it appears at least four ti.es a wahk.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 groom should be anisal protein.           Cinema annual attendance eer caPita Per year - Based on the number of tickets
These otandards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                 snld daring the year, including adoissione te drive-in cinemas snd mobile
73 grams of animal protein as am average for the sorld, proposed by                   exits.
LAP -c  c  Third Wernd Fod Survey.
er  -lt  Pprotein supply fIom animal and pulse - Protein supply of food             EHPLOYDENT
de-iv-d from animals and poles in grama per day.                                  Tecal labor force (thousands) - Eo-noraically active persons, including armed
Child (eage  1-4) mortality rote  (per theusand) - Annual deaths per thous-            (frces and unemployed but excluding houemwives, atudnts, etc.  Defnti-
and iA  age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                           ticne  is various co-ntries are not compsrable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor fact.
HEALTH                                                                                Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life  opectooccat birth (years) - Average somber of years of life                       as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending.in 1960, 1970,               Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, sOnsmtuction.   a nufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                             electricity, water and gas as percentage ef total labor force.
infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                Particination rate (percent) - total. male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts                                              'ea  -e labor force as pereetegex of their respective populations
Access to oafs water (Iercent of population) - total. urban, and rural -                These are ILO's adjusted participstion rates reflecting  ge--55
Nomber of people (total, ecbh, end rural) with reamonabl  access to                  struct-re of the popuiation. end iee time trend.
eafe cater supply (inclades treated surface waters or untreated bht                Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population coder i5 end 65 and over to
-ncoctaminated water such as that from protected bereholes, springs,                  the laboo force in age group of 15-64 years
and .n.itary wells) as percestages of their respective popolatione.
Iman crban area a pblic fountain cc scandpest located not more                    INCOME DISTRIBUTION
then 200 metors from a houee ny be considered as being within rt5                  Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
consble access of than houe.  In rerD1 areas reasonable access would                  paro..t. richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and ponrest 40 pereent
imply that the hoosevife or members of the household do not have to           .        f hou.shld.
spend a disproportiomate part of the day in fetching the family's
vatcr needs                                                                       POVERTY TARGET GROOPS
Access to eon.et. disposal (perccnt of poePlation) - toctl.  rbhe, and               Estimated ebeolute pavertv income level (ISu  per capita) - urbha  and rural -
rural - Nuober of people (total, urban, and rural) served by excrete                    Absolute poverty income levl is that I.oose level below which a minimal
disposal a. percentages of their respective pepulationse  Excrete                     nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food requirements is not
di'ponal cay include the collection and disposal, with or without                     affordsble.
treatment, of hsn exerets end waste-water by water-borne systems                   Estimated relative poverty incom  level (US  pear capita) - urban and rural -
cc  na., usa  of pit privies and similar installations.                               Rative poverty incone level is that income level less than one-third
Poeplat-on Per physician - Papoletios divided by number of practicing                   per capita personal income of the country.
phypiciia- qualified from a madical school at univsrsity level.                    Estited pnpalsisn hslow poverty inco  level (Percent) - urbcn and rcoe   -
Pot_letion pcr nursing psrssn - Population divided by nuh sr of                         Percent of population (urban and rsral) who are  ither "abshlute poor" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                     "relative poor" whichever is greeter.
asoictani nuroes.
Econonic and Social Data Division
Economic Analysis and Projections Department



ANNEX I
Page 4
ECONOMIC DEVELOPAENT DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1976 isS 1uS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976/77 b/                                                            NJAL RATE OF GROWTH (%. constant prices)
US$ Eln. B                                                     1960/6i-1964/65      1965/66-1969/70      1970/71-1975/76
GNP at Market Prices             86.04      100.0                                                   3-9                  3.8                  2.9
Cross Domeatic Investment        16.62       19.3
Gross National Saving            18.18       21.1
Current Acoount Balance           1.56        1.8
Resource Gap                     0.95         1.1
OUTPRT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTITY IN 1975/76
Val,u, Added (at faotor cost)            Labor Force                VkA. Per Worker
0St Bin.                                il.Ave%  _                            oC
Agriculture                      30.2               43                 179.0       69               169           63
Industry                        16.7                24                  33.9      13                494          193
Services                         23.4               33                  48.0      18                488          133
Total/average                    70.3              10                  21100                        277          100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                                                 Central Government
(Re. Bin)             % of GCP                                          In              I of GDP
1976 /77      1976/77    1974/75-1976/77                          1976/77       1976 77    1974/75-1976/77
Current Receipts                   147.46         19.1            17.9                                83.78          10.9          10.4
Current Expenditures               140.18         18.2            16.2                                84.25          10.9           9.6
Current Surplus/Deficit              7.28          0.9             1.7                               - 0.47            -            0.8
CaPital Expenditures  e/            59.05          7.6            7.1                                 40.39          5.2            5.0
External Assistance (net)           11.21          1.5             1-7                                11.21           1.5           1.7
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES          1970/71     1.2L         1973/74     1974/7S                   1976/77      _LSetember 1976   September 1977
EBillion Re outotanding at end of perio
Money and Quasi Money              105-7       142.2        169.0       186.9       215.0        262.6           258.2              284.8
Bank Credit to Public Seotor(net)  56.9         82.5        92.9        102.6        109.1       117.3           112.7              130.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector       56.7        76.o         90.1       109.5       127.5        161.0           144.0              170.0
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                             JEana   1977       January 1978
Money and quasi Money as % of GDP  24.3         27.3         26.4        25.5         27.6        31.3
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 = 100)                100.0        116.2       139.7        174.9       173.0        176.6           178.8              183.3
Annual percentage changes ins
Wholesale Price Index                7-7        10.0         20.2        25.2        -1.1          2.1             7.5                2.5
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)  8.6         19.6         12.6        10.4         6.3          7.5             4 7 Xf            15 8 1
Bank Credit to Private Sector       17.3        18.0        18.5         21.5         16.4        26.3            24.9 Jl             1.9 s/
g/ The per capita GNP estimate is at market prices, calculated by the conversion technique used in the World Atlas.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
/  Quick Estimates.
Sj Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and one
observation after last year of listed period.
d/  Transfers between Center and States have been netted out.
e/  All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
1/ Net bank credit to Government Sector.
/ Bank credit to Commercial Sector.



ANNEX I
Page 
BALANCE OP PAYIENTS                    1974/75        12157          1              1977/7                             I     MISE E[PORTS (AVERAGE 1974/75 - t96/7)
Exporte of Goode                          4,174        4,665          5,760          6,400                             Engineering Goods           515            1
Imports of Good                          -5,665       -6,o84         -5,950         -6,600                             Sugar                       379             8
Trade Banoa                             -1,491        -1,419         -  190         -  200                             Tea                         296            6
NFS  (net)                                  215          310            465            500                             Jute Kanufaotures           294             6
Leather and Leather
Resource GaP                            -1278         -1,109            215            300                                     Products           268             5
Clothing                   257             5
Interest Payments (net) =               -  198        -  216         -  135         -  130                             Iron Ore                   236             5
Other Faotor Peyments (net)                  -             -             -                                             Cotton Textilee             223             5
Net Traunfere  i/                           257           470           730          1,000                             Other                      2396           A2
Total                     4866           100
Balance on Current Aoeount               -1,217       -  855            610          1,170
Official Aid                                                                                                           DDE3EROI      , ET. MARCH 31. 97
Disbureents                           1,761        2,341         1,953           1,840                                                                  vst Bilion
Amortization                          -515          -531          -568 0           630                             Outatending and Diebureed                13.6
Traenactions with IIF                       522           242         -336          -  330                             Undisbursed                                3.2
All Other Iteme                            -589         -403          _292              23                             Outetanding,inoluding Undiebursed         16.8
Increase in Reserves (-)                     38         -794        -1,575          -2,073                             DEBT SERVICE RATIo FOR 1976/77          14.4   peroent
Groas Reserves (end year)                 1,378         2,172        3.747           5,820
Net Reserves (end year)  j&/                758        1,365         3,276           5,670                             IBRB/IDA LENDIIG, Deseaber 1. 1977  (US5  In.)
Fuel and Related lateriale                                                                                                                                IBRD         IDA
Imports                                   1,451        1,417         1,550         1,800                               Outstanding and Disbureed         469.0      3,560.5
af whih: Petrolem                      1,451        1,417         1,560         1,800                               VUditbe  ed                       674i9     1,ic57di
Exports                                      26            43           37          n.a.                                    Undiebursed                1,163.9      4,817.5
of which: Petroleum                       17           22            21          n.a.
RATE OP EXCRANGE
Prior to mid-Deso.ber t97       I    US$1.00 = Rs 7.5                                                                  After end June 1972           Floating Rate
Re 1.00 =1SS8O.133333                                                             Spot Rate January 31, 197S
Mid-Deeomber 197t to                 US$1.00 = Re 7.27927                                                                         approx. US$.OO = Re 8.063
end June 1972                    Re 1.00 = vs50.137376                                                                        epprox. Rs 1.00 = USS0.124
Es/ etimated.
j Figures given cover all investment income (net). Major payments are interest on foreign loans and
charge. paid to IMF, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
4/ Figures given inolude workers' remittances but exclude offioial grant assietance, which is ineluded
within offioial aid disbursements.
/ Exoludes net use of IMP oredit.
j/ Amortization and intereet paymnts on foreign loans as a peroentage 4f .6rch&andie eirports.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 15
THE STATUS OF BANX GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of Sept. 30,1978)
US$ Million-/
Loan or                                                                                          (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.       Year       Borrower                 Purpose                             Bank         IDA      Undisbursed
40 Loans/                                                                              1,100.63
53 Credits fully disbursed                                                                         2,884.6
267-IN           1971        India         Wheat Storage                                   --           5.0         2.99
294-IN           1972        India         Bihar Agricultural Markets                      --          14.0         6.02
312-IN           1972        India         Population                                     --          21.2          4.52
342-IN           1972        India         Education                                      --           12.0         8.39
356-IN           1972        India         IDBI                                           --          25.0          9.78
377-IN           1973        India         Power Transmission III                         --          85.0          0.46
378-IN           1973        India         Mysore Agricultural Markets                    --            8.0         6.73
902-IN           1973        ICICI         Industry DFC X                                  64.80      --            2.84
390-IN           1973        India         Bombay Water Supply                             --          55.0        18.09
427-IN           1973        India         Calcutta Urban Development                     --           35.0         6.71
440-TN           1973        India         Bihar Agricultural Credit                      --           32.0        13.31
456-IN           1974        India         HP Apple Processing & Marketing                --           13.0         8.80
481-IN           1974        India         Trombay IV                                     --           50.0         9.58
1011-IN           1974        India         Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD                         52.0       --           31.93
482-IN           1974        India         Karnataka Dairy                                --           30.0        23.64
502-IN           1974        India         Rajasthan Canal CAD                            --          83.0         46.35
520-IN           1974        India         Sindri Fertilizer                              --          91.0          9.82
521-IN           1974        India         Rajasthan Dairy                                --          27.7         24.84
522-IN           1974        India         Madhya Pradesh Dairy                           --          16.4         13.14
526-IN           1975        India         Drought Prone Areas                            --          35.0         20.32
1079-IN           1975        IFFCO         IFFCO Fertilizer                              109.0         __         46.56
1097-IN           1975        ICICI         Industry DFC XI                               100.0        --          17.92
532-IN           1975        India         Godavari Barrage Irrigation                    --          45.0         19.04
541-IN           1975        India         West Bengal Agricultural Development           --          34.0         22.68
562-IN           1975        India         Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) CAD                   --          24.0         14.19
572-IN           1975        India         Rural Electrification                          --          57.0         42.15
582-IN           1975        India         Railways XIII                                  --         110.0          0.36
585-IN           1975        India         Uttar Pradesh Water Supply                     --          40.0         33.67
598-IN           1975        India         Fertilizer Industry                            --         105.0        81.99
604-IN           1976        India         Power Transmission IV                          --         150.0       123.81
609-IN           1976        India         Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.                   --           4.0         3.55
610-IN           1976        India         Integrated Cotton Development                  --          18.0        17.63
1251-IN(TW)       1976        India         Andhra Pradesh Irrigation                     145.0        --         135.77
1260-IN           1976        India         IDBI II                                        40.0        --          34.42
1273-IN           1976        India         National Seed                                  25.0        --          24.92
1313-IN           1976        India         Telecommunications VI                          80.0        --          28.09
1335-IN           1976        BMRDA         Bombay Urban Transport                         25.0        --          17.70
680-IN           1977        India         Kerala Agricultural Development                --          30.0        29.95
682-IN           1977        India         Orissa Agricultural Development                --          20.0        19.51
685-IN           1977        India         Singrauli Thermal Power                        --         150.0       136.62
687-IN           1977        India         Madras Urban Development                       --          24.0        21.56
695-IN           1977        India         Gujarat Fisheries                              --           4.0         4.00
1394-IN(TW)       1977        India         Gujarat Fisheries                              14.0        --          14.00
690-IN           1977        India         West Bengal Agricultural Development           --          12.0        12.00
712-IN           1977        India         Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Development    --              10.0        10.00
715-IN           1977        India         Second ARDC Credit                             --         200.0       136.09
720-IN           1977        India         Periyar Vaigai Irrigation                      --          23.0        22.28
728-IN           1977        India         Assam Agricultural Development                 --           8.0         7.79
1473-IN           1977        India         Bombay High Offshore Development              150.0        --          87.13
736-IN           1977        India         Maharashtra Irrigation                         --          70.0        70.00
737-IN           1977        India         Rajasthan Agricultural Extension               --          13.0        13.00
740-IN           1977        India         Orissa Irrigation                              --          58.0        57.50
1475-IN           1977        ICICI         Industry DFC XII                               80.0        --          72.27
747-IN           1978        India         Second Foodgrain Storage                       --         107.0       105.62
756-IN           1978        India         Second Calcutta Urban Development              --          87.0        79.53
761-IN           1978        India         Bihar Agricultural Extension & Research    --               8.0         8.00
1511-IN           1978        India         IDBI Joint/Public Sector                       25.0        --          25.00
1549-IN*          1978        TEC           Third Trombay Thermal Power                   105.0        --         105.0
788-IN*          1978        India         Karnataka Irrigation                           --         126.0       126.0
793-IN*          1978        India         Korba Thermal Power                            --         200.0       200.0
806-IN*          1978        India         Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture                     --          14.0        14.0
808-IN*          1978        India         Gujarat Irrigation                             --          85.0        85.0
815-IN*          1978        India         Andhra Pradesh Fisheries                       --          17.5        17.5
816-IN*          1978        India         Second National Seed                           --          16.0        16.0
1592-IN           1978        India         Telecommunications VII                        120.0        --        120.0
824-IN*          1978        India         National Dairy                                 --         150.0       150.0
842-IN*          1978        India         Second Bombay Water Supply & Sewerage          --         196.0       196.0
843-IN*          1978        India         Haryana Irrigation                                        111.00      111.00
844-IN*          1978        india         Railway Modernization and Maintenance                     190.00      190.00
848-IN*          1978        India         Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage                           38.00       38.00
Total                                                                2,235.43   6.077.40
of which has been repaid                                           1,343.25   6 035 96
Total now outstanding
Amount Sold                               133.31
of which has been repaid                111.47                        21.84
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                       1,321.41   6,035.96
Total undisbursed (excluding a)                                        538.55   1,652.01
* Not yet effective.
I/  Prior to exchange adjustments.                                                                          November 1978



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 15
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1978)
Fiscal                                                    Amount (US$ million)
Year                    Company                        Loan      Equity      Total
1959        Republic Forge Company Ltd.                 1.5        -          1.5
1959        Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                  0.9        -          0.9
1960        Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                      1.4        -          1.4
1961        K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                           0.2        -          0.2
1963-66     Precision Bearings India Ltd.               0.7        0.3        1.0
1964        Fort Gloser Industries Ltd.                 0.8        0.4        1.2
1964-75     Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.              11.8        1.0       12.8
1964        Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                  1.0        0.3        1.3
1967        Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                     1.0        0.1        1.1
1967         Indian Explosives Ltd.                     8.6        2.9       11.5
1969-70     Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                  15.1        3.8       18.9
1976        Escorts Limited                             6.6         -         6.6
1978        Housing Development Finance
Corporation                                4.0        1.2        5.2
TOTAL                                53.6      10.0       63.6
Less:  Sold                                  6.0        1.6        7.6
Repaid                               14.7        -        14.7
Cancelled                             6.2       0.7        6.9
Now Held                             26.7       7.7       34.4
Undisbursed                           6.5       0.9        7.4



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 15
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding rea-
sonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below. The
level of disbursements was US$496.4 million in FY78 or 39% of Bank Group com-
mitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$2,191 million
as of September 30, 1978, corresponds roughly to commitments over the preceding
two-year period and reflects the lead time which would be expected given the
mix of fast- and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 902    Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June 8, 1973; Effective
Date: August 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Ln. No. 1475   Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977
Effective Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented. Loans
902-IN and 1097-IN are fully committed and disbursements are slightly ahead of
schedule. Disbursements under Loan 1475-IN (US$5.1 million) are also ahead of
schedule.
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides US$32.0 million over three years in support
of a lending program for 50,000 tubewells and pumpset investments in the
Tirhut Division of Bihar. Because of slow disbursements caused by a lower
than estimated Dollar/Rupee exchange rate and by low unit investment costs
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 15
compared with appraisal estimates, IDA agreed to extend the closing date to
March 1980 and the project area to cover the whole State. Physical targets
have now been achieved and the credit should be fully disbursed well in
advance of the closing date.
Cr. No. 715    Second Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$200.0 million credit of June 1, 1977;
Effective Date: August 24, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
This project is designed to provide long- and medium-term credit
to farmers through credit institutions, for on-farm investments, primarily
in minor irrigation. As of September 30, 1978, disbursements amounted to
about US$63.9 million, which is 32% of total disbursements, slightly below
appraisal targets. The proportion of disbursements to small farmers is
estimated at about 60% compared with the appraisal target of 50%. Training
programs for staff of the financing institutions are progressing satisfactor-
ily. Appraisal for a third line of credit is presently in the field.
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage Project; US$5.0 million credit of August 23,
1971; Effective Date: November 14, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979
Cr. No. 747    Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Credit 267-IN, which is being co-financed with Sweden, finances
(i) the construction of bag and bulk grain storage and handling facilities,
(ii) staff training, and (iii) an All-India Grain Storage Study. The
government-owned Food Corporation of India is responsible for the storage
construction. All the nine 10,000-ton-capacity bag warehouses envisaged under
the project as revised became operational in 1975. The construction of five
grain silos is progressing satisfactorily after delays due to cement shortages.
The training component is being implemented. The All-India Grain Storage Study
was completed in October 1976 and proved useful in formulating the proposal
for Credit 747-IN, which has now begun disbursing.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 806    Jammur-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$14.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date (expected): December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Credit 456 includes grading and packing centers, cold storage
facilities, a juice processing plant, road improvements and cableways. It
also includes cold storage facilities and a pilot project to promote oak
mushroom production. The project encountered initial delays due to managerial



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 15
and technical problems; however remedial measures have been taken to overcome
these difficulties. Land has been acquired for 8 of the 10 packing and grad-
ing sites, and procurement and construction activities are well underway. The
Project Preparation Report for the juice processing plant has been completed,
and the equipment is being ordered. The road improvement program is progres-
sing satisfactorily, and the feasibility reports on aerial cableways at the
packing/grading sites have been completed.
Ln. No. 1313   Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Ln. No. 1592   Telecommunications VII Project; US$120.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Loan 1313-IN is progressing satisfactorily; disbursements reached
US$51.9 million as of September 30, 1978.
Cr. No. 377    Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit of
May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 28, 1973; Closing
Date: November 30, 1978
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150.0 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The drawdown of Credit 377-IN was slow initially and as a conse-
quence it has been necessary to postpone the Closing Date by one year.
However, an amount of US$84.5 million had been disbursed by the end of
September 1978 and the balance should be disbursed before the revised Closing
Date. Under Credit 604-IN, contracts aggregating about US$50 million had
been awarded by March 1978 and disbursements as of September 30, 1978 were
US$26.2 million. This Credit included a supplementary Credit of US$30 million
to meet increased costs of equipment scheduled under Credit 377-IN; all but
US$4 million of this amount has also been committed.
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date:  August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91.0 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1979
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109.0 million loan of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 15
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Trombay IV project is now being commissioned, about 18 months
behind schedule due to longer-than-expected delivery times for critical equip-
ment. The Sindri project is also being commissioned. The IFFCO project was
delayed by about a year as a result of a change in feedstock from fuel oil to
naphtha and delays in completion of engineering contracts. However, project
construction is now proceeding satisfactorily. Mechanical completion of the
entire plant should result in August 1979. Credit 598-IN is designed to
increase the utilization of existing fertilizer production capacity. The
project has encountered delays in sub-project preparation and investment
approvals by the Government. Further, some of the sub-projects identified
earlier may not materialize because of reconsideration by the Central and
State governments. IDA has agreed to a list of sub-projects to replace the
ones that are likely to be dropped. Because of the above, the project is
likely to be delayed by 6-12 months.
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under the
Bihar project has generally been satisfactory. The project includes training
of the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) staff and evaluation
of the project's economic impact. Development plans have been completed for
53 market yards to ensure the project target of 50 markets is met. As of
March 1978, the date of the last review, appraisals had been completed for 50,
and loans approved for 47 markets. Construction had been completed for 16 and
was in progress for 23 markets. Farmers and traders served by the 8 market
yards now in operation report more efficient marketing activities and improved
farmers' terms of trade. Progress under the Karnataka project is improving.
As of September 1978, when the project was last reviewed, construction was
underway for 36 of the 39 project markets. Plans and land acquisition are
nearing completion at the remaining sites. Both projects are expected to be
completed by their respective closing dates.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 15
in each state, is almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning. To allow adequate time for the Population Centers to
complete their evaluation of family planning strategies and the introduction
of management information and evaluation systems, the closing date has been
extended by one year. Disbursements as of September 30, 1978 were 79% of
the full credit amount.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project involves the development of the agricultural univer-
sities in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve
the quality and practical training of undergraduates and so the spectrum of
their employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure to
enable it to give impetus to agricultural and rural development. Considerable
progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but achieving edu-
cational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by traditional
attitudes and structures where consistent effective leadership falters.
Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The Project
Director and others responsible are aware of the constraints and are sup-
porting efforts to remove them.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India Project; US$25.0 million
credit of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1979
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1511 IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The first IDBI Project had a slow start mainly due to institutional
problems in the participating State Financial Corporations. However, the
credit is now fully committed, and disbursements had reached US$15.2 million
by the end of September 1978. In order to continue the Bank Group's involve-
ment in assisting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening the
State Financial Corporations involved, a second operation (Loan 1260-IN) was
approved in 1976, and disbursements have reached US$5.6 million by the end of
September.  Loan 1511-IN is designed to encourage the pooling of private and
public capital in medium-scale joint ventures. The project will also assist
IDBI in carrying out industrial sector investment studies and in strengthening
the financial institutions dealing with the state joint/public sector.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 15
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 842    2nd Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0 mil-
lion credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date (expected):
February 13, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848    Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million
credit of October 27, 1978; Effective Date (expected):
January 25, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns caused
by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975), redesign of
major project components and the addition of a supplementary study on sewage
disposal, the project is now progressing relatively well. All of the major
contracts for the water supply components have been awarded and it is forecast
that works will be sufficiently advanced to permit the supply of additional
water (455 mld) in the last quarter of 1978; completion of water treatment
works for the whole supply by the end of 1979 is realistically forecast.
Completion of additional sewage disposal studies (August 1977) has allowed
engineering design of the project sewerage components to proceed, so that
completion of construction of these works is now scheduled for 1980, two years
later than originally forecast. Financial performance of the project entity
is satisfactory. The second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project has
just been signed.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements are being
made to appoint a full-time management adviser to closely supervise and
coordinate implementation. Disbursements as of the end of September 1978
stood at US$6.3 million or 16% of the credit amount.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Cr. No. 756    Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 15
For the first of these projects, following considerable increases
in project costs, GOI and IDA finalized a project redefinition in April 1976.
It is now expected to be substantially completed by March 1979. Credit 756-IN
is designed to expand and upgrade the capabilities of Calcutta's administra-
tive authorities, to strengthen the city's fiscal base, and to rehabilitate
and extend its urban service system.
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
The project is designed to develop and promote low-cost solutions
to the problems of providing improved services to the urban poor in the
Madras Metropolitan Area (MMA) and to strengthen metropolitan planning.
Project components consisting of sites and services, slum improvement, small-
scale and cottage industry, and maternal and child health are designed to
benefit directly some 250,000 persons in low-income areas of the city. The
water supply and sewerage, road and traffic, bus transport and technical
assistance components are designed to eliminate bottlenecks in water supply
and transport. Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily, and
disbursements are slightly ahead of appraisal estimates.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824    National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of June 19, 1978;
Effective Date (expected): December 27, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coop-
erative scheme in Gujarat State.  The Karnataka Project, which got off to a
slow start, has begun to show considerable improvement under new management
appointed recently. Farmer response has been good and over 600 dairy coop-
eratives with small farmer participation are functioning effectively.  All
four dairy unions envisaged under the project have been established and
are functioning satisfactorily. In Madhya Pradesh good progress has been
made. About 310 new dairy cooperatives societies have been established.
Detailed design studies for plant construction are complete. The response
of small farmers to the project is excellent. GOMP has plans to cover all
districts in the State. Technical services investments are being made.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 15
Contracts have been placed for livestock imports. The Rajasthan project is
also doing well. Four milk unions have been formed and excellent progress
has been made in organizing the servicing of nearly 450 dairy cooperatives
at the village level. Plant designs are ready, and procurement is making
adequate progress.  Based upon the good results experienced, GOR is planning
to expand the form of dairy development to all other districts of the State.
Karnataka's decision to procure plant equipment jointly with Rajasthan and
Madhya Pradesh on the same tender should lead to a recovery of considerable
time lost earlier in the Karnataka project.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45.0 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is in progress and is proceeding
satisfactorily. Disbursements stood at US$26.0 million on September 30, 1978.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0 mil-
lion credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24.0 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)          Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736    Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740    Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11,
1977; Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date:
October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788    Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 15
Cr. No. 808    Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 843    Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date (expected): December 14, 1978;
Closing Date: August 31, 1983
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34.0 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides financing over four years mainly for minor
irrigation investments but also for development of markets, agro service
centers, and support of related government extension services. Although dis-
bursements have been slower than anticipated, there has been a considerable
improvement in project organization and administration and disbursements are
expected to improve considerably. The physical progress of shallow tubewells,
and of deep tubewells for the Minor Irrigation Corporation, is satisfactory.
IDA, GOWB and ARDC are combining efforts in order to solve difficulties such
as organizational problems at the farm level; lack of demand for agro service
centers; and completion of designs for water distribution systems and irriga-
tion schemes. Positive results, particularly for the redesigned water distri-
bution systems have been achieved.
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 15
Cr. No. 737    Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$13.0
million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective
Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761    Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0
million credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2,
1978; Closing Date: October 3L, 1983
These projects, totalling US$71 million, finance the re-organization
and strengthening of agricultural extension and the development of adaptive
agricultural research services with the objective of achieving early and
sustained improvements in agricultural production, particularly foodgrains.
Arrangement for monitoring and evaluation of project progress and impact is
an essential feature of these projects. The Orissa and Assam projects also
provide funds for laying the basis for longer term improvements in ground-
water development in the States. In particular, the Assam project is pro-
gressing very well with coverage of farmers expanding ahead of schedule
and noticeable improvements in the quality of training of village extension
workers. The projects' components include provision of additional staff,
training facilities, housing, offices, laboratory facilities, equipment and
transportation.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Overall physical progress of the Drought Prone Areas project (DPAP)
continues to be satisfactory. The rate of disbursement is improving and
implementation of most components is proceeding, by and large, according to
schedule. However, progress may be affected by possible changes in thinking
at the national level. GOI is presently reviewing all national rural develop-
ment programs, including the DPAP, in order to determine ways to improve over-
all performance in the rural sector. The Government's review is being fol-
lowed closely to determine whether any recommendations would have an impact
on the ongoing project and require changes.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
This project would improve tree crop production in Kerala and has
particular emphasis on increasing benefits to small farmers. It comprises
rehabilitation of 30,000 ha coconut and 10,000 ha pepper and 2,240 ha cashew,
and new plantings of 5,000 ha coconut and 1,500 ha cashew. About 25% of the
coconut area would be irrigated for intensive intercropping. Funds have been
provided for development of a seed garden for tree crops and for strengthening
tree crops research. Ten crumb rubber factories would also be established to
process smallholder rubber. Project implementation started slowly due to
initial staffing and funding delays but has recently gained momentum. Proj-
ect actions for 1978/79 have been rephased and advance action planned so
as to make up for lost time.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 15
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Credit 572 consists of a tranche of rural electrification schemes
which, at about Rs 5 million each, would cover about 140 schemes. There are
now thirteen States eligible for onlending (compared with six at the time
of appraisal).  The project got off to a slow start, due principally to the
need to adapt the specifications and tendering procedures to international
competitive bidding, but the position has now improved and the full amount
of the Credit has been committed.
Cr. No. 582    Railways XIII Project; US$110.0 million credit of August 26,
1975; Effective Date: October 10, 1975; Closing Date:
October 31, 1978
Cr. No. 844    Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0 mil-
lion credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date (expected):
February 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 582 was designed to cover most of the foreign exchange
requirements of Indian Railway's (IR) investment program for two years, from
April 1, 1975, through March 31, 1977. However, since the approval of the
project, increased production of steel products in India and further develop-
ments in IR's indigenization program slowed down the rate at which IR requires
foreign exchange. Therefore, the Closing Date was extended for one year in
order to complete implementation of the project. The project was fully dis-
bursed on October 24, 1978.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date:  May 17, 1976; Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
This project will identify a sound resource base for pulp and paper
manufacture and related industries, develop suitable logging systems, and
undertake a feasibility study to determine optimal use of the existing wood
resources in the Bastar District of southern Madhya Pradesh. It also includes
a study of ways to integrate the area's tribal population with future develop-
ment.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project finances equipment, civil works and crop production
credit to support programs for cotton research and cotton production increase
in three states. The project also provides credit for improving cotton gin-
neries, new ginneries, cotton seed oil extraction plants and vegetable oil
processing factories. Effectiveness was delayed by slow appointment of



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 15
consultants, but the cotton extension services program was started without
delay and has now been in operation for two years. Disbursements have been
small mainly due to poor demand to date for project credit. A recent super-
vision mission, working with technical consultants, has made detailed recom-
mendations for more appropriate pest control practices and more adaptive
research to identify and introduce better varieties. These measures are
under discussion with GOI, and when agreed to and implemented, should speed
up project disbursements.
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 816    Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date (expected): December 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loan 1273-IN supports the first phase of India's national seed
program, consisting of: seed industry expansion in the public and private
sectors, improvements in seed quality control, strengthening of breeding and
seed technology research, and development of a reserve stock scheme. Insti-
tutional development and managerial arrangements, particularly at the state
level, have proceeded fairly satisfactorily. Project implementation, however,
slowed down after loan effectiveness mainly due to organizational problems.
Project progress is now being made since endorsement of the project by the
new Government in September 1977 and is expected to gain further momentum
as GOI has filled the two top posts of the National Seeds Corporation, which
were vacant for several months and adversely affected the project. A project
supporting the second phase of India's national seed program (Credit 816-IN)
was signed July 17, 1978.
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Contracts for bodies and chassis for 325 single deck and 175 double
deck buses have been awarded and some 144 buses have been delivered. Bids for
an additional 200 buses are being evaluated. Civil works contracts have been
awarded for 8 bus facilities, and 13 traffic engineering schemes. Delays are
expected in implementing some BMC traffic engineering schemes and the BEST
workshop schemes although steps are being taken to minimize such delays.
Consultants in organization, administration, financial management systems,
accounting and development planning are at work assisting the Borrower, the
Bombay Metropolitan Regional Development Authority. Other beneficiaries of
the loan, the Bombay Municipal Corporation and the Bombay Electric Supply and
Transport Undertaking, have selected consultants in traffic engineering and
operations and management assistance, respectively.
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 19, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 15
Cr. No. 815    Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984
Progress on Gujarat Fisheries project is good. All project imple-
mentation units appear to be competent and enthusiastic and the project is
progressing as anticipated at appraisal.
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793    Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985.
Ln. No. 1549   Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date (expected): December 19, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
Credit 685-IN assists in financing the first stage of the 2,000 MW
Singrauli development which is, in turn, the first of four power stations in
the Government's program for the development of large Central thermal power
stations feeding power into an interconnected grid. The second such station,
at Korba, is being financed through Credit 793-IN. It is proposed that the
Bank Group will have a continuing involvement in this development program.
The National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) has been formed to construct
and operate these power stations, and the development program has gotten off
to a good start. Organization and staffing of NTPC is proceeding satisfac-
torily, and the Singrauli project is proceeding on schedule. Civil works are
in progress and contracts have been awarded for major plant (turbogenerators,
boilers, transformers). Loan 1549-IN is supporting the construction of a 500
MW extension of the Tata Electric Companies' station, in order to help meet
the forecast load growth in the Bombay area.
Ln. No. 1473   Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$150.0 million
loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: October 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Gas and oil pipelines
from Bombay High to shore have been laid and were commissioned in June 1978.
Disbursements stood at US$62.9 million on September 30, 1978.



ANNEX III
Page
INDIA
RAMAGUNDAM THERMAL POWER PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:   (a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the project
This project is the third in the planned development
of large-scale thermal power stations; consequently,
preparation of the present project was part of a
continuing process.
(b)  The agency which has prepared the project
Ministry of Energy/Central Electricity Authority/
National Thermal Power Corporation.
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of
the first mission to consider the project
Preliminary feasibility report became available in
February 1975. Preappraisal was carried out in
January 1978.
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission
April 14, 1978.
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations
December 5, 1978.
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness
March 31, 1979.
Section II:  Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) GOI to ensure adequate coal supplies (para 45);
(b) NTPC to appoint consultants (para 46);



ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) NTPC to have due regard for ecological and
environmental factors (para 47);
(d) NTPC to inform Association of any proposal to
modify existing limitations on its borrowing
powers (para 49);
(e) NTPC to achieve 9-1/2% rate of return (para 50); and
(f) NTPC to sell power under satisfactory bulk supply
contracts (para 52).



r   Jc   91 U s.s rS. <    _  7 -                    ttt                                ksD                                 Qc-      ~~~~~~~~     ~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I N D I A   c
7 .    ~  ,- 3    \RAMAGUNDAM THERMAL POWER PROJECT
' ~   \hsPower Maip Planned For 1985
-ss  I   <                         1           r        \  >                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IKRI Pr,ljct  EthW m   st f ' pcd8'I
DI M-cc02 c78 te,,
A F G  H A  N   I ST T  .3 Hydrc p.ec, ct$tc
H                                                                  j                                                           ii          *          ttA   Ther-c  p-ec clctrbc-
;2                    ,App.:cte Pne ocarccc                                                                                               0                N..O ear pcwecstsct os
Px _-1\  C                                                      -                       - - 4CO kV t-,As-  ,l -ls
- --  --0' kV t-a-c ssmnIccre
0$                                                                                                  opcrctan a| 220k\hv  983-04
r/                             t      S^.AL                           r        C      H     I    N        A                                                        t      GC  bcrscoecn tnc|
) DC tc t! i| b-k             ti -
-  a                                 e     c      ;I.,u,                   '                                                                             ---F etc-DeDc P   on Docccrc  ec oTtern Reccon,                |
->B Eetcaj    cO|PPOC                                                                                                                                                 - - - -Orate bactearcec
occitaJ            .CDOW Lll{'                                                                      -----R e nternt-   sealonbcc-leP
P  A  K  I S  T  A  N                       j ocn,a  P                        K
{' > 5'@u<"'-;-;/              Dsn-r)
'%o-1                                                         (~~~~~~~H-
0   \   /v9I<Ar   <-    ~~~~-- G j?fl C         h       <OR4^                r 7       G      4     L I S          x     B     h          ;    /hk ~~~~~~B   U    R   M    A
;   \        -                 ~       ~         t       H         9        1        1     ~    'J SE4                ;                f (   /c  \   Pt.lccacacye
0 0 : a / d, '0                                                                     -
A-         r                                 ar A  caccar              \o c g               /                                              v,   BH TA  2g  f                                     /
r  -it5<9tAma ,:t r FAS *-Ocra                                                                     (-JwXS /'  5A       r                     f- fQfec  A      f
YMnd,9 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~cP&'c                                                                    -4 // 51ce;
5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ecr    Pa o.  Cr-cLe   TAEXA S 'GA   A   
A~~~~ Rh A  9   I A     .IV 
iA                                                                                                             0   F          8  I    K|Nk  A0Z
Co                     L      iaA o  a   >  cce  icc-                                                                      L
,eX UhPPtfN>                                                                                                              c,4 fGa,            t           eB     tdOL  DES H 3Ge r  t/r 9 o 098Jt.Rv
Ah yL                                                                                    m sOlXs   MPNEA _rf-   lO  .yc    '59                  P     I N D I A (    >,-n5  '5
7f9 M5 \ _ LANKAX -vZ,-- w *f 3" s/2~~~~~~~r h r. .ecsoe re: .                                                        ,    ' Re  Pr r                               IA  Jttfh' C
ircaFoODe  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~U  ~~~~  r~6
eccrcc                                                           )ccctceccc~~~~~~~~~~~~~7                               'op         ~          ~         ~          AM



