CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 874 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Ramagundam Thermal Power Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 2, 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 874 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 2, 1979, between INDIA, acting by
its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Bank to provide
additional assistance toward the financing of the Project and
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and
the Bank (hereinafter called the Loan Agreement), the Bank is
agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to fifty million dollars ($50,000,000).
(C) the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in
this Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures of the
Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan provided
for in the Loan Agreement are made;
(D) the Project will be carried out by the National Thermal
Power Corporation Limited (hereinafter called NTPC) with the
Borrower 's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to NTPC the proceeds of the Credit as
hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association, the Bank
and NTPC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,


﻿-2-
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association, the Bank and NTPC of even date herewith, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental
to the Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and NTPC for the purpose
of relending the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c) "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of
the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes the General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974
as made applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental
to the Loan Agreement and all schedules to the Loan Agreement;
and
(d) "Memorandum and Articles" mean the Memorandum and
Articles of Association of NTPC applicable at the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to two hundred million dollars ($200,000,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. The amount of the C edit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule
to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1985
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 15
and December 15 commencing June 15, 1989, and ending December 15,
2028, each installment to and including the installment payable
on December 15, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause NTPC to perform in accordance


﻿-4-
with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take
and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable NTPC to perform such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit
and the Loan to NTPC under a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and NTPC under terms and condi-
tions which shall have been approved by the Association and which
shall, inter alia, provide that NTPC shall: (i) pay to the
Borrower interest at an effective rate of ten and one-quarter per
cent (10-1/4%) per annum on the principal amount so relent and
withdrawn by NTPC and outstanding from time to time; and (ii)
repay to the Borrower the principal amount so relent over a period
of twenty years, including therein a period of grace of five
years.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to
believe that the funds available to NTPC will be inadequate to
meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of
the Project, to make arrangements promptly to provide NTPC or
cause NTPC to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet
such expenditures.
Section 3.03. When, with respect to any contract for goods to
be procured under Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement, the
selected bid is a bid from group C (as defined in paragraph B.2
(3) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement), the Borrower
shall immediately grant permission to import the goods covered by
the contract, and no review of such permission to import shall be
made by the Borrower or by any of its agencies. When, with respect
to any contract, the selected bid is a bid from group A or group B
(as defined in paragraphs B.2 (1) and (2) of the Schedule to


﻿-5-
the Project Agreement), the Borrower shall (i) promptly upon
receipt of the appropriate applications, issue, or cause to be
issued, such import licenses as shall be required to implement the
contract; (ii) make available, or cause to be made available,
promptly as needed, all foreign exchange which shall be required
therefor; and (iii) with respect to locally produced waterials
which are subject to allocation, make, or cause to be made,
allocations of such materials promptly and in such quantities as
shall be required for such contract.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take all such steps as shall
be necessary to ensure adequate coal supplies for the efficient
operation of the Project by the time the first generating unit
under the Project shall have been commissioned.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) NTPC shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation under the Project Agreement;
(b) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by NTPC without the Association's
consent, if such creation, acquisition or taking over would
materially and adversely affect the conduct of NTPC's business or
NTPC's financial condition or the efficiency of NTPC's management
and personnel or the carrying out of the Project;
(c) a default shall have occurred in the performance by
the Borrower or by NTPC of any of its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that NTPC will be able to perform its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement;
(e) the Borrower or NTPC, or any other authority having
jurisdiction, shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of NTPC or for the suspension of its operations;
and


﻿-6-
(f) a change shall have been made in the Memorandum and
Articles without the Association's consent which would materially
and adversely affect the financial condition or operations of
NTPC.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Association to the Borrower and NTPC; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (e) and (f) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of NTPC
has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
acti-n;
(b) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and NTPC, respectively, has been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary governmental and corporate action;
and
(c) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Loan Agreement have been fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a)  that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by NTPC, and is legally binding upon NTPC in accordance
with its terms; and


﻿-7-
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and NTPC, and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and NTPC in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date May 4, 1979, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The provisions of Section 4.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-
five years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director or Deputy Secretary in the Department of
Economic Affairs of the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For. the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-8-
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDIA
By Is/ N.A. Palkhivala
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Credit and the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit and of the Loan       % of
Allocated (Expressed in  Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Turbo generators          115,000,000     )
and boilers                              )
) 100% of foreign
(2) Electrical equipment       35,000,000     ) expenditures and
) 100% of local
(3) Other power station        25,000,000     ) expenditures
equipment                                ) (ex-factory)
(4) Coal handling              14,000,000     )
and transportation                       )
(5) Transmission equip-        50,000,000     )
ment
(6) Consultants'                1,000,000        100%
services
(7) Unallocated                10,000,000
TOTAL      250,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and


﻿- 10 -
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association and the Bank that
no proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manufac-
ture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of
any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Association and the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement. In addition, except
as the Borrower, the Association and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, and until all amounts of the Credit shall have been with-
drawn or committed, no withdrawal shall be made from the Loan
Account except under committments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions referred to in
Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
and the Loan or the disbursement percentages set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Credit and the Loan then allo-
cated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed
percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the Association
may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category,
to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds
of the Credit and the Loan which are then allocated to another
Category and which in the opinion of the Association and the Bank
are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association and the Bank shall have reasonably deter-
mined that the procurement of any item in any Category is


﻿- 11 -
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan and the Association and
the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Association and the Bank under the
Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit and of the Loan
as, in the Association's and the Bank's reasonable opinion,
represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise
have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit
and of the Loan.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Desctiption of the Project
The Project forms part of NTPC's thermal power development
at Ramagundam in the Karimnagar District of the State of Andhra
Pradesh. The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
Construction of roads, culverts, railway and other miscel-
laneous preliminary works, power station and residential
buildings, plant foundations, canals, ducts, cooling towers and
other works associated with the circulating water system,
including the provision of land therefor.
Part B:
Acquisition and installation of three 200 MW turbo-generating
units and three boilers rated at about 680 tons/hour capacity
each, complete with all auxiliaries and ancillary electrical and
mechanical equipment including coal transportation and handling
equipment and a switchyard.
Part C:
Acquisition and installation of a 400 kV transmission system
comprising two single circuit lines, each about 200 km in length,
from Ramagundam to Hyderabad, a single circuit line, about 400
km in length, from Hyderabad to Cuddapah, a single circuit line
about 200 km in length from Cuddapah to Bangalore, and a single
circuit line, about 200 km in length from Cuddapah to Katpadi,
together with associated equipment.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1984.


