CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 874 IN
LOAN NUMBER 1648 IN
Project Agreement
(Ramagundam Thermal Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NATIONAL THERMAL POWER CORPORATION LIMITED
Dated February 2, 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 874 IN
LOAN NUMBER 1648 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 2, 1979, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association),
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (here-
inafter called the Bank) and NATIONAL THERMAL POWER CORPORATION
LIMITED (hereinafter called NTPC), a company     registered under
the Borrower's Companies Act, 1956, as amended.
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to two hundred million dollars
($200,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that NTPC
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Borrower and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
fifty million dollars ($50,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that NTPC
agree to undertake such obligations towards the Bank as are
hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and NTPC, the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement and the proceeds of the
Loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available
to NTPC on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS NTPC, in consideration of the Association's and the
Bank's entering into the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan
Agreement, respectively, with the Borrower, has agreed to under-
take the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in


﻿- 2 -
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
applicable thereto and in the Loan Agreement and in the General
Conditions applicable thereto have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. NTPC shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and public utility practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist NTPC in the detailed design
of and preparation of specifications for the Project, and in the
review of NTPC's project management system, NTPC shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, shall be governed by
the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) NTPC undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan relent to it
by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by NTPC to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association and the Bank may otherwise
agree, NTPC shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan relent to it by the
Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) NTPC shall furnish to the Association
and the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, speci-
fications, reports, contract documents and work and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association and the
Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿(b) NTPC: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its
cost and impact), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, and to disclose the
use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon
the provisions of paragraph (d) of this Section, enable the
Association's and Bank's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Association and the Bank all such information
as the Association and the Bank shall reasonably request con-
cerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, its impact,
the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Associ-
ation, the Bank and NTPC, NTPC shall prepare and furnish to
the Association and the Bank a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association and the Bank shall reasonably request,
on the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost
and impact, the performance by NTPC, the Association and the Bank
of their respective obligations under the Credit Agreement and the
Loan Agreement, and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit and the Loan.
(d) NTPC shall enable the Association's and the Bank's
representatives to examine all plants, installations, sites,
works, buildings, property and equipment of NTPC and any relevant
records and documents.
Section 2.06. NTPC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
and the Bank shall otherwise agree, NTPC shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) NTPC shall at the request of the Associ-
ation and the Bank, exchange views with the Association and
the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the
performance of its obligations under this Agreement, the Loan
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit and the Loan.


﻿(b) NTPC shall promptly infor:- the Association and the
Bank of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere
with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit and the Loan, or the performance by NTPC of
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.08. NTPC shall take all such action as shall be
necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for the construction and
operation of the facilities included in the Project and shall
upon request furnish to the Association and the Bank, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association
and the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 2.09. Except as the Association and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, NTPC shall sell to the State Electricity Boards
the entire output of power from the generating units to be
installed under the Project as delivered at agreed bulk supply
points under bulk supply contracts satisfactory to the Associ-
ation.
Section 2.10. NTPC shall take all measures necessary to
ensure that the execution and operations of the Project are
carried out with due regard to appropriate ecological and environ-
mental factors in accordance with the environmental quality
standards prescribed by the Borrower's National Committee on
Environmental Planning and Coordination.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of NTPC
Section 3.01. NTPC shall at all times manage its affairs,
maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion and
carry on its operations, all in accordance with sound business,
financial, administrative and engineering practices and under the
supervision of experienced and competent management assisted by
adequate and competent staff.
Section 3.02. (a) NTPC shall at all times maintain its
corporate existence and the right to carry on its operations and
to acquire and retain ownership of all lands and maintain and
renew all interests in land and other properties, and take all


﻿-5-
steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers,
privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in the
conduct of its business.
(b) NTPC shall at all times operate and maintain its plant,
machinery, equipment and other property, and make all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof, in accordance with sound engineering
practices.
(c) Except as the Association and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, NTPC shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose
of any of its property or assets required for the efficient
operation of its business and undertaking.
Section 3.03. NTPC shall inform the Association and the
Bank on any proposal to modify existing limitations on the powers
of NTPC's Board of Directors to borrow funds before placing such a
proposal on the agenda for consideration by NTPC in general
meeting.
Section 3.04. NTPC shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association and the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. NTPC shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. NTPC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses,
sources and application of funds statements and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association and the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than seven months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) a certified copy of the auditors' report; and
(iii) furnish to the Association and the Bank such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of


﻿- 6 -
NTPC and the audit thereof as the Association and the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between the
Association, the Bank and NTPC:
(a) NTPC shall set tariffs and conduct its operations and
affairs in such manner as to achieve in the fiscal year beginning
April 1, 1988 and maintain thereafter an annual rate of return of
not less than nine and one-half per cent (9-1/2%).
(b) NTPC shall set its tariffs from the time of the commis-
sioning of its first 200 MW generating unit and until the fiscal
year starting April 1, 1988 at levels not lower than those esti-
mated to be required to achieve a 9-1/2% annual rate of return in
the fiscal year beginning April. 1, 1988.
(c) For the purposes of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the annual rate of return for any financial year shall be
calculated by expressing the operating income for the particular
financial year as a percentage of the average of the capital base
at the beginning and end of such financial year. For the purposes
of the foregoing:
(i) "operating income" means total operating revenues
from the sale of electricity and from other
services incidental thereto; less all adminis-
tration, operating and maintenance expenses,
adequate provision for depreciation, and taxes
(including income taxes), but excluding interest
and other charges on debt; and
(ii) "capital base" means the sum of (A) the gross book
value of fixed assets in operation, and (B) the
cost of intangible assets, less the amount of
accumulated accrued depreciation.
For the purposes of (i) and (ii) above, "depreciation" shall be
calculated using the straight-line method on the value of depre-
ciable fixed assets in service.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
and the Loan Agreement become effective.


﻿- 7 -
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association, the Bank and of NTPC thereunder shall terminate
on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)  the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
and the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accor-
dance with their respective terms; or
(ii) a date twenty-five years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan
Agreement terminate in accordance with their terms before the date
specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association
and the Bank shall promptly notify NTPC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement or the
Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿-8-
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For NTPC:
National Thermal Power Corporation Ltd.
312 Kailash, 26 Kasturba Gandhi Marg
New Delhi - 110001
India
Cable address:
THERMPOWER
New Delhi
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of NTPC may be taken or executed by its
Managing Director or such other person or persons as NTPC shall
designate in writing, and NTPC shall furnish to the Association
and the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authen-
ticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. As long as the Bank has not given notice
to the contrary to NTPC and so long as the Development Credit
Agreement shall not have terminated prior to the termination of
the Loan Agreement: (a) the obligations of NTPC to consult with,
and to furnish information, documents, plans, reports, records
and statements to the Bank shall be satisfied to the extent
performance in respect of such obligations is rendered to the
Association; (b) the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and
to furnish information to NTPC shall be satisfied to the extent
such obligations are fulfilled by the Association; and (c) all
actions taken (including the giving of approvals or the granting
of waivers) by the Association pursuant to the Development Credit


﻿- 9 -
Agreement shall be deemed to be taken pursuant to both the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement and in the name and
on behalf of both the Association and the Bank.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is! W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia
NATIONAL THERMAL POWER CORPORATION LIMITED
By Is! N.A. Palkhivala
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, NTPC shall prepare and forward to the
Association and the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Association
and the Bank shall reasonably request; the Association and the
Bank will arrange for the publication of such notice in order to
provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the oppor-
tunity to bid for the goods in question. NTPC shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to NTPC of inland freight and
other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
India may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿- 11 -
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
India if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Association and NTPC that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in India equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in India.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further comparee with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 12 -
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   With respect to all contracts for the purchase of goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, NTPC shall furnish to the
Association and the Bank for their comments, the text of the
invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising
procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedures as the Associ-
ation and the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further modifi-
cation to the bidding documents shall require the Association's
and the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, NTPC
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association and the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Association
and the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
by NTPC or by the consultants referred to in Section 2.02 of this
Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received,
together with the recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association and the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Association and the Bank shall, if they determine
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform NTPC and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's and the Bank's concurrence, materially
differ from those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association and the Bank promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Association and the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
or the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, NTPC shall furnish to the Association and the Bank,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association and the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Credit Account or the Loan Account in respect of


﻿- 13 -
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids and such other informa-
tion as the Association and the Bank shall reasonably request. The
Association and the Bank shall, if they determine that the award
of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform NTPC and state the reasons for such
determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, and
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency), which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, NTPC shall inform the
Association and the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver,
extension or change order and the reasons therefor. The Associa-
tion and the Bank, if they determine that the proposal would be
inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly
inform NTPC and state the reasons for its determination,


