Report No. PIC1015
Project Name              Sri Lanka-Mahaweli Restructuring Project (@)
Region                    South Asia
Sector                    Irrigation and Drainage
Project ID                LKPA34212
Implementing Agency       Mahaweli Authority of Sri Lanka (MASL)
500 T.B. Jayah Mawatha
Colombo 10, Sri Lanka
Contact: Mr. S.W.K.J. Samaranayake
Director General
MASL
Telephone No.: 94-1-687238
Fax No.: 94-1-687240
Date Prepared             January 1997
Projected Board Date      August 1997
Project Objectives. The Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) is
committed to improving the efficiency of public expenditures.
Nevertheless, irrigation structures in the Mahaweli areas continue to
deteriorate for lack of funds for maintenance (40-60%    shortfall)
necessitating premature rehabilitation, while farmers organizations
(FOs) which could play a greater role in operation and maintenance (O&M)
of especially the downstream facilities remain underdeveloped. The
extension staff in the Mahaweli areas includes large numbers of poorly
qualified field agents conducting visits to farmers, while in the rest
of the country the extension service is being streamlined to operate
with a fewer number of better qualified agents, complemented by mass
media techniques. MASL's commercial activities, notably in
architectural design and construction supervision and animal husbandry
and manufacture of dairy products, crowd out the private sector on which
GOSL is relying for faster growth.
Clearly, the original approach of heavy state intervention is no
longer sustainable or desirable. On the other hand, the Mahaweli
Authority (MASL) has an essential role to play in the O&M of the major
upstream facilities which cannot be handled by FOs, as well as provision
of water to the various irrigation systems, townships and industry. It
also has a vital role to play in protecting the land and water resources
in the Mahaweli basin from environmental degradation.
Consistent with this new role, the main objective of the project is
to transform MASL from a project implementing agency into an entity
responsible for overall water management and environmental protection,
thereby clearing the way for the private sector including FOs to become
the main agents of growth and development.
Project Description. The proposed project would be the initial 4-
year phase of a 7/8-year program consisting of three main components:
(a) Restructuring of the Mahaweli Authority with emphasis on
development of FOs to take over O&M of simpler downstream facilities,



streamlining of public service functions such as extension, and
privatization of commercial activities. Measures to deal with excess
staffing would be included. (b) Rehabilitation of irrigation facilities
in System H involving mainly distributory (D) and field (F) canals, but
also expenditures on main and branch canals and on the drainage system.
Farmers under the proposed project would be required to contribute to
the cost of irrigation rehabilitation. They would also take over all
maintenance responsibility for the D and F canals. (c) Strengthened
environmental management including establishment of a monitoring
capability and a capacity to address high priority environmental issues
in MASL.
Environmental Aspects. Due to its rehabilitation nature, the
project has been classified as a "B" (full environmental assessment (EA)
not required but environmental analysis required). Nevertheless, an EA
was carried out to design measures to improve overall environmental
management and monitoring in the project area, address environmental
problems arising from past development and guard against future
problems. An environmental component along these lines has been
incorporated into the project.
Project Implementation. Restructuring measures would be carried
out by MASL and the recipient entities (e.g., FOs for O&M). For civil
works, FOs or federations thereof would sign contracts with private
contractors or do the works themselves under the technical supervision
of MASL, depending on their complexity.
Project Costs and Financing. The total cost of the initial 4-year
project is tentatively estimated at US$36.7 million, of which IDA would
finance US$23.0 million (63%), farmers US$5.6 million (15%), and GOSL
US$8.1 million (22%).
Contact Point:            Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending February 7, 1997.
- 2 -



