Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17157-CE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 41.7 MILLION (US$57.0 MILLION EQUJIVALENT)
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A
MAHAWELI RESTRUCTURING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
February 23, 1998
Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of October 31, 1997)
Currency Unit  Rupees (Rs)
US$ 1.00   Rs 59.1
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
(January I to December 31)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB              Asian Development Bank
AMDP             Accelerated Mahaweli Development Program
CEA              Central Environmental Authority
CECB             Central Engineering Consultancy Bureau
DCFO             Distributory Canal Farmers' Organization
DG               Director General
EA               Environmental Assessment
EU               European Union
ERR              Economic Rate of Return
FCGs             Field Canal Groups
GOSL             Government of Sri Lanka
HAO&M            Headworks, Administration, Operation and Maintenance
HRD              Human Resource Development
IDA              International Development Association
IDOs             Institutional Development Officers
IIMI             International Irrigation Management Institute
IOVs             Institutional Organizer Volunteers
LDD              Livestock Development Division
MAC              Mahaweli Architectural Company
MECA             Mahaweli Engineering and Construction Agency
MLE              Mahaweli Livestock Enterprises
MMD              Ministry of Mahaweli Development
MOUs             Memoranda of Understanding
NIRP             National Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
NCB              National Competitive Bidding
NGO              Non-Governmental Organization
NWRC             National Water Resources Council
OECF             Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
O&M              Operation and Maintenance
PD               Project Director
PERC             Public Enterprise Reform Commission
PIM              Participatory Irrigation Management
PIP              Project Implementation Plan
PIU              Project Implementation Unit
PSC              Project Steering Committee
RDA              Road Development Authority
SABUs            Stand Alone Business Units
SDB              Standard Bidding Documents
SOE              Statement of Expenses
TVA              Tennessee Valley Authority
USAID            United States Agency for International Development
VESP             Voluntary Early Separation Package
Vice President: Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director: Roberto Bentjerodt
Sector Managers: Ridwan Ali/Michael Baxter
Task Leader: Douglas W. Lister



-111-
SRI LANKA
MAHAWELI RESTRUCTURING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
PROJECT DATA SHEET ..................................................................1
A. Project Development Objective ..................................................................2
1.  Project development objective and key performance indicators .................................2
B. Strategic Context ..................................................................2
1.  Sector-related CAS  goal supported by the project ......................................................2
2. Main  sector issues and Government strategy ..............................................................2
3.  Sector issues to be addressed  by the project and  strategic choices ..............................3
C. Project Description Summary ..................................................................3
1. Project components ...........................................................3
2. Key policy  and institutional reforms supported by the project ...................................3
3.  Benefits and target population ...........................................................4
4. Institutional and  implementation  arrangements ..........................................................4
D. Project Rationale ..................................................................7
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ............................................7
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ......7
3. Lessons learned and reflected  in proposed project design ...........................................8
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ..................................................8
5. Value added  of Bank support in this project ...............................................................8
E. Summary Project Analyses .................................................................9
1. Economic ...........................................................9
2. Financial ...........................................................9
3. Technical ..........................................................                                                            11
4. Institutional ......................................1.................... I 
5. Social ..........................................................                                                              12
6. Environmental assessment ........................................................... 13
7. Participatory  approach ..........................................................                                             13
F. Sustainability and Risks ............................                                                                                       13
1. Sustainability ......................                                                                                          13
2. Critical risks ......................                                                                                          14
3. Possible controversial aspects ......................                                                                          14



-iv-
(Continuation of Table of Contents)                                     Page No.
G. Main Credit Conditions ........................                                 15
1. Effectiveness conditions ..................                             15
2. Other ..................                                                15
H. Readiness for Implementation ........................                           16
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                         16
Annexes
Annex 1.  Project Design Summary .17
Annex 2.   Detailed Project Description .19
Annex 3.  Estimated Project Costs .27
Annex 4.      Project Economic and Financial Analysis .28
Annex 5.  Financial Summary .31
Annex 6.      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .32
Table A.      Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .34
Table B.      Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review .35
Table C.   Allocation of Loan Proceeds .36
Annex 7.      Project Processing Budget and Schedule .37
Annex 8.  Documents in Project File .38
Annex 9.   Statement of Loans and Credits .39
Annex 10.  Country at a Glance .41
Map
IBRD 2555IR Sri Lanka - Mahaweli Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project
IBRD 28881   Sri Lanka - Mahaweli System H



Sri Lanka
Mahaweli Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Region
Date: February 23, 1998                            Task Leader: Douglas W. Lister
Country Manager/Director: Roberto Bentjerodt       Sector Managers: Ridwan Ali/Michael Baxter
Project ID: LK-PA-34212  Sector: Rural Development    Program Objective Category: EN
Lending Instrument: SIL                            Program of Targeted Intervention: []Yes [ x] No
Project Financing Data              [  Loan      [x ] Credit     [] Guarantee      [] Other [Specify]
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US57.0m/SDR$41.7m
Proposed terms:                       [ ]  Multicurrency    [   Single currency, specify
Graceperiod(years): Standard(10)  []  Standard Variable  [   Fixed        []    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40 years
Commitment fee: Standard (a variable rate between 0 and 0.5% of the undisbursed Credit balance annually,
set by the Executive Directors of IDA)
Service charge: Standard
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                            Local             Foreign          Total
Government                                              14.2               0.0             14.2
Farmers Organizations                                    3.0               0.0              3.0
IDA                                                     45.2              11.8             57.0
Total                                                   62.4              11.8             74.2
Borrower: Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka (GOSL)
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency(ies): Mahaweli Authority of Sri Lanka (MASL)
Estimated disbursements (IDA             FY99      FY00       FY01    FY02   FY03
FY/US$M):
Annual    25.4        5.4        8.4      9.2    8.6
Cumulative    25.4       30.8       39.2     48.4   57.0
Project implementation period: 5 years Expected effectiveness date: July 1, 1998    Closing Date: Dec.31, 2003
OSD PAD Form: July 30, 1997



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
*  The primary objective of the project is to shift the focus of the Mahaweli Authority of Sri Lanka (MASL) from
project implementation to river basin management, thereby ensuring that the natural resources in the Mahaweli
River basin/watershed are managed more efficiently, productively and sustainably. This would be accomplished
through institutional restructuring and reengineering of MASL, including mobilizing the resources of:
(a) distributory canal farmers' organizations (DCFOs) in the operation and maintenance (O&M) of the tertiary
irrigation facilities; (b) the private sector in the management of commercial activities; and (c) line agencies in the
O&M of MASL-constructed infrastructure. A secondary objective is to improve agricultural productivity
through rehabilitation, improvement and better O&M of the irrigation facilities in System H.
*  Achievement of the primary objective would be evaluated based on the reduced claim of MASL on the
Government budget. Achievement of the secondary objective would be assessed on the basis of the irrigated
crop area harvested per unit of irrigation water in System H in any given crop season. Progress towards
achieving these objectives would be measured based on the monitorable indicators as shown in Annex 1.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: Report No.15633-CE    Date of latest CAS discussion: June 13, 1996
*  Improve fiscal discipline by reducing the heavy burden of MASL on the budget (20% in 1996, of Ministry of
Irrigation, Power and Energy and Ministry of Agriculture, Lands and Forestry expenditures).
*  Promote private sector led, environmentally sustainable development by mobilizing the resources of DCFOs and
the private sector within an environmentally friendly regulatory environment.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
* Lack of fiscal discipline has been the main failure of Sri Lanka's economic management and the root of many
of its economic problems. In 1995, the overall fiscal deficit (excluding grants and privatization proceeds)
overshot the budget target and exceeded 10% of GDP. Prompted in part by budget pressures, the Government
resumed its privatization program in March 1995 with the establishment of the high-level Public Enterprise
Reform Commission (PERC). It also imposed a 10% cut on expenditures (except for foreign-aided capital
investments) and increased transport fares, petroleum product prices, and excise taxes on alcohol and tobacco.
The Government's inability to restrain current expenditures became more apparent in the 1996 budget, which
envisaged an overall fiscal deficit of 9.5% of GDP (excluding grants and privatization proceeds). See: "Sri
Lanka: Recent Economic Developments and Prospects" (Report No. CG96-61, dated October 28, 1996),
and the upcoming "Economic Update for May 1998 Aid Group Meeting".
* Sri Lanka's agricultural policies have been characterized by a strong pro-irrigated agriculture bias, driven
largely by the objective of rice self-sufficiency. Plantation crops (tea, rubber and coconut), which are mostly
exported, receive very little protection, while close to 5% of GDP goes to supporting often non-competitive rice
production. One of the main instruments for delivering this protection is massive unrecovered irrigation costs,
estimated at US$250 million or 3% of GDP annually (the other being high-than-world prices paid by consumers
for rice, estimated at another US$125 million or 2% of GDP annually). The main beneficiary of these irrigation
subsidies is production from large-scale irrigation schemes like Mahaweli which have no cost recovery. By
contrast, production based on minor irrigation benefits less, and rainfed agriculture not at all. The Government's
strategy for reducing the pro-irrigated agriculture bias is to turn over responsibility for the O&M of the large-
scale schemes to DCFOs, following the example of the minor irrigation schemes being rehabilitated under the
ongoing IDA-financed National Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, NIRP (Cr. 2260-CE). See: "Sri Lanka -
Nonplantation Crop Sector Policy Alternatives" (Report No. 14564-CE, dated March 20, 1996).



Page 3
* Lack of local involvement in natural resource management and protection, to carry out environmental
policies formulated by the Ministry of Environment and Forestry with enforcement from the Central
Environmental Authority (CEA). The Government's strategy is to promote involvement of area development
authorities like MASL, Provincial Councils and Divisional Secretariats as well as to strengthen natural resource
management capacities of the line ministries (project approving agencies). See: Sri Lanka - Environmental
Action 1 Project (Report No. 15261-CE, dated February 24, 1997).
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
*   Heavy budgetary burden of overextended and overstaffed MASL performing services which could be provided
more efficiently, productively and sustainably by DCFOs (O&M of the tertiary irrigation facilities), the private
sector (e.g., civil engineering design, architectural services, manufacture of dairy products) or other government
agencies (e.g. O&M of roads, schools, health clinics, post offices, police stations, etc.). If implemented
successfully, the project would create precedents and have favorable implications for broader civil service
reform.
*  Need to improve efficiency and cost effectiveness of government agencies providing services to agriculture.
*  Need to reduce subsidies to large-scale irrigation by promoting DCFOs to take over O&M of the tertiary
irrigation facilities.
*  Need for improved natural resources management in the ecologically fragile Mahaweli River basin.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description andAnnex 3for a detailed cost breakdown):
Component                          Category                Cost Incl.        % of Total
Contingencies (US$M)
*  Institutional                                                              29.5            40
Restructuring/Reengineering           Policy/Institution-Building          25.3           34
MASL Rightsizing & Staff
Retraining/Redeployment
(of which Voluntary Early
Separation Package and                                                (24.0)        (32)
Staff Retraining (VESP))          Policy/Institution-Building          (1.3)          (2)
Promoting Farmer Sustainability        Policy/Institution-Building          1.2            2
Privatizing Business Units             Policy/Institution-Building          0.4             1
Handing Over Infrastructure to Line                                         0.0            0
Agencies
Strengthening Natural Resource Mang.    Policy/Institution-Building         2.6            3
*  Irrigation Rehabilitation and          Physical                            44.7            60
Improvement in System H
Total                                       74.2          100
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project.:
The project would support public sector rationalization by "rightsizing", retraining and redeploying of
staff to enable MASL perform its new role of river basin management efficiently. It will also support
privatization/commercialization of MECA and LDD.



Page 4
* At the heart of the institutional restructuring program is also the transfer of O&M responsibilities to the
farners through participatory irrigation management. During the project period, the O&M responsibilities
for D&F canals will be transferred to the DCFOs.
3. Benefits and target population:
*  A more efficient, productive and sustainable MASL, delivering greater development impact at less cost to the
Government budget and to the environment, as a result of MASL rightsizing and staff retraining/redeployment,
transferring responsibility for O&M of the D and F canals to DCFOs, commercializing/privatizing business
units, handing over infrastructure to national and local line agencies and strengthening natural resource
managemnent capacity.
*  Increased agricultural production in System H, following rehabilitation and improvement of irrigation
facilities serving 31,500 ha. Total crop production in System H is expected to increase by about 17% (from
191,370 tons to 223,170 tons) by the end of the project. Since most of this increase would be in higher value
dry season (Yala) crops such as chilies, onions and potatoes, as opposed to lower value rice, the 30,200 farm
families in the project area would see their incomes rise by about 30%. Rehabilitation and improvement of
the irrigation facilities would provide additional benefits to local communities in the project area through
increased economic activity.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Executing agencies: Ministry of Mahaweli Development (MMD) and Mahaweli Authority of Sri Lanka (MASL)
Project Oversight:
* An International Panel of Experts, based on their experience in other countries, would provide advice and
international expertise to the Project Steering Committee on river basin management,
commercialization/privatization and institutional strengthening in support of DCFOs turnover program. The
Panel of Experts would be an adhoc body and would include representatives of river basin agencies in other
countries. The Panel would be called upon for advice as and when required, but at least once a year.
Assurances were obtained that GOSL/MASL would set up the Panel by September 30, 1998.
*  A local High Level Project Steering Committee (PSC) has been established to provide overall policy guidance
and monitor the project progress on a quarterly basis. The Project Steering Committee would be chaired by the
Secretary, Ministry of Mahaweli Development (MMD) and would consist of the Director General, MASL; the
Secretary General, MASL; Project Coordinator, Project Implementation Unit (PIU); Project Director,
Rehabilitation Component; Director, PMU; and a representative from the Ministry of Finance and Planning. In
addition, the other Heads of MASL agencies and representatives of relevant ministries would be called upon to
attend PSC meetings as and when required. The High-Level Project Steering Committee, with membership
satisfactory to IDA, was established as a condition of Board presentation, and assurances were obtained that it
will be maintained thereafter.
*  Besides the PSC, a Mahaweli River Basin Management Committee would be established to oversee MASL's
mission transformation from project implementation to river basin management. The Committee would consist
of Secretary, MMD; Director General, MASL; the Secretary, Irrigation and Power; Secretary, Agriculture and
Lands; Secretary, Forestry and Environment; representatives from the Ministry of Provincial Councils,
Department of National Planning, National Water Resources Council and Local Government, and the
International Irrigation Management Institute (IIMI). Assurances were obtained that the Committee would be
established by September 30, 1998. In addition, the international consultants would be hired periodically to
advise and manage the restructuring/change process, and help MASL take corrective measures.



Page 5
Project Coordination and Implementation:
A Project Implementation Unit (PIU), headed by the Director General (DG), MASL, would carry out the day-
to-day administration and would be the main contact for IDA. The PIU would consist of two units: one at
Headquarters and other unit in System H for the rehabilitation component. The PIU at Headquarters would
consist of a Project Coordinator (PC) to carry out and consolidate day-to-day overall project activities
including preparation of annual work/implementation plans, consolidation of quarterly project reports and
financial accounts, and monitoring of the project progress in accordance with the timebound action plan
presented in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). The PC, in consultation with the DG, would also be
responsible for assigning the project tasks to all project staff including the advisers and consultants. The
project would help the PC to set up a computerized data base covering all project activities including physical
progress, employee statistics and skill inventory before and after VESP implementation as well as financial
management. In addition, the Headquarters PIU would consist of three advisers - for strengthening of DCFOs,
commercialization and river basin management -to provide leadership and advice on these project components
as well as a Procurement Specialist, a Financial Controller, an officer for the transfer of infrastructure to line
agencies and other key implementation staff. The Field Unit would be headed by a Project Director who would
also be the Resident Project Manager of System H. The Project Director would be responsible for the
implementation of the physical rehabilitation component with intensive participation of DCFOs and would
work closely with the Institutional Development Advisor and the concerned staff. Both units, with staffing
satisfactory to IDA, were established as a condition of Board presentation, and assurances were obtained that
they will be maintained thereafter.
Implementation Arrangements by Component:
- The Headquarters-based sub-unit, headed by a PC, for the institutional restructuring/reengineering
component would be responsible for: (a) implementation of VESP; (b) privatization of business activities;
(c) strengthening of DCFOs; (d) handing over infrastructure; and (e) strengthening natural resource
management. Given the urgency of implementing VESP within a short time frame and volume of
disbursements involved, the DG has designated a Special Officer and necessary staff for the implementation
and monitoring of VESP. Their appointments would be only for the duration of VESP implementation.
- The field-based sub-unit, headed by a PD, for the irrigation rehabilitation and improvement component
would be based in System H. The PD would be assisted by a Project Accountant and a small core staff in
addition to engineering staff of the Mahaweli Engineering and Construction Agency (MECA) and Headworks
Administration, Operation and Maintenance (HAO&M) Division. The DG would appoint a Senior Engineer
attached to PIU to function as the link between DG and the PD. The details of these implementation
arrangements are provided in Annex 2.
Project Monitoring and Supervision
* PSC would be responsible for overall monitoring of the project. It would meet quarterly to review the overall
progress of the project, and discuss major policy issues relating to restructuring, privatization, staffing, project
finance and other project related matters.
* PIU would have direct responsibility for monitoring and evaluation of project activities and preparing Quarterly
Progress Reports to be submitted to IDA not later than January 31, April 30, July 31 and October 31 of each
year for the preceding three months. Assurances were obtained that the PIU would prepare annual action
plans, satisfactory to IDA, and implement the project in accordance with the plans. Key development objective
indicators are presented in Annex 1. Progress against these would be monitored as an integral part of the
project implementation.



Page 6
*  In addition to quarterly monitoring of project activities by PIU, an external entity would be contracted to carry
out more in-depth and qualitative monitoring and evaluation of the DCFOs' institutional strengthening and
turn-over program and feed that information to PSC for appropriate actions/corrective measures. A local NGO
would also be contracted to facilitate participatory planning and design of rehabilitation of civil works and train
MASL staff to sustain the process in the future.
*  A separate committee consisting of representatives of the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Labor, Ministry of
Public Administration, and trade unions would be established to monitor the separation of staff and the
restructuring process, and ensure that no new staff are recruited without prior IDA approval. The committee
would meet quarterly. The first review would be held no later than July 15, 1998.
*  Each year, IDA would conduct at least two supervision missions, and the first mission would correspond with a
project launching workshop. An Implementation Completion Report (ICR) would be prepared at least six-
months prior to the Closing Date, and would focus on the achievements of the project and its impact in relation
to its objectives as reflected by the key indicators presented in Annex 1.
*  Two mid-term reviews would be carried out by December 31, 1999 and December 31, 2001, where GOSL
would review the implementation of the project with IDA and other donors on the basis of supervision and
progress reports, and promptly thereafter take all actions required as a result of the review. The review would
focus on the key indicators presented in Annex 1. Assurances were obtained that two project mid-term
reviews would be carried out by December 31, 1999 and December 31, 2001, where GOSL would review the
implementation of the project with IDA and other donors on the basis of monitoring and evaluation reports
submitted by November 30, 1999 and November 30, 2001, respectively, and promptly thereafter take all
actions required as a result of the review.
Accounting, Financial Management and Auditing Arrangements:
-  MASL has put in place a Financial Controller, who is a qualified professional accountant, assisted by senior
accountants and necessary staff in PIU and the two sub-units to carry out the accounting and financial
management of the project. The Financial Controller would be responsible for submission of all accounts
according to the agreed accounting standards and would provide sufficient financial information for managing
and monitoring project activities. Assurances were obtained that PIU would submit quarterly progress reports
to IDA as well as audited annual accounts, including a separate opinion on expenditures financed under SOEs,
no later than six months after the close of the fiscal year.
*  Project financial statements would be audited annually in accordance with standards on auditing acceptable to
IDA by an independent auditor. Assurances were obtained that the audit report would be submitted to IDA no
later that six months after the close of the fiscal year. Assurances were also obtained that AL4SL wouldfinalize
terms of reference and appoint an independent private auditor, acceptable to IDA, by project effectiveness.
Disbursements and Retroactive Financing:
*  Disbursements are projected over a period of five years from FYI999 to FY2003. Annex 6 provides the details
of Credit proceeds. To facilitate project implementation, a Special Account in US dollars would be opened
with the Central Bank with an authorized allocation of US$ 1.0 million. GOSL has requested retroactive
financing to help cover expenditures incurred toward the payment of the VESP to MASL staff between
November 1, 1997 and the date of Credit signing in April/May 1998. A retroactive financing of US$5.7
million (SDR 4.17 million) has been provided for this purpose.



Page 7
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
As originally proposed by the Govemment, the project consisted only of rehabilitation of irrigation facilities.
This was considered inadequate, since it did not address the urgent need to reform MASL as an institution,
reduce its burden on the budget and upgrade the irrigation facilities.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and
planned):
Sector issue                          Project                      Latest Supervision
(Form 590) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank/IDA-financed
*  Mahaweli Development Program     Mahaweli Ganga Development (US$29.0    Satisfactory
(Stage I)                      million IDA Credit, 1970)
*  Accelerated Mahaweli Development Mahaweli Ganga Development II          Satisfactory
Program (Irrigation and social  (US$19.0 million IDA Credit, 1977, with
infrastructure on 60% of the 29,000  cofinancing from Canada,
ha, for which water was provided    Netherlands, UK, USA and EEC)
from Stage 1)
*  Excess Water from Mahaweli      Mahaweli Ganga Technical Assistance    Satisfactory
Ganga                           (US$3.0 million IDA Credit, 1980)
*  Accelerated Mahaweli Development Mahaweli Ganga Development III       Unsatisfactory
Program (System C, Zones 3-6)   (US$90.0 million IDA Credit, 1981)
*  Accelerated Mahaweli Development Mahaweli Ganga Development IV        Unsatisfactory
Program System B, Zones 6-8)    (US$12.1 million Bank Loan and
US$30.0 million IDA Credit, 1984, both
canceled in 1990 for security reasons)
*  Irrigation rehabilitaion         Tank Rehabilitation and Modemization  Satisfactory
(US$5.0 million IDA Credit, 1976)
*  Small scale irrigation           Village Irrigation Rehabilitation Project  Satisfactory
(US$30.0 million IDA Credit, 1981)
*  Major irrigation                Major Irrigation rehabilitation Project  Satisfactory
(US$17.0 million IDA Credit, 1984)
*  Rehabilitation of minor irrigation    National Irrigation Rehabilitation  Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory
facilities                     (US$29.6 million IDA Credit with
cofinancing from EC, 1991)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



Page 8
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The Bank/IDA has been supporting irrigation development in Sri Lanka for almost three decades. So far nine
credits/loans, totaling US$264.7 million have been approved. Five important lessons of relevance for the
proposed project have emerged from these projects:
* With a plethoric staff and no capital or recurrent cost recovery, MASL is not sustainable -- The project
addresses this issue by rightsizing MASL and divesting some of its functions to the private sector and other
government agencies.
* DCFOs should take more responsibility for the O&M of downstream facilities -- This is a major component of
the proposed project.
*  Privatization of commercial activities now performed by the Mahaweli Authority is important for generating
incentives for farmers to invest in productivity-increasing technology -- Already the Mahaweli Livestock
Enterprises (MLE) which manufactures dairy products has been privatized. The proposed project would support
privatization of the Mahaweli Engineering and Construction Agency (MECA) as well as commercial parts of the
Livestock Development Division (LDD) and possibly partial or full privatization of other suitable units.
* Irrigation works should be planned realistically -- Project irrigation rehabilitation and improvement works have
been carefully phased over 5 years, consistent with the implementation experience of the ongoing NIRP and
other irrigation rehabilitation projects in Sri Lanka.
* Environmental issues in the Mahaweli River Basin need to be addressed holistically --This is a key feature of the
proposed project.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
* Before appraisal, GOSL sought the assistance of the U.S. Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) to prepare a
restructuring/reengineering plan for MASL. Prior to negotiations, MASL had TVA carry out a workforce
analysis of MASL's staff and design a voluntary early separation package (VESP) targeted at those job
categories which were found to contain excess staff.
* Before negotiations, MASL engaged in an extensive process of participatory design of the irrigation
rehabilitation and improvement works with DCFOs, and submitted a detailed implementation plan (DIP), sample
bidding documents for civil works for the first two years, a human resource development (HRD) plan, and draft
TORs for refocussing MASL on river basin management.
* The Ministry of Finance has indicated its intention to support the project with about a 20% contribution which is
double the minimum 10% Government contribution required for IDA-financed projects in Sri Lanka.
* The Cabinet has approved MASL's restructuring/reorganization plan.
* As a condition of Board presentation, GOSL offered VESP to MASL staff and determined the number of staff to
be separated.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
* IDA leadership has triggered a shift away from the state-dominated approach to development that
characterized past Mahaweli projects supported by the donor community, and paved the way for a new era of



Page 9
private sector led, environmentally sustainable development and natural resource management in the
Mahaweli River Basin. Despite strong support from the central Finance and Planning Ministries, MASL was
initially reluctant to move in this direction. For over two and a half years (October 1992 when the first IDA
mission visited the country until mid- 1995), it engaged in protracted studies of the restructuring options,
putting off any real decisions. All this changed, however, with the arrival of the new government in the
spring of 1995. They appointed new more dynamic leadership at MASL who, in turn, sought the assistance of
TVA, on which MASL had been modeled and which itself had been thoroughly restructured, in the design of a
suitable restructuring program. IDA financed TVA's work under an ongoing project. The deepening fiscal
crisis of 1995-96 lended urgency to this task, and in March 1996, MASL submitted an acceptable overall
restructuring action plan. Further IDA-financed assistance from TVA in 1996/97 enabled MASL to prepare
detailed restructuring options. MASL is now eager to push ahead with the restructuring/reengineering
program, beginning with the implementation of the VESP for excess MASL staff, estimated at about 57% of
the total. Though initiated by IDA, this change in approach would not have been possible without the strong
support of the leading Mahaweli donor, the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) of Japan, as well as
that of the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and the European Union (EU).
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[]Cost-Benefit Analysis: ERR= 14% [ x] Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
The overall economic rate of return of the proposed project is estimated at 14%. The underlying
assumptions and treatment of key variables in the derivation of the ERR are provided in Annex 4. The ERR
is based on incremental irrigation costs and benefits only, excluding the costs and benefits of the
restructuring/reengineering component, which cannot be accurately estimated. The ERR is therefore likely
to be conservative.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
Fiscal impact:
*  The proposed project would make MASL more financially sustainable and have a positive impact on both
MASL's and GOSL's budget. The various components of restructuring/reengineering MASL, including
staff reductions, transferring O&M responsibility for the D and F canals to the DCFOs, privatization of
business units and handing over infrastructure to line agencies, are all critical for MASL's sustainability and
would all result in savings in MASL's recurrent budget.
*  Savings in MASL's recurrent budget would come immediately from the reduction in MASL's wage bill as a
result of the net overall reduction in staff. The staff reduction alone would reduce the recurrent budget
roughly by Rs 374 million (US$6.2 million) annually after payment of the VESP, and Rs 743.6 million
(US$11.5 million) annually after the project period. As a condition of Board presentation, the VESP was
offered to selected categories of MASL staff found to be in excess as a result of the TVA workforce study,
and a determination was made that 57% of staff should be separated. Assurances were obtained that
MASL would ensure that the separation of staff accepting the VESP is completed by August 31, 1998, and
that MASL would refrain from new recruitment of staff in those categories targeted by the VESP and
introduce safeguards to prevent a recurrence of excessive staff.
*  Further budgetary savings, estimated at Rs 288.4 million (US$4.9 million) for the first four years, and
Rs. 1 1 1.0 million (US$ 1.9 million) per year starting the fifth project year, would come from transferring the
O&M responsibility for the D and F canals to DCFOs. Farmers would also contribute to the capital cost of
irrigation rehabilitation and improvement works of the D&F canal system, mainly in the form of labor. The



Page 10
financial implications of 10% and 20% cost recovery were analyzed. Based on preliminary estimates of the
cost of irrigation rehabilitation and improvement and present farm income, a 20% capital recovery
represented about 40% of annual net farm income (inclusive of family labor). Since the project will also
transfer O&M costs of D&F canals to farmers, a 20% cost recovery would be too high and might threaten
the financial viability of the new DCFOs. The project therefore would require farmers to contribute a
minimum of 10% to the capital cost recovery of tertiary works, representing about 20% of annual net farm
income. However, GOSL would have to ensure that adequate funds are provided for O&M of the main and
branch canals. Assurances were obtained from MASL that the maximum period of Joint Management would
be two years during which time MASL agrees to provide technical and financial training to DCFOs. Further
assurances were obtained that upon turnover of D&F canals to DCFOs, DCFOs would assume full financial
and technical responsibility for their O&M. Agreement was also reached that the O&M responsibility for
specific numbers of D&F canals would be tentatively turned over each year to DCFOs as follows: by June
30, 1999, turn over O&M of D&F canals to 283 DCFOs, by June 30, 2000, turn over O&M of D&F canals
to another 135 DCFOs; by June 30, 2001, turn over O&M of D&F canals to additional 140 DCFOs; by June
30, 2002, turn over O&M of D&F canals to a further of 121 DCFOs; and by June 30, 2003, turn over O&M
of remaining D&F canals to 78 DCFOs. A review would be undertaken to finalize the above schedule for the
transfer of O&M responsibility to DCFOs. Based on that review, MASL in consultation with IDA, would
adjust the above targets to be achieved during the project period. It was agreed during negotiations that the
above review would be completed by July 31, 1998. Finally, assurances were obtained that farmers would
make a minimum 10% contribution to the capital cost of irrigation rehabilitation and improvement of tertiary
works, that GOSL would provide adequate funds for O&M of the main and branch canals and that MASL
would ensure that the principles and processes for promoting farmer sustainability are applied uniformly in
all Mahaweli systems.
* An additional amount of approximately Rs 194.7 million (US$3.3 million) would be saved annually starting in
project year four as a result of the privatization of MECA and the Livestock Development Division (LDD).
MECA has been split into two stand alone business units (SABUs), Mahaweli Architectural Consultants (Pvt.)
Ltd. and Mahaweli Consultancy Bureau (Pvt.) Ltd., and the commercially viable parts of LDD would be
absorbed by the Mahaweli Livestock Enterprise Co. Pvt. Ltd.. During an initial three year incubation period,
each unit would have a gradually increasing target for revenue generation as a share of its costs (40% in the first
year, 70% in the second year and 100% in the third year) intended to allow them to mature into viable
commercial enterprises. MASL would scale down its financial support proportionately. Financial projections
show that these three business units have good prospects for survival under reasonable assumptions, following
the successful precedent of the privatization of the Central Engineering Consultancy Bureau (CECB). At the
end of the three-year incubation period, the successful business units would be incorporated and the
unsuccessful ones, liquidated. Assurances were obtained that the SABUs would have a gradually increasing
target of revenue generation as a share of costs, satisfactory to IDA, for the incubation period of three years.
Assurances were also obtained that SABUs would submit annual accounts, audited by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA, and would be liquidated if not proven viable by December 31, 2001.
* Finally, the handing over of infrastructure to line agencies would generate further savings for MASL. An
assurance was obtained that GOSL would: (i) by December 15, 1998, through the Ministry of Mahaweli
Development, initiate a dialogue with the relevant agencies, estimate the costs of repair of the infrastructure,
and submit the complete list of all MASL constructed infrastructure to be handed over, broken down by
System, including the line agency to which they are to be handed over and the funds needed to
repair/rehabilitate and operate and maintain them; (ii) make adequate provision in its 1999-2003 budgets for
this purpose; and (iii) ensure that the infrastructure is effectively handed over according to a time schedule
satisfactory to IDA.



Page 11
Overall, the project would reduce MASL expenditures by Rs 570 million or $9.5 million (about 50% of
MASL current 1998 budget estimates) on an average annual basis during the five year project. The savings
would be much higher after the project period and would average approximately Rs 1,049 million or $16.8
million (about 70% of 1998 budget estimate) on an annual basis. This, in turn, would make a positive
impact on GOSL's overall budget deficit and would reduce the deficit of Rs.69.8 billion (US$1.2 billion) in
1997 to Rs 68.8 billion in 2003, i.e. by about 1.5%. Only the staff reductions would involve substantial
budgetary costs, for VESP, but these would be one-time expenditures producing a stream of annual cost
savings.
3. Technical:
*  The proposed rehabilitation and improvement works are sound technically. Works similar to those proposed
under this project have been carried out elsewhere in the country, notably under the Tank Rehabilitation and
Modernization Project, Village Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, Major Irrigation Rehabilitation Project and
the ongoing National Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (NIRP).
*  Timely preparation of designs and prompt selection of contractors and consultants, including direct
contracting with farmers organizations, would be key to success.
*  In addition to participation at the design stage, the participation of farmers in the implementation of the
irrigation rehabilitation and improvement works is essential for them to acquire the sense of ownership
necessary for them to take over the O&M responsibility. This has already been introduced by the Irrigation
Department under the ongoing NIRP where a turnover agreement is a prerequisite for commencement of
works, and farmers are participating in construction as contractors and contributing to cost recovery as
well.
-  The proposed works would involve a large number of small scale, widely scattered civil works contracts
within the System H area, awarded to farmers and local contractors. For these kinds of works, effective
progress monitoring, prompt contract management and timely and adequate construction quality control are
indispensable. MASL is committed to maintaining a Project Implementation Unit (PIU), headed by a
Project Director and assisted by support staff, a computerized monitoring system and a well equipped quality
control unit/laboratory in System H, to ensure that these conditions are met.
-  In order to permit an immediate start of the project after credit effectiveness, MASL submitted, prior to
negotiations, a detailed implementation plan (DIP) and sample bidding documents for the first two years'
civil works.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
*  MASL is well equipped with experienced technical staff who have undertaken large construction works as
part of the Accelerated Mahaweli Development Program. The survey, design and engineering work
involved in the rehabilitation and improvement of System H would benefit from this group of engineers,
technical officers and draughtsmen.
*  In the field of participatory irrigation management, the Mahaweli areas are advanced, compared to other
irrigated areas in Sri Lanka. The Institutional Development Unit of MASL has a core of over 40
experienced Institutional Development Officers (IDOs) assisted by 270 Institutional Organizer Volunteers
(IOVs) whose function is to enlist the participation of DCFOs in decision making, coordination and
management and the O&M of the D and F canals. The Unit also benefits from the Central Training Unit
of MASL which plans to expand its facilities to provide training to staff and farmers.



Page 12
b. Project management:
* In addition to the International Panel of Experts which would provide advice and international expertise
based on the experiences of other countries, project implementation would be guided by a local High-level
Project Steering Committee chaired by the Secretary, MMD, and made up of the Director General, MASL;
the Secretary General, MASL; Project Coordinator, PIU; Project Director, Rehabilitation Component;
Director, PMU; and a representative from the Ministry of Finance and Planning. In addition, the other
Heads of MASL agencies and representatives of relevant ministries would be called upon to attend PSC
meetings as and when required. This Committee would meet quarterly to review the overall progress of the
project, and discuss major policy issues relating to restructuring, privatization, staffing, project finance and
other project related matters. The Steering Committee would also be responsible for approving the award of
the technical assistance contracts for restructuring of MASL. The PSC, with membership satisfactory to
IDA, has been established as a condition of Board presentation.
* Day-to-day project management dealing with matters of finance, procurement of goods and services,
disbursement and monitoring of project activities would be undertaken by a specially created PIU. The PIU,
with staffing satisfactory to IDA, has been established as a condition of Board presentation.
5. Social:
* In the long-run, the sustainability of the project will depend on the DCFOs. Since 1992, MASL has
followed a policy of encouraging and developing participatory irrigation management (PIM) in all areas
under its authority. In fact, MASL's program in PIM is ahead of that of other related irrigation agencies in
Sri Lanka, including the Ministry of Irrigation which is responsible for the ongoing NIRP.
* In the project area, DCFOs have been formed at the level of D and F canals. Already System H has in place
over 2,500 Field Canal Groups (FCGs) which were set up with the assistance of Institutional Development
Officers (IDOs) and Institutional Organizer Volunteers (IOVs). Planning and design of the rehabilitation
and improvement works was done through these informal groups, over 230 of which have already been
formed in System H. On completion of rehabilitation, there would be joint management of the O&M of the
rehabilitated canal system by DCFOs and MASL. On completion of the period of joint management, the
O&M of the D and F canal system (tertiary) would be handed over to the DCFOs.
* MASL has also been setting up System Coordinating Committees, Block Coordinating Committees and the
Project Coordinating Committees. Thirty five Block Committees have already been set up in all Systems,
out of which nine are in System H. In addition, there are four project committees. These federated
coordination committees not only provide fora for irrigation management, but also cater to all aspects of
agricultural and social development, including input supply and income generation activities. These
committees principally deal with problems of water distribution, canal O&M issues and improvement works.
MASL is encouraging PIM as these committees are expected in the longer-term to take over the O&M of the
branch and main canals as well.
* The project would involve farmers in PIM through training, having DCFOs enter into legal agreements
clearly defining their rights and responsibilities and involving farmers in all aspects of the project.
* NGOs would play an important role in training DCFOs as well as the project staff in the participatory
management. In supporting the rehabilitation of System H, the project would provide the institutional
framework for direct farmer participation in the planning, design, construction and the O&M of the D and F
canals of System H through a participatory management process with direct farmer involvement at all stages.
To strengthen DCFOs, the project proposes to use the existing cadre of social organizers (IDOs and IOVs) to



Page 13
act as catalysts and help farners to organize. The project provides for training, equipment, vehicles and
technical assistance through NGOs. A local NGO/NGOs would be contracted during the first twenty-four to
thirty months of the project to facilitate participatory planning and design of the rehabilitation component and
train MASL staff to sustain the process in the future.
6 Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category       []A  [x] B []C
*  As essentially an institutional reform/irrigation rehabilitation and improvement operation, the project has been
classified in the "B" category. Nevertheless, an EA was carried out to evaluate the extent to which existing
programs were addressing environmental problems in the Mahaweli basin and to design measures to improve
overall environmental management and monitoring in the Mahaweli areas. The EA study provided the basis
for the design of the natural resource management component of the project.
*  This component would support the consolidation of environmental management and monitoring
responsibilities, which are currently spread out over different units of MASL, through technical support to
advise on institutional changes required to perform the proposed functions of the future river basin
management agency. This component would also support the testing and adoption of new technologies and
approaches to manage and maintain the land and water resources in the Mahaweli basin. Assurances were
obtained that GOSL would: by June 30, 2000, submit the proposal for refocussing MASL on river basin
management; by December 31, 2000, discuss the proposal with IDA; and by June 30, 2001, complete the
refocussing of MASL taking into account any comments made by IDA and any recommendations made by the
Panel of Experts.
7. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
- The primary beneficiaries are the farmers who are organized into FCGs and DCFOs. These groups were
consulted during the preparation and they participated actively in the planning and design of the
rehabilitation and improvement works. NGOs also play an important role in training these farmer groups as
well as staff of MASL. The project would heavily involve farmer groups and to this end MASL would work
closely with local NGOs in implementation. The aim of MASL's institutional restructuring is to institute a
process whereby the O&M responsibility is finally transferred to these fanner groups. Therefore in all
aspects the project would adopt a more collaborative approach with clients and stakeholders than in the past.
b. Other key stakeholders:
* In addition to FCGs, DCFOs and NGOs, MASL as well as the local government institutions are directly
involved in the planning and implementation of the project activities.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
* By rightsizing MASL, handing over responsibility for O&M of the D and F canals to DCFOs, privatizing
business units and transferring MASL-constructed infrastructure to national and local line agencies, the
project is inherently designed to ensure the sustainability of MASL in the remaining areas where
Government still has an important role to play, i.e., promotion of DCFOs and associations thereof to
progressively take over O&M of more of the system, upstream water management and environmental
protection in the Mahaweli River basin.



Page 14
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                     Risk                 Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to
Objective"
Continued GOSL/MASL commitment to          M       Trade unions have been consulted so as to reach a
institutional restructuring/ reengineering         consensus on the restructuring/reengineering
program. A voluntary early separation package has
been designed to deal fairly with excess staff.
GOSL has agreed to finance 20% of the cost of this
program.
Continued interest by DCFOs in             M       DCFOs have already taken over the O&M
participating in the design and                    responsibility for 109 field canals and are jointly
implementation of the irrigation                   managing 502 field canals. MASL and farmers
rehabilitation and improvement works               have experience in the turnover process. In addition,
the project provides for intensive training of
IDO/IOVs and farmers. DCFOs agree to pay 10%
of capital cost of rehabilitation.
Commercialized units may not reach        M        Provision made for review of annual audits of
profitability by the agreed target dates           accounts and for liquidation, if found unprofitable
Overall Risk Rating                       M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
a  Governance: The restructuring/reengineering of MASL involves significant staff reduction and handing over
of many functions currently performed by MASL to the private sector and other agencies of Government.
GOSL policy as enunciated by the President is consistent with the approach being taken under the project, but it
is debatable whether if the opposition party came to power it would go along with what is proposed. If such a
situation arose, it would be addressed in the context of IDA's overall dialogue with the new Govermnent.
Degree of potential controversy on a five-point scale ranging from high (5) to low (1): 2.
*  A related possible controversial aspect is whether the current Government would continue with the staff
reduction of the magnitude proposed if there is opposition from the trade unions. Recent GOSL efforts at
privatization have met with stiff resistance from the trade unions. However, MASL has maintained a dialogue
with the trade unions with a view to mitigating this possibility. Degree of potential controversy on a five-point
scale ranging from high (5) to low (1): 2.
*  Refocussing MASL from project implementation to river basin management may be controversial. However,
discussions have already been initiated with MASL and GOSL about the need for a comprehensive river basin
approach. A National Water Resources Council (NWRC) has been set up with Asian Development Bank
(ADB) technical assistance for water resources policy development. NWRC has reached a consensus with the
key stakeholders on the need for land and water resources management on a holistic river basin/watershed
basis. Degree of potential controversy on a five-point scale ranging from high (5) to low (1): 2.



Page 15
G: Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
*  Selection of project auditors, acceptable to IDA.
2. Other:
*  MASL to: (i) ensure that the separation of staff accepting the VESP is completed by August 31, 1998; and
(ii) refrain from new recruitment of staff in those categories targeted by VESP and take budgetary measures to
prevent recurrence of excessive staff (Sector Policy/Institutional Action);
* MASL to set up an International Panel of Experts by September 30, 1998, and thereafter maintain the Panel
with composition, functions and terms of reference satisfactory to IDA (Sector Policy/Institutional Action);
*  MASL to maintain the PSC with adequate members, powers, functions and resources, satisfactory to IDA, for
coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the project (Sector Policy/Institutional Action);
*  MASL to ensure that: (i) O&M of the D and F canals is transferred to DCFOs in accordance with a time
schedule satisfactory to IDA with a maximum period of two years for Joint Management followed by full
technical and financial responsibility for O&M by the DCFOs; (ii) farmers contribute at least 10% of the
capital cost of irrigation rehabilitation and improvement works of the D and F canals (Revenue Generation
from Beneficiaries); and (iii) the principles and processes developed for promoting farner sustainability are
applied uniformly in all Mahaweli Systems (Sector Policy/Institutional Action and Revenue Generation from
Beneficiaries);
*  GOSL to provide adequate funds for O&M of the main and branch canals (Sector Policy/Institutional Action);
-  MASL to ensure that SABUs have: (ii) a gradually increasing target for revenue generation as share of its
costs, satisfactory to IDA, for the incubation period of three years; (ii) submit audited annual accounts, audited
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; and (iii) are liquidated if not viable by December 31, 2001.
(Sector Policy/Institutional Actions);
*  GOSL to: (i) by December 15, 1998, through MMD, submit a complete list of all MASL constructed
infrastructure to be handed over, broken down by System, including the line agency to which they are to be
handed over and the funds needed to repair/rehabilitate and operate and maintain them; (ii) make adequate
provision in its 1999-2003 annual budgets for this purpose; and (iii) ensure that the infrastructure is effectively
handed over according to the time schedule satisfactory to IDA; (Sector Policy/Institutional Actions).
*  MASL to: (i) by June 30, 2000, submit to IDA the proposal for shifting the focus of MASL from project
implementation to river basin management to IDA; (ii) by December 31, 2000, discuss the proposal with IDA;
and (iii) by June 30, 2001, complete the refocussing of MASL taking into account any comments made by
IDA and recommendations made by the Panel of Experts (Sector Policy/Institutional Action);
*  By December 31, 1999 and December 31, 2001, review the implementation of the project with IDA and other
donors on the basis of monitoring and evaluation reports submitted by November 30, 1999 and November 30,
2001, respectively, and promptly thereafter take all actions required as a result of the review (Monitoring and
Review);
*  MASL to ensure that: (a) the PIU is maintained with adequate staff, powers, functions and resources,
satisfactory to IDA; (b) the PIU prepares annual action plans, satisfactory to IDA, and implements the project
in accordance with the annual plans; and (c) the PIU Submit quarterly progress reports to IDA (Monitoring
and Review); and



XPag. 16
.:" I$
MASL to ensure that the audited annual accouts, includihg a separate opinion on expenditures financed under
SOEs, are submitted to IDA within six months of the end of the fiscal year (Accounts/Audits).
H. Readiness for Implementationt
[x 3 The engineering design documents for the first two years' activities are complete and ready for
the start of project implementation.
[x ] The procurement documents for the first two years' activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
[x ] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
Compliance with Bank Policies
[x ]  This project complies wit all applicable Bank policies.
Task Leader: Douglas W. Lister1                  Country Director: Roberto Bentjerodt
'The task team consisted of Meena Munshi, Nihal Fernando, Guy Motha, Tetsuo Yaguchi,
(SASRD), Malcolm Jansen (SASEN), Jose P. Correia Da Silva (LEGSA), Vimala Abraham (LOAAS)



Annex 1
Sri Lanka
Mahaweli Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary         Key Performance IndicatorsZ      Monitoring and           Critical Assumptions
Supervision
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                            (Goal to Bank Mission)
*   Improve fiscal discipline   *   Reduction in budget deficit   *   Annual review with  *   Continued efforts to
from Rs.69.8 billion in 1997  Ministry of Finance     reduce the budget deficit
to Rs 69.0 billion in 2001 and                         from other sources (e.g.
to Rs 68.8 billion by 2003                            consumption subsidies)
*   Promote private sector  *   Government                 *   Central Bank Reports   *   Continued pursuit of
led, environmei..diiy       privatization/commercializatio  Annual review with     "market friendly" policies
sustainable development     n program implemented as       MASL, PERC,             and liberal trade regime
scheduled                     Ministry of Finance
and Planning and
Ministry of Plan
Implementation
Project Development                                                                 (Objective to goal)
Objectives                  *   Reduced claim of MASL on   *   MASL/GOSL Annual  *   Continued GOSL
*   To shift the focus of       the recurrent budget from      Budgets                 commitment to
MASL from project           Rs. 1,304 million in 1998 to                           restructuring/reengineering
implementation to river     Rs 696 million in 2001 and to                          of MASL
basin management            Rs 552 million by 2002
*   To improve agricultural    *   Irrigated crop area harvested   *   MASL's Irrigation  *   Continued progress in
productivity in System H    per unit of irrigation water in  Management            agricultural sector policy
through the rehabilitation,  any crop season in System H.  Monitoring Reports      and institutional reform, in
improvement and better                                                             partnership with other
O&M of irrigation                                                                  donors
facilities
Project Outputs                                                                     (Outputs to Development
Objectives)
1. MASL restructuring/ !. I Voluntary Early Separation    *   Project Monitoring    *   Continued commitment by
reengineering program       Package (VESP) implemented         Reports                 MASL management to
implemented, including      with objective of 35% overall staff                        institutional
transferring O&M            reduction                                                  restructuring/reengineering
responsibility for D and F
canals to DCFOs and          1.2 Turn over O&M of D and F   *   Qualitative evaluation   *   Continued interest by
strengthening of river basin    canals to 283 DCFOs by June    by an independent       DCFOs in participating in
management                   1999; 418 DCFOs by June 2000;     agency                  the design and
558 DCFOs by June 2001; 679                               implementation of the
DCFOs by June 2002; and 757 by                            irrigation rehabilitation and
June 2003, leading to reduction of                         improvement works
MASL O&M expenditures
1.3 MECA                      *   Annual reviews and    *   Commercialized units may
commercialized/privatized or      audits                   not reach profitability by
liquidated by end 2001                                    the agreed target dates.
Provision has been made
for review of annual audits
of accounts and for
liquidation, if found
unprofitable.
1.4 Hand over MASL constructed  *   Project Monitoring
infrastructure to national and local  Reports
line agencies in System H by June I
2 Baseline and targeted values should be shown, with the latter divided into values expected at mid-term, end of project and full impact.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 18
Sri Lanka - Manaweli Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project                                            Annex 2
Narrative Summary         Key Performance Indicators2      Monitoring and           Critical Assumptions
Supervision
30, 1999; in System C and Victoria
by June 30, 2000; and in System B
and Kotmale by June 30, 2001
1.5 Natural resources management *  Notes of the
capacity strengthened/MASL's      International Panel of
focus shifted from implementation  Experts and PSC
to river basin management
2. System H irrigation      2.1 Irrigation facilities covering    *   Quarterly Progress
facilities rehabilitated and  2,918 ha rehabilitated and      Reports of PIU
improved                    improved by June 30, 1999;
14,353 ha of facilities rehabilitated
and improved by June 30, 2001;
and 31,500 ha of facilities
rehabilitated and improved by June
30, 2003.
Project                         Inputs: (budget for each   *   Supervision and      (Components to Ouputs)
Components/Subcomponents:             component)              Progress Reports
[See Annex 2 for a detailed
description.i:
A. Institutional
restructuring/reengineering
*   Voluntary Early                 US$24.0 million
Separation Package
*   Staff                           US$ 1.3 million
Retraining/Redeployment
through provision of TA
and training
*   Promoting farner                US$1.2 million
sustainability through
provision of TA, training,
vehicles and equipment
*   Privatizing business units      US$0.4 million
through provision of TA
and training
*   Handing over
infrastructure to line
agencies after repair and
rehabilitation
*   Strengthening natural           USS2.6 million
resource management
capacity through provision
of TA and training
B. Irrigation rehabilitation and    US44.7 million
improvement in System H
through provision of civil
works, vehicles and equipment



Page 19
Annex 2
Sri Lanka
Mahaweli Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project
Detailed Project Description
I. INSTITUTIONAL RESTRUCTURING/REENGINEERING (US$29.5 million)
I .    The institutional restructuring /reengineering component would consist of: (a) rightsizing" MASL
through offering a Voluntary Early Separation Package (VESP) and retraining and redeploying MASL staff;
(b) promoting farmer sustainability; (c) commercializing/privatizing business units; (d) handing over
infrastructure to national and local agencies; and (e) strengthening natural resource management.
2.     A. MASL Rightsizing and Staff Retraining/Redeployment (US$25.3 million). This sub-
component would include: (i) "rightsizing" of MASL by offering a voluntary early separation package (VESP)
(US$24.0 million); and (ii) retraining and redeploying staff (US$1.3 million) to perform productive work in the
new organization. MASL, with assistance from the U.S. Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA), has already started
a carefully planned process designed to improve staff efficiency and productivity. The first step in this process
was workforce planning, beginning with a skills inventory covering all employees. The TVA study showed that
the workforce is dominated by support personnel. The TVA study also determined the core competencies
needed for the new MASL that fall into three major categories: (a) river basin management; (b) promoting
sustainable settler communities; and (c) commercialization/ privatization. A gap analysis was then made
between the skills existing in the workforce and those which are needed to efficiently perform the functions of
the new organization. Many of the skills required for the new MASL exist in the organization today and are
crucial building blocks for the future. However, areas exist where critical skills are lacking or deficient.
3.     Voluntary Early Separation Package (VESP). Several early retirement plans previously used in
downsizing state-owned businesses in Sri Lanka were analyzed to design a sufficiently, but not overly generous
voluntary early retirement program for MASL. The proposed VESP took into account the lessons of these
experiences, and was designed with adequate safeguards, including specific targeting of incentives to ensure that
core staff do not leave. The details of the package were discussed with the Labor Commissioner and the unions,
and based on these consultations the size of the package was graduated by years of service. The projected cost
of the VESP is about Rs.1,500 million (approximately US$24.0 million) for about 57% of staff. The average
cost per staff is approximately Rs 240,845 (about US$3,853). GOSL is supportive of the Plan, is committed to
its implementation, and has offered to fund 20% of its cost. Administrative controls would be instituted to
prevent a recurrence of excessive staff.
4.    The offer of VESP to eligible categories of employees and the determination of the number of staff to be
separated was carried out as a condition of Board presentation. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that MASL in collaboration with the Ministry of Finance would adopt budgetary procedures which would
require staffing to be tied directly to payroll cost projections on an annual basis, MASL will ensure that the
separation of staff accepting the VESP is completed by August 31, 1998, and will refrain from new recruitment
of staff in those categories targeted by VESP until end 2003, and will take budgetary measures to prevent
recurrence of excessive staff. This would protect MASL against political pressures to hire new staff.
5.     Staff Retraining and Redeployment. Once the VESP is completed, MASL's Human Resources
Development Unit (HRDU) would take inventory of the remaining staff to determine the number of personnel
and various skill sets available in the organization. HRDU would be responsible for retraining and redeploying
this group to become productive contributors to the new MASL.
6.     B. Promoting Farmer Sustainability (US$1.2 million): In conjunction with the System H irrigation
rehabilitation and improvement program, this subcomponent would provide the institutional framework for



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 20
Sri Lanka - Manaweli Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project                              Annex 2
direct farmer participation in the planning, design, construction and the O&M of the D and F canals of System H
through a participatory management process with direct representation at all stages. Planning and design of the
rehabilitation would take place through Field Canal Groups (FCGs) and D Canal Farner Organizations
(DCFOs). In addition to assisting in the planning and design of the rehabilitation of the D & F canals, DCFOs
would contribute to the capital costs of the rehabilitation of the D and F canals mainly through their own labor.
Approximately, 30,200 farniers, formed into 268 DCFOs, are expected to participate and contribute at least 10%
of the capital cost of rehabilitation the D and F canal systems. The average farmer's contribution to the capital
cost of rehabilitation is estimated to be about 20% of net farm income (single season earnings), including family
labor.
7.     On completion of rehabilitation, MASL would follow the current practice of joint management of O&M
of the rehabilitated D and F canal system. The period ofjoint management will be at least 12 months and a
maximum of twenty-four months. At negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOSL/MASL that the
maximum period of Joint Management would be two years during which time MASL would provide technical
and financial training to DCFOs. On completion of the period ofjoint management, the O&M of the system
would be turned over to the DCFOs. MASL has in place two Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) which were
signed between MASL and the DCFOs, one for Joint Management and the other for Turn Over. These MOUs
outline the timing and nature of responsibilities. While DCFOs could be expected to maintain an adequate level
of 0 & M after take over, MASL needs to provide adequate funds for O&M of the main and branch canals.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations. Assurances were also obtained during negotiations
that the handing over of O&M responsibility of D & F canals to DCFOs throughout all the Mahaweli systems
would be carried out by MASL in accordance with an agreed time schedule. It was also agreed that a short study
would be carried out to assess the present status of DCFOs and institutional strengthening program of MASL and
review the proposed schedule for the transfer of O&M responsibility to DCFOs. Based on that review, MASL in
consultation with IDA would adjust the targets to be achieved during the project period.
8.     This sub-component also provides for training, equipment and technical assistance to DCFOs with NGO
participation. Besides enabling DCFOs to carry out O&M functions effectively, the training would emphasize
preventive and periodic maintenance, supervision of simple engineering works and concrete and rubble
structures. To assist DCFOs in achieving financial sustainability, the training emphasis in agricultural and
livestock extension would be on enhancing farmer participation in identifying and solving problems, farmer
training in income generating activities, financial management, input and output marketing and bulk purchasing.
At the field level, the formation and strengthening of Field Canal Turn-out Groups and DCFOs and coordinating
these activities with the rehabilitation program would be undertaken jointly by the Institutional Development
Officers (IDOs) and the engineering staff at the field level. Training for IDOs, Institutional Organizer
Volunteers (IOVs) and farmers would be undertaken by the Human Resource Development Unit in collaboration
with the Institutional Development Unit. Though IDA funding would support these activities in System H only,
to ensure consistency of approach, the principles and processes developed in System H would be uniformly
applied in all Mahaweli Systems C, G and UW funded by other donors and MASL. Assurances to this effect
were obtained during negotiations.
9.     C. Commercializing/Privatizing Business Units (US$0.4 million). This sub-component would
provide technical assistance and training to facilitate the commercialization/privatization of the Mahaweli
Engineering and Construction Agency (MECA) and the Livestock Development Division (LDD). Following the
precedent of the successfully privatized Central Engineering Consultancy Bureau (CECB), MECA would be split
into two units: (i) Mahaweli Architectural Consultants (Pvt.) Ltd.; and (ii) Mahaweli Consultancy Bureau (Pvt.)
Ltd.. LDD would also be set up as a separate unit. These units would then go through a five-step process, as
outlined in the TVA restructuring/reengineering plan, i.e. reduction of excess staff; market analysis and business
planning; creation of new stand-alone business unit; business incubation period of three years; and finally
registration of financially sustainable units as independent companies or liquidation of non-viable units. During
the three-year incubation period, the management team and key personnel in the newly established stand-alone
business units would be given professional support and training to design business plans, conduct market



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                   Page 21
Sri Lanka - Manaweli Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project                                                 Annex 2
analysis and prepare financial projections. At the end of the three year incubation period, the privatized unit's
management team is expected to be proficient enough to run the company on commercial lines and, but if not
viable, the units would be liquidated by December 31, 2001.
Detailed Action Plan for Privatization - Agreed Dates
No.                                 Actions                                  Agreed Date
I.       MASL to designate units targeted for commercialization/privatization    11/01/97
2.       Registration of companies under the relevant acts                       11/30/97
3.       MASL to appoint management teams and other support staff for the        11/30/97
targeted units
4.       Targeted units to develop business plans and financial projections (with  03/31/98
quarterly break down of achievable sustainability levels)
5.       Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to develop and finalize TOR for       03/31/98
consultants for the commercialization process
6.       Monthly progress reporting by the targeted units to the High Level Project  07/31/98
Steering Committee (HLPSC) and quarterly assessment by HLPSC of
each unit's performance
7.       Selection and appointment of consultants                                09/30/98
8        Workforce  planning, skill retraining, marketing  etc. assisted  by     12/31/98
consultants
9.       Targeted units to achieve financial sustainability levels each year (with    20% by 12/31/98
quarterly breakdowns as agreed in business plan).                   40% by 12/31/99
70% by 12/31/00
100% by 12/31/01
10.      Submission of audited annual financial statements by the targeted units to    Every year before
HLPSC and IDA within six months from the close of the year         June 30 beginning
from 06/30/99.
11.      Not less than 3 months before the end of the incubation period of each  09/30/01
targeted unit, HLPSC will review the commercialization progress based
on track record and recommend extension of incubation period or
liquidation
10.     D. Handing Over Infrastructure to Line Agencies (No Cost). Approximately 70-80% of
infrastructure constructed by MASL in the settler communities (roads, schools, hospitals, police stations, post
offices, etc.) has already been handed over to the relevant national or local line agency. For example, out of a
total of 427 km of Class A and B roads constructed by MASL, 72% has already been handed over to the Road
Development Authority (RDA). However, for about 965 km of Class C and D roads constructed by MASL, the
Provincial Councils have not yet taken over responsibility.
11.     MASL has identified most of the infrastructure facilities that need to be handed over to relevant line
agencies. However, discussions with the RDA and the Ministry of Provincial Administration indicate that they
do not have a complete list of all infrastructure that needs to be handed over. There is also a need to quantify
any necessary repair/rehabilitation needs (e.g. for roads in poor condition) as well as the O&M costs.
12.     GOSL would therefore: (i) by December 31, 1998, through the Ministry of Mahaweli
Development, submit a complete list of all MASL constructed infrastructure to be handed over, broken
down by System, including the line agency to which they are to be handed over and the funds needed to
repair/rehabilitate and operate and maintain them; (ii) make adequate provision in its 1999-2003 annual



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 22
Sri Lanka - Manaweli Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project                              Annex 2
budgets for this purpose; and (iii) ensure that the infrastructure is effectively handed over according to
the following schedule:
By June 30, 1999: Hand over remaining infrastructure in System H
By June 30, 2000: Hand over remaining infrastructure in System C and Victoria Project
By June 30, 2001: Hand over remaining infrastructure in System B Left Bank and Kotmale Project
13.    E. Strengthening Natural Resource Management (US$2.6 million): This sub-component
would support the consolidation of environmental management responsibilities, which are currently
spread over different units of MASL, through technical support to advise on institutional changes
required to perform the proposed functions of the future river basin management agency. It would also
provide resources for adaptation of proven technologies and approaches to manage and maintain land
and water resources. Project support would be for planning and implementing activities for sustainable
land and water management through participatory approaches, dissemination of information, provision
of training, technical guidance and mobilization of various land user groups in the basin for expansion
of sustainable technologies, awareness and extension. Demonstration activities would include programs
to find appropriate ways of improving land management, controlling erosion, reducing pollution and
controlling deforestation. This sub-component complements the pilot land management activities
carried out under the ongoing Environmental Action 1 Project. Assurances were obtained that GOSL
'would: by June 30, 2000, submit the proposal for refocussing MASL on river basin management; by
December 31, 2000, discuss-the proposal with IDA; and by June 30, 2001, complete the refocussing of
MASL taking into account any comments made by IDA and any recommendations made by the Panel of
Experts.
II. IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT (US$44.7 million)
14.    This component would include essential repair and rehabilitation works and improvements where
required on the irrigation systems serving about 31,500 ha in System H, most of which was developed
from 1974 to 1980 under the Accelerated Mahaweli Development Program (AMDP). The rehabilitation
and improvement works would involve essential repairs to reservoirs, main canals (27 km), branch canals
(22 kin), distributory canals (115 km), field canals (667 km), drains (62 km) and irrigation tanks (15).
15.    A. Headworks (US$12.4 million). This subcomponent consists of major reservoirs, main and
branch canals and medium tanks. The reservoirs would need only minor civil and some hydroelectro-
mechanical works. The civil works are for prevention of further erosion in gullies already formed in dam
embankments, and riprap protection works including provision of toe filters in certain embankments
sections where seepage occurs. The hydromechanical works include repairing diversion sluice gates,
spillway gates, stoplogs, etc. and replacing deteriorated and outmoded gates and stoplogs to enhance the
reliability, durability and easiness in operation.
16.    In the case of main and branch canals, rehabilitation works would include: earth, concrete and
rubble work to restore the original performance of canals and control erosion downstream of structures
and on the concave sides of canal curves; repairs of lining, and of canal spillways, turnouts, drops,
troughs and regulators; repairs of drainage undercrossings and measuring flumes; and rehabilitation of
bath steps. Improvements would include: provision of a limited number of bathing spots/cattle crossings,
drops and turnouts; lining of sections most subject to erosion; and where required, minor works on
reservoirs, anicuts, main sluices, etc. Also, the fifteen medium scale irrigation tanks would be
rehabilitated mainly.by repairing and strengthening dam embankment.
17.    B. Tertiary Works (US$32.3 million). The project would also provide funds for rehabilitation
and improvement of distributory (D) canals (441), field (F) canals (2544) and minor tanks (5).



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 23
Sri Lanka - Manaweli Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project                               Annex 2
weakened by encroachment or erosion; repair or replacement of structures and concrete lining.
Improvements would include: earthfill to bring canal-side roads to bund top level, where applicable;
lining of small sections of high banking subject to excessive erosion and leakage; and construction of new
bathing spots and cattle crossings.
18.    Rehabilitation works on F canals would include: earth and concrete work for reshaping of canal
sections; repairs to damaged existing masonry and concrete structures; provision of missing canal related
structures and facilities ( such as stop planks, tumouts gates, discharge regulators, division boxes, etc.).
The improvement works would include: installation of adequate numbers of measuring devices and
discharge regulators; replacement of deteriorated rubble masonry structures with concrete structures; and
provision of bathing platforms, cattle crossings, foot bridges, road crossings at appropriate locations, etc.
Together with these works, all roads of DCs and FCs would be repaired and re-conditioned, and all
existing drainage canals would be rehabilitated by clearing of vegetation, desiltation and replacement of
existing temporary drainage pick-up anicuts and stick dams with permanent structures.
19.  Costs include a provision of 8% for supervision and administration. The project would also provide
for grading, gravelling, and formation of side drains on the roads running along side the main, branch and
D canals. Such repair work would be required on about 50% of all canal-side roads. Funds would also be
provided for repair of pot holes and other damaged sections on the asphalted sections of canal roads.
Provision has been made for repair of road crossings and for grading and gravelling of about 50 km of
market roads, which link the canal roads with the main road network.
Implementation Arrangements
20.    Project Oversight: An Intemational Panel of Experts, based on their experience in other
countries, would provide advice and intemational expertise to the High Level Project Steering Committee
(PSC). The Panel of Experts would be an ad hoc body and would consist of high-level representatives of
river basin agencies in other countries. The Panel would be set up by September 30, 1998. They would
be called up for advice as and when required but at least once a year to offer expert advice on the changing
role of MASL. In addition, a local High Level Project Steering Committee (PSC) would be established to
review and monitor project activities. The PSC would be chaired by the Secretary, Ministry of Mahaweli
Development (MMD) and would consist of the Director General, MASL; the Secretary General, MASL;
Project Coordinator, Project Implementation Unit (PIU); Project Director, Rehabilitation Component;
Director, PMU; and a representative from the Ministry of Finance and Planning. In addition, the other
Heads of MASL agencies and representatives of relevant ministries would be called upon to attend the
PSC meetings as and when required.
Project Coordination and Implementation:
21.    A Project Implementation Unit (PIU), headed by the Director General (DG), MASL, and
consisting of a Project Coordinator (PC) and core staff, was established as a condition of Board
Presentation. PIU would be responsible for overall implementation and coordination of all project
components, in accordance with the time-bound action plan presented in the Project Implementation Plan
(PIP). PIU would be responsible for project finance, procurement and disbursement matters as well as for
the recruitment of consultants and contractors. PIU would consist of a headquarters-based unit for
institutional restructuring/reengineering component; and a field-based unit for rehabilitation and
improvement component. The heads for the two Units were appointed as a condition of Board
presentation.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 24
Sri Lanka - Manaweli Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project                              Annex 2
Implementation Arrangements by Components
22.    The sub-unit for the institutional restructuring/reengineering component would consist of one
Project Coordinator, one Special Coordinator for VESP, three advisers for commercialization, institutional
strengthening of DCFOs and river basin management, and core staff needed to implement the component. The
Headquarters unit would be responsible for: (a) implementation of VESP; (b) commercialization of business
activities; (c) strengthening of DCFOs; (d) handing over of MASL-constructed infrastructure; and (d) natural
resource management. The detailed implementation schedule for executing this component is provided in the
PIP.
23.    Given the urgency to implement VESP within a short time after the and volume of disbursements
involved, the DG has designated a Special Officer and necessary staff (e.g. a project accountant, a legal officer,
2 assistant accountants, book keepers and other support staff) for the duration of the implementation and
monitoring of VESP.
24.    Commercialization of stand alone business units, strengthening of DCFOs, handing over infrastructure
and natural resource management would be responsibility of the Project Coordinator (PC) and locally hired
experts. To carry out the above, the key staff consisting of the PC, a project accountant, a legal officer, and
essential support staff were put in place by Board Presentation.
25.    The sub-unit for the irrigation rehabilitation and improvement component would be based in
System H. This component would be implemented under the overall supervision of the Director General (DG),
MASL, and a Project Director (PD) would direct all implementation actions for the rehabilitation and
improvement component. The DG would appoint a Senior Engineer attached to PIU to function as the link
between him and the PD (Rehabilitation). He would be designated as the Coordinator for rehabilitation
component and would be a member of the Project Steering Committee.
26.    The PD will be located in the System H area. The PD would be assisted by three Senior Project
Engineers (SPEs) to implement tertiary and head works related activities. Tertiary works would be divided into
two clusters of four management blocks each. Under PD's direction, two SPEs would be appointed to oversee
each cluster. The Headworks would be grouped into one cluster and would be implemented by a third SPE. The
three SPEs with a small core staff would be stationed in the PD's office in System H. The two PSEs for tertiary
work clusters would be appointed from MEA and the SPE for Headworks cluster would be appointed from
Headworks, Administration, Operation and Maintenance Division (HAO&M). Day to day supervision of the
downstream rehabilitation work would be handled by eight Block Offices, which would serve as actual centers
for all site operations. Each Block Office is staffed with an adequate numbers of engineers and technicians who
would undertake planning, design and construction supervision. To facilitate communications with DCFOs,
each Block Office would be staffed with Community Development Qfficer, Institutional Development Officer,
and a number of Unit Managers.
27.   Implementation Plan. The rehabilitation and improvement works would be implemented in five years.
A schedule of implementation is shown below. As indicated, project rehabilitation and improvement works
would be completed for 31,500 ha of irrigated areas by the end of the fifth year.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 25
Sri Lanka - Manaweli Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project                              Annex 2
2nd                              5th
Works              Unit   1st year    year       3rd year    4th year   year      Total
Headworks
-Major reservoirs   nos    nil          1        2                                3
-Medium tanks      nos    1             2        2           5           5         15
-MCs               km      8            12       40          49.5        49.0      158.5
-BCs               km      10           14       40          44.4        36.1      144.5
Tertiary works
-Madatugama        ha      500          742      1500        1819        1519     7080
-Galnewa           ha      360          500      1000        1185        885      3930
-Meegalawa         ha      320          500      500         575         275      2170
-Tambuttegama    ha        375         500       1000        1000        175      3050
-Nochchiyagama   ha        300          393      800         1024        1023     3540
-Talawa            ha      337          500      800         997         696      3330
-Eppawala          ha      332         400       800         1084        1084     3700
Mahailluppallama  ha       394         500       1000        1403        1403     4700
Total              ha      2918        4035      7400        9086        7061     31500
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements:
28.   IDA staff reviewed MASL's financial management arrangements including the internal controls,
accounting and auditing and found these arrangements satisfactory. MASL has put in place a Financial
Controller, who is a qualified professional accountant. He is assisted by senior accountants and necessary staff
to carry out the accounting and financial reporting of the project. The Financial Controller would be responsible
for submission of all accounts according to the agreed accounting standards and would provide sufficient
financial information for managing and monitoring project activities.
29.    PIU would ensure that independent private auditors, acceptable to IDA, would be contracted in a timely
fashion to provide financial oversight. Assurances were obtained that MASL would finalize the terms of
reference and select the project auditors, acceptable to IDA, by project effectiveness.
Project Monitoring and Supervision
30.    PSC would be responsible for overall monitoring of the project. It would meet quarterly to review the
overall progress of the project, and discuss major policy issues relating to restructuring, privatization, staffing,
project finance and other project related matters. PIU would have direct responsibility for monitoring and
evaluation of project activities and preparing quarterly Progress Reports to be submitted not later than January
31, April 30, July 31 and September 30 of each year for the preceding three months. Besides, PIU would
prepare annual action plans, satisfactory to IDA, and implement the project in accordance with the annual plans.
Key development objective indicators are presented in Annex 1. In addition to quarterly monitoring of project
activities by PIU, an external entity would be contracted to carry our in-depth and qualitative monitoring and
evaluation of the institutional strengthening and turnover program in Mahaweli System H, and feed that
information to the PSC. Each year, IDA would conduct at least two supervision missions.
31.    A separate committee consisting of representatives of the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Labor,
Ministry of Public Administration, and trade unions would be established to monitor the separation of staff and



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 26
Sri Lanka - Manaweli Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project                               Annex 2
the restructuring process, and ensure that no new staff are recruited without prior IDA approval. The committee
would meet quarterly. The first review would be held no later than July 15, 1998.
32.    Two project mid-term reviews would be carried out by December 31, 1999 and December 31, 2001,
where GOSL would review the implementation of the project with IDA and other donors, and promptly
thereafter take all actions required as a result of the review.



Page 27
Annex 3
Sri Lanka
Mahaweli Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                    Local       Foreign      Total
-------------------US $ million---------------
Institutional Restructuring/Reengineering
MASL Rightsizing & Staff Training/Redeployment      24.6         0.4         25.0
(of which)
Voluntary Early Separation Package              (23.8)        (0.0)       (23.8)
Staff Retraining & Skills Dev.                  (0.7)        (0.4)         (1.1)
Promoting Farmer Sustainability                     0.9          0.3          1.2
Privatizing Business Units                          0.0          0.4          0.4
Handing Over Infrastructure                         0.0          0.0          0.0
Strengthening Natural Resource Management           0.9           1.5          2.4
Sub-total                                            26.3           2.6         28.9
Irrigation Rehabilitation & Improvement in System H
Headworks                                           8.5          2.4         11.4
Downstream Works                                  23.0           5.7         28.7
Sub-total                                            31.5           8.1         39.6
Total Baseline Cost                                  57.8          10.7         68.5
Physical Contingencies                              2.0           0.5         2.5
Price Contingencies                                 2.6           0.6         3.2
Total Project Cost                                   62.4          11.8         74.2



Page 28
Annex 4
Sri Lanka
Mahaweli Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project
Project Economic and Financial Analysis
1.     A detailed economic and financial analysis has been prepared to analyze the quantitative effects of the
project in terms of: (a) overall efficiency gains in the form of increased net agricultural production benefits; (b) the
income effect for the beneficiaries; and (c) fiscal impact. It should be emphasized that the ERR is derived from
conservative assessments of quantifiable agricultural benefits only. The result is therefore partial since it
excludes benefits of the institutional restructuring/reengineering measures that would result in the reduction in the
budgetary and management burden on the government.
A. Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
2.     The overall economic rate of return (ERR) for the project is estimated at 14%. The underlying
assumptions and the treatment of key variables in the derivation of ERR are as follows:
Main Assumptions:
(a) Prices. All values are expressed in constant 1997 Sri Lanka Rupees. For internationally traded goods, prices
were derived from the latest World Bank commodity prices forecast (May 1997), while those for non-traded goods
are based on domestic financial prices. Appropriate adjustments were made for freight, handling, processing and
quality differentials. Non-traded outputs and inputs were expressed in border Rupees through application of a
Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) of 0.9. Similarly, unskilled labor costs were adjusted by 0.9.
(b) Project benefits. Given inadequate information to quantify many of the project's environmental effects, and
difficulty in quantifying benefits of restructuring MASL, the economic analysis considers agricultural production
benefits in the System H rehabilitation areas only. These consist of increased cropping intensity due to increased
availability of water and increased yields due to more reliable water supplies. Total benefits from the project are
therefore likely to be underestimated.
(c) Project life. A project life of thirty years is assumed for economic analysis. This is the expected life of the
proposed engineering works, which accounts for about 60% of the total project cost.
(d) Investment Cost. The analysis is based on project costs directly associated with the irrigation rehabilitation and
improvement works: (i) all investment costs and incremental recurrent costs during the project implementation
period, excluding the restructuring/reengineering of MASL component; and (ii) O&M costs (including farmers'
costs) after completion of works. Economic costs include physical contingencies, and exclude price contingencies
and taxes. Local costs were adjusted by the SCF of 0.9.
(e) Operation and Maintenance. As irrigation facilities and roads (including canal roads) are expected to last for an
average of thirty and fifteen years, respectively, operating and maintenance costs of these have been taken into
account in the analysis as recurrent costs. These incremental O&M costs are adjusted by the SCF.
Sensitivity Analysis
3.     The project's viability under adverse conditions was tested using sensitivity analysis. Overall, the results
appear satisfactory and are not sensitive to variations in costs and benefits. For the ERR of the project to drop to
10% (assumed opportunity cost of capital), either benefits would have to drop by 35%; benefits decrease by 15%
with 20% increase in investment costs; or benefits lag by 1, 2 or 3 years with a 10%, 20% or 40% increase in costs



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 29
Sri Lanka - Mahaweli Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project                                 Annex 4
respectively. The test results indicate that relatively large changes would be required to reduce the project's
economic viability to below acceptable levels.
Variable test                                   ERR %
Benefits down by 20%                            11
Benefits down by 35%                            10
Benefits lag by 1 year with costs up by 40%     10
Benefits lag by 2 years with costs up by 20%    10
Benefits lag by 3 years with costs up by 10%    10
Cost overruns of 30%                            11
Benefits down by 15% with costs up by 20%       10
B. Farm Income Analysis
4.     To assess the impact of the project on farmers' income, farm models were formulated on the basis of
current use of irrigable land per farm. The representative farm models are based on 1.0 ha farms. Within this,
individual crop areas were apportioned on the basis of average total crop areas within each season. The results
of the farm budget analysis show that, at full project development, annual net farm income of farners in the
project area would increase from Rs 52,100 to Rs 69,800 (a 34% increase). The increase in income is
attributed to higher crop yields, reflecting an increase in water supply and improvement in water distribution
especially during the dry (Yala) season, which cannot be assumed without the project. Most of the expected
gains would come from farmers cultivating tail-end land, as these farmers generally experience difficulties in
receiving water. Also, a decrease in rice cropped area, as a result of modest levels of crop diversification
during the dry season, will increase water availability for other field crops since rice is the most water
consuming crop.
C. Fiscal Impact
5.    In line with GOSL's objective of improving fiscal discipline, the project involves restructuring of the
Mahaweli Authority of Sri Lanka (MASL) to make it more efficient, productive and sustainable, notably by
reducing excess staff in certain job categories, transferring the O&M responsibilities for downstream irrigation
facilities to the Distributory Canal Farmers' Organizations (DCFOs) and privatizing some of MASL's
activities that could be performed more effectively and efficiently by the private sector. Analysis of the
project's impact on the government budget indicates that, by taking these measures, the project would make a
significant net positive contribution to the national budget. MASL was allocated Rs. 2.1 billion from
budgetary resources in 1996. This declined by about 20% to Rs.1.7 billion in 1997, but recurrent budget
expenditures remained the same. Two-thirds of MASL's overall allocation is the recurrent budget amounting
to Rs. 1.0 billion, while one third is development budget or Rs.7 15 million in 1997. The proposed recurrent
budget for 1998 is Rs. 1.304 billion, out of which salaries alone amount to Rs 987.5 million (76% of recurrent).
6.     The largest budgetary benefit would come from the reduction in MASL's wage bill as a result of a net
overall 57% reduction in staff.3 This alone would reduce the recurrent budget roughly by Rs 592.0 million
3 For more details, see Bank Staff Assessment #2--MASL Rightsizing and Staff Retraining/Redeploying.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 30
Sri Lanka - Mahaweli Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project                               Annex 4
annually. Overall, the projections show that after payment of the Voluntary Early Separation Package (VESP),
there would be a total of Rs 1.870 billion savings over the five year project period. Annual average savings are
about Rs 374 million.
7.     The next largest positive impact on the budget would come from the privatization of the Mahaweli
Engineering and Construction Agency (MECA) and the Livestock Development Division (LDD). With the
privatization or liquidation of the two MECA successor companies by project Year 4, an additional amount
approximately (Rs. 194.66 million) would be saved annually.
8.     Transferring O&M responsibilities for the distributory (D) and field (F) canals to Distributory Canal
Farmers' Organizations (DCFOs) would generate additional savings for Mahaweli budget. Present financial
resources allocated for O&M of irrigation facilities are insufficient and inefficiently spent. Transferring O&M
responsibility of D&F canals to DCFOs would save the Government an estimated Rs.288.4 million for the first
four years, and Rs. I 1 1.04 million annually thereafter.
9.     The Table below shows the savings in aggregate from the staff reduction, privatization and transfer of
O&M costs of D&F canals to DCFOs. Overall, the project would reduce MASL expenditures by Rs. 570.6
million (about 50% of MASL's recurrent 1998 budget) on an average annual basis during the project period of
five years. The savings would be much higher after the project period and would average approximately
Rs. 1,049 million (about 70%) on an annual basis. This would make a positive impact on GOSL's overall
budget deficit, reducing it from Rs.69.8 billion in 1997 to Rs.68.8 billion in 2003 (a reduction of about 1.5%).
Table
Aggregate Fiscal Savings
(Rs. millions)
Caegr                 Prjc   Projecftfftt D   tgtS Prjc    Proec   Pre ject
Staff Reduction      -907.8    639.7    680.1        714.4       743.6    1,870.0
Privatization           0.0      68.1    125.5        194.7      194.7      583.0
Transfer of O&M        42.7      62.1      83.3       100.4      111.4      399.9
Responsibilities
Total                -865.1    769.9      888.9     1,009.5   1,049.7   2,852.9



Page 31
Annex 5
Sri Lanka
Mahaweli Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project
Financial Summary
FY99 through FY03
(US$ in millions, 1997)
Implementation Period
FY99      F\YOO   FY01    FY02        FY03
Project Costs
Investment Costs                31.9      6.9      10.4      12.5      11.7
Recurrent Costs                  0.1      0.1       0.2       0.2       0.2
Total                               32.0       7.0     10.6      12.7      11.9
Financing Sources (% of total project
costs)
IDA                             79        77       80       72        72
GOSL                            20        17       15        20        20
Farmers                          1         6        5         8         8
Total                               100       100      100       100       100



Page 32
Annex 6
Sri Lanka
Mahaweli Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
Specific procurement arrangements summarized in Table A, are as follows:
(a) Contract packages for goods estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or more would be procured through ICB
procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines.
(b) Contract packages for goods valued at less than US$100,000 but more than US$50,000, up to an aggregate
amount of not more than US$1.4 million, would be awarded through NCB procedures using standard bidding
documents (SBD) satisfactory to IDA. Goods and materials valued at less than US$50,000, but in aggregate
amounting to not more than US$200,000, would be procured through national shopping, based on price quotations
from at least three different suppliers.
(c) All works would be executed by contractors selected through NCB procedures, satisfactory and acceptable to
IDA, except as specified below. There will be three contract categories: (i) large scale contracts valued above
US$100,000 equivalent (but not to exceed US$600,000). There would be about 25 large scale contracts costing
approximately about US$10.0 million; (ii) medium scale contracts valued above US$10,000 up to US$100,000,
with a total of about 135 contract packages estimated to cost approximately US$11.0 million; and (iii) small scale
contracts valued less than US$10,000 each. There would be two types of contracts under this category: (a)
contracts to be awarded to DCFOs without competitive bidding. This procurement procedure is appropriate
because most of these works are small and labor intensive and it would be cost effective to award those directly to
the DCFOs. Besides, it would strengthen DCFOs' financial position and prepare them for taking over of O&M
responsibilities. About 540 contracts amounting to approximately US$2.5 million would be awarded to 268
DCFOs in System H; (b) contracts to be awarded following competitive bidding. About 1,350 contracts costing
approximately US$16.3 million would be awarded to DCFOs and private contractors on competitive bidding.
(d) Consultant Services would be contracted in accordance with the provisions of the Guidelines for the Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, dated January 1997. Consultancy services are
estimated at US$1.4 million for the institutional restructuringtreengineering component including the river basin
study, and would consist of both local and international consultants.
(e) Training estimated to cost approximately US$1.9 million covering the trainees' expenses toward subsistence,
travel and fees would be procured using GOSL administrative procedures acceptable to IDA. This does not include
any audio visual equipment or training material which are included under the equipment category. Detailed
training plans are available in the project file and consist of training courses for DCFOs and MASL staff.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
All contracts for goods and civil works estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or more would be subject
to IDA's prior review of all documentation ( evaluation reports and contracts). With respect to consultants
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 for firms, and $50,000 for individuals, all documentation (LOI, TORs,
proposals, evaluation reports and contracts) will be subject to IDA's prior review. IDA prior review will not apply



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 33
Sri Lanka - Manaweli Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project                                  Annex 6
to documentation related to contracts for the employment of consulting firms and individual consultants valued at
less than US$100,000 and US$50,000 respectively.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The IDA credit of US$57.0 million would be disbursed over a period of five years, beginning in the first
quarter of IDA FY99 through the end of the last quarter of FY03. The disbursement schedule shown in the Section
on Financing Plan is based on completion of the proposed project by June 30, 2003. The allocation of loan
proceeds by disbursement category and percentages financed are shown in Table C.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
Disbursements of all expenditures would be made on the basis of statements of expenditures (SOEs),
except for goods and works exceeding US$100,000 equivalent; contracts with consulting firms above US$100,000
equivalent; and with individuals above US$50,000. Supporting documentation for SOEs would not be submitted to
IDA, but would be retained by MASL and made available to IDA staff during supervision.
Special Account.
The government would establish and operate, under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, a Special
Account in the Central Bank. The Special Account would be denominated in US Dollars, with an authorized
allocation of US$7.0 million for severance payments under VESP. However, the authorized allocation will be
reduced to US$ 1.0 million after payment of VESP. MASL would be responsible for channeling funds to the
implementing agencies. The Account would be operated and managed by the Director General, MASL, who
would have responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal applications and have sole responsibility for
submitting the withdrawal applications to IDA for payment.
ProjectAccounts and Audits
IDA staff reviewed MASL's financial capacity and arrangements and found them satisfactory to enable
them maintain and carry out the accounting and financial reporting of the project. MASL has put in place the
Financial Controller and necessary accounting staff to carry out the above functions according to the agreed
accounting standards and would provide sufficient financial information for managing and monitoring project
activities. MASL would maintain separate accounts of project expenditures in accordance with sound accounting
practices. All project accounts and financial statements, including SOEs and Special Account, would be audited
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. MASL would have the overall responsibility for arranging annual
audits by independent auditors. An audit report, including separate opinions on the operation of the special
account and the use of SOEs, would be submitted to the IDA within six months of the end of the govemment's
fiscal year.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that all project accounts and financial statements, including
SOEs and the Special Account, would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. Assurances were
also sought during negotiations that a copy of the audit report and a certified copy of the financial statements
would be submitted to IDA no later than six months after the close of each fiscal year as well as MASL would
finalize terms of reference and select the project auditors, acceptable to IDA, by project effectiveness



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                   Page 34
Sri Lanka - Manaweli Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project                                                Annex 6
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                           Procurement Method                         Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
NCB          ICB          Other    NBF
1. Works
1.1 Large Scale contracts         10.0                                                     10.0
(8.0)                                                    (8.0)
1.2  Medium Scale                 11.0                                                     11.0
contracts                         (9.0)                                                     (9.0)
1.2 Small Scale Works             16.3                      2.5a/       3.0c/              21.8
(12.6)                    (1.8)                          (14.4)
2. Goods
2.1 Vehicles                       0.3         1.5                                           1.8
(0.2)      (1.2)                                         (1.4)
2.2 Equipment                      1.4                                                       1.4
(1.2)                                                    (1.2)
3. Servicesb/                                                1.4                             1.4
(1.4)                           (1.4)
4. Miscellaneous
4.1  Training                                                1.9                             1.9
(1.9)                           (1.9)
4.2   Severance Pay                                         24.0d/                          24.0
(19.2)                          (19.2)
4.3  O&M                                                     0.9                             0.9
(0.6)                           (0.6)
Total                         39.0          1.5           30.7        3.0                 74.2
(31.0)       (1.2)         (24.9)                          (57.0)
Note: NBF = Not Bank Financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit
a/ Direct contracting to Farmers Organizations.
b/ Includes consultant services (individuals and firms), technical assistance to beneficiaries, and implementation support.
c/ To be financed by DCFOs.
d/ To be financed by IDA and GOSL.



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 35
Sri Lanka - Manaweli Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project                       Annex 6
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure         Contract Value       Procurement       Contracts Subject
Category           (Threshold)            Method               to
Prior Review
1. Works
Minor Civil Works   US$10,000 and less    Direct Contracting     None
(17%)                                 to DCFOs
Minor Civil Works   US$10,000 and less   NCB                      None
(83%)
Medium Civil Works US$10,000-100,000   NCB                        None
Large Civil Works    Above US$100,000    NCB                      All
2. Goods
Vehicles and       Less than US$50,000  National Shopping        None
Equipment        US$50,000 to         NCB                       None
US$100,000
Above US$100,000   ICB                        All
3. Services
Individual         Less than US$50,000  Consultant Guidelines
Consultants                           QCBS, SBCQ,IC        TOR/shortlist
More than US$50,000  Consultant Guidelines    All
QCBS, SBCQ,IC
Firms                 Less than           Consultant Guidelines
US$100,000          QCBS                 TOR/shortlist
More than           Consultant Guidelines     All
US$100,000          QCBS
QCBS: Quality and Cost Based Selection
SBCQ: Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
IC:  Individual Consultants



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 36
Sri Lanka - Manaweli Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project                       Annex 6
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category   Amount in US$million       Financing Percentage
(1) Civil Works                 28.1           80% of total expenditures
(2) Vehicles and Equipment       2.5           100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 70% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
(3) Consultant Services          1.3            100% of total expenditures
(4) Training                     1.7            100% of total expenditures
(5) Severance Pay               19.0            80% of total expenditures
(6) O&M Costs                    0.5            80% of total expenditures
(vehicles & equipment)
(7) Unallocated                  3.9
TOTAL                          57.0



Page 37
Annex 7
Sri Lanka
Mahaweli Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (SW)                      Planned             Actual
(At final PCD stage)
130               187.6
B. Project Schedule                         Planned             Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     8                  47
First IDA mission (identification)         10/18/1992         10/18/1992
Appraisal mission departure                06/29/1993         04/30/1996
Negotiations                               12/15/1993         10/27/1997
Planned Date of Effectiveness              06/15/1994         07/01/1998
Prepared by: Mahaweli Authority of Sri Lanka
Preparation assistance: FAO/CP, TVA, PPF
Bank staff who worked on the project included: Douglas W. Lister, Meena Munshi,
Nihal Fernando, Hope Thavaraj, Haeyoung Lee, Malcolm Jansen, Guy Motha, Tetsuo
Yaguchi, P.K. Subramanian, Nancy Zhao, Julitta Rasiah, Jayantha de Mel, Mohinder
Virdy, Harald Frederiksen, Stuart Bell, Charles Thomas, Geoffrey Spencer, Jose P.
Correia da Silva, Syed Ahmed, Vimala Abraham



Page 38
Annex 8
Sri Lanka
Mahaweli Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. The Mahaweli Development Program
2. MASL Rightsizing and Staff Retraining/Redeployment
3. Promoting Farmer Sustainability
4. Privatizing Business Units
5. Handing Over Infrastructure to Line Agencies
6. Strengthening Natural Resource Management
7. Irrigation Rehabilitation and Improvement
8. Fiscal Impact of MASL Restructuring/Reengineering Program
C. Other
i. Sri Lanka - Mahaweli Restructuring Project, Interim Preparation Mission, Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations, Rome, Investment Center, FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Program (Report. No. 17/93 CP-SRL 49 - Date: 08.02.1993).
2. Technical Cooperation Programme, "Preparation of Mahaweli Restructuring Project - Sri Lanka," Terminal
Statement prepared for the Govermnent of Sri Lanka by Food and Agriculture Organization of the
United Nations, Rome, 1993.
3. "Report on the Reengineering/Reorganization of the Mahaweli Authority of Sri Lanka," prepared by Gary
R. Napier, Senior Project Manager, James R. Russell, Manager, Quality Assurance, Cletus B. Walles,
Project Official - Foreign Affairs, Tennessee Valley Authority, Knoxville, Tennessee, January 1996.
4. "Final Report on Special Assistance for Project Sustainability (SAPS) on Mahaweli Ganga Development
Project (System "C")," January 1996, SAPS Team for the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund,
Japan (OECF).
5. "Workforce Analysis Study and Staffing Plan for the Mahaweli Authority of Sri Lanka," Tennessee Valley
Authority, Knoxville, Tennessee, USA, February 1997, Volume I and Volume II (Tabular Data)
6. "Technical Report and Implementation Plans," Ministry of Mahaweli Development, Mahaweli Authority of
Sri Lanka, June 1997.
*Including electronic files.



Status of Bank Group Operations in Sri Lanka
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                     and actual
Loan or    Fiscal                                                                                                          disbursements a/
Project ID      Credit       Year      Borrower              Purpose
No.                                                             IBRD        IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed             Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 72
Active Loans
LK-PE-10525    IDA30140       1998      GOSL          GENERAL EDUCATION II            0.00       70.30            0.00          69.48            0.00           0.00
LK-PE-10498    IDA29380       1997      GOSL          ENERGY SERVICES DLVY            0.00       24.20            0.00          22.09            1.81           0.00
LK-PE-10513    IDAN0140       1997      GOSL          ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION            0.00       14.80            0.00          13.12              .56          0.00
LK-PE-10526    IDA29280       1997      GOSL          HEALTH SERVICES DEV             0.00       18.80            0.00          17.33            3.28           0.00
LK-PE-10517    IDA28800       1996      GOSL          PVT SECT INFRAS DEV             0.00       77.00            0.00          70.80           10.44           0.00        CD
LK-PE-42263    IDA28370       1996      GOSL          TELECOM REG & PUBL..            0.00       15.00            0.00          11.54            3.93           0.00        a
LK-PE-42266    IDA28810       1996      GOSL          TEACH ED &DEPLOYMENT            0.00       64.10            0.00          57.61            1.92           0.00        0
LK-PE-10467    IDA27570       1995      GOSL          COL. ENV. IMPROV.               0.00       39.00            0.00          28.36            9.19           0.00        F*t
LK-PE-10409    IDA24420       1993      GOSL          COMMUNITY WAT SUPP/S            0.00       24.30            0.00           4.15            2.18           0.00        t   5
LK-PE-10419    IDA24840       1993      GOSL          PRIVATE FINANCE DEVE            0.00       60.00            0.00           7.05            2.10           0.00        C 
LK-PE-10420    IDA24950       1993      GOSL         COLOMBO URB TRANSPOR             0.00       20.00            0.00           8.87            8.64           0.00             CD
LK-PE-10386    IDA22970       1992      GOSL          POWER DISTRIBUTION              0.00       50.00            0.00          26.95           24.57           0.00
LK-PE-10398    IDA23800       1992      GOSL          SECOND AGRIC.EXTENSI            0.00       14.34            0.00           7.66            2.66           0.00        C
LK-PE-10363    IDA21830       1991      GSL           3RD ROADS                       0.00       42.50            0.00           7.35            6.22           0.00
LK-PE-10373    IDA22490       1991      GOSL/CEB    TELECOMS. II                      0.00       57.00            0.00          23.02           24.32          24.32
LK-PE-10378    IDA22600       1991      GOSL          IRRIG. REHAB.                   0.00       29.60            4.93           7.01            9.50           -.64        t:
Q
Total                                                                                 0.00      620.94            4.93         382.39          111.32          23.68
CD
Active Loans          Closed Loans             Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                   218.48             1,476.32             1,694.80
of which has been repaid:                     0.00               172.97               172.97
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                   616.01             1,260.05             1,876.06
Amount sold                      :                   0.00                 3. 59                3 .59
Of which repaid               :                  0.00                  3.59                 3.59
Total Undisbursed                :                382.39                 11.04               393.43
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary {Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance
(ARPP), a letter based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory) : see proposed
Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)                                                                                                                                     CD
2/25/98



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 40
Sri Lanka - Manaweli Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project                                     Annex 9
Sri Lanka
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31-Jan-98
(In US Dollar Millions).
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1980/84/85/96         Lanka Orix             10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1981                  Lanka Hotels            0.00     .64    0.00    0.00    0.00      .64    0.00    0.00
1988/95               Union Assurance         0.00     .98    0.00    0.00    0.00      .98    0.00    0.00
1992                  CKN Fund Mgmt.          0.00     .06    0.00    0.00    0.00      .06    0.00    0.00
1992                  Pyramid Trust           0.00     .25    0.00    0.00    0.00      .25    0.00    0.00
1996/97               Asia Power             10.00    2.27    0.00   10.00    7.25    2.27    0.00    7.25
1997                  Packages Lanka          0.00    1.11    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.11    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                   20.00    5.31    0.00   10.00    9.25    5.31    0.00    7.25
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equiy   Quasi  Partic
1996                  ASIA POWER              0.00    0.00    2.50    0.00
1997                  LOFAC                   1.50     .26    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:           1.50     .26    2.50    0.00



Page 41
Annex 10
Sri Lanka at a Glance                                            8128/97
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                    Sri -South    Low-
Lanka-    Asla -income'   Developmentdiamond.
Population mid-199.6 (milfions)                      18.3     1,264    3>229                L
GNP per capita 1996 fUS$)                             740       380      500
GNP 1996 (biJlions VS$)                              13.,6    481    1,601
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                        1.3       119      17       GNP                            G
Laborforce (%                                         20        21       17r
per                           priMary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                           capita                     enrollent
Poverty: headcount irndex (% ofpopulaton)              22
Urban population ( oftotalpopufation)                 22        26       29
Life expectancy at birth (yeers)                       72        61       63
Infant mortality (per 1,00 live births)                16        75       69               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (%ofchildren under5)                38         .
Access to safe water(% ofpopulatin).                   57        63       53
Illiteracy(%of po,oulati5nage15+)                      10        50       34              Sn Lanka
Gross primary enroliment (% ofschoo/-age popuration)  105        98    -105   .            Low-income
Male                                               106        110     112                Lo-noegrouip
Female                                             104         87       98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975    1985       1995    1996
Economic ratios'
GDP (billions US$).                          3.8      6C0      12.9     14-0
Gross domestic investmentlGDP               15.6    22.2       25 7     24.2             Openness of economy
Exports of goods and services/GDP           27.5    260.       35.9
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   81      10.2      153      15,5
Gross national savings/GDP                   S7      15.5      19.8    19.9                       A
Current account balance/GDP                  -2.9    -70      -5.0      -3.9 
Interest payments/GDP                        0.5      1;9       2.1      16      Savings                     Investment
Total debtlGDP                              21.5    592       . 49.6    45.2
Total debt service/exports                  26.1    16.5        7.3
Present value of debt/GDP                                      43.1
Present value of debtlexports             .;            .      99,5        .                  Indebtedness
1975-85  188-596    1885      1996 1997-05
(average annual growth)                                -,Sn Lanka
GDP                                 5.3      4 6      5.5       3.7      4.9               Low-income group
GNP per capita                      3.7      3.0      4.4       1.8      3.7
Exports of goods and services       47       93      11.5       8.7      7.2 ' '
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975    1985       1995    1996       Growth rates of outputand investment(%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                 30.4    27.7       23.0    22.4    15-
Industry                                    26.4    26.2       25.1    25.2    10 t
Manufacturing                             20.1    14.7        157      162
Services                                    43.2    46.1       51.9    52.4 
Private consumption                         82.6    79.5       72.9                     91   92   93   94   95   96
General government consumption               9.3    10.2       11.8        ,               .wwGDI
Imports of goods and services               35.0    38.0       46.3       ..
1975-85  1986-96     1995    1996
(average annual growth)                                                          Growth rates of exports and imports 1%)
Agriculture                                  4.3      2.1       3.3    -4.6    15-
Industry                                     5.1      5 7       7.7      6 0
Manufacturing                               4.3     7.8        9.2      6.5    10
Services                                     6.6      5.1       5.1      5 8 
Private consumption                          6.1      4.4       7,1        ..     ao- J_   _ l    l    l    l
General government consumption               5.2      3.7      -1.1        .1    92   93   94   95 94
Gross domestic investment                   12.5      2.6       0.5        .      4
Imports of goods and services               132       6.1       6.0      6.4               -rExports   -4l,ports
Gross national product                       5.4      4.3       5.9      3.1
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                           Page 42
Sri Lanka, - Manaweli Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project                                                                    Annex  10
Sn Lanka
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975    t186      1995    1996       nfion
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                    30.
Consumer prices                             6.6     1.5      11,5    16.8    20 L
Implicit GOP deflator                      5.4      0.6       8.4    12.1
10 .         _w
Government flnance
(% of GDP)                                                                     0
Current revenue                              ..    22.3      20.7    20.3            91   92   93   94   95   95
Current budget balance                       ..     2.2      -2.0    -2.4               -'GDP def. +.cPI
Overall surplus/deficit                      ..   -11.7    -10.1    -9.5
TRADE
1975    1986      1996    199       ExportandImportlevels(mill US$)
(millions US$)
Total exports (fob)                          ..   1,333     3,798    4,097     6,000
Tea                                         ..    442       480      616
Other agricultural goods                   ..      94       348     346                               i
Manufactures                               ..    233      2,854    2,991
Total imports (cif)                          .,   1,948     5,312    5,416                        J  J
Food                                       ..     217       721     801      2,000
Fuel and energy                             .     404       321     324
Capital goods                               ..    382     1,188    1,202       0  m
Export price index (19871=00)               ..       96      121      124           go  91  92  93  94  95  99
Import price index (1987=100)               ..       86      155      160                 aExports   wlmports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                    ,,    111         78      78
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975    1986      1996    1996
(millions US$)                                                                 Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services              632    1,561     4,841    5,039
Imports of goods and services              804    2,296     6,064    6,209
Resource balance                          -172    -734    -1,223   -1,170    -2
Net income                                 -18    -127      -277    -248
Net current transfers                       80      443      853      869     -
Current account balance,
before official capital transfers        -110    -419      -647    -549    -6
Financing items (net)                       84      304      632      562
Changes in net reserves                     26      115       15      -13    4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)         57      472     2,066    2,011
Conversion rate (1cca11US$)                7.0    27.2       51.3    55.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986      1996    1996
(milions US$| Compositon oftotal debt, 1996 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       815    3,540     6,407    6,346
IBRD                                      36       61       49       40                   G   A
IDA                                       39      397     1,463    1,516             F   535  40     B
Total debt service                         169      320      608      704
IBRD                                                         2O
IDA                                        0        3       19       20
Composition of net resource flows                                                                         595
Official grants                           56      151      174
Official creditors                        61      297      317                                         D
Private crediors                         -22       44       15                                        -581
Foreign direct investment                  0       26       63
Portfolio equity                           0        0       61        ..              3627
World Bank program
Commitments                               30      137       39      156      A- IBRD                   E- ilateral
Disbursements                             19       79      106      104      B-IDA    D-OthermulClateral  F-Pnivate
Principal repayments                       3        5       15       16      C-IMF                     G-Short-term
Net flows                                 16       74       92       88   1                          _
Interest payments                          3        8       16       15
Net transfers                             14       66       76       73
Development Economics                                                                                        8/28197



'                      ao                                                           El   o                                                          '
SRI LANKA
MAHAWELI RESTRUCTURING AND
REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT AREA (SYSTEM H)
MAHIAWRS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREAS
',,   )                                                        WALAWE AREA ADMINISTERED BY
/          T 1                                                             MAHAWEL AUTHORITY OF SRI LANKA
/   K, I,ocnch                                                              NATIJRE RESFRVES
/    POWER STATIONS
g   21   MulIouffru            0    TOWNS
    NATIOtIAL CAPITAL
NORTH    N                                                          -    MAIN ROADS
PRO VIN                                                             '   RAILROADS
K J   g                                                 RIVERS
WATER CONVEYING TUNNELS
_onrior Q   < ,RESERVOIRS
S    IS   20   TO   AO   50
L             I       I
kiLOMETERS
. 4 ., .- X ~~CE NT  AL                           y          '       E rincornole
8                                                                                                                                          8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
.  Nochclyagemy//I/H  \M/H                             _<
8                                                                                               W~~~.i..d. ;S,,dhh..  ......... f
EASTERN                 Rtn6
7~ ~ , -                                                                                                                                              7   
PROVINCE               S     &/jUW___
- ,                         R0- (NC           CENTRAL(
WES [-f         -                      u4*^/,
<C          ro  PROPROVINCE             U VVNA
7 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
7 ~ ~ ~ \    WESTERd Roo COO, oo lAon  7ROv'l
6' ~ ~   ~ ~ \                               ' noOoMnlnocnp'unn(         /.
\E ph OVINCEO ;NC
p  Snnn                                                       N
TT                           Mlo                             51 .
lh,   ~1                                          J            '\ f 
hes~~~~~~~8 msp. dsnfIpi rtc seo



IBRD 288]I
To A--rdh.p-r
SRI LANKA
MAHAWELI RESTRUCTURING AND
REHABILITATION PROJECT
SYSTEM-H
ROADS
ANURADHAPURA                                                              RALROADS
\/   {/ /1,   Pahalp oma~  2   \\>   DISTRICT               I        RESERVOIRS
STREAMJS
/   <.$    6  <     /1\  tN. C . P.                                EMBANKMENTS
MAIN CANALS
To PuE#sJlam   ;   \   \ ,,  ,~t   \4//   ,.sX    J    ,>                BRANCH CANALS
TW ::, y:-                                                                               C ''  9 0\ < )  Thambuttegamus>,   / Eppaw2\   _  TOWNSH PS
t              ( <.   ./   /)_  /   0 !                   Q              (                                                         SETTLED AREAS OLD)
/                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT BOUNDARY
-------- BLOCK BOUNDARY
PROVINCE BOUENDARIES
S~~~~~~eg ow                                    Gon  o x :                                 Kenirown  0  > :  i>>
DISTRICT                                                                                                       / 
N. W. p.                                                                                                                       I
gSDMeegalewa ~ ~ ~~~G                                                  K.~g< g_?4K ki,.wa
nOPnRSEES~~t                                                               \\I\ \
INDIA                                                                                                                                  \    I R  A     ,et nA
O   T   2   7   4   5                                                                       .                   '1        ) 
KC LOMiETERS R S        ,
M^ALDIVES                  -                   bsmp whi  Y pJ-c b,bth ,uu ,.g LI- ;Tix ol`, -he     P-S B k                                                    .     j         } 
S RI                    The        -6,eures   ----lo-s    -,oslClol  on    yte,i -Zaso  r,.
COLOMBO* ' AudN KnA  _nAcAAa; or _y                                                                                                                                  MATALE DISTRICT
BOUNDARY    as C                                                                                                                                                                   CF. P
_I|           I                                                                                                                                                                       FEB"LARE   199P



