                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                     Report No: 28927-IN

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                   (TF-26603 IDA-30580 PPFI-Q0070)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$57.0 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                       DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

                                                 FOR A

                MAHAWELI RESTRUCTURING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT




                                              May 10, 2004




Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective
             At Appraisal (Nov. 1997): US$1.00 = Rs59.1
         Completion Year (November 2003): US$1.00 = Rs96
                     Intermediate years as follows:
1998, Rs65; 1999, Rs71; 2000, Rs74; 2001, Rs86; 2002, Rs101 per US$1)

                       Currency Unit = Rupees (LKR)

                             FISCAL YEAR
                      January 1     to December 31

               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB            Asian Development Bank
AMDP           Accelerated Mahaweli Development Program
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CDD            Community-Driven Development
CDLIP          Community Development and Livelihood Improvement "Gemi Diriya" Project
CEB            Ceylon Electricity Board
DCFO           Distributary Canal Farmers' Organization
DSEC           Dam Safety Excellence Center
D&F Canal      Distributary and Field Canal
EU             European Union
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP         Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank Cooperative Program
FO             Farmers' Organization
GOSL           Government of Sri Lanka ICB International Competitive Bidding
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
ID             Irrigation Department
IDA            International Development Association
I-NWRA         Interim National Water Resources Authority
IWRM           Integrated Water Resources Management
KOBP           Kala Oya Basin Plan
MASL           Mahaweli Authority of Sri Lanka
MASL Act       Mahaweli Authority of Sri Lanka Act 23 of 1979.
MFP            Ministry of Finance and Planning
MECA           Mahaweli Engineering and Construction Company
MMD            Ministry of Mahaweli Development
ME&L           Monitoring, Evaluation and Learning
MOF            Ministry of Finance
MOIWM          Ministry of Irrigation and Water Management
MRRP           Mahaweli Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project
MRWMA          Mahaweli Regional Water Management Authority
MRRP           Mahaweli Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project
MTR            Mid-Term Review
NCB            National Competitive Bidding
NGOs           Non governmental Organizations NPV Net Present Value
NWRA           National Water Resources Authority (and also NWR Act)
OECD           Organization for Economic Corporation and Development
OMS 2.8        Operational Manual Statement 2.8
O&M            Operation and Maintenance
QAG            Quality Assurance Group

Project ID   Project Identification number
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PCD          Project Concept Document
PDO          Project Development Objective
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
POP          Project Operation Plan
PRSC         Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
PSR          Project Status Report
RBM          River-Basin Management
RBMA         River-Basin Management Agency
RBO          River-Basin Organization
Rs           Sri Lanka Rupees
RWRMA        Regional Water Resources Management Agency
SASRD        South Asia Rural Development Sector Unit of the World Bank
SDR          Special Drawing Rights
TA           Technical Assistance
TL           Task Leader
TP           Transitional Plan
TVA          Tennessee Valley Authority
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
US$          United States Dollar
VESP         Voluntary Early Separation Package
VSHLI        Village Self-Help Learning Initiative
WB           World Bank


                  Vice President:      Praful C. Patel
               Country Director:       Peter C. Harrold
                 Sector Manager:       Gajanand Pathmanathan
             Task Team Leader:         Nihal Fernando

                                         SRI LANKA
        MAHAWELI RESTRUCTURING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             35
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                36
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            37

Project ID: P034212                                                  Project Name: MAHAWELI RESTRUCTURI
Team Leader: Nihal Fernando                                          TL Unit: SASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: May 10, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: MAHAWELI RESTRUCTURI                                     L/C/TF Number: TF-26603; IDA-30580;
                                                                                                     PPFI-Q0070
   Country/Department: SRI LANKA                                                          Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Irrigation and drainage (60%); Sub-national government
                            administration (36%); Other social services (4%)
                  Theme: Administrative and civil service reform (P); Environmental policies
                            and institutions (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P); Rural
                            policies and institutions (P); State enterprise/bank restructuring and
                            privatization (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/25/1992                                     Effective: 06/01/1998                06/23/1998
     Appraisal: 04/15/1996                                         MTR: 06/01/2000                  01/17/2000
      Approval: 04/14/1998                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOSL/MAHA.AUTH.OFSL(MASL
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Meiko Nishimuzu
Country Director:               Peter C. Harrold                               Roberto Bentjeordt
Sector Manager/Director:        Gajanand Pathmanthan                           Ridwan ali
Team Leader at ICR:             Nihal Fernando                                 Douglas W. Lister
ICR Primary Author:             John Weathehogg (FAO); Nihal
                                Fernando (World Bank)


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

3.1.1   The primary project objective was to shift the focus of the Mahaweli Authority of Sri
Lanka (MASL) from project implementation to river basin management. A secondary objective
was to improve agricultural productivity through rehabilitation, improvement and better O&M of
the irrigation facilities in System H, which is the first irrigation distribution system constructed in
the 1970s under the Accelerated Mahaweli Development Program (AMDP), which is the largest
river basin development program ever undertaken in the country.

3.2 Revised Objective:

3.2.1   The objectives were further focused and elaborated at the first Mid-Term Review (MTR)
of the project in January 2000. The restated primary project development objective (primary
PDO) was the "transformation of MASL into a RBMA whose primary mission is to ensure
productive and sustainable use and management of the water and land resources of the whole
Mahaweli and adjoining connected water basins." This primary PDO was further elaborated by
adding a directly related secondary objective for MASL "to take the lead in planning, developing
and managing in a participatory manner, current and remaining economic water resource
development opportunities in the Mahaweli and adjoining connected river basins, fully
integrating    environmental,     social,  economic,      technical    and    resource   sustainability
considerations." T he secondary project development objective, which concerned the
rehabilitation of System H, was restated as "increasing farm production and income by
transforming System H into a more productive, commercially oriented production system, less
dependent on government assistance." These changes were intended to sharpen the focus and
clarity of the primary PDOs, and the rephrased objectives were consistent with the integrated
water resources management principles and norms that were being pursued by the government in
seeking revisions to the water sector policy and the associated legislative framework. The revised
PDOs remained unchanged throughout the implementation.

3.2.2   The first MTR substantially changed the target indicators for the primary PDO. The first
pair of new indicators referred to establishing a river basin management secretariat, preparation of
its plan of work, and preparation of a Mahaweli river basin plan approved by the government. The
second pair of indicators referred to the preparation of an internally agreed TP for MASL and its
approval by the government. The TP would, among other things, be a concise statement of
government policy on the role and functions of MASL, and its adoption by the government was
expected to be a primary project outcome. In addition to the TP, in November 2003, the Bank
and the government agreed on two other time-bound milestones, which were considered
necessary for achieving the primary PDO successfully.            These included the approval of the
National Water Policy and National Water Resources Act by the government and approval of the
pilot Kala Oya Basin Plan (KOBP) by both MASL and the I-NWRA.

3.3 Original Components:

3.3.1   The two project objectives were to be attained through implementation of two
components. The first, Component (A), i.e., the Institutional Component, was directly linked to



                                                 - 2 -

the primary objective and included funds, inter alia, to right-size MASL through reduction in
MASL staff numbers through a Voluntary Early Separation Package (VESP). This was originally
expected to allow for a target 35% overall staff reduction, as well as for staff
retraining/redeployment. In addition,      Component A included support for privatization of
commercially nonviable MASL business units; handover of nonirrigation infrastructure to
appropriate line agencies; strengthening farmers' organizations (FOs) in all Mahaweli systems and
handing over distributary and field (D&F) canals to Distributary Canal Farmers' Organizations
(DCFOs); provision of training and other support to help DCFOs to be more self-reliant and able
to participate at system management and undertake O&M of D&F systems and drains; and natural
resources management. The second, Component (B), i.e., the Irrigation Rehabilitation and
Improvement in System H Component, which was linked with the secondary objective, included
rehabilitation and improvement to the irrigation infrastructure and the eventual handover of O&M
of the MASL-managed irrigation systems to farmers groups formed prinicipally for this purpose.

3.4 Revised Components:

3.4.1    At the first MTR (January 2000) two new components C and D were added. Component
C, i.e., Village Self-Help Learning Initiative (VSHLI) was intended to be a pilot initiative to test
community-driven development (CDD) approaches for rural poverty reduction in a small number
of villages in the Mahaweli and adjoining areas. The objective of the Dam Safety Component
(Component D) was to improve the dam safety assurance capacity of the three national dam
caretaker agencies--MASL, Irrigation Department (ID) and Ceylon Electricity Board
(CEB)--through: a) reviewing and improving dam safety O&M procedures and practices for
selected dams and associated hydraulic structures; b) carrying out a structured training program
of dam safety for O&M staff; c) institutionalizing a Dam Safety Inspectorate at national level; and
d) producing an action plan addressing dam safety and reservoir conservation management.

3.4.2    Following the second MTR in June 2002, in the context of the project's problem status
and at the request of the Ministry of Finance, the project was restructured by transferring SDR
3.8 million (Approximately US$5.3 million) to a new component of the Credit (Part Z), which
was to finance resettlement of conflict-affected persons in the North and East of Sri Lanka under
the IDA-financed North-East Emergency Reconstruction Project. The Development Credit
Agreement was subsequently amended reflecting this transfer. The Part Z of the Credit will be
effective until June 2005 while all other components of the Credit were closed on December 31,
2003 as originally scheduled. Therefore, the Part Z component is not evaluated in this ICR. It will
be evaluated later after its closure.


3.5 Quality at Entry:

3.5.1    The project was conceived in 1991 as the Mahaweli Consolidation Project mainly focusing
on irrigation rehabilitation with support for rationalization or restructuring of MASL, which had
just completed the implementation of the AMDP.            In the five years from production of a
Technical Preparation Report by the Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Program
(FAO/CP) in February 1993 to Credit negotiations and Board presentation in 1998, there was a
continued dialogue between WB and the Government of Sri Lanka. The Bank worked closely



                                                - 3 -

with the government, including MASL, and the donor community on building consensus on the
future mission and shape of MASL and how to achieve it. Shortly after the FAO/CP report was
issued in 1993, the Bank facilitated discussions with the senior management of MASL on the need
to reform MASL in view of the country's growing budget deficit. Despite strong support from the
Ministry of Finance and Planning, MASL was initially reluctant to move away from the
state-dominated approach to development and its construction orientation. In 1995, however, at
the Bank's suggestion, MASL sought the technical assistance (TA) of the Tennessee Valley
Authority (TVA) in the design of a restructuring program for MASL. In 1996, the stakeholders,
including key MASL staff, were sensitized to the serious fiscal and policy issues involved in the
MASL's institutional setting, through a series of national workshops. Efforts were also made by
the Bank to bring key donors on Board such as Organization for Economic Corporation and
Development (OECD), the leading donor for Mahaweli programs at that time, as well as the
Asian Development Bank (ADB), United States Agency for International Development (USAID)
and European Union (EU).

3.5.2   As a result of this process, in 1996, MASL demonstrated its commitment to restructure
and prepared an acceptable institutional restructuring program. Further IDA-financed additional
TA from TVA in 1996-97 enabled MASL to prepare a detailed restructuring action plan for the
5-year life of the project, including: staff "rightsizing" and retraining/redeployment;
privatizing/commercializing MASL's nonviable business activities; handling over MASL-built
infrastructure to line agencies; and strengthening natural resources management capabilities. As a
result, much greater emphasis was given in the project design not only to reforming MASL, but in
changing it from a construction agency into an agency for managing water resources in an
integrated manner adopting river-basin management principles.

3.5.3   The design and objectives of the project were in line with government policies for reform
of public-sector entities, water-resources management and participatory irrigation management,
and with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goals. Although the project design had
its innovative aspects, it also had some weaknesses: (a) At the time of the project design, the
development and formulation of an enabling policy and legal framework for water-resources
management was being supported and promoted as a part of parallel TA being provided by the
ADB. But the primary PDO and expected institutional outcomes were not strongly linked to the
evolving water sector policy and legal framework. The design also did not include strategic
management arrangements to lever the MASL reform process, for example, through partnerships
and close coordination with the ADB and the government stakeholders, particularly the National
Water Resources Council that was leading the policy and legal reform process. However, this
partnership was initiated later at the first MTR in June 2000; (b) the original design of the staff
"right-sizing" was inadequate to manage the organizational change strategically and implement
the voluntary early separation package (VESP) in a selective way so that the skilled staff required
for MASL's envisaged future role--both as a river-basin management authority and the
implementing agency for the project itself as well as other ongoing activities-- could be retained;
(c) lack of emphasis in the original design to promote agricultural development so as to capitalize
on the improved irrigation infrastructure (this was corrected at the first MTR, and became an
important outcome of the project); and d) the 5-year project implementation period was
unrealistically short for a project involving complex institutional change and culture.



                                                - 4 -

3.5.4   The Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG) in January 1999 rated quality at entry as
satisfactory and commented: "Since the early 1970s the Mahaweli Development Program has
been the centerpiece of the government's overall development program, receiving strong
political support from the government at the highest level. It has preempted a major slice of the
country's development budget and donors' aid funding and questions have often been raised as
to its justification. We (QAG) commend the Bank staff for taking a fresh approach to the
Mahaweli Development Program for their willingness to squarely address political and socially
sensitive issues and for their perseverance over the years in continuing to process the project
despite the many obstacles and frustrations they encountered." Therefore, this was a very
important strategic operation for Sri Lanka, which was also recognized from the outset by all
stakeholders to be extremely difficult, given the vested interests involved.

3.5.5   Overall, the design of the project addressed the Bank's safeguard policies and from 2000
included a national dam safety component (Component D). Design of the System H Rehabilitation
(Component B) was based on the well-advanced preparation at the appraisal. The project design
complied with the Bank's OMS 2.28 that the procurement for the first 2 years' civil works
program was ready to start.

3.5.6   Considering the QAG rating, the strategic and lead role played by the Bank in facilitating
and triggering an important institutional transformation in the water sector that was consistent
with the government vision, and the satisfactory compliance with the Bank's policies, norms and
standards, the overall quality at entry is rated satisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

4.1.1  Of the milestones/outcome indicators mentioned in paragraph 3.2.2, the TP of the MASL
was approved by the Cabinet in July 2003 and the draft final KOBP had been prepared by the
Credit Closure. The Draft National Water Resources Act had been under preparation by Interim
National Water Resources Authority (I-NWRA) but not tabled in Parliament. Without this Act in
place, the MASL transformation, river basin planning process and the formation of river-basin
committees and river basin organizations (RBOs) have no legal standing, unless the government
decided to amend Mahaweli Authority of Sri Lanka Act (MASL Act no. 23 of 1979). The
commitment of the government above MASL and the Ministry of Irrigation and Water
Management (MIOWM) to reforming the legal framework and undertaking MASL transformation
was strong, but there was a high degree of uncertainty on the time frame for completing the
reforms.

4.1.2     As indicated in paragraph 4.2.3, the project achieved satisfactory outcomes under
Component B. The outcomes show the potential of System H to become a model of farmer
water-user groups and federations, which might be suitable for replication within the rest of the
Mahaweli basin and in other irrigated areas of Sri Lanka. The outcomes of Dam Safety
Component (D) are also rated satisfactory as indicated in paragraph 4.2.7. It not only initiated
dam safety assurance capacity building but an increased awareness on the need to address dam



                                                  - 5 -

safety as a national priority. The VSHLI component (C) has not been rated in this ICR as it is still
continuing using retroactive financing of the proposed Community Development and Livelihood
Improvement, (Gemi Diriy) project (CDLIP). The concept is new to Sri Lanka and its short-term
outcomes encouraged the government and the Bank to scale up its CDD approach for rural
poverty reduction in the two most poverty-affected districts (Badulla and Moneragala) through
the proposed CDLIP.

4.1.3     While some of the milestones under Component A, which is directly related to the
achievement of the primary PDO, have been reached with significant delay, the sustainability of
the changes is uncertain given the uncertainty about the completion of the reform process and
other project outcomes at the time of the implementation completion reporting (section 6). The
overall outcome rating of the project is based on attaching higher weight to the achievement of
the project's PDO (Component A) of transforming MASL into a river-basin management agency
and its sustainability outlook at the time of evaluation, and is therefore rated "unsatisfactory".


4.2 Outputs by components:

4.2.1.  A. Institutional Restructuring Component. Encouraged by the time-bound covenants, the
implementation of VESP component took off quickly. The VESP was implemented rapidly after
negotiations with the staff trade unions and it provided equal right to all MASL staff to take the
VESP. This rapid implementation approach left insufficient time for senior management and staff
of MASL to reach consensus on the mission, functions and activities of the future RBMA and to
tailor the VESP to retain skills and staff required to equip the future RBMA to fulfill its mission
and functions. Consequently, the VESP resulted in a massive reduction in MASL core skills and
experienced staff. Staff numbers halved in the first year of the project, while over the whole
project period some 6,300 staff or about 57% of the total preproject staff were separated. This
sharp decline in staff and the poor matching of the staff skills retained for future needs had
adverse consequences. The implementation guidance expected at appraisal through the creation of
an International Panel of Experts and formation of a High-Level Project Steering Committee
never materialized, nor was early technical assistance from an international river basin expert well
used by MASL. The consequences of VESP affected the quality and progress of subsequent
project-related activities, including the establishment of a River-Basin Management Unit (RBMU)
within MASL and preparation of pilot basin plans.

4.2.2.  The handing over of nonirrigation infrastructure to relevant line agencies has been
completed in part. Budgetary allocations have been made to the provincial councils for O&M of
the handed-over assets and facilities The Commercialization of seven business units of MASL has
stalled due to the lack of commitment and readiness of MASL. The original design envisaged
time-bound milestones for handing over of O&M to DCFOs in all Mahaweli systems, but the
actual implementation focused only on System H. It was only in the last 2 years that some
tangible natural resources management activities were initiated by the MASL. Considering the
above situation, the overall outcome of this component is rated "unsatisfactory."

4.2.3.  B. Irrigation Rehabilitation and Improvement in System H. This component has been
generally smoothly and efficiently implemented and has achieved its physical and institutional


                                                  - 6 -

targets and outcomes satisfactorily. The project initiated and established the practice of water
allocation, delivery and measurements on the basis of bulk water volumes in System H. This has
resulted in better discipline in water management and increased irrigation intensities. The more
assured irrigation water supply resulting from system rehabilitation has reduced the cultivation
risks and induced the farmers to shift to higher-value dry-season crops. As a result of institutional
strengthening of FOs, and transfer of water management and O&M responsibilities for D&F
systems to DCFOs, farmers are now actively involved in the decision making of all water
management, agriculture and related O&M. Significant O&M savings have been achieved by
MASL by handing over the management of the secondary and tertiary irrigation infrastructure to
DCFOs. Other major achievements include a general acceptance by the DCFOs to pay
maintenance fees; federation of DCFOs at branch canal and Block levels; collection of O&M fees
by DCFOs and management by the O&M funds by federations, and increased mobility and access
to farms and markets, through improved canal-side roads.

4.2.4.    The net irrigated area improved and partly modernized is about 28,790 hectares of which
85 % has been successfully turned over to FOs, against 31,500 hectares envisaged at appraisal.
The balance area was covered by an ADB-funded irrigation rehabilitation project. The command area is covered by
260 DCFOs (of which 10 are in the ADB rehabilitated area) and of these 204 have been handed over by the project,
plus the 10 in the ADB area. Most of the civil works have been successfully completed as planned.
These improvement works will result in: a) extension of the useful life of System H; b) reduction
of leakages and seepage through canals (i.e., through selective canal lining); and c) increased
water use availability and efficiency in the two annual cultivation seasons (maha/yala) to facilitate
rotational water supply through improved tertiary works. This component contributed to the more
efficient use of surface-water resources and has advanced the concepts of water-basin resources
management by increasing awareness of the need for a well-developed bulk water-allocation
mechanism and providing systematic training to DCFOs. There has been significant progress on
technical aspects. Irrigation water-measuring devices are operational and used to monitor and
manage irrigation water supplies jointly by FOs and MASL. The outcome of this component is
"satisfactory".

4.2.5.   Agricultural development. The agriculture subcomponent commenced half way through
the implementation in 2001, but has nevertheless complemented the improved irrigation
infrastructure and provided effective support to FOs, both directly through institution building and
indirectly by its impact on water productivity and farm incomes. Most of the impact appears to be
due to extension of new crop technology to farmers to enable them to effectively utilize additional
water supplies made available in the yala season through increased system efficiency. However,
the expansion of crop diversity has also been assisted by direct interventions involving the
facilitation of linkages between DCFOs and buyers of agricultural commodities, both for domestic
and export markets. This type of linkage would have been previously difficult if not impossible
between an individual one hectare farmer and a private buyer, but it has been encouraged by the
DCFO groupings. As a result, System H is developing a reputation as a reliable source of
year-round supply of a range of vegetables, grain and fruit crops. Expansion of market
opportunities and an increased cropping index have increased incomes by more than 30% and
allowed farmers to contribute willingly to system maintenance. The outcome of this component is
"satisfactory."



                                                    - 7 -

4.2.6.    Training and skill development.        The project accomplished a satisfactory training
program in quantity as well as quality covering primarily irrigation management, farmer
institutional development, river-basin management and dam-safety aspects. Training activities
relating directly to the irrigation rehabilitation component included workshops on participatory
irrigation management, irrigation O&M, hydraulic survey and design, construction quality
supervision and project management. The training has raised awareness among MASL staff of
the need to move towards participatory management of irrigation schemes in partnership with
DCFOs and NGOs. Less specialized training provided for MASL staff through overseas study
tours appears to have been not as successful. Selected engineers were provided limited but useful
training under the Dam Safety Component. Workshops and awareness building activities
associated with the KOBP and involving all the stakeholders have had a beneficial impact on the
basin plan preparation. The outcome is "satisfactory."

4.2.7.   D. Dam safety component. The component has achieved the objectives of reviewing and
improving O&M practices, carrying out a structured training program of O&M staff and
providing TA to assist MASL to produce an action plan addressing dam safety and reservoir
conservation management. In addition, the awareness of the need for improved dam safety
procedures and practices has been instilled into senior managers of the three dam
caretakers--MASL, ID and CEB--and others.              Three out of the four objectives of this
component were successfully accomplished, and the envisaged Dam Safety Inspectorate at
national level has yet to be achieved. Instead, the three dam caretakers have formed a joint Dam
Safety Management and Reservoir Conservation Committee as an interim measure, which could
become the foundation of a national level Dam Safety Inspectorate in future. The committee has
agreed on the need to establish a Dam Safety Excellence Center (DSEC) (instead of Dam Safety
Inspectorate) and developed a Code of Practice for Safe Operation and Maintenance of Dams.
The outcome is "highly satisfactory."

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

4.3.1   As summarized in annex 3, recalculation of the economic return of the project investment
adopted the same approach as in PAD. The quantifiable economic benefits are confined to those
deriving from the increase in agricultural production in System H. Similarly, the investment and
operating costs included are only those concerned with the rehabilitation and improvement of
System H irrigation--both head-works and downstream works--as well as the subcomponent on
Promoting Farmer Sustainability costs and future estimated incremental O&M costs associated
with the system. The economic rate of return (ERR) is calculated at 15% with an NPV at a 12%
discount rate of Rs524 million (US$5.5 million), or virtually identical to the 14% calculated at
appraisal. The sensitivity analysis shows that if the project life is taken as 20 years (rather than the
30 years assumed in the PAD) and the incremental O&M cost is increased to Rs2,400
(US$25)/ha/year the combined effect of these two tests would be to reduce the ERR to about
12%.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

4.4.1.   Financial analysis based on limited survey information indicates an increase in farm family
incomes of around 34% from Rs73,000 (US$760) pre- and without project to about Rs98,000



                                                 - 8 -

(US$1,020) with the project at full development. This result is about the same as the PAD
expectations, which also projected a 34% increase in farm incomes. Return per family labor day
with the project is estimated at around Rs750 (US$7.8), slightly lower than the Rs882 (US$ 9.2)
per day pre- and without project, but still comfortably higher than the casual agricultural labor
market rates of Rs250 (US$2.6) per day for men and Rs175 (US$1.8) per day for women.
Although net farm income before charging family labor has increased, there has also been a
slightly greater proportional increases in the number of family labor days used and therefore return
per family labor day is slightly lower. No information was available from PAD to show what were
estimates of family labor use and therefore no comparison was possible.

4.4.2.  The project's fiscal impact was expected at appraisal to arise from savings as a result of
MASL staff reduction, privatization and transfer of O&M responsibilities to farmers. Savings as a
result of staff reductions are estimated by MASL at around Rs2,500 million or about 35% higher
than the expectations at appraisal. Privatization of MASL's commercial interests is not completed
and there is no estimate of the eventual savings as a result of the enterprises being sold off or
liquidated. Transfer of O&M responsibilities to farmers has moved slower than expected and total
savings are estimated at Rs58 million, or only about 15% of the Rs400 million savings projected
at appraisal. Total savings estimated at Rs2,578 million is about 90% of the PAD forecast (annex
3).


4.5 Institutional development impact:

4.5.1.    The institutional development impact of the project has been discussed in the preceding
paragraphs. The restructuring of the MASL has been continuously delayed. This can probably be
attributed to political resistance, bureaucratic resistance and the unrealistic expectation that a
highly bureaucratic organization could implement and manage its own downsizing and
transformation objectively without strong incentives and oversight. The rehabilitation aspects of
the project were undoubtedly set up to provide such incentives, but were not conditioned upon on
substantial progress in the restructuring and transformation. As a result, most of the rehabilitation
money was disbursed without the desired effect of being an incentive for the restructuring.

4.5.2.  However, there have been limited positive institutional development impacts of the project
too. In retrospect, the reorganization of MASL under the Project by which the River Basin
Management Division was created, and the success of this unit in developing a basin plan, and
mobilizing the basin stakeholders and promoting their participation in the process, were of
decisive importance in sustaining the transformation process within MASL during this long
process of policy debate, providing the first real example in Sri Lanka of river basin planning. The
project helped MASL engages in its own reform process and build awareness, consensus and
skills within MASL to move toward a potential river basin agency, although the process and
outcomes have been slower than the originally envisaged targets. The restructured organizational
structure of the current MASL, with a separate river basin management division, would be a
nucleus to build and expand river basin management functions in future. Also, the formation of
river basin management committee of stakeholders and the establishment of a River Basin
Planning and Management Secretariat at Kala Oya basin are important institutional achievements.
But further progress in institutional development suffers the same lack of any adequate legal basis


                                                 - 9 -

for its constitution and operations. This continues to provide a disincentive to further
restructuring of MASL. It is not possible at this point of time to judge whether the National
Water Resources Act will be passed by Parliament, and the implementation of the Transition Plan
for MASL will be sustained and completed beyond Credit closure.

4.5.3.  The process of transformation of the management and O&M responsibilities to the
DCFOs has progressed in an outstanding manner within the System H component. However,
while the water user associations have been formed in other Mahaweli systems and the transfer
process begun, the users are reticent to accept the responsibility of O&M of systems that have
deteriorated over time due to deferred maintenance by the government. They indicate an inability
to finance the rehabilitation of the systems, but also a willingness to maintain the systems, once
rehabilitated.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

5.1.1   The project was implemented during a difficult time for Sri Lanka, with the ethnic conflict
in the early years of the project prior to February 2002, difficulties of budget stringency and the
political uncertainties associated with the Presidential Election in December 1999 and the two
Parliamentary Elections in October 2000 and December 2001. Strong pressure by NGOs and
some national media in March 2000 led the government to shelving its draft water policy and
associated legislation, a process that was restarted after December 2001

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

5.2.1   The rapid reduction of MASL staffing as a result of the implementation of the VESP with
inadequate provision for retention of staff skills appropriate for subsequent project
implementation adversely affected subsequent project activities. High level GOSL commitment
(Ministry of Finance) to the overall aims of the project was not adequately brought to bear in
supporting MASL as well as MMD in the early stages and MIOWM later in the transformation
process and protecting MASL from political pressures. When the NGOs and media opposed the
Draft Water Act, Government should have engaged in a constructive debate and dialogue with
them than simply shelving it. The monitoring and guidance of the Ministry of Finance to
MMD/MIOWM for the planning and implementation of both VESP and Commercialization of
MASL business units was inadequate. For the more straight-forward rehabilitation component
GOSL performance was satisfactory in maintaining its commitment to the component and
maintaining adequate flow of counterpart funds, despite the budget stringency situation. Despite
this, the budgetary allocations for O&M of the main systems has generally fallen below
requirements, even allowing for the fact that parts of the systems are newly rehabilitated.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

5.3.1   The MASL performance in regard to System H rehabilitation was satisfactory.
Implementation performance of the authority in regard to its own restructuring was less
satisfactory, since MASL was understandably subject to considerable pressures, both internal and
external, many of which were opposed to the project development objective. Without strong



                                                     - 10 -

leadership and support from higher levels of government, the MASL was poorly placed to carry
out implementation of the envisaged organizational reforms under the Institutional Component
(Component A). The overall implementation progress of component A and its subcomponents
could have been significantly improved if necessary authority and guidance with sufficient staff
were given timely by senior management to managers in charge of the tasks.

5.3.2   There was also a lack of adequate coordination following the reallocation of a part of the
credit following the second MTR which resulted in some civil works contracts being awarded
despite the fact that project funds were inadequate due to the transfer. As a result, a number of
small contractors remain unpaid even though they have completed their work, which is an
unsatisfactory situation.       This reflected poor budget and financial control. Monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) by MASL has been adequate in the tracking of implementation progress, but
weak in providing an assessment of the impact on agricultural production and farm incomes, with
a baseline survey finally produced in 2000 and little further follow-up or survey work.

5.4 Costs and financing:

5.4.1   At appraisal, total project costs were estimated at US$74.2 million equivalent including an
IDA credit of SDR 41.7 million or US$57 million equivalent. Following the second MTR in June
2002, SDR 3.8 million (US$5.37 million equivalent) was expected to be cancelled, but at
government request it was allocated for resettlement of conflict-affected families in the north and
east Sri Lanka (Component Z). Including the latter component the actual project costs at credit
closure (end June 2004) are estimated to be US$68.4 million (92% of the PAD estimates). As at
January 5, 2004, IDA disbursements totaled US$50.8 million, and allowing for the allocation for
Component Z to be used by June 30, 2004 it appears likely that the credit will be completely
disbursed. Beneficiary contribution to investment costs was estimated at appraisal at US$3
million. Actual contribution is estimated at US1.51 million. Detailed project costs and financing
are contained in annex 2.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

6.1.1.  Risks and issues faced in the implementation of the MASL reform process have already
been discussed in this report. Overall, sustainability of both the reform process and the Kala Oya
River Basin Planning Secretariat and associated activities is unclear. The relationship between the
two entities and of the two entities with the future NWRA needs to be clarified, which can only
occur once the necessary legislation has been passed. Adequate political will and readiness are not
clearly visible in the MIOWM and MASL to implement the TP, including the handover of D&F
canals of all Mahaweli systems to DCFOs and land administration and agriculture extension
functions to relevant line agencies.

6.1.2.  Sustainability of the development outcomes in System H will depend on the continued
government budget support, and skill and staff allocation to continue the program. Sustainability
of System H would require good maintenance of the rehabilitated irrigation system by DCFOs and
most importantly an improved irrigation water supply by the MASL. The DCFOs are likely to
require continued technical and financial assistance from MASL. Current legal provisions are also


                                                 - 11 -

not adequate for fostering strong FOs, federations and companies that could become
organizationally and financially self-sustainable entities managing water and irrigation systems. In
this situation, further confirmation is required of the government's ability to continue funding
O&M costs of the main systems. Since even in System H farmers are only contributing a part of
the maintenance cost for the tertiary system, and since the government support for adequate
funding for O&M of the main system is uncertain at this time sustainability is rated as unlikely.

6.1.3.  Similarly, sustainability of the development outcomes of the Dam Safety Component and
continuation of the program will depend on continued government budget support, skill and staff
allocation. At present, continued government support is uncertain. Without this continued
government support at adequate levels there is a risk that the emphasis on dam safety will decline
after the project. The continued existence of the Joint Dam Safety Management and Reservoir
Conservation Unit and its growth to a DSEC are essential for future sustainability.

6.1.4.  Based on the above, the project's sustainability is rated as uncertain.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:



6.2.1    The TP approved by the Cabinet provides direction and guidance for the transformation
of MASL to an RBMA. In addition, the MASL has prepared a Project Operation Plan (POP),
which sets out a program of follow-up activities to support DCFOs through training, extension
advice and marketing assistance. However, the POP needs to be further discussed and approved
by the main stakeholders, including the farmer federations and DCFOs, ID and Ministry of
Finance. MASL will also require adequate funding to be able to implement the POP to strengthen
the project's chances of sustainability, particularly to obtain international/local TAs to assist in the
transformation process and achieve PDOs.

6.2.2  It is also necessary to develop a realistic strategy and action plan for MASL to hand over
land management and agriculture extension functions, and complete the TP, and implement the
KOBP. An operational plan for the future O&M of project works has recently been prepared by
the MASL without much consultation. This plan must be rationalized with consultation with the
Ministry of Finance and line agencies that would be expected to take over those functions,
supported with sufficient operating costs. The plan should specify related performance indicators
that can be used to monitor operation and development impact and the use of maintenance funds
by DCFOs. The plan for O&M should reflect the practical aspects of funding, regulation,
administration and incentives to ensure better delivery of services by the line departments. The
operational plan must be implemented in a manner consistent with the transition plan approved by
the Cabinet in July 2003 and with established polices. Careful review will be needed to ensure that
adequate provision is made for O&M of the main system. The MASL also proposes to implement
a second VESP but as yet sufficient skill and staff analysis have not been carried out. If a second
VESP should be undertaken it must be designed on the basis of a comprehensive skill and gap
analysis that would allow an appropriate balance between "downsizing" and "rightsizing."

6.2.3      Despite the lack of progress in institutional reform, the project achievements in
participatory management, village self-help and local-level river basin planning are unique in Sri



                                                  - 12 -

Lanka and need to be continued to provide continuity with further water sector initiatives in the
country. If a suitable framework is provided by the new Water Act, the government should
consider utilization of funds from its own resources as well as of the Poverty Reduction Strategy
Credit (PRSC) to continue technical assistance and capacity building in the Kala Oya Basin
Organization (or its successor under the Water Act Law) and institution building among DCFOs
in   System    H,    including    developing   appropriate legislation  for  fostering   FOs    in
irrigation/water-resources management and income- generating activities.

6.2.4   The government should provide funds for completing all ongoing System H civil works
contracts and making payments to the contractors, beyond the amount which the MRRP Credit
would finance after the Credit closure on December 31, 2003. These works are needed to ensure
sustainability of O&M by participatory management in System H. The amount of funding required
(about US$2 million) for follow-up activities in System H should be provided by the Treasury in
order to ensure sustainability.

6.2.5.  The future of the Dam Safety Excellence Centre (DSEC) depends on the restructuring of
MASL and formation of the NWRA, RWRMAs and RBOs. If the DSEC is to become a
regulatory authority it might be best attached to NWRA. Alternatively, if it is to be a centre for
advice concerning the design, construction and O&M of dams and large hydraulic infrastructure
it may be best if it is attached to the future Mahaweli RBMA or ID and be available for assisting
other RWRMAs and RBOs with advice for the O&M of dams. If the delay in passing the National
Water Resources Act continues, it would be worth considering a separate Dam Safety Act to give
the force of law to the Code of Practice for the safe O&M of dams.

6.2.6.  Remedial works on the 32 large dams that were reviewed during the project are estimated
to cost about Rs600 million (about US$6.4 million). There are about 40 more large dams
belonging to the ID that have not received independent inspection and for which maintenance
budgets have been restricted for many years. Therefore, these dams may also be expected to
require remedial work. The MIOWM highlights the need to implement remedial works on the 32
dams reviewed under the project and more broadly to ensure safety of all major dams through an
intensive nationwide dam safety assurance program. In addition, the necessity exists to review
and upgrade the national hydro-meteorological network and enhance national capacity for related
data and information management to effectively manage the growing scarcity and demand for
water, mitigate adverse socioeconomic consequences of floods and droughts particularly on the
poor, as seen recently.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

7.1.1   The Bank performed satisfactorily in instituting a timely process and maintaining a
dialogue with the Government of Sri Lanka on the restructuring of MASL and designing
Components B, C and D (System H rehabilitation, VSHLI and Dam Safety). The design of the
project has complied with the Bank's policies. However, the design had some weaknesses that
affected its implementation as indicated in paragraph 3.5.3. During lending, too much emphasis
was given in project design to complete the VESP subcomponent early to reduce MASL's


                                                - 13 -

financial burden but without adequate tailoring of the VESP to complement the organizational
mission, functions and challenges of the envisaged future RBMA. Most of the risks involved in
the project were correctly identified in the PAD but treatment of some key risks and the
mitigation measures were, as experience has proved, inadequate. For example, the risk associated
with MASL beginning to operate as an RBMA in the absence of an enabling legal framework and
potential delays in formulating a water policy and legal framework on the achievement of the
PDO were not recognized at the design stage. The lack of an effective TA in critical areas
including institutional reform and river-basin planning at the very early stages of project
implementation has contributed to the slow progress of Component A. As experience has proved,
greater attention could have been given to create an enabling environment for the Bank, ADB,
MASL and non-MASL stakeholders engaged in water sector reforms to work together to help
accelerate the MASL transformation and complement the project's primary PDO. Consideration
could also have been given to a project design, which included a mixture of participative
poverty-alleviation activities and action-oriented pilot activities to apply principles of integrated
water resources management (IWRM) in selected river basin(s) to resolve existing
water-management problems on the ground. This might have allowed the majority of MASL staff
to better feel and realize the usefulness of river-basin management and identify with the changing
role of their authority pragmatically, i.e., beyond academic and conceptual understanding.
However, Component C and the Kala Oya pilot, later added to the project, filled this gap. IDA
performance in lending, due to the deficiencies in the lending phase is therefore rated
unsatisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:

7.2.1.  Supervision was conscientious and energetic throughout, although four task team leaders
changed hands from preparation to completion. The task team successfully promoted the
reorganization of MASL in which the River Basin Planning and Management Division was
created at the same level in the management hierarchy as the other main Divisions of MASL, and
supported the preparation of the first pilot river basin plan in the Kala Oya river basin by that
Division (though it was severely hampered by lack of staff).

7.2.2.  The fact that the VESP was allowed to go ahead without any well thought out staffing
plan effectively compromised MASL's abilities to implement the other project components. This
supervision lapse and the consequent confusion created within MASL by mass exodus of
competent staff and skills on the one hand, and inability of MASL to manage the ongoing
programs with less staff and skills on the other, provided a poor start for its conversion into an
RBMA. This situation prompted the need to manage the change diligently and smoothly with a
deeper understanding to deal with difficult internal dynamics and the deep-rooted organizational
culture of MASL. The initial supervision teams were strong in technical and engineering
competence but did not include specialists on organizational development/change management to
deal with the situation upfront, and during and immediately after the VESP implementation.

7.2.3.  It has been argued during the supervision phase that the project should have sought the
amendment of the Mahaweli Authority of Sri Lanka Act (MASL Act no. 23 of 1979) at the
beginning of the project, or otherwise ensured that new water legislation was in place to establish
the statutory authority for the transformation of MASL into a river-basin management agency.


                                                 - 14 -

This ignores two important aspects of the Mahaweli Act: first, that it is a powerful Act, which
confers full powers on MASL to develop, regulate and manage the water resources of the
Mahaweli river basins; and second, that over the period of the AMDP, MASL had become an
icon and a pervasive part of the lives of people in the Mahaweli river basins. Many elements of
Component A were intended to extricate MASL from this pervasive role by divesting itself of
responsibility for infrastructure, social services and commercial interests (the least successful
elements of Component A). It was, therefore, considered not practical to simply amend the
MASL Act before the Project was launched without a national debate on the direction of future
water-resources policy and the specific role and functions of MASL. This process had been
started by the Water Resources Secretariat with the support of ADB before the Project was
launched. Successive supervision missions provided support for the water policy process through
its dialogue with the Ministry and MASL officials (who were key players in the process).
However, the first draft of the national water policy was sidetracked after a rancorous national
debate led by several NGOs that opposed its provisions. But when a new government was elected
in late 2001, the process was resumed and key elements of the water policy were incorporated
into a new Draft National Water Resources Act. From early 2002 onwards Bank Management
took the position that progress on the passage of the Act was a key indicator of the government's
commitment to the transformation of MASL and the Bank's continued support for the sector and
the Project. By late 2003, the government had not only completed preparation of the draft Water
Act, but also approved a clear and unequivocal policy statement approved by the Cabinet on the
future role and functions of MASL (the Transition Plan), although the sustainability of the process
remained uncertain at the Credit Closure.

7.2.4.  However, in the absence of the required legal basis it was not easy to see how the team
could have succeeded in convincing MASL for undergoing a process of self-transformation.
Supervision could have pressed harder and earlier for an amendment to the MASL Act, which
might have proven the easiest way to provide the restructured agency with the legal identity and
security that was very clearly a prerequisite for the change. But the emerging water policy and
draft Water Act were intended to provide a new vision of water-resources management for Sri
Lanka within which the MASL and the MASL Act would be integrated. Hence, when the new
government was formed in late 2001, the Bank Team intensified its dialogue with the government
stressing the importance of progress on the new policy and legislation to the sector and the
project. With the new government, the Team was able to facilitate and promote an institutional
reform process within MASL that eventually resulted in a draft Transition Plan approved by the
MASL Board in March 2003 and by the Cabinet in July 2003.

7.2.5.  Despite all these efforts, the Bank Team's supervision task was clearly made very difficult
by an apparent lack of leadership and ownership of the project by MMD, MIOWM and MASL for
the institutional transformation throughout the implementation period. The ever-changing political
climate, frequent changes of the secretaries of MMD and MIOWM, interest of some key MASL
staff to preserve MASL and continue business as usual, and the slow progress on the adoption of
a new water policy and appropriate legislation, made the Bank's supervision task a difficult one.
The uncertain policy and political climate served to support those who opposed MASL reform
and discourage those who supported it. In the circumstances the Team decided appropriately to
concentrate on practical internal changes within MASL, especially the work on a pilot river basin



                                               - 15 -

planning program and the piloting of innovations in System H through which the main elements of
the new water policy could be demonstrated.

7.2.6.  The Bank successfully promoted the beneficial changes in farmers' water management,
the introduction of technical innovations, farmer institutional development and agriculture
productivity and income enhancement measures in System H. Bank supervision played a lead role
in adding the dam safety component of the project facilitating International TA for the design and
implementation support and the support of the Bank's Dam Advisor to organize additional
Japanese funding for dam- safety-related research and follow-up on issues arising from the World
Commission on Dams Report. The supervision support provided by the Bank in commissioning
and implementing the VSHLI component is highly satisfactory as evident from its short-term
positive outcomes, and the government's commitment to scale up the project based on its
outcomes.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

7.3.1.  Considering the above facts, balancing the Bank's Quality at Entry and performance in
lending and supervision, the overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory but marginally so.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

7.4.1.   From its previous experience MASL was better placed to contribute to the design of the
rehabilitation component than to the restructuring proposals. Consequently, the proposals for
rehabilitation of System H were well conceived and detailed and, in contrast, the institution
restructuring was only outlined in general terms and heavily dominated by the VESP. The
government and MASL performance during project preparation is therefore rated satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

7.5.1.  Government performance in guiding, coordinating and monitoring the MASL
restructuring, including VESP process, commercialization, infrastructural handover and MASL
transformation, has been unsatisfactory. The Board of Management of MASL should have played
a lead and proactive role from the commencement and throughout the project implementation in
monitoring Component A, as it has the necessary mandate and powers to do so. But Board was
totally ineffective in managing the process until it was restructured and refocused later in 2002 on
the Bank's suggestion. Also, despite the Bank's facilitating role, the Public Enterprise Reform
Committee (PERC) of the MOF was ineffective to monitor and help MASL implement a
commercialization process. For the irrigation rehabilitation and improvement component
government performance was much more committed, as shown by consistent funding of the
component, despite budgetary constraints.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

7.6.1    MASL performance in implementation of the institutional restructuring component was
very poor. The VESP was hurriedly implemented, little use was made of the technical assistance
provided by the project, commercialization subcomponents did not move at all, and human



                                               - 16 -

resources and facilities were not allocated sufficiently and timely by the management for
implementing activities and meeting milestones towards the PDO. Performance in preparing a
river-basin management plan for the Kala Oya basin and for the System H Rehabilitation
Component is rated satisfactory--or even in some respects highly satisfactory. It is especially so
in implementing the major investment in civil works, without foreign technical assistance, and for
the VSHLI and Dam Safety Components (C and D). Procurement management for civil works is
satisfactory but substantive delays occurred in the procurement of goods and consultancy
services. Though overall financial management of the project is reasonably satisfactory, financial
control of project expenditure is highly unsatisfactory. Lack of effective budget accountability and
controls, and effective management monitoring, has resulted in a reported budget overrun by the
Credit Closure. A great deal of attention was given during supervision to evaluate the project
impact on agricultural production and farm incomes, including the contracting of external
consultants by the project PIU, but the development of a satisfactory project output and impact
monitoring, evaluation and learning (ME&L) system, including a baseline, was unsatisfactory.
Stable and motivated management teams and reasonable continuity of staff with a mix of different
technical backgrounds and disciplines associated with the project was maintained reasonably well
over the entire project period, except for Component A. Therefore, implementation performance
by MASL has been satisfactory for Components B, C and D but unsatisfactory for Component A.
Overall IP is rated unsatisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

7.7.1     The ultimate outcome of the project at the closure is that the primary development
objective has not been achieved and the commitment and arrangements for achieving it beyond the
Closure, and therefore the sustainability, are uncertain and risky. Based on this, the overall
Borrower performance is rated unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

8.1.1   Water sector institutional reforms. The key lesson learned is the need to carry out
upfront and in-depth institutional, organizational and legal analysis and human resources
assessments to ascertain if existing irrigation institutions can really be transformed as functioning
water resources management institutions. While, international experience would rather provides
limited successful examples, obviously the success or failure of institutional transformation will
always depend on the local context. In a number of countries, water resources management
institutions have been created apart from the existing irrigation institutions and that has worked
reasonably well. The Mahaweli transformation is a case that confirms the need for stronger and
up-front analysis.

8.1.2   Learning by doing. In an uncertain policy or legislative environment, caused either by a
lack of commitment or political turmoil, it is important to focus on implementing practical pilot
and demonstration activities that not only support intensified policy dialogue but give opportunity
to the concerned agencies and staff to learn and to test on ground what is being debated on
academic and conceptual platforms. As this project demonstrated, stakeholders face many
questions and issues of a technical, economic, environmental, social and institutional nature, when
prior in-country experience does not exist for new policy and institutional reforms; in this case, for



                                                 - 17 -

example, river-basin planning and management. These issues seem theoretical and unrealistic and
the push for reforms and a new paradigm shift sound academic and alien to stakeholders, unless
they have the chance to analyze and find solutions to these issues on the ground in consultation
with a large group of affected stakeholders.

8.1.3    Importance of effective Technical Assistance (TA). Many borrowers strongly resist TA
during project design and Credit negotiations either because of consultant fatigue or the mistaken
belief that existing staff are fully capable of doing what is required. In this project, MASL was
notably ineffective in mobilizing or utilizing technical assistance. But as this project amply
demonstrates, when the project requires an agency and its staff to take on new unprecedented
roles and functions, selective and effective TA is essential for training, capacity building and
step-by-step guidance in early pilot activities blending global best practices into the specific
country situation. Training courses abound, but there is no substitute for knowledgeable
advisor(s) who are in position to train, guide and encourage.

8.1.4    Internal reform and change processes. When a project aims to change an agency's
mandate, role and functions, it is essential that an internal change management process be initiated
as soon as possible, perhaps as early as before project appraisal. Quite apart from the natural
inertia to change, there are often strong reasons for different groups within an organization to
resist change, including the simple lack of understanding of what is proposed and what its
implications are for the organization. Systematically creating awareness and understanding of the
changes and their benefits, and involving different people and groups from within the organization
in formulating and implementing changes are essential to the change process. Also Bank task
teams should include strong institutional development and management expertise experienced in
facilitating and guiding organizational change.

8.1.5    Programmatic approach with strategic partnerships among all participating donors and
the government. As this project has demonstrated, the time frames required to accomplish difficult
policy, legal and institutional reforms are usually more than the normal life period of conventional
lending operations. Also, it is necessary for all donors participating in reform processes to
collaborate together and with the government to adopt a programmatic approach that includes a
jointly agreed strategy, time-bound milestones, outcomes and impact M&E indicators. The best
outcomes can be potentially achieved when donors focus on areas of their comparative
advantages to provide strategic directions and technical guidance to stakeholders in achieving the
desired milestones and outcomes of the reforms.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




                                                 - 18 -

- 19 -

- 20 -

OBSERVATIONS ON THE IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REVIEW MISSION
REPORT OF MAHAWELI RESTRUCTURING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(MRRP)

The observations of the Mahaweli Authority of Sri Lanka on the Report of the Implementation
Completion Review Mission of the MRRP are given below:

- Attaching higher weight to the achievement of Project Primary Development Objective

According to Section 4.1.2, the overall outcome rating is based on attaching a higher weight to
the achievement of PDO under Component A of transforming MASL into a river basin
management agency and has therefore rated as unsatisfactory. This categorization is considered
inappropriate and unfair in the categorization of all other components B,C, and D as highly
satisfactory and river basin planning sub-component under component A also branded as highly
satisfactory. It is also stated that sustainability of the changes is uncertain given the uncertainty
about the completion of the reform process at this time.

The transformation of MASL to a river basin management agency could not progress as expected
during the project implementation period due to the following reasons:

l At the time of introduction of the VESP in 1998/1999 period, there was no guidance provided
    by the World Bank Teams for adherence to a Transition Plan coupled to a list of functions and
    responsibilities, new organizational structure, staffing plan and a skill development plan for the
    transformation of MASL to a river basin management agency (the MASL could not follow
    recommendations of the Tennessee Valley Authority in converting itself to a basin
    management agency as the VESP was carried out too rapidly under the directions of the
    Ministry).

l There was an understanding that Kala-Oya basin Planning process would be a pilot initiative
    to practice river basin management concepts and the successful approaches               could be
    replicated in Mahaweli and other adjacent basins for which provision had not been made under
    the MRRP; there is a proposal to practice Kala-Oya basin management initiatives with the
    implementation of the Comprehensive River basin plan and replicate basin planning process in
    Mahaweli and Maduru Oya basins as part of the MRRP Operational Plan over the next three
    years; These initiatives are pre-requisites for the transformation of the MASL to a River
    Basin Management Agency with a clear understanding of the benefits of such efforts.

l River basin management concepts could not be promoted among those senior staff members
    of MASL who opposed the transformation process as they considered it as a threat for their
    existence, as majority served as non-professionals and held positions relating to service
    deliveries;

l In the middle of the project life, World Bank Review Missions insisted that MASL should
    follow the National Water Resources Policy and legal framework in its transformation to a
    river basin management agency which were in drafting stages even at the time of project



                                                  - 21 -

    completion and which was beyond the control of the MASL or the Ministry of Irrigation and
    Water Management; this status has lead to confusion among those who supported the
    transformation process from within the MASL (example: the number of Mahaweli basins to be
    managed under the transformed MASL has not been made clear upto date while the draft
    National Water Resources Act is yet to be finalized by the Legal Draftsman).

l As majority of the MASL senior management could not get convinced as for linkages that is
    required to be developed with the National Water Resources Authority (NWRA) which is yet
    to be formed, there was reluctance to change, particularly in the light of lack of policy for a
    fall back position in the event of a long delay in the passage of the National Water Resources
    Act and the establishment of the NWRA.

l The proposal to accommodate 2000 strong staff base within NWRA as a measure towards
    implementation of Water Resources Projects compared to the original intention to include 57
    staff to serve in the NWRA for regulatory and policy development and co-ordination
    functions, is considered as a waste of resources to replicate MASL current development
    functions.   These proposals were opposed by many professionals in the MASL and the
    Irrigation Department which is considered as a disincentive for the MASL senior management
    to follow the transformation process.

There is a proposal for implementing the transformation process, particularly in establishing the
river basin management agency under the MASL Act that is being considered by the MASL in the
event of the delays envisaged in the passage of the National Water Resources Act in the
Parliament.    However, the transformation process need to be driven by a committed panel of
professionals consisting of members from the relevant line agencies and the Ministry of Finance
and Planning whose decisions should be rational and transparent to MASL senior management.

- Sustainability of Component B Achievements

Component B refers to irrigation rehabilitation and productivity improvements to System H:

This component has achieved the status of `satisfactory performance' in terms of participatory
approaches in irrigation rehabilitation, productivity enhancement of water and land resources
through promotion of commercial agriculture, bulk water allocation, recovery of operation and
maintenance costs of tertiary irrigation infrastructure etc. However, Farmer Organizations and
Federations have been active and had shown potential for the formation of self-sustaining bodies
in three Blocks out of nine Blocks viz. Madatugama, Meegalawa and Galnewa. There is heavy
accumulation of funds within these federated farmer organizations mainly arising from the
contributions from the farmers as O&M fees as well as from the savings gained from rehabilitation
contracts undertaken and through commercial activities. Hence there is a need to improve the
sustainability of other six Block level farmer organizations and federations. A proposal to upgrade
the above three Federations and other farmer organizations has been made in the Project
Operational Plan (POP). The legality of the Farmer Federations is yet to be established through
introduction of amendments to the Agrarian Development Act.




                                                - 22 -

The cost of O&M is estimated as Rs. 500/- per ha. per year and recovery of costs from the
farmers are based accordingly. However, the assumption of this cost as reflected in Section 4.3.1
is Rs. 2,400/- per ha. per year and hence the rate of deterioration of tertiary infrastructure in
actual practice may become higher.

The overall status of turning over of O&M responsibilities to Farmer Organizations of all
Mahaweli Systems stands at 67%. Although institutional development program was intended to
be promoted in all Systems under MRRP, it was confined to System H during the project
implementation period. Hence if participatory approaches for O&M functions are to be promoted
in other systems there should be a commitment by the MASL to this activity through a lead
project, possibly using the POP resources.

- Sustainability of Component D - Dam Safety Program

The Dam Safety component has been categorized as `Highly Satisfactory'. Co-ordination of the
activities relating to the establishment of the Dam Safety Management Centre with the
involvement of ID, CEB and the MASL staff has been initiated at the Head-works Operation and
Maintenance Unit of the MASL. However, funds to implement the investment plan developed
under the project need to be activated to ensure safety standards are maintained by the dam
caretakers.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                             - 23 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
Primary Objective: To shift the focus of       Primary objective not achieved, but progress Primary objective not achieved, but could be
MASL from project implementation to River      sufficiently good to prevent any cancellation achieved in the future if necessary legislation
Basin Management, thereby ensuring that the of the credit, including provision of a          is passed and adequate support provided for
natural resources in the Mahaweli river        Transitional Plan (TP)                        implementation of the TP. The new
basin/watershed are managed more                                                             Government elected on April 2, 2004 has
effectively, productively and sustainably                                                    appointed a Minister in-charge of River Basin
                                                                                             Development, but the sustainability is
                                                                                             uncertain.

Secondary Objective: To improve the                                                          As shown below agricultural productivity and
agricultural productivity and incomes in                                                     farmer incomes have improved and there is a
System H through rehabilitation, improvement                                                 reduced dependence on GOSL. But this
and better O&M of irrigation facilities, and                                                 potential will soon disappear if the MASL
commercially oriented production systems,                                                    continue supporting farmers beyond the life
less dependent on government assistance.                                                     of the project until farmers become self
                                                                                             reliant.
Primary Objective Project Outcomes:
(i) MASL Board approved Transition Plan        (i)MASL Transition Plan (TP) adopted by       (i) MASL has appointed six Task Managers
including changes in function,                 Cabinet in July 2003 and is acceptable to     to implement the provisions of the TP.
responsibilities, organization and staffing of IDA.                                          However the task teams require TA support
MASL by December 30, 2001                                                                    and is being provided through the IDA
                                                                                             Economic Policy Reform TA Credit. Disposal
                                                                                             of MASL business enterprises is at a
                                                                                             standstill.

(ii) Amendments or adjustments to the          (ii)The national water policy with various    (ii) Passage of the NWRA may be delayed. It
Mahaweli Act, if any, to reflect functions and reforms including establishment of a National is uncertain if the NWRA would be passed
responsibilities under Transition Plan to      Water Resources Authority passed by           by the Government. .
manage Mahaweli and adjoining connected        Cabinet. National Water Resources Act
river basins, is passed by Parliament by June (NWRA) expected to be laid before
30, 2002.                                      Parliament in January 2004.

(iii) River Basin Management (RBM)             (iii) Kala Oya Basin Plan expected to be      (iii) Draft final KOBP completed by
Secretariat Plan of Work to develop RBM        finalized by December 2003.                   end-December 2003. It is satisfactory but the
Plan and Transition Plan, June 2000                                                          implementation is uncertain.

(iv) Mahaweli RBM Plan prepared and            Mahaweli RBM Plan not prepared, instead       (iv) Draft final KOBP completed by
approved by GOSL National Water                the scope was reduced to the preparation of   end-December 2003. NWRA cannot be
Resources Authority (NWRA) by June 2001 Kalaoya basin plan. NWRA not yet                     legally established until the Water Act is
                                               established.                                  passed. The sustainability remains uncertain.
                                                                                             (
(v) Transition Plan prepared and internally    Transition Plan approved by the Cabinet in    v) Transition Plan approved but still to be
agreed by September 30, 2001                   July 2003                                     implemented. MASL has hired short-term
                                                                                             international TA to guide the process. The
                                                                                             Sustainability remains uncertain.

 (vi) Transition Plan implemented by the end                                                 (v) Transition plan expected to be
of the project, including staff redeployment                                                 implemented over the period up to end of
and retraining                                                                               2005. But the sustainability remains
                                                                                             uncertain at the time of ICR.

Compared with the indicators established at the First Mid-Term Review (MTR)
Output Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
Secondary Objective Project Outcomes:                                                        (i)As planned eight farmer companies were
(i)Eight farmer companies function along fully                                               set up, but of these four have failed due to
commercial lines at each block, with viable                                                  loss of their management or shortage of
business plans.                                                                              capital. Three remaining companies appear
                                                                                             to have a more promising future.
(ii)Greater private sector provision of advice                                               (ii)There has been some successful




                                                                  - 24 -

and including demonstration and adoption of                   handover of research demonstration and
new technologies and farming practices,                       extension advice, as for example through
through commercial agreements with                            handover of the model farm established with
farmers' organizations and companies.                         the assistance of China to the Chemical
                                                              Industries Corporation (CIC).
(iii) Cost effective, strengthened and                        (iii) MASL support to farmers in System H is
re-orientated System H management                             well accepted and has had a good impact.
providing services that farmers demand and                    However as yet there is no cost sharing,
are willing to cost share.                                    beyond the O&M charge of Rs250 per
                                                              irrigation season and 6 days farmer labor
                                                              contribution to keep clean their own parts of
                                                              the system, both of which represent only a
                                                              portion of O&M for the D canal and below.
(iv)MASL System H total cost for operation,                   (iv) There is increased participation of FOs in
maintenance, management and provision of                      O&M planning and implementation and water
all services including irrigation, is reduced by              management. Savings on O&M as a result of
70% (based on 1997 pre-project total System                   handover to farmers are relatively small in
H cost).                                                      relation to total O&M costs including the main
                                                              system. Cost savings have also been
                                                              reduced by improvements in staff salaries
                                                              which have been increased 60% over the
                                                              project period. Total cost in Rupees thus
                                                              shows little change.
(v)One system Farmers' Organization (FO)                      (v) Nine Farmer Federations set up, one on
federation, and eight federations at block                    each of the nine administrative blocks. These
level, carrying out water management                          are operating in cooperation with MASL staff
functions under a new operating paradigm                      and actively participate all decisions at
and partnership with MASL System H                            system level. Those are expected to be
Management.                                                   absorbed into Irrigation Dept with the propose
                                                              transfer of under the Transition Plan. Further
                                                              support will be required in order to ensure FO
                                                              and system sustainability.
(vi) Greater farmer participation in works                    (vi) System H experience has been positive in
execution leading to a higher proportion of                   motivating farmers to participate in
cost sharing with farmers, and more                           rehabilitation and improvement of the
successful turnover.                                          infrastructure and subsequent take-over.
(vii) Equitable water allocation and efficient                (vii) Methods adopted in System H for bulk
water delivery is ensured by measuring water                  water allocations and involvement of Water
flow at all points within the system.                         Masters well accepted by farmers as a fair
                                                              system of water allocation, but sustainability
                                                              doubtful without continued support, including
                                                              water measurement and recording.
(viii) Adoption of new technology is reflected                (viii) Data provided to the ICR mission
by an increase in land use intensity in System                indicate that cropping intensity has risen from
H of 150% and an increase in productivity of                  135% to 163% and productivity of water has
water of 30%.                                                 increased by over 30%.
(ix) A 20% increase in overall farmer                         (ix) Data provided on changes in area
productivity and income.                                      cultivated and cropping pattern indicate that
                                                              farm incomes have increase by around 25%
System H Project Outputs                                      (i)The PSD team of 12 specialist staff was
(i) Project management at System H                            established in mid-2000 and has been quite
enhanced by addition of a Private Sector                      successful in linking DCFOs with buyers - at
Development (PSD) team to promote                             the end of the project there were reported to
enterprise and business development, and                      be over 25 private buyers in System H
advise DCFO and emerging farmer
companies and initiatives, by June 2000.
(ii) Plan for System H restructuring and                      (ii) The project has successfully developed a
management by June 2000 including water                       comprehensive, integrated and unified
services, operations, business management                     approach to irrigation system rehabilitation
processes and procedures, maintenance,                        and management transfer.
and administration.
(iii) Plan for training and redeployment of                   (iii) No investment has been made for crucial
System staff, further downsizing as                           communication need in supply of irrigation




                                                    - 25 -

necessary, and investment in modernization                 water to DCFOs. A contract for
(communications, information systems,                      communication systems has been put on
business management etc.) by June 2000.                    hold. Contract value is about Rs 3.96 million
                                                           (US$ 41,258) or about US$1.3 per ha. Other
                                                           viable GIS system has not yet been
                                                           introduced.
(iv) Installation of calibrated measuring                  (iv)About 450 water measuring devices
devices where rehabilitation has been                      installed and calibrated with the DCFO water
completed by June 2000 and all rehabilitation              masters through on-the-job training
works thereafter.                                          post-implementation. Total cost per ha
                                                           post-implementation including installing water
                                                           measuring devices and intensive farmer
                                                           training estimated at Rs 3,154 (US$33) per
                                                           ha.
(v) All essential rehabilitation works                     (v)Net irrigated area improved/partly
completed, DCFOs formed, and systems                       modernized is about 28,790 ha, of which
handed over by the end of the project                      85% successfully turned over to Farmer's
                                                           Organizations, against 31,500 ha envisaged
                                                           at appraisal. Balance will be handed over in
                                                           2004.
(vi) System H management, staffing,                        (vi) MASL staff will be absorbed into the
business and operation plan implemented                    Irrigation Department and be responsible for
and functional by end of the project.                      System H O&M. MASL has recently made an
                                                           operation plan for future O&M of project
                                                           works, but without much consultation.
                                                           Adequate allowance must be made for
                                                           operating costs. Careful review will be
                                                           needed to ensure that adequate provision is
                                                           made for O&M of the main system. The plan
                                                           should specify O&M-related performance
                                                           indicators that can be used to monitor
                                                           operation and development impact and the
                                                           use of maintenance funds by DCFOs.

1End of project




                                                 - 26 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal    Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                           Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
                        Component                          US$ million   US$ million
A. Institution Restructuring
MASL Rightsizing & Staff Training/Redeployment               24.90          22.10            88.8
Promoting Farmer Sustainability                               1.20            1.10           91.7
Privatizing Business Units/Handover of Infrastructure         0.40            0.00              0
Strengthening Natural Resource Management                     2.40            1.00           41.6
sub total                                                                                    83.7
B. Irrigation Rehabilitation & Improvement in System H
Headworks                                                    10.90
Downstream works                                             28.70
C. Village Self-Help Learning Initiative Pilot                                0.50
D. Dam Safety                                                                 0.70
Z. Resettlement of Conflict Affected Persons                                  5.40

Total Baseline Cost                                          68.50          68.70
 Physical Contingencies                                       5.70
 Price Contingencies                                                                         92.2
                           Total Project Costs               74.20          68.70
                   Total Financing Required                  74.20          68.70


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB            NCB                2       N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                             0.00           28.39         3.18         1.70        33.27
                                    (0.00)         (24.61)      (2.89)         (0.00)     (27.50)
2. Goods                             1.99           0.79          1.66         0.00         4.44
                                    (1.69)          (0.71)      (1.66)         (0.00)      (4.06)
3. Services                          0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                                    0.00         30.69         0.00        30.69
4.1 Training                          ()            (0.00)      (25.44)        (0.00)     (25.44)
4.2 Severance Pay
4.3 O&M
4.4 Admin & supervision
4.5 Pavithragana
4.6 VSHLI Pilot
4.7 Other
4.8 Component Z
5. Miscellaneous                     0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                     0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00



                                                 - 27 -

                                           (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
        Total                               1.99              29.18              35.53             1.70              68.40
                                           (1.69)            (25.32)            (29.99)           (0.00)            (57.00)


   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 0.00              28.39              3.18             1.70             33.27
                                           (0.00)            (24.61)            (2.89)            (0.00)           (27.50)
   2. Goods                                 1.99               0.79              0.10             0.00              2.88
                                           (1.69)             (0.71)            (0.10)            (0.00)           (2.50)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              1.56             0.00              1.56
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.56)            (0.00)           (1.56)
   4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00             30.69             0.00             30.69
   4.1 Training                            (0.00)             (0.00)           (25.44)            (0.00)           (25.44)
   4.2 Severance Pay
   4.3 O&M
   4.4 Admin & supervision
   4.5 Pavithragana
   4.6 VSHLI Pilot
   4.7 Other
   4.8 Component Z
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
        Total                               1.99              29.18             35.53             1.70             68.40
                                           (1.69)            (25.32)           (29.99)            (0.00)           (57.00)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Institution Restructuring      20.70         8.20        28.90       19.50         4.70      24.20       94.2      57.3     83.7

Irrigation Rehabilitation &    32.40         7.20        39.60       31.50         6.40      37.90       97.2      88.9     95.7
Improvement System H
Village Self-Help Learning                                            0.00         0.40       0.40
Initiative Pilot
Dam Safety                                                            0.60         0.00       0.60
Resettlement of Conflict                                              5.40                    5.40



                                                           - 28 -

Affected Persons
Base Cost                    53.10     15.40         68.50                                  0.0  0.0  0.0
Contingencies                3.90       1.80         5.70                                   0.0  0.0  0.0
Total                        57.00     17.20         74.20       57.00        11.41  68.40 100.0 66.3 92.2

   Actual Govt total:Including US$1.51 million contribution from beneficiaries.




                                                       - 29 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

1.       Economic Analysis. The economic analysis and recalculation of the economic rate of return has
been made in a manner comparable to that used at appraisal and with a closely similar result. The
calculations are detailed in Working Paper 3 and the result of the analysis summarised in the following
table. The base case economic rate of return is calculated at 15% with an NPV at a 12% discount rate of
Rs524 million (US$5.5 million).
                                                         At              At
                                                     Appraisal          ICR
Base case                                                14              15
Benefits down by 20%                                     11              12
Benefits down by 35%                                     10              9
Benefits lag by 1yr. & costs up 40%                      10              9
Benefits lag by 2 years & costs up 20%                    10             10
Benefits lag by 3 years & costs up by 10%                 10             9
Cost overrun of 30%                                       11             11
Benefits down by 15% & costs up 20%                       10             10
20 year project life                                       -             13
Incremental O&M at Rs2,400 (US$25) per ha.                 -             14
20 yr life and incl. O&M at Rs2,400 per ha.                -             12


2.       Financial Analysis. The project's impact on farm family incomes has been based on a typical 1 ha
irrigated area farm model, comparable to the analysis conducted at appraisal. The details of the
calculations are provided in Working Paper 3 and the full presentation of the estimates and assumptions
used for the farm model are provided in Working Paper 2. The results of the financial analysis and
comparison with the appraisal expectations are summarised in the following table.
                                                        Pre and Without Project             With Project Change
                                                        ................Rs.............     %
Farm income from 1ha irrigated (ICR estimate)                                      73,300 98,100         +34
Farm income from 1ha irrigated (PAD estimate)                                        52,100 69,800       +34
(In late 1997 Rs terms)
Farm income from 1ha irrigated (PAD estimate)                                        78,150 104,700      +34
(In 2003 Rs terms)
Return per farm family labor day (ICR estimate)                                        882 750           -15
Fiscal Impact. Details of the impact of the project on the cost of MASL, based on information
provided by the Authority is given in Working Paper 3.

The apparent fiscal impact and savings reported by MASL compared with those expected at project
appraisal are summarized in the following table.

                                             PAD Estimate                ICR Estimate        ICR as % of PAD
                                            .....Rs million....                  %
             Staff reduction                       1,870                       2,520                 135
               Privatization                        583                  (no estimate)                 -
     Transfer of O&M responsibilities               400                          58                   15
                  Total                            2,853                       2,578                  90




                                                   - 30 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)       Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                      Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              Identification            5    IDA staff (1)
              mission October                 FAO/CP staff(2)
              1991                            part-time consultants (2)
              FAO/CP
              Preparation
              Mission
              October 1992
              Pre-Appraisal             3    Sr. Agricultural Economist (1)
              March 1993                     Sr. Irrigation Engineer (1)
                                             Irrigation Engineer/O&M
                                             Specialist (1)
              Pre-appraisal             6    Mission Leader/Agricultural
              July 1993                      Economist (1)
                                             Sr. Irrigation Engineer (1)
                                             Economist/Financial Analyst(1)
                                             Privatization Expert(1)
                                             Public Sector Rationalization
                                             Specialist (1)
                                             Irrigation Engineer/O&M
                                             Specialist(1)
              Pre-appraisal             5    Mission Leader/Senior
              April 1995                     Economist(1)
                                             Economist/Financial Analyst(1)
                                             Consultant - Institutions
                                             Specialist(1)
                                             Agricultural Economist(1)
                                             Consultant - Irrigation
                                             Engineer(1)
              Pre appraisal             6    Mission Leader/Senior
              May 1996                       Economist(1)
                                             Senior Economist(1)
                                             Irrigation Engineer(1)
                                             Economist/Financial Analyst(1)
                                             Environmental Specialist(1)
                                             Agricultural Economist(1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              Negotiations              5    Task manager(1)
              October 1997                   Economist(1)
                                             Engineer(1)
                                             Sr. Counsel(1)
                                             Sr. Disbursement officer(1)
              Project Launch            4    Task Leader(1)
              mission                        Co-Task Leader(1)
              May 1998                       Economist(1)
                                             Operations Assistant(1)



                                              - 31 -

Supervision
           September 1998     7 Task Leader/ Sr. Water        S    S
                                resources specialist(1)
                                Irrigation Engineer(1)
                                Institutional Specialist/
                                Economist(1)
                                Financial Analyst(1)
                                Procurement Specialist (1)
                                Disbursement officer (1)
                                Operations Assistant (1)
           06/21/1999         7 Task Leader/ Sr. Water        S    S
                                resources specialist (1)
                                Irrigation Engineer (1)
                                Institutional Specialist/
                                Economist (1)
                                Financial Analyst (1)
                                Procurement Specialist (1)
                                Private Sector Development
                                Specialist (1)
                                Water Resources Advisor(1)
                                Agriculture Economist (1)
                                Sociologist(1)
           November 1999      1 Private Sector Development    S    S
                                Specialist(1)
           January 2000       8 Task Leader/ Sr. Water        S    U
                                resources specialist(1)
                                Irrigation Engineer(1)
                                Institutional Specialist/
                                Economist(1)
                                Financial Analyst(1)
                                Procurement Specialist(1)
                                Private Sector Development
                                Specialist(1)
                                Water Resources Advisor(1)
                                Agriculture Economist(1)
           June 2000          4 Task Leader/ Sr. Water        S    U
                                resources specialist(1)
                                Irrigation Engineer(1)
                                Institutional Specialist/
                                Economist(1)
                                Agriculture Economist(1)
           June /July 2001    7 Agriculture Economist(1)      S    U
                                Task Leader/ Sr. Water
                                resources specialist(1)
                                Irrigation Engineer(1)
                                Institutional Specialist/
                                Economist(1)
                                Financial Analyst(1)
                                Water Resources Advisor(1)
                                Agriculture Economist(1)
           March 2002         4 Task Leader/ Sr. Water        S    U
                                resources specialist(1)
                                Irrigation Engineer(1)



                                - 32 -

                           Water Resources Advisor(1)
                           Agriculture Economist(1)
      May/June 2002      6 Task Leader/ Sr. Water             S    U
                           resources specialist(1)
                           Irrigation Engineer (2)
                           Water Resources Advisor(1)
                           Agriculture Economist(1)
                           Institutional Development
                           Consultant (1)
      November 2002      8 Task Leader/ Irrigation Engineer   S    U
                           (1)
                           Irrigation Engineer(1)
                           Financial Management
                           Specialist(1)
                           Implementation specialist(1)
                           Lead Water Resources
                           Advisor(1)
                           Procurement Specialist(1)
                           Agriculture Economist(1)
                           Institutional Development
                           Consultant(1)
      May/ June, 2003    8 Task Leader/ Irrigation            S    U
                           Engineer(1)
                           Irrigation Engineer(1)
                           Financial Management
                           Specialist(1)
                           Implementation Specialist(1)
                           Lead Water Resources
                           Advisor(1)
                           Agriculture Economist(1)
                           River Basin Management
                           Specialists (2)
      September 2003     3 Irrigation Engineer(1)             S    U
                           Financial Management
                           Specialist(1)
                           Lead Water Resources
                           Advisor(1)

ICR
      November, 2003     6 Water Resources /Irrigation        S    U
                           Specialist (2)
                           Water Institutions
                           Specialist(1)
                           Agriculture Specialist(1)
                           Dam Safety Engineer(1)
                           Irrigation Engineer(1)




                           - 33 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           218.5                        232.84
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 20.6                        349.26
  Supervision                           82.7                        807.30
  ICR                                   12.0                         76.80
  Total                                333.8                       1466.20




                                            - 34 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Capacity building of DCFOs
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1.   Project Completion Report. Major Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1537-CE).
2.   Mahaweli Restructuring Project. Preparation Mission,
3.   Mahaweli Restructuring Project. Interim Preparation Mission. (Volume IV of IV). Cost Tables.
4.   An Analysis of the Recurrent Budget of the Mahaweli Authority of Sri Lanka.
5.   Mahaweli Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project. Project Launch Mission (11-20 May, 1998).
     Agreed Aide-Memoire.
6.   Mahaweli Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project. Strategy and Action Plan for the Turnover of
     Distributary and Field Canal Systems of Mahaweli.
7.   Dam Safety and Reservoir Conservation. 19 December 2000.
8.   Campaign to Protect Common Water Rights.
9.   Mahaweli Experience of River Basin Planning and Management for SASNET-RBO Regional
     Planning Meeting. 10-12 January 2002 in Kandy.
9.   Mahaweli Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project. Progress Report  2nd Quarter 2002.
10.  Mahaweli Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project. Progress Report  3rd Quarter 2002
11.  Mahaweli Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project. Revised Consolidated Action Plan      Years
     2002  2003. Volume 1  Summary.
12.  Mahaweli Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project. Revised Consolidated Action Plan.
     Years 2002  2003. Volume 2  Detailed Activity Plan.
13.  Background of Financial Crisis in System "H".
14.  Baseline Survey of the Mahaweli System "H"
15.  Regaining Sri Lanka and PRSP. Compelling the Poor to Subsidize the Rich.
16.  Mahaweli Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project. Performance Report by end June 2003.
17.  Mahaweli Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project. An Independent Technical Audit of System
     "H" Rehabilitation Works. Final Report
18.  Overall Project Achievements in System "H" Under Mahaweli Restructuring and Rehabilitation
     Project.
19.  Letter dated 4 September 2003 from D. M. Ariyaratne, Project Coordinator MRRP to Mrs. Rohini
     Nanayakkara, Director General, External Resources Department.
20.  Water Master Handbook.
21.  Welcome World Bank Review Mission dated 5 November 2003.
22.  Mahaweli Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project. Project performance and Rehabilitation
     Project. Project Performance by end September 2003.
23.  Field Program of World Bank Review Mission in Kala Oya Basin. 5-7 November 2003.
24.  Mahaweli Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project. Project Operation Plan (Draft). January 
     April 2004.




                                              - 37 -

- 38 -

