The World Bank                                   1818 H Street N.W.      (202) 473-1000
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  Washington, D.C. 20433  Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                                    Cable Address: INDEVAS
OFFICIAL               March 21, 2012
-   H.E. Mr. Phouphet Khamphounvonl Docum       eTSw  LA  -   L          ec4
Minister of Finance                                          /    .
Ministry of Finance
23rd Singha Road
Saysettha District
Vientiane, Lao PDR
Excellency:
Re.   Grant Agreement for the Trust Fund for the Rural Electrification
Phase I Project (TF096084)
Amendments to the Grant Agreement
We refer to your letters dated December 12, 2011 and March 15, 2012 requesting
the International Development Association acting as administrator of the Australian Trust
fund for the Australian Trust Fund for the AusAID Mekong Energy Fund ("Association")
to consider amendments to the above-mentioned Grant Agreement dated October 1, 2010
between Lao People's Democratic Republic and the Association ("Grant Agreement").
We are pleased to inform you that, after due consideration, the Association
concurs with your request with the exception of adding a new disbursement category for
sub-grants for the MEM component as the pilot microhydro scheme will be implemented
under the Rural Electrification Phase II project (REP II) given procurement delays. To
give effect to such request, the Association agrees to amend the Grant Agreement as
follows:
1.    Part A. 1 of Schedule 1 to the Grant Agreement is amended by inserting the words
"including the provision of Sub-grants" immediately after the words "Project
Provinces".
2.    Schedule 1, Part B.3.(b) of Schedule 1 to the Grant Agreement is amended by
replacing the word "biomass" by the word "biogas".
3.    The Disbursement Table in Section IVA.2 to Schedule 2 to the Grant Agreement
is replaced by the Disbursement Table in the Attachment to this Letter of
Amendment.
4.    Section IV.B.2 to Schedule 2 to the Grant Agreement is amended by replacing the
words "March 31, 2012" by "July 31, 2012".
5.    The following definitions are inserted in Section I of the Appendix to the Grant
Agreement in alphabetical order and the other paragraphs renumbered
accordingly:


﻿H.E. Mr. Phouphet Khamphounvong       -2-                      March 21, 2012
"Lao PDR Rural Electrification Program House Wiring Assistance Program
Manual" means the Lao PDR Rural Electrification Program House Wiring
Assistance Program Manual dated December 2011, as said manual may be revised
from time to time with the prior approval of the World Bank."
"Sub-grant" means a sub-grant made available by EdL to support installation of
in-house wiring for electricity supply for targeted poor households in accordance
with the Lao PDR Rural Electrification Program House Wiring Assistance
Program Manual and the term "Sub-grants" means, collectively, more than one
Sub-grant."
Unless the context otherwise requires and except where otherwise defined in this
Amendment Letter, all capitalized terms contained herein shall have the meanings given
to them in the Grant Agreement.
All of the terms and conditions of the Grant Agreement that have not been
amended pursuant to this amendment letter shall remain unchanged and in full force and
effect.
Please confirm your agreement to the amendments set out above by signing, or
arranging for an authorized representative of the Recipient to sign, the form of
confirmation set out below, returning one fully executed original of this Amendment
Letter to us at your earliest convenience and retaining one original for your records.
Please note that this Amendment Letter will be disclosed to the public in
accordance with the World Bank's Policy on Access to Information.
Yours sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
acting as administrator of the Australian Trust fund for the
Australian Trust Fund for the AusAID Mekong Energy Fund
Maria lonata
Acting Country Director, Lao PDR
East Asia and Pacific Region
AGREED:
LAO PEOP E' DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
By_
Authorized Representativ '
Name [)r. Viengthong SIPRANDONE 7
Title
Date-     2 9 MAR 2017


﻿H.E. Mr. Phouphet Khamphounvong      -3-                     March 21, 2012
ATTACHMENT
% of Expenditures
Amount of the Grant     to beinane
Category                    Allocated
(expressed,in USD)    (inclusive of taxes)
(1) Goods, Sub-grants, and              7,220,000              100%
consultants' services under Part A. 1
and A.6 of the Project
(2) Goods and consultants' services     2,200,000              100%
under Part B.1, B.3, and B.6 of the
Project
TOTAL AMOUNT                            9,420,000


