                                     Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                          Report No: ICR00002888



             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                               (TF-91192)

                                         ON

                      A MULTI-DONOR TRUST FUND GRANT

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$8.00 MILLION

                                      TO THE

                     LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC

                                       FOR A

         PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT STRENGTHENING PROGRAM




                                  February 28, 2014




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Department
Southeast Asia Country Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                              (Exchange Rate Effective as of February 2014)
                                     Currency Unit = Lao Kip
                                     1.00 Kip = US$ 0.0001245
                                      US$ 1.00 = 8030.55 Kip

                                          FISCAL YEAR

                                     October 1 – September 30

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB     Asian Development Bank                          NGPES      National Growth and Poverty Eradication
                                                                   Strategy
ASEAN   Association of Southeast Asian Nations          NSEDP      National Socio-Economic Development Plan
BOL     Bank of Lao People’s Democratic Republic        NT2        Nam Theun 2 Hydroelectric Project
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy                     OM         Operations Manual (Project)
DMFAS   Debt Management and Financial Analysis          PER        Public Expenditure Review
        System
EFRD    External Finance Relations Department           PFMSP      Public Financial Management Strengthening
                                                                   Program
EU      European Union                                  PFMSU      Public Financial Management Strengthening Unit
FA      Financing Agreement                             PFMSP-     Public Financial Management Strengthening
                                                        MU         Program - Management Unit
FM      Financial Management                            PCU        Project Coordination Unit
FMCBP   Financial Management Capacity Building          PRGF       Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
        Project
FMR     Financial Management Report                     PrMO       Procurement Monitoring Office
FSS     Financial Sector Strategy                       PRSC       Poverty Reduction Support Operation
GFIS    Government Financial Information System         SAO        State Audit Organization
IDA     International Development Association           SDC        Swiss Development Corporation
IMF     International Monetary Fund                     SIDA       Swedish International Development Agency
KPI     Key Performance Indicator                       TM         Task Manager
MDGs    Millennium Development Goals                    UNDP       United Nations Development Programme
MIS     Management Information System                   VAT        Value-added Tax
MOF     Ministry of Finance




                                    Vice President:   Axel van Trotsenburg
                                 Country Director:    Ulrich Zachau
                                   Sector Director:   Sudhir Shetty
                                 Country Manager:     Keiko Miwa
                                   Sector Manager:    Mathew Verghis
                              Project Team Leader:    Saysanith Vongviengkham
                    LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                 Public Financial Management Strengthening Program
                               Multi-Donor Trust Fund


                                                CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

Implementation Completion and Results Report
  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
  3. Assessment of Outcomes                           ...................................................................... 17
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 22
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 22
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 24
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 26
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 27
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 28
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 35
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 36
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 37
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 38
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 39
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 41
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 45


MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Public Finance
                        Lao People's Democratic                           Management
Country:                                        Project Name:
                        Republic                                          Strengthening Program
                                                                          MDTF
Project ID:             P108787                    L/C/TF Number(s):      TF-91192
ICR Date:               01/23/2014                 ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                          LAO PEOPLES
Lending Instrument:     TAL                        Grantee:               DEMOCRATIC
                                                                          REPUBLIC
Original Total
                        USD 3.86M                  Disbursed Amount:      USD 5.19M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 5.19M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA)
 Australian Agency for International Development
 European Union Delegation
 Swiss Development Corporation

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
      Process             Date              Process            Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:        12/14/2007     Effectiveness:            01/09/2009           01/09/2009
                                                                                     02/29/2012
                                                                                     03/31/2012
Appraisal:             06/18/2008     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                     03/31/2013
                                                                                     08/31/2013
Approval:              11/15/2007     Mid-term Review:          11/15/2010           11/15/2010
                                      Closing:                  10/31/2011           08/31/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                          Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                       High
Bank Performance:                                  Moderately Satisfactory
Grantee Performance:                               Moderately Unsatisfactory



                                                 i
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings         Borrower                   Ratings
                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                     Government:            Moderately Satisfactory
                        Satisfactory
                        Moderately    Implementing
Quality of Supervision:                                      Moderately Unsatisfactory
                        Satisfactory  Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank            Moderately    Overall Borrower
                                                             Moderately Unsatisfactory
Performance:            Satisfactory  Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                            QAG Assessments (if
                               Indicators                                                  Rating
      Performance                                      any)
 Potential Problem Project                             Quality at Entry
                             No                                                   None
at any time (Yes/No):                                  (QEA):
 Problem Project at any time                           Quality of Supervision
                             Yes                                              None
(Yes/No):                                              (QSA):
DO rating before             Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:     Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                          Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                          30                      30
General public administration sector                                       40                      40
Sub-national government administration                                     30                      30


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Public expenditure, financial management and procurement                    100                    100

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                           At ICR                                  At Approval
Vice President:              Axel van Trotsenburg                    James W. Adams
Country Director:            Ulrich Zachau                           Annette Dixon
Sector Manager:              Mathew A. Verghis                       Mathew A. Verghis
Project Team Leader:         Saysanith Vongviengkham                 Saiyed Shabih Ali Mohib
ICR Team Leader:             Saysanith Vongviengkham
ICR Primary Author:




                                                      ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

  Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The overall objective of the proposed Trust Fund is to support the Government of the Lao PDR to
enhance public sector effectiveness to improve the socio-economic development of its population. The
purpose of the proposed activities is to improve the effectiveness of public finance management in Lao
PDR through support to the Government's Public Financial Management Strengthening Program.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
There was no revision of the PDO

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                             Actual Value
                                                                        Formally
                                                Values (from                              Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value                                   Revised
                                                  approval                               Completion1 or
                                                                      Target Values
                                                 documents)                               Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Improved Macro-Fiscal Discipline
                                                                                      2.75 (Not Achieved)
Value                                                                                 PI-1: B (FY09/10 = 7.9%,
quantitative or   PEFA Score: 2.75             3.0                                    FY10/11 = 6.6% and
qualitative)                                                                          FY11/12 = 8.1%)
                                                                                      PI-11: C+
Date achieved     06/30/2009                                         10/31/2013       08/31/2013
Comments
                  There has been limited progress on the budget deviation and the budget calendar
(incl. %
                  defined in the budget law has not been strictly observed.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Improved Financial Management and Control
Value                                                                                 2.16 (Partially Achieved)
                                                                                      PI-17: 2.5 (C+)
quantitative or   PEFA Score: 1.6              2.5                                    PI-24: 2.5 (C+)
qualitative)                                                                          PI-25: 1.5 (D+)
Date achieved     06/30/2009                                         10/31/2013       08/31/2013
Comments           There has been good progress in the areas of cash and debt management, the
(incl. %          publication of the in-year budget report and the financial statements and audit, but the
achievement)      achievements are lower than the target.
Indicator 3 :     Improved revenue management and control
Value                                                                                 C+ (Not achieved)
quantitative or   PEFA Score: C                B                                      PI-14: (i: C, ii: B and iii:
Qualitative)                                                                          C)
Date achieved     06/30/2009                                         10/31/2013       08/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %           While there has been a good progress in centralizing the tax registration, the tax
achievement)      assessment has made a limited improvement.




1
 The Team applied the PEFA methodology to do the assessment based on team’s knowledge and information
available because the formal 2nd PEFA assessment has been planned for the end of 2014.


                                                     iii
Indicator 4 :     Improved sectoral and local allocations and management
Value                                                                                           C (Achieved)
quantitative or   PEFA Score: D                    C                                            PI-8: C (i: C, ii: D and iii:
Qualitative)                                                                                    B:
Date achieved     06/30/2009                                                                    08/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %          At the end of 2013, there were 9,452 tax payers registered, of which 6,700 tax payers were VAT payers.
achievement)
Note: For averaging purpose, a numerical value is assigned to a PEFA score: a score A is
equivalent to 4; B+ is 3.5; B is 3; C+ is 2.5; C is 2; D+ is 1.5 and D is 1.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                   Original Target                   Actual Value
                                                                      Formally
                                                    Values (from                      Achieved at
   Indicator             Baseline Value                             Revised Target
                                                      approval                      Completion or
                                                                       Values
                                                     documents)                      Target Years
                  Stability and credibility of the budget (PEFA-PI-1)
Indicator 1 :     Reliable Aggregate Expenditure Control: Deviation of Outturn to budget (budget
                  outturn is close to budget plan)
                                                                                                Achieved:
Value                                                                                           8.1% (FY11/12, the latest
                                                   5-10 percent (by
(quantitative     13.8 percent                                               None               outturn available; and
                                                   2013)                                        FY09/10 = 7.9%,
or Qualitative)
                                                                                                FY10/11 = 6.6%)
Date achieved     06/30/2009                                                 10/31/2013         08/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %          Annex II recorded 8.1 percent for FY2011/12
achievement)
                  Orderliness and participation in the annual budget process
                  Budget Process Becomes More Orderly – providing adequate time for key stakeholders
Indicator 2 :     to participate:
                  Annual Budget Calendar is adhered to and Budget Ceilings are issued to ensure an
                  orderly budget process
                  Budget Calendar exists but Stable Budget                          Partially Achieved:
Value                                                                               Budget Circular
                  not followed rigorously, so Calendar and
(quantitative                                                                       issued in March 2012
                  no budget circular was       Budget Ceilings are
or Qualitative)                                                                     for FY2012-13
                  issued                       issued
Date achieved     06/30/2009                                        10/31/2013      08/31/2013
                  Budget Circular for FY2012-13 was issued one month earlier than previous fiscal year.
Comments
                  Budget Circular for FY2012-13 instructed ministries and provinces to include technical
(incl. %
                  revenue in the budget and revenue-collecting agencies to break down non-resource and
achievement)
                  resource revenue (i.e. mining and hydropower separately. No ceilings were issued yet.
                  Recording and Management of Cash Balances, Debt and Guarantee.
                  Cash is actively managed to ensure it is available to support expenditures and to reduce
                  borrowing costs:
Indicator 3 :
                  Technical revenue bank accounts are consolidated into Treasury and Treasury Single
                  Account (TSA) Framework is fully implemented to allow for more active cash
                  management.


                                                          iv
                                                Completion of the
                  Debt data lack accuracy;
                                                consolidation of
                  spending unit accounts not
Value                                           technical revenue                  Partially Achieved
                  consolidated into Treasury;                                      (Please refer to
(quantitative                                   accounts into
                  lending by BOL and                                               comments below)
or Qualitative)                                 Treasury and TSA is
                  provincial debt guaranteed
                                                rolled out to
                  outside budget framework
                                                commercial banks
Date achieved     06/30/2009                                          10/31/2013    08/31/2013
Comments          Technical revenue bank account consolidation is progressing well at the time of the ICR
(incl. %          preparation. TSA has been implemented at BOL and its branches, and all state-owned
achievement)      commercial banks (LDB, APB and BCEL) was completed in 2013.
                  Improved Budget Execution Reporting:
                  Quality and timeliness of in-year budget execution reports.
Indicator 4 :
                  Improved quality of in-year budget execution report through expanded coverage (to
                  include all technical revenue) and utilization of upgraded GFIS
                  Budget execution report
                  coverage was not completed Budget execution
Value             and no report on             report coverage will                 Partially Achieved
(quantitative     expenditure financed by      include all technical                (Please refer to
or Qualitative)   technical revenue.           revenue and full                     comments below)
                  Upgraded GFIS is yet to be utilization of GFIS
                  put into operation.
Date achieved     06/30/2009                                          09/30/2013    08/31/2013
                  By end of September2013 the balance of technical revenue accounts outside the
                  National Treasury (NT) had yet to be reduced from 75 billion Kip to 35 billion Kip, and
                  for FY2012/2013, the amount of technical revenue brought onto the budget has
                  increased slightly. At the central level, the number of bank accounts at the commercial
                  banks reduced from 251 in FY2011/12 to 216 in FY2012/2013; whereas the number of
Comments          accounts opened at the NT increased from 324 in FY2011/12 to 411 in FY2012/2013.
(incl. %          At the local level, the review shows that there were still 352 accounts of the budget
achievement)      units at the commercials banks, of which 289 are still active; while the number of
                  accounts opened at the NT increased from 359 in FY2011/12 to 1,397 in FY2012/2013,
                  and the amount of deposits increased from 68 billion kip in FY2011/12 to 185 billion
                  kip in FY2012/2013. The GFIS was now used by all central agencies and provinces; the
                  system was rolled out to a number of tier-2 agencies of MOE and MOH, and is planned
                  to be rolled out to MOAF and MPWT in 2014.
                  Improved Budget Execution Reporting:
                  Quality and Timeliness of Annual Financial Statements:
Indicator 5 :
                  Improved quality of annual financial statements through enhanced completeness and
                  accounting standard disclosure.
                                               Financial statement
                                               will include revenue
                                               and expenditure
Value                                                                               Not Achieved
                  Incomplete coverage and from charges for                          (Please see
(quantitative
                  non-compliant with IPSAS services and the                         comments below)
or Qualitative)
                                               IPSAS is adopted
                                               for phased
                                               implementation
Date achieved     06/30/2009                                          09/30/2013    08/31/2013


                                                     v
Comments          With an IMF TA, work had begun on designing the future IP-SAS-compliant financial
(incl. %          reporting framework for the public sector at the national and sub-national levels, but
achievement)      there was some uncertainty with continuing funding sources.
                  Improved transparency of inter-governmental fiscal relations:
Indicator 6 :
                  Budget Allocation Norms are developed to guide the budget preparation process.
                                                Non-wage recurrent
                                                budgeted norms for
                                                at least education
                                                and health sectors
                  Budget allocation to          and capital budget
Value                                                                                Partially Achieved
                  provinces and districts is    norms are in                         (Please see
(quantitative
                  not based on transparent      operation. Work                      comments below)
or Qualitative)
                  rules                         underway to
                                                develop non-wage
                                                recurrent budget
                                                norm for other
                                                sectors
Date achieved     06/30/2009                                         09/30/2013      08/31/2013
                  There had been no formal issuance of budget allocation norms. However, the MOF
Comments          reported that some allocation norms for the education sector, based on the ESDF, were
(incl. %          used in allocating the education budget. In addition, from 2011‒12, the government has
achievement)      implemented a school block grant scheme to channel the resources directly to the
                  primary schools’ one-per-student formula.
                  Effective Tax Registration and Tax Assessment
                  Enhanced tax payer registration: Taxpayers are properly identified and registered with
Indicator 7 :
                  the tax authorities through the number of tax payers registered with the Tax IT system
                  (Lao TIS)
Value             No unique TIN exists. Lao 4,000 VAT
                                                                                     Achieved
(quantitative     TIS under development for taxpayers are                            9,452 (Aug 2013)
or Qualitative)   VAT taxpayer registration registered
Date achieved     30/06/2009                                         10/31/2013      08/31/2013
Comments
                  At the end of August 2013, there were 9,452 tax payers registered, of which 6,700 tax
(incl. %
                  payers were VAT payers.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

          Date ISR                                                             Actual Disbursements
 No.                                DO                           IP
          Archived                                                                (USD millions)
  1      07/08/2009           Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory               0.15
  2      06/27/2010       Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Unsatisfactory              0.53
  3      10/05/2011           Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory               1.93
  4      03/11/2012           Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory               2.50
  5      10/10/2012           Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory               3.69
  6      05/17/2013       Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory               4.47




                                                    vi
H. Restructuring (if any)

                            ISR Ratings at     Amount
                  Board
 Restructuring              Restructuring Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring & Key
               Approved PDO
    Date(s)                                 Restructuring      Changes Made
                  Change     DO      IP
                                           in USD millions
  02/29/2012                  S      MS           2.50
  03/31/2012                  S      MS           2.63
  03/31/2013                  S      MS           4.42
  08/31/2013                  MS     MS           4.96




I. Disbursement Profile




                                         vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.       In the late 1990s, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic (Lao PDR) suffered
from the adverse economic effects of the Asian financial crisis—slowing GDP growth;
falling value of the national currency (the Kip); and triple-digit inflation—along with a
weakening effort in domestic reforms and macroeconomic management. Following a
series of partial and ad hoc, but largely unsuccessful responses to halt the country’s
economic deterioration, in 2000, the government renewed its effort to restore economic
stability and reduce poverty through a 5-Year Plan and an Interim Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (I-PRSP). 2 With these, the Lao government launched a program of
structural reforms that aimed to: strengthen macroeconomic stability; reduce the drain on
public resources by the state-owned banking and enterprise sectors; attract private
investment; and increase budgetary and financial transparency.

One of the main foci of the reform program was to increase the efficiency of the public
sector to lead the reform program. Public sector effectiveness was to be enhanced
through policies and actions aimed at reforms towards transparent and efficient public
financial management in both expenditures and revenues. The implementation of these
policies and actions, in turn, required significant human and institutional capacity
development and building of a successful and sustainable reform program. With
inadequate human resources and constraints in the public sector, the strategy of the Lao
authorities was to assign priority to sustained human resource development and capacity
building activities to assure effective management of its reform program.

2.       The Public Financial Management Strengthening Program (PFMSP), officially
adopted in November 2005 as a medium-to-long-term program, was one of the important
elements of the Lao government’s long-term framework for public finance reform. The
PFMSP was intended as the main vehicle to implement government policies and
strategies laid out in a 2003 policy paper on governance, the 2004 National Growth and
Poverty Eradication Strategy (NGPES), and the sixth National Socio-Economic
Development Program 2006–2010 (NSEDP).3 As such, the PFMSP sought to improve
consistency, efficiency, transparency, and accountability in public expenditure policy and
management, as well as revenue collection. Under the PFMSP umbrella, all elements of
the revised Budget Law, promulgated in February 2007, and the Nam Theun 2 Revenue
Management Arrangements were to be operationalized. The PFMSP focused on
strengthening the management system of the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the capacity
of its staff, and through pilot interventions at the provincial and sector levels, improve the
management systems and staff in provincial finance departments.


2
  These documents were discussed by the World Bank’s Board on April 24, 2001 (IDA/SecM/0216).
3
  Lao PDR. “Priority Areas for Governance Reform: Public Service Reform, People’s Participation, Rule
of Law and Sound Financial Management ‒ A Policy Paper of the G overnment of Lao PDR on Governance
Issues,” Round Table Process, Vientiane, Lao PDR, March 2003; Lao PDR, National Growth and Poverty
Eradication Strategy (NGPES), Vientiane, 2004; Lao PDR, Sixth National Socio-Economic Development
Plan 2006–2010, Vientiane, 2010.


                                                 1
3.      In accord with the PFMSP, in 2007, the World Bank’s Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) called for reforms to achieve better management of public resources. 4
Since the reforms envisaged under the PFMSP were consistent with the strategies and
outcomes of the World Bank, as well as those of a number of other development partners,
and better aligning donor support was also a priority in the Lao PDR, the Bank led the
establishment of a 4-year Multi-Donor Trust Fund (MDTF) to support the PFMSP. The
PFMSP-MDTF, which was governed by the principles of government ownership, policy
engagement, institutional development, accountability, transparency, donor coordination,
and participation, was intended to support critical interventions at all stages of the
PFMSP by providing quick and flexible access to technical assistance (TA).

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

4.       The overall objective of the Trust Fund, as stated in both the Project Appraisal
Document (PAD) and the Grant Agreement, was to support the Government of Lao
PDR’s efforts to enhance public sector effectiveness to improve socio-economic
development for the country’s population. The indicators set for measuring the success of
the PFMSP-MDTF were as follows: (i) improved macro-fiscal discipline and
management; (ii) improved financial management and control; (iii) improved revenue
management and control, and (iv) improved sectoral and local allocation and
management. Through support for these four objectives, the PFMSP-MDTF aimed to be
an effective instrument for supporting the government in formulating reform policies and
measures that improved policy consistency, efficiency, transparency, and accountability,
both in public expenditures and revenue management. The MDTF aimed to strengthen
institutional systems and staff capacity, while making progress towards appropriate
international financial management standards and effective utilization of donor assistance.

5.      Concerning the key indicators listed above, the PAD noted that “The PFMSP will
have its own monitoring results framework that will incorporate some of the key and
relevant indicators of the Public Expenditure Financial Accountability (PEFA)
framework. It is expected that the detailed monitoring and evaluation arrangements
(including indicators, benchmarks and target values) for [the] PFMSP will be delivered as
the first key output under the MDTF.” However, due to a considerable time lag in
implementation of the PFMSP-MDTF, no clear results framework was constructed,
despite the need to move ahead on this activity. Given the absence of the formal results
framework, and the need to proceed with monitoring and evaluation activities, Bank staff
developed a list of relevant indicators based on the PEFA which were as follows:


         Stability and credibility of the budget;
         Transparency of inter-governmental fiscal relations;
         Orderliness and participation in the annual budget process;



4
    World Bank, Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report, Report No. 39688-LA, May 2007.


                                                   2
        Recording and management of cash balances, debt and guarantees;
        Quality and timeliness of in-year budget execution reports;
        Tax registration and tax assessment to be effective;
        Quality and timeliness of annual financial statements

6.       The Restructuring Paper of March 21, 2012 listed the following agreed outcomes:
        Improved consistency between government development priorities and activities;
        Improved efficiency in public financial management;
        Improved transparency and accountability in public finance management;
        Strengthened institutional financial management standards applied; and
        Prioritized and sequenced government’s initiative in strengthening public
         financial management.

The intermediate results indicators established by World Bank staff were derived from
the above key outcomes as follows:
     Budget allocation norms developed to guide the budget preparation process;
     Taxpayers are properly identified and registered with the tax authorities [as
       measured] through the number of tax payers registered with the Tax IT
       [information technology] system or the Lao TIS [tax information system];
     Deviation of outturn to the budget;
     Annual budget calendar is adhered to and budget ceilings are issued to ensure an
       orderly budget process;
     Technical revenue bank accounts are consolidated into [the] Treasury and [the]
       Treasury Single Account Framework is fully implemented to allow for more
       active cash management;
     Improved quality of [the] in-year budget execution report through expanded
       coverage (to include all technical revenue) and utilization of [the] upgraded
       government financial information system (GFIS);
     Improved quality of annual financial statements through enhanced completeness
       and accounting standard disclosure.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

7.      The PDO was not revised during the life of the project. 5 However there were four
restructurings of the project which also involved four extensions of the project’s closing



5
  While the Restructuring Paper (RP) of March 21, 2012 stated that the PDO has not changed and cited the
PDO from the PAD, the wording in the RP is slightly different as shown in its Annex 2: “To improve the
effectiveness of public finance management in Lao PDR thro ugh support to the Government’s Public
Financial Management Strengthening Program. The ultimate goal[s] of the PFMSP are: improved policy
consistency, efficiency, transparency and accountability in public expenditure and revenue management by
strengthening institutional systems and capacity and making progress towards appropriate international
financial management standards and effective use of foreign financing. [The] MDTF will contribute to
progress in four outcome areas of the PFMSP (improved macro-fiscal discipline and management;


                                                   3
date, additional funding from donors, and transfers of funds between components and
sub-components (Section 1.7).

8.         The final PDO Indicators, based on the PEFA paper, were agreed as follows:

          Stability and credibility of the budget (PEFA-PI-1);
          Transparency of inter-governmental fiscal relations (PEFA-PI-8);
          Orderliness and participation on the annual review budget process (PEFA-PI-11);
          Tax registration and tax assessment is effective (PEFA-PI-14);
          Recording and management of cash balance, debt, and guarantee (PEFA-PI-17);
          Quality and timeliness of in-year budget execution reports (PEFA-PI-24;
          Quality and timeliness of annual financial statements (PEFA-PI-25).

9.     The intermediate results indicators were based on the key indicators for the PDO
but were not subsequently changed (Para No. 7).

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

10.     The targeted institutions for the PFMSP included the Ministry of Finance (MOF)
and its selected departments (listed below), the State Audit Organization (SAO, formerly
the National Audit Office), the Ministry of Education, and the National Assembly.
Within the MOF, specific beneficiary departments included: the Fiscal Policy
Department, Budget Department, National Treasury, Tax Department, Personnel
Department, Accounting Department, State Asset Management Department, External
Finance Department, Customs Department, SOE Financial Management Department,
Cabinet, Financial Information Technology Center (FITC), Procurement Monitoring
Office (PrMO) and provincial and district finance departments. Under the restructured
project, the beneficiaries were the same group. The interventions were expected to help
strengthen relations between these ministries and agencies and their respective
departments, as well as assist with more efficient policy implementation in public finance
management.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

11.    The program to support the PFMSP consisted of six original components. Taken
together, they would contribute to bolstering the effectiveness of the public sector in its
responsibility for better management of public resources, both in its revenue and
spending authorities: 6

      A. Revenue sharing, fiscal planning and budget preparation;
      B. Treasury centralization, budget execution, accounting, and financial reporting;


improved financial management and control; improved revenue management and control and improved
sectoral and local allocation and management) which are critical to achieving the goal of the PFM reform.”

6
    World Bank, Program Appraisal Document for the PFMSP, April 8, 2008, p. 4.


                                                    4
      C.   Revenue policy and administration;
      D.   Local government financial management;
      E.   Financial legislation and regulatory framework; and
      F.   Human resource and capacity development.

1.6 Revised Components

12.     One new component was added at the third restructuring of the project following
the Mid-Term Review of the PFMSP-MDTF in November 2010: External Budget and
Financial Oversight and Audit. Participants at the Mid-Term Review agreed that this
component constituted an important element of the PFM system. As a recipient-executed
project, the restructuring was approved at the Regional Vice President-level in the Bank.

13.        The revised list of components is as follows: 7

      A.   Revenue sharing, fiscal planning and budget preparation;
      B.   Treasury centralization, budget execution, accounting, and financial reporting;
      C.   Revenue policy and administration;
      D.   Local government financial management;
      E.   Financial legislation and regulatory framework;
      F.   Human resource and capacity development, and
      G.   External budget and financial oversight and audit.

1.7 Other significant changes

14.    As noted earlier, the project was extended four times during its life. The project’s
closing date, which was originally on October 30, 2011, was extended to August 31, 2013.

15.     The first restructuring (October 31, 2011 to February 29, 2012) was to (i) allow
the government to continue with the activities in order to complete them as called for in
the work plan, and (ii) accommodate the donors in extending the bilateral agreement with
the government and disburse their contributions to the parent trust fund account. 8 The
second restructuring (February 29 to March 31, 2012) was necessary to allow for
continued support to the program, while providing additional time to complete the
Amendments to the Administrative Arrangements with all the donors to the PFMSP-
MDTF. 9 The third restructuring of the PFMSP Grant Agreement was subsequently
needed to extend the closing date for the PFMSP Grant Agreement from March 31, 2012
to March 31, 2013, upon agreement from two donors supporting the program. 10 This
restructuring allowed the government to:




7
  World Bank, Mid-Term Review, November 2010.
8
  World Bank, Restructuring Paper for the PFMSP-MDTF, October 6, 2011.
9
  World Bank, Restructuring Paper for the PFMSP-MDTF, February 24, 2012.
10
   World Bank, Restructuring Paper for the PFMSP-MDTF, March 21, 2012.


                                                5
         Align the amount of the grant agreement with the resources available in the
          MDTF, following full disbursement of donors’ commitments;
         Allow donors to disburse their respective remaining commitments to the MDTF;
         Complete critical activities under the program;
         Provide continued support to the PFMSP 2011‒2015, with an additional
          component—external budget and financial oversight and audit; and
         Update allocation to the disbursement categories and the detailed financing plan
          by subcomponent, to reflect the extended timeline and the revised amount for the
          Grant Agreement, and to include the updated results matrix and program
          indicators.

In addition, the results framework, which was endorsed by the MTR in 2010, was
formally and finally adopted for the project in the Restructuring Paper.

16.    The fourth and last restructuring of the PFMSP Grant Agreement, from March 31,
2013 to August 31, 2013,11 was necessary for:

         Alignment of the amount in the grant agreement with the resources available in
          the MDTF, following full disbursement of donors’ commitments;
         Reallocation of funding from the Bank-executed trust fund (associated with the
          PFMSP-MDTF) and additional allocation from the un-materialized exchange rate
          fluctuation provision and investment income to the PFMSP-MDTF;
         Completion of remaining critical activities under the program, and those yet to be
          undertaken, using the above reallocated funding;
         Provision of continued support to the PFMSP 2011‒2015; and
         Updating allocation to the disbursement categories and the detailed financing plan
          by subcomponent in order to reflect the extended timeline and the revised amount
          of the Grant Agreement.

17.     In addition, a series of design modifications affected the organizational structure
over the life of the project. While at the design and preparation stage, the project was
meticulous about the organizational structure of the PFMSP, some unanticipated
organizational changes (discussed in Section 2.2) took place in the MOF that eventually
affected the success of project implementation, as well as the success of its outcomes.




11
     World Bank, Restructuring Paper for the PFMSP-MDTF, March 5, 2013.


                                                  6
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

18.     Background and lessons from previous operations. Inadequate institutional
capacity in the Lao PDR was one of the major lessons learned from three Bank-financed
structural adjustment credits in the 1990s. 12 Through its PFMSP, the government was
highly committed to strengthening its institutional capacity to carry out effective reform,
and assigned high priority to addressing the inadequate staffing in the implementing units
and the day-to-day managing unit.

19.      Project design assessment. In light of the above considerations, and the
country’s context, Bank staff considered that a highly-flexible, capacity-building TA
framework to support the PFMSP would be an appropriate vehicle to ensure good-quality
capacity building activities, funding availability and timeliness, as well as consistency
and comprehensiveness in meeting the government’s PFM needs. This reasoning was
based on the Bank’s previous TA experience, and appeared to be suited to the Lao
context in carrying out PFM reform at a time of transition to a market economy. A donor-
funded, recipient-executed project was expected serve as an effective vehicle to support
the MOF in building its institutional capacity through developing its human resources.
The project was also expected to serve as a logical channel for development partners to
discuss PFM reform with government, and facilitate the MOF’s efforts to strengthen its
institutional capacity through a flexible approach that responded to the country’s fast -
changing environment.

20.      To build up the required institutional capacity, the project established detailed
plans for the institutional and implementation arrangements, staffing and managing a
project implementation unit, and administrative details for the project.13 The institutional
structure and management design drew on the success of the Bank’s previous TA project,
the Financial Management Capacity Building Project (FMCBP), which initially was
concurrent with the PFMSP. The PFMSP was led by an Implementation Committee (IC)
and assisted by a Secretariat. The MOF assigned the PFMSU, which handled day-to-day
requirements for the FMCBP, to serve the PFMSP as well. Four task forces were
established for each of the project’s PFM components and flexible funding allocations
were built into the project. However, due to subsequent changes in the administrative and
institutional arrangements, the careful administrative and management design for the
project was undermined during implementation.

21.     Risk assessment and mitigation measures. The PFMSP identified an extensive
list of risks and mitigating measures. These were based on lessons learned over the
Bank’s earlier policy lending experiences and have, to some extent, addressed the risks as


12
   World Bank, Implementation Completion Report for the Third Structural Adjustment Credit, Report No.
19434-LA, June 29, 1999, p. iv.
13
   The PAD provided a detailed implementation structure to address the requirements of the project both to
carry out agreed activities and to ensure sustained ownership within each implementing units.


                                                    7
did the Bank’s appointment of a long-term advisor to help the MOF implement the
project’s activities. The ICR mission concurs with the list of risks outlined in the PAD,
however, in hindsight, the overall moderate rating given in the PFMSP-MDTF PAD may
not adequately capture the challenges faced in implementing the project, and especially
the unanticipated developments that subsequently impacted project results and
achievements.

22.     Adequacy of government commitment and participatory process. The Lao
government demonstrated strong commitment to PFM reform and to strengthening public
sector capacity to undertake PFM reform. The government’s approach was set out in a
policy paper on governance in 2003, the NGPES, and the sixth NSEDP 2006‒2010. The
then operating, Bank-funded FMCBP and its series of the Poverty Reduction Support
Operations (PRSOs), further demonstrated government commitment to PFM reform, as
did the appointment of the then-Vice Minister, who was proactive in heading the MDTF
Steering Committee.

23.     During PFMSP-MDTF project preparation, the Bank and supporting development
partners conducted meetings and workshops with relevant ministries and agencies on key
capacity-building issues. Through these dialogues, the donor community endorsed efforts
by the Bank and the project’s participating donors’ efforts to consolidate all PFM
capacity building under one coordinated framework, with regular monitoring, evaluation
and planning. The IMF and Bank teams also collaborated in analyzing needs and making
recommendations on relevant capacity building. Thus, despite the enormous challenges
of the changing development landscape, these efforts contributed to project relevance.

24.     Based on the analysis above, the project’s overall quality at entry was rated
moderately satisfactory. An array of organizational structures and other features were
created at the project preparation stage to ensure sustainable implementation. Also, the
project PDO was aligned with the government’s strategy and policies, as well as with the
CAS, and lessons learned from previous Bank operations were incorporated into the
project design. However, as noted, some risks and capacity issues were not fully
identified, and institutional coordination challenges were not accurately anticipated.

2.2 Implementation

25.    The PFMSP-MDTF was implemented over a period of six years, from 2008 to
2013, at a final cost of approximately $8.4 million. 14 A parallel, Bank-executed Trust
Fund project, the FMCBP, served as the project’s technical companion. Following
approval by the Bank’s Regional Vice President, and the signing of all the Administration
Agreements with donors, the PFMSP-MDTF launched in January 2009. The MOF was
the implementing agency, with a set of detailed institutional arrangements designed to
help the ministry manage the project.15 These included a long-term advisor appointed to


14
   Total project estimate was the equivalent of $ 7.2 million at appraisal and the total final project cost was
the equivalent of $8.4 million at project closing.
15
   The PFMSP organizational structure consisted of the:


                                                       8
work with the MOF, and administrative support from the experienced staff in FMCBP. It
is important to emphasize here that the ICR only covers the review, and only assessed the
performance of activities funded by the PFMSP-MDTF. The ICR is not a position to
comment on the government’s overall PFMSP, although features of the PFMSP are
discussed in relation to the PFMSP-MDTF Project.

26.     The PFMSP began with some auspicious developments in the MOF’s senior
management and additional development partners pledged their support too through
bilateral arrangements. On the government’s side, with the promotion of the Chair of the
PFMSP-IC (the Deputy Director-General of the Fiscal Policy Department-FPD) to
Director-General, the Minister of Finance set up the PFMSP Management Unit under the
Fiscal Policy Department to ensure that adequate assistance and services were available
for the PFMSP-SC, as well as the PFMSP-IC. On the Bank and project donors’ side, the
PFMSP enjoyed continuing close collaboration with the experienced staff of the FMCBP,
and the Bank located the Task Team Leader (TTL) in Vientiane so that the TTL could be
readily available during PFMSP implementation.

27.     However, due to the overlapping responsibilities of those administering the
project, the road to effectively implementing the PFMSP-MDTF was long and arduous,
resulting in a mix of achievements and shortcomings in carrying out the project’s
components. Four restructurings and extensions of the closing date were necessary,
which, as indicated above, extended the original close by 22 months from October 31,
2011 to August 31, 2013 (see Section 1.7). In the sixth and last ISR, the project closed
with a moderately satisfactory rating, however, results were uneven as some activities
remained partially or entirely unfinished as a result of numerous delays, and there were
doubts about whether project results would be sustainable.

28.    The project progressed at a slower pace than envisaged by the government due to
the time required to establish modalities for the project, and MOF restructuring
(completed in 2007). The Bank’s review mission in October 2009 rated progress as only
marginally satisfactory, with a financial management rating of marginally unsatisfactory,
due to the unclear definition of roles and responsibilities for the PMFSP-MU and the
Public Financial Management Strengthening Unit (PFMSU), with regard to budget
preparation, payment authorities and fund flows, plus weak internal control. The mission
recommended clarification of, and revision of the governance structure matrix and
actions to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the project so that activities
supported by the project could proceed, and maintain momentum.


   • PFMSP Steering Committee (PFMSP-SC), headed by the MOF Vice Minister, who would lead the
   project;
   • PFMSP Implementation Committee (PFMSP-IC that managed the overall project administration
   under the direction of the Deputy Director-General of the Fiscal Policy Department;
   • the PFMSP Strengthening Unit (PFMSP-SU) that was in charge of the day-to-day management of
   the project.
    PFMSP Managing Unit (PFMSP-MU), which was established in March 2009, under the directorate
     of the Fiscal Policy Department, to carry out technical and coordination support to the
     Implementation Committee and Implementing Agencies, under the direction of a full time director.


                                                  9
29.     According to the PAD, at the initial design stage, it was decided that the PFMSP
would make use of existing structures and capacities in order to integrate the MDTF into
normal operations of the MOF. These structures included the overall PFMSP Steering
Committee (PFMSP-SC), which oversaw the PFMSP Implementation Committee
(PFMSP-IC), the PFMSP-Secretariat (PFMSP-S), and the four task forces.16 In addition,
the decision was made to maintain and strengthen the already-established Public
Financial Management Strengthening Unit (PFMSU) under the External Financial
Department (EFD), which had handled procurement and financial management for the
Financial Management Capacity Building Project (FMCBP), 17 and would take on the
additional procurement and financial management work for the PFMSP-MDTF. These
arrangements were to make use of the FMCBP’s existing capacity in financial
management and procurement at the MOF, and were consistent with government law as
well as the World Bank’s procedures and guidelines for grants. The intention was to:
ensure that no additional structures were created; contribute to smooth PFM
communication between the government and donors; and provide coordination of public
financial management reforms. The PFMSU was expected to be the project
implementation unit, including maintaining the dedicated account, and providing
procurement and financial management services to the PFMSP-IC. The project’s PAD
clearly stated that the PFMSU would serve as the secretariat for the PFMSP-SC, the
review meetings of the PFMSP-IC (PAD, p.11), and would be responsible for the reports
of these meetings.

30.      However, nine months into the implementation stage, the MOF instituted an
important change that altered the management of the PFMSP. After some personnel
changes, the Minister of Finance established the PFMSP Management Unit (PFMSP-
MU) under the Fiscal Policy Department (FDP) 18 to: (i) assist the PFMSP-SC and
PFMSP-IC; (ii) coordinate the various MOF-managed activities and responsibilities
managed by the MOF’s Implementing Agencies (IAs) for PFMSP; (iii) coordinate with
donors on matters concerning the PFMSP; and iv) work closely with the PFMSP-MDTF
itself. In many instances, the responsibilities of the PFMSP-MU overlapped those of the
PFMSU (especially regarding the PFMSP-MDTF), and generated conflict that would
affect the implementation of the PFMSP program and cause confusion among the
implementing agencies under the PFMSP. There were also some difficulties in
coordinating a large number of ministerial departments and implementing agencies to
identify, prioritize and plan for their own TA activities. The Bank and donors involved in
the PFMSP-MDTF repeatedly asked for clarification and definition of the areas of
responsibility for both the PFMSU and the PFMSP-MU so that administrative



16
   The four task forces were: (i) Tax and Customs Centralization, (ii) Revenue Sharing, (iii) National
Treasury Centralization, and (iv) Human Resource and Program Management.
17
   The PFMSU was originally established to manage the FMCBP. This unit had proven to be a positive
institutional unit for the FMCBP and was maintained to manage the procurement and financial activities for
the PFMSP.
18
   The Deputy Director General of the FPD (who headed the PFMCP-IC) assumed the FPD’s Director-
General position.


                                                   10
requirements and processes could be better facilitated and potential conflicts between the
two units could be minimized.

31.     Following the closure of the FMCBP, however, the MOF decided in June 2011 to
establish the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) under the Cabinet to oversee and provide
project management services to Bank-funded projects, including the PFMSP-MDTF.
These included the financial management and procurement services that were previously
performed by the PFMSU. The introduction of this institutional change required a period
of transition so that the PCU to be staffed and become fully functional, but it did provide
a solution to the previous institutional governance issues of the PFMSP-MDTF.

32.      Important personnel changes also took place at the senior level that would affect
implementation of the project. The PFMSP was spearheaded by a Steering Committee,
headed by the MOF’s Vice Minister who was proactive in the activities supported by the
PFMSP. The Vice Minister was subsequently appointed as President of the State Audit
Organization (SAO) in July 2012. From then, until closure of the PFMSP-MDTF, there
was no Chair for the project’s Steering Committee. In addition, a decision by the MOF’s
senior management in April 2013 to appoint a national private firm to design and
implement an integrated Treasury system for the ministry, halted most of the related
activities which were supported by the PFMSP-MDTF.

33.     Until closure of the PFMSP-MDTF project in August 2013, these significant
changes contributed to substantial delays and uncertainties in implementing the project,
and interfered with the whole PFMSP Program.

34.    The Mid-Term Review (MTR) of both the PFMSP, and the PFMSP-MDTF, was
held in November 2010 with representatives from donors and the government. Overall,
the MTR found that the project had made some good progress with its seven components,
although at an uneven speed and with many challenges arising as a result of the changing
environment in which the project was implemented. The MTR noted some progress was
achieved in the three pillars under the PFM, namely (i) Fiscal Planning and Budget
Preparation, (ii) Budget Execution, Accounting and Financial Reporting; and (iii)
Revenue Policy and Administration. However, as a result of the challenges discussed
above, the number of activities agreed under the results framework, but yet to be
completed, were numerous.

35.    Throughout the project’s life, and until its closure, despite the efforts of
government, donors and the World Bank, issues with the project’s institutional
governance, management and responsibilities continued to cause delays and uncertainties
between the implementing agencies and the PFMSU-MU, the PFMSU, and later with the
PCU. Project management was further adversely affected towards the end of the project
when the senior official who oversaw the PFMSP program was re-assigned, and the
government also decided to commission a private company to implement an overall IT
system for the Treasury that brought an end to project IT initiatives. The last ISR in April
2013 noted that while there were key achievements under the project, many project




                                            11
initiatives were still incomplete, and uncertainty prevailed as a result of the Treasury-
related work being undertaken by the government’s IT contractor.

36.     At the time of the project’s closure and preparation of the ICR, the draft ICR
listed the following assessment of the project’s components. This was based on the
results framework established by the PEFA.

      Component A. Revenue sharing, fiscal planning and budget preparation.
       An improved legal framework for budget management has been established that
       will enable further refinements, albeit following some long discussions among the
       stakeholders. The 2006 Budget Law and its Implementing Decree, issued in
       February 2008, have provided the legal framework and timetable for the budget
       planning and execution process. However, the MOF is still working on the
       activities which are called for under this component (i.e., the budget calendar and
       challenges in observing the budget calendar). This component also included
       consultation to build consensus and acceptance among ministries and agencies on
       this important instrument for budget planning. However, budget transparency and
       publication of the annual budget and budget expenditures are still facing delays
       and challenges as these measures are implemented.

       The project also supported finalization of the revenue-sharing formula and the
       exchange of experiences on developing the fiscal strategy for the next 5-year plan,
       and medium- to long-term fiscal and budget planning. However, these measures
       need to be better implemented and are currently of limited use as they are still
       waiting for government endorsement. For fiscal planning, the Fiscal Policy
       Department has moved ahead with drafting the long-term fiscal strategy. However,
       the challenge of fulfilling the objective of effective budgeting and related
       activities for this component remains.

      Component B. Treasury centralization, budget execution, accounting, and
       financial reporting. The project provided critical support to implement the
       Treasury Single Account (TSA) framework and piloting of the Zero-Balance
       Treasury accounts (ZBA) at Bank of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic
       (BOL) and its branches. The ZBA was then rolled out to three state-owned
       commercial banks. The MTR noted that the National Treasury reported that
       ministries with large expenditures successfully transferred their accounts to the
       National Treasury. Since then, the expansion of budget coverage was completed
       with the consolidation of technical revenue accounts into the National Treasury,
       and the Treasury Single Account was rolled out to commercial banks. Major off-
       budget funds were also consolidated in the budget. These funds are now disbursed
       through the National Treasury and its provincial offices. While it was expected
       that the budget execution report would include all technical revenue, with full
       utilization of the GFIS, this had not yet been confirmed at the ICR mission stage.
       The GFIS program and system acquired good basic hardware to improve their
       operations, and the whole country has now been connected through the leased
       lines. One of the planned concrete outputs for this activity is expected to be


                                           12
    completion of government’s financial statements for the first time. For the
    Treasury Information Management System (the TIMS or GFIS-2), functional
    requirements and technical specifications for the bidding document for
    conducting a two-stage selection process for a commercial off-the-shelf (COTS)
    integrated financial management information system and business process
    mapping, as well as proposed changes to the COTS system implementation, were
    prepared by the project design consultant (WYG International, Ltd). However, the
    government decided to make some functional enhancements to the existing GFIS,
    and delayed implementing the full-function Treasury system for some time.
    Eventually, the move to the new integrated financial management information
    system, the TIMS, was cancelled after the government decided in April 2013 to
    use government resources and another private contractor to implement a
    comprehensive information system. Given this development, the ICR could not
    ascertain whether, as expected, the budget execution report would include all
    technical revenue.

    The Accounting Department completed the Prime Minister’s draft Decree on
    Accounting for Enterprises, its implementation and government financial
    statements, in accord with the International Public Sector Accounting Standards
    (IPSAS) on a cash basis, and the International Financial Reporting Standards
    (IFRS) for small and medium enterprises (SMEs). These actions served as
    preliminary steps towards better monitoring and assessments of SMEs and need to
    be finalized so that their implementation— the next crucial stage—could begin.

    The External Financial Department (EFD) continued to record data on debt from
    international financial institutions (IFIs) and bilateral donors, and successfully
    completed the draft decree on External Debt Management and the draft manual
    for Overseas Development Assistance (ODA) Financial Management. These
    activities have set the stage for better government debt management in future, and
    the MOF needs to maintain this momentum going forward.

    At the time of ICR preparation, effort towards more transparency in government
    procurement was nudged forward, with preparations to start piloting the
    institutional procurement capacity-building program. Again, momentum must
    continue in order to achieve greater progress in this important area.

   Component C. Revenue policy and administration. The project supported
    major tax reform in the Lao PDR, specifically through introduction of the Value-
    Added Tax (VAT) and a comprehensive technical support package for the Tax
    Department, including an international consultant, training courses, and the
    development of an IT instrument to support VAT implementation. The VAT was
    successfully introduced through putting in place a firm foundation for the
    strengthening of taxpayer services. The project enabled the proper identification
    and registration of tax payers through the Tax IT system, the Lao Tax Information
    System. At the end of August 2013, 9,452 tax payers were registered, 6,700 of
    whom were VAT payers. The government has also moved to revamp the State



                                        13
    Asset Management Law, the drafting of a Presidential Decree on Revenue
    Collection from Natural Resources, and a Prime Minister’s Decree on State Fund
    Management. The State-owned Enterprise (SOE) Financial Management
    Department has been working on improving the regulations on SOE management
    and conversion of SOEs to public companies as part of the government’s road
    map towards establishing the Lao Security Exchange. These activities have set the
    stage, although very preliminary, for reform in this area. However, much further
    work needs to be undertaken, and this project served only as the first step towards
    the completed activities discussed above.

   Component D. Local government financial management. Some specific
    activities have reached the local and district financial officers, who benefitted
    from all the project activities conducted by MOF departments. The MOF
    continued to prepare a special program of support to target districts whose
    capacities are well below the national average. Following the State-Party
    Guidelines on Sam Sang [Delegation of Responsibilities from the Central to the
    Local Level], the MOF prepared to implement the Guidelines on Sam Sang and
    conducted related training activities at the local level. However, information on
    improvements achieved in capacity building need to be collected and analyzed.

   Component E. Financial legislation and regulatory framework. This
    component provided support for consultations and exchange programs to develop
    and revise legislation. These include developing inputs for laws on budget, tax,
    customs, VAT, audit and state assets, and their implementing decrees.

   Component F. Human resources and capacity development. Since most of
    the capacity-building work is incorporated into the work in other departments,
    PFMSP support for this component is limited and only included efforts to enhance
    and improve MOF officials’ English.

   Component G. External budget and financial oversight and audit. At the
    MTR, the Bank agreed to support the SAO in continuing to implement its Action
    Plan for Capacity Development and an ICT strategy, as well as the SAO’s
    development of a strategy on professional capacity building. The SAO completed
    the audit report for the final State Budget Execution for FY2009‒10 and FY2010‒
    11, some extracts of which were made public. Activities to support the SAO were
    still on-going when the ICR was being prepared at the end of 2013.

    Program Management. The PFMSP’s joint government-donor MTR meeting in
    November 2010 provided an opportunity for government and donors to discuss
    program progress and reach consensus on immediate and medium-term program
    priorities. This was to ensure continuing effective PFMSP support for
    implementation of the 2011‒2015 NSEDP, and to align planned development
    partner support for PFMSP implementation. The update of the PFMSP was based
    on consensus reached during the MTR meeting about the future for PFM reforms,
    and the Medium-term Plan Implementation for 2011‒15, with the Program


                                        14
        Performance Assessment Framework. The list of activities included the Annual
        Work Plan Implementation, Update Progress Report, Donors Implementation
        Support, and Bank/donor Mission Reviews of Technical and Financial
        Management. These activities were assisted by a PFMSP technical advisor and
        national consultants. At the time of ICR preparation, a draft Results Framework,
        with linkages to the PEFA assessment was completed and under review by the
        implementing agencies. Also, as the ICR was being finalized, an MTR-
        recommended performance assessment framework for PFMP implementation was
        being prepared to facilitate the annual monitoring of reform progress, and was to
        be submitted to the Steering Committee.

37.     As this is a donor trust-funded project, the table below summarizes the
contribution of each donor at the project’s closing. There were originally four donors for
this project. However two donors ended their involvement in March 2012.




                          PFMSP-MDTF - Donor Contribution –
                                as of August 31, 2013

                                                                             Total funds valued at
                                          Contribution
                                                                               Project Closing
       Donors
                               Amount                    Currency              US$ Equivalent
                               2,000,000
                      (plus 1,000,000 to support
 Australia                                                AUD                     2,989,140
                          school block grant
                           implementation)
 EU                            3,000,000                  EUR                     4,109,610

 SIDA                         7,400,000                    SEK                    1,084,628

 SDC                          200,000                     USD                      200,000
                               TOTAL                                             8,383,378.30


                  Breakdown table for Recipient Executed and Bank-executed

                                                                Amount
                Recipient-executed                            5,187,364.25
                Bank-executed                                 2,379,184.99
                Administration Fee                             167,667.03
                Balance                                        885,195.87
                          Data from myTF




                                                   15
2.3. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

(a)    M&E Design

38.     The original M&E framework was designed to address the government’s
inadequate institutional capacity with the PFMPSU, which to meet the project day-to-day
requirements was under the MOF’s External Finance Department. The project was also
overseen by the PFMSP-Implementing Committee and its Secretariat, which provided
policy direction and evaluated outcomes. The PFMSP was developed and implemented in
such a way as to be able to accommodate the government’s demand-driven capacity
building needs. However, key indicators for the project were not selected and agreed at
the project’s preparation, but instead were expected to be set at the beginning of
implementation as a key output of the project. As it turned out, there was continuing
delay in the work to select these key indicators, which posed some challenges for the
project’s data collection efforts. Progress of the project was difficult to monitor at the
outset without this agreed list. There was also a gap in the collection of relevant
information and data on activities performed on key institution-strengthening measures,
organization of training programs, and technology support for the departments and
agencies concerned. Some of the activities above put pressure on the MOF and strained
its effectiveness, especially with the timeliness and quality of required reports for the
project, as discussed below. “The timing of establishing a PEFA-based results framework
will be discussed at the first government-donor consultations with the PFMSP-SC after
the MDTF is established” (PAD, Para. No. 30). Subsequently, following the consultation
meeting in May 25, 2011, the World Bank, donors and the government agreed to the set
of key indicators for the Project Development Objectives.

(b)    M&E Implementation

39.      The Bank’s project team and its government’s counterparts in all implementing
agencies made great efforts to make relevant information available and ensure quality and
reliability once the key indicators were agreed. Collecting and tabulating data to ensure
reliability had been, and continued to be, a challenge. Although the PFMSP benefitted
from an earlier investment TA project managed by the MOF, the responsible staff lacked
experience in conducting these activities. Nevertheless, some incremental, but slow
progress was made throughout the project’s life cycle with regard to the type and
accuracy of the information collected as staff gained experience through undertaking
their work.

(c)    M&E Utilization.

40.     The project team collected some appropriate data for evaluation and use from the
implementing agencies and sought to apply the data as a basis for decision-making and
resource allocation. The data being generated for the project’s components were expected
to serve as continuing outputs for the implementing agencies in conducting their reform
programs. For example, the GFIS now operates with better connectivity and stability.
Government officials with GFIS training are also currently working with the system,
which was deployed with real-time connectivity in the finance departments/offices of 43


                                           16
central ministries and 17 provinces. However, with the MOF’s recent decision to hire a
national private firm to design and implement an integrated Treasury system, the
project’s GFIS work, while still operational, is now on hold, pending the development of
the new system.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

41.    There were no social safeguard issues arising from implementation of the project
because the project had been granted a C rating. Fiduciary compliance of the PFMSP-MU,
PFMSU, and subsequently the PCU, was monitored closely throughout the project by the
Bank’s task team. There were delays in submission of the IFRs and audit reports from
these units throughout the project’s life, and especially as a result of their overlapping
roles and responsibilities in managing and coordinating the activities of the PFMSP-
MDTF.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

42.      At the time of the ICR’s preparation for the PFMSP-MDTF, the Bank’s assistance
to the government in the PFM area was being reviewed and assessed for future lending
activities.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

43.     Capacity building remains consistent with the Bank’s CAS Progress Report,19 and
based on lessons learned from previous Bank operations in the country, capacity building
continues to be an integral part of the Bank’s priority assistance strategy for the Lao PDR.
The capacity building objective of the PFMSP-MDTF, which accurately reflected the
government’s development priorities at project appraisal, has been critical in meeting the
country’s needs, as well as its goals and strategies, as identified in the NGPES in 2005,
the NSEDP 2006‒2010, and the NSEDP 2011‒2015. Considered a priority pillar of the
NSEDP, the government sought to strengthen national capacity and institutions in order
to implement its reform program to effectively and efficiently manage public financial
resources and delivery of public services. Institutional and staff capacity building and
strengthening were seen as indispensable for implementing the comprehensive reform
strategy and program of the NGPES, and this was supported by donors and the Bank’s
current PRSO series. Last, but not least, besides aligning with the government’s PFM
reform strategy, the PFMSP-MDTF’s focus on capacity building also drew on lessons
learned through Bank’s previous lending operations. Once again, it is important to note
that the following discussion on relevance is restricted to the PFMSP-MDTF project only,
and does not apply to the overall PFMSP. Given the objectives and strategy of the
government, in the Bank’s public sector report, the PFMSP project was rated as relevant
to the government’s overall reform program.


19
       World Bank, Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report, op.cit.



                                                     17
44.    Despite initial careful design of the organizational structures in the implementing
MOF departments and units in order to mitigate potential risks, modifications in the
ministry’s administrative arrangements, and the government’s apparent shift in
development priorities (towards another pillar of reform—trade and preparation for Lao
membership in the World Trade Organization) resulted delays in implementing key
MDTF activities (i.e., the results framework and the list of key output indicators).

45.     The built-in flexibility of the project, while well thought out at the appraisal stage
in order to accommodate the changing dynamics of PFM reform, became a challenge
when implementing units in the MOF were reorganized. As discussed earlier, the
mechanisms for replenishing donor funding and advancing funds, as well as for
producing the required documentation, contributed to misunderstanding between the
implementing units and the two managing units. These, and other challenges facing the
MOF, resulted in confusion and delays in implementing the project and necessitated four
extensions and restructuring in order to allow the completion of some project activities.
In addition, the PFMSP-MDTF suffered from change at the top of the PFMSP-IC when
the Vice Minister, who chaired the Steering Committee, was promoted to President of the
SAO. This important position remained vacant, creating uncertainty about, and inertia
towards implementing the project. This was further aggravated when the MOF’s senior
management decided to appointment a national private firm to design and implement an
integrated Treasury system which, in turn, affected the project’s capacity to carry out
agreed components and activities.

46.     To address these challenges, the Bank and donors intensified their supervision
efforts and made strong recommendations, but these had little impact, as the emphasis for
the PFMSP shifted in a direction that differed substantially from what was initially
anticipated.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

47.      The PDO of the PFMSP focused on capacity building activities in seven areas
important for better public finance management. At project closure, the ICR found that
the project had made relevant steps towards establishing a foundation for institutional
capacity development that supports the government’s reforms of PFM. However, taken
together, these achievements must be qualified as they were uneven and the results
achieved over the life of the project, while useful for building institutional knowledge and
skills, need further reinforcement lest they fail to be sustained. Other activities were not
completed due to the lack of time and funding. The ICR mission also faced challenges in
assessing the project’s activities, given that the results framework had not been
completed because it was still under discussion by donors and government stakeholders.
The following section summarizes project achievements against the seven PDO
indicators used for monitoring and evaluation which, as indicated in Section 1.2, were
based on the Public Expenditure Financial Accountability (PEFA) framework. As noted
above, the ICR mission also learned that work on the government financial information
system (GFIS) and the tax information management system (TIMS) had been suspended
as a result of the government’s decision to implement a comprehensive information and


                                             18
communications technology (ICT) system for its operations. Most of the project-related
ICT activities were therefore postponed, pending completion the ICT system by a private
firm. Due to lack of information about the government’s planned ICT system, the ICR
mission could not assess the ITC outcomes, except to note the team’s uncertainty about
whether the project’s ICT components would be sustainable.

      Stability and credibility of the budget. A legal framework for the new Budget
       Law (approved in 2006) was put in place on February 14, 2008 with the release of
       Implementing Decree No. 25/PM. The decree established the framework and
       timetable for the budget planning and execution exercise within a medium-term
       fiscal framework. Under the project, efforts have been underway to make the
       budget more comprehensive. However, the budget process needs fine-tuning so
       that it meets international standards.
      Transparency of inter-governmental fiscal relations. Work is on-going to
       develop the budget norms for the education and health sectors but these will face
       a long road ahead.
      Orderliness and participation in the annual budget process. On-going work to
       implement the Budget Law was facilitated by its implementing decree, but
       months of hard work still lie ahead on this. At the time this ICR was prepared, the
       MOF faced tremendous challenges in strictly observing the budget calendar and
       in establishing the indicative budget ceilings.
      Recording and management of cash balances, debt and guarantees. The
       project supported the Treasury Single Account comprised of consolidation of
       technical revenue accounts and the zero-balance account (ZBA), both of which
       have made good progress. The majority of the budget units’ accounts were closed
       at the commercial banks and the budget units opened their revenue accounts at the
       National Treasury. Also the ZBA has been rolled out to all state-owned
       commercial banks.
      Quality and timeliness of in-year budget execution reports. The budget
       execution reports have been gradually improved, albeit slowly, reflecting some
       progress in consolidating at the Treasury, the technical revenue accounts for the
       central and local levels. The quarterly budget execution report is generated in
       principle by the GFIS four weeks after the quarter ends. However, at the end of
       the PFMSP-MDTF, commitment control had yet to be implemented.
      Tax registration and tax assessment to be effective. Significant progress has
       been made in the registration of VAT tax payers through the Lao TIS tax
       registration module, and as of the end of August 2013, 6,700 VAT payers were
       registered. However, activities related to processing tax returns and payments are
       on-going.
      Quality and timeliness of annual financial statements. Work is still very much
       in progress to improve quality and timeliness in preparing the government’s
       annual financial statements (budget execution reports) and laying the groundwork
       for adopting and implementing the IPSAS-cash basis in the medium term. A
       decree to support these activities was prepared and endorsed by the Prime
       Minister, but to achieve greater impact, this decree was upgraded to a law which
       was approved by the National Assembly in December 2013.


                                           19
48.      Overall Assessment. Taking into account work on the Project Development
Objectives’ seven key indicators and activities in the seven components, as well as the
history of the project’s implementation, the ICR rates the PDO’s overall achievement as
moderately satisfactory, with the qualification that sustainability of the PDO remains a
challenge in the medium term. This qualification is due to the changing direction PFM
reform, and questions about ongoing commitment to reform PFM and build the necessary
institutional and staff capacity to achieve the PFM strategy. The project’s PDO has been
strengthened through the Bank’s PRSO series and the NT2 project, both of which have
helped the Bank to maintain active dialogue with the government and keep up the reform
momentum. These operations highlight the need for deepening institutional and staff
capacity building activities in an effective and timely way. In general, the ICR
acknowledges achievement of the indicators supported by the project and considers these
to be a preliminary foundation for building and further developing the government’s
institutional capacity. But ongoing technical assistance is critically needed to deepen
capacity building activities and maintain PFM momentum and sustainability.

49.     The overall ICR rating for the PDO concurs with the rating of moderately
satisfactory in ISR No. 6, and reflects as well the need to consider overall assessment of
the complete project, and take into account the restructuring periods.

3.3 Efficiency

50.    The project was not required to undertake a net present value/economic rate of
return (NPV/ERR) analysis. Nor was an economic analysis of the project’s benefits
applicable, and thus not included in the PAD due to the challenge of defining, measuring
and separating out the specific benefits of capacity building projects. Nevertheless,
project training and other skill development activities have enabled the MOF and
implementing agencies to operate more efficiently.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

51.     The overall objective set for the PFMSP-MDTF was very broad, as is the overall
objective of the PFMSP. Thus, based on the project’s achievements and results at closing,
it was quite challenging to provide a meaningful rating. Given the uneven results across
all components and four restructurings, the project only laid preliminary foundations for
capacity building in the relevant government institutions, and thus, the ICR’s overall
rating for the PDO, is moderately unsatisfactory.

52.     However, within the country context, and given the long-term need to build
government capacity in the Lao PDR, the ICR notes that the PDO remains relevant today.
So far, the evidence indicates that the PDO capacity building objective and its
achievements will be sustained if the government continues its commitment to PFM
reform, maintains the necessary enabling environment, and also continues to be interested
in relevant support from the Bank and other donors.


                                              20
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

53.     There has been no direct impact on poverty, gender or social development.
However, as government capacity to manage public resources has improved, this should
result in better management of public service delivery. In turn, these gains should
translate into better allocation of resources for the government’s poverty reduction
strategy as well as delivery of public services to poor and disadvantaged people.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

54.      As discussed above, the project contributed to institutional strengthening and
capacity building for the concerned ministries (Ministry of Finance, Ministry of
Education and Sports, and Ministry of Home Affairs), other national institutions (the
State Auditing Organization (SAO) and the National Assembly), and the provinces and
districts, and this should have a positive impact beyond the life of the project.
Specifically, the MOF has already benefitted from: an improved government financial
information system (GFIS); a Treasury that provides better services to the central as well
as local governments; and Tax Department IT services for tax identification and records.
In addition, support to the SAO has enhanced its auditing capabilities and greater
transparency and accountability of public accounts. MOHA has benefitted too from
specific capacity building activities (workshops and study tours). These institution-
strengthening activities have provided foundations for long-term government action on its
extensive PFM reform program. However, the ICR notes that given the limited life cycle
of a TA project, any reasonable assessment of such changes requires a longer time frame
than that considered in this report.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

55.    The PFMSP-MDTF laid foundations for public financial management reform and
achieving the government’s PFMSP objectives. Centralization of the Treasury, tax and
customs functions, and adoption and implementation of the Treasury’s Single Account
Framework, have brought some order to budgetary functions and set the stage for further
improvement. Introduction of VAT has contributed to the MOF providing better taxpayer
services. Implementation of the External Debt Management System has enabled
systematic monitoring and analysis of the government’s obligations and better
management and predictability of future debt service payments.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

56.    This section is not required for this report, which is a core ICR.




                                            21
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: High

The risk to project development outcomes remained high at the time of preparing the ICR
at the end of August 2013. This was the case, despite the risk mitigation measures put in
place and implemented by the project. Risks to development outcomes include: the time-
consuming nature of specific activities; the long timeframe needed to see the impact of
TA; problems with administrative arrangements and anticipated changes in these;
challenges in coordination and cooperation among MOF departments and units, and
between MOF and other line ministries and agencies; and lack of government resources
and capacity to implement some very complex reforms. Although the focus on capacity
building during the project has been significant, and important outcomes have been
realized, key personnel-related risks remain high. As a result these challenges, the
government needs ongoing support in order to deepen capacity building activities that
address institutional challenges, and determine how best to sustain the capacity-building
activities initiated by the project. To keep up the momentum of PFMSP reform, the
substantial challenges facing the MOF are coordinating its own departments, and the
other concerned ministries and agencies, as well as the lack of adequate numbers of
qualified civil servants. It is important to note that some of these may have been reduced
by the ongoing Poverty Reduction Support Operations (PRSOs) and the NT2 project, as
these two Bank activities helped to further dialogue on reform with senior government
leaders.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

57.     The Bank worked in partnership with the government and donors on the design
and preparation of the project to support the country’s PFMSP, and was consistent with
government priorities reflected in, and aligned with, the CAS. The project built on the
Bank’s strong track record with previous TA and application of lessons learned through
these. In addition, the PFMSP-MDTF benefitted from the strong analytical underpinnings
and experiences of Bank staff through the PRSO series. Bank staff collaborated with their
Lao government counterparts and development partners to reflect the situation in the
PFM sector. The Bank also worked closely with all development partners to coordinate
and manage the MDTF throughout the project identification and preparation stage.




                                           22
(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

58.     Supervision of the project was considered moderately satisfactory. Several
strengths helped to bring the project to a satisfactory closing, despite several difficult
stages of capacity building and institutional and administrative challenges. These
contributed to moving the project from a moderately unsatisfactory rating at the onset to
a moderately satisfactory conclusion. The project benefitted from the continuous
presence of the same Task Manager (TM), extensive contributions from project team
members in the field as well as headquarters, and support from Bank management
throughout the implementation period. This continuity and extensive support helped build
a strong working relationship between the project team and government counterparts as
well as their flexibility in collaborating with, and adapting to, the capacity constraints of
the MOF. In addition, the Bank’s restructuring efforts after the MTR contributed to
resolving some critical bottlenecks and keep project implementation on track. The TM
and the project team members spent a significant amount of time on supervision to build
the capacity of the project implementation unit. Having the TM and team members
located in Vientiane facilitated easy communication with the client as well as building a
strong client-oriented and flexible approach to project supervision.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

59.     According to the ICR guidelines, overall ratings are dictated by the combination
of ratings for Quality at Entry and Quality of Supervision. This implies a rating of
Moderately Satisfactory for overall Bank performance

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

60.     During project preparation, the government showed a strong commitment to the
important objective of capacity building by inviting the Bank and donors to contribute to
its PFMSP program. The government recognized the critical need for assistance in
undertaking comprehensive capacity building and strengthening its approach in
implementing the reform program for projects such as Nam Thuen 2. These projects
could not be realized unless inadequate institutional capacity was addressed. However,
sustained commitment to the project objective from relevant ministries, the MOF and its
departments, seemed to vary. The government’s coordinating mechanism—an important
factor in this project—was not strong and had not been tested enough to ensure that it
could manage the various requirements of managing, coordinating and meeting the
demands of the concerned departments and agencies. Taking into account the



                                             23
combination of issues discussed above, the ICR rates the government’s performance as
moderately satisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

61.     The performance of the project management units (the PFMSU-MU, PFMSU, and
PFMSP-PCU) was uneven, with Implementation Status and Results (ISR) ratings for
overall project management ranging from moderately unsatisfactory to moderately
satisfactory. As discussed earlier, the roles of the project management unit were initially
designed with a detailed organizational chart and specific duties to ensure consistent
implementation. However, with subsequent changes and new formulations of these
administrative units by the MOF, and the unclear definition of their roles and
responsibilities, these units were not able to provide efficient support to the PFMSP-
MDTF. All three units serving the project suffered from inadequate capacity, especially
in managing multiple activities in different areas and, as a result, required close
supervision from Bank staff. For these reasons, the ICR rates the overall performance of
the implementing agency as moderately unsatisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

62.   The ICR rates overall borrower performance as moderately unsatisfactory, based
on a moderately satisfactory rating for the performance of the government and the
moderately unsatisfactory rating for the performance of the implementing agency.

6. Lessons Learned

63.    The following lessons can be drawn from the experience of the PFMSP-MDTF.

64.     Need to manage expectations. Looking back, the project results framework was
overly ambitious. Although much has been achieved, considering the institutional
capacity constraints, the results framework was likely too ambitious. In addition, it is
important to recognize that PFM reforms are complex and outcomes are difficult to
measure. Unfortunately, while good PFM systems and TA can be developed, these may
not be implemented as intended due to competing political demands.

65.     Accurate assessment of the recipient’s institutional environment and capacity
is crucial when designing a capacity-building TA project and its implementing unit.
The PFMSP-MDTF showed that although the project management unit was well
designed and functioned well on a previous Bank project, this was no guarantee of
continuing success. In retrospect, the Bank overestimated government capacity to manage
a TA project in a continually-changing environment.




                                            24
66.      The government must ‘own’ and implement the project. The PFMSP
convincingly demonstrated this principle as loss of the Steering Committee’s Chair pa rt
way through the project, with no replacement, resulted in delays and uncertainties that
affected project outcomes. In addition, this loss of leadership and change in the PFSMP’s
emphasis and modalities, mid project, adversely effected project implementation and
results.

67.     The degree of project flexibility should be carefully considered . As a result of
too much project flexibility, declining government commitment had adverse
consequences for PFMSP-MDTF. Past Bank experience shows that when the government
is highly committed to a project, a high degree of project flexibility leads to good results.
But in the case of the PFMSP-MDTF, project flexibility worked against successful
implementation since it allowed authorities to shift their attention to new priorities and
responsibilities, and pay much less attention to the Bank’s project and its results.

68.     Operational procedures must be clear to all. The guiding principles for project
implementation must be clear to all involved—the project’s steering committee,
managing agency, project management units, and implementing units in order to ensure
that procedures are followed and results are carefully tracked. In the case of the PFMSP-
MDTF, the overlapping internal reviews and approval procedures of the borrower’s two
project management units resulted in numerous delays and other problems. In hindsight,
the project should not have had two managing units serving the project as these competed
with each other and duplicated each other’s efforts. These problems were compound by
lack of firm direction when the Steering Committee’s Chair was re-assigned part way
through the project.

69.     Intensive supervision and adequate funding are crucial prerequisites for TA
project success. Adequate funding and human resources enable TA projects to cope with
unanticipated challenges that arise during implementation. Having a Bank Task Manager
and core team in country and well-supported in the region and by headquarters facilitates
the intensive supervision needed when a TA project faces unanticipated problems.

70.      For a public finance management TA project, the correct mix of knowledge,
skills, adequate training, and clear and easy-to-follow procedures are crucial. These
would have enabled the PFMSP-MU/PFMSU/PFMSP-PCU staff to “hit the ground
running”, collaborate effectively with the implementing ministry, coordinate the many
agencies involved, spearhead project activities, and anticipate and cope with unexpected
problems. A Project Operations Manual tailored to the local context would have been a
valuable tool as well for project management.




                                             25
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors

(a) Grantee/Implementing agencies

71.     The Ministry of Finance thanked the World Bank and the PFMSP-MDTF donors
for their support and as well as their understanding of the many challenges which the
MOF and related departments and agencies faced in implementing this valuable project.
The MOF indicates that it is proud of the contributions to institutional strengthening and
capacity building achieved over the course of the PFMSP-MDTF by the MOF, other
national ministries and agencies, as well as local authorities, and through its strong
commitment and concerted efforts, the MOF expects to sustain project successes far
beyond the life of the PFMSP-MDTF. At the same time, the MOF acknowledged that due
to the unavoidable challenges discussed in the ICR, and concurred by donors, that the
project could have achieved much more. Going forward, the MOF is strongly committed
to applying the valuable lessons discussed in the ICR, and expects to achieve much
greater results in future public finance reform as a result of a combination of donor-
supported technical assistance and the government’s own efforts.

(b) Cofinanciers/Donors

72.     The draft ICR report was shared with, and comments and feedback obtained from
the two contributors to the PFMSP-MDTF: Australia and the European Union. Copies of
their responses are included in Annex 7. Both donors broadly concurred with the ratings
of the ICR report and expressed their satisfaction with the positive achievements that
resulted from the project. At the same time, the donors acknowledged the challenges of
implementing a public finance management reform project in a country undergoing
extremely rapid political, economic and social change as well as lacking the
administrative infrastructure and qualified human resources needed to manage and
monitor such a complex and wide-ranging project. Although the donors recognize the
important gains that have been made over the course of the PFMSP-MDTF, they concur
with the ICR’s assessment that strong government commitment as well as ongoing
technical assistance will be needed to sustain the project’s achievements and realize the
crucial improvements that are needed in public finance reform in order to achieve
transparent and accurate budgeting and accounting for revenues and expenditures, and
through this significantly improve the lives of the people of Lao PDR.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)   NOT APPLICABLE




                                                     26
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                    Appraisal    Restructuring Actual/Latest Percentage
           Components             Estimate (USD Estimate (USD    Estimate        of
                                     millions)     millions)   (USD millions) Appraisal
A. Revenue Sharing, Fiscal
    Planning and Budget                     0.38          0.13           0.85  223%
    Preparation
B. Treasury Centralization,
    Budget Execution,
                                            1.25          2.39           2.48  198%
    Accounting and financial
    reporting
C. Revenue Policy &
                                            0.68          1.35           1.40  205%
    Administration
D. Local Government Financial
                                            -             0.09           0.20    -
    Management
E. Human Resource
                                            0.12          0.08           0.12  100%
    Management
F. Program Management                       0.52          0.12           0.30   58%
G. External Oversight and Audit             -             0.32           0.32    -
              Total Project Costs           2.95          4.48           5.67  192%


(b) Financing
                                                                Actual/Latest
                                                 Appraisal
                                  Type of                         Estimate Percentage of
       Source of Funds                           Estimate
                                Cofinancing                        (USD       Appraisal
                                               (USD millions)
                                                                  millions)
Lao PDR Public Finance
Management Strengthening           RETF             3.86            5.19       134%
Program




                                          27
           Annex 2. Results Framework and Monitoring for PFMSP MDTF

Project Development Objective (PDO): To improve the effectiveness of public finance management in Lao PDR through support to the Government’s Public
Financial Management Strengthening Program. The ultimate goal of the PFMSP are: improved policy consistency, efficiency, transparency and accountability in
public expenditure and revenue management by strengthening institutional systems and capacity and making progress towards appropriate international financial
management standards and effective use of foreign financing. MDTF will contribute to progress in four outcome areas of the PFSMP (Improved Macro-Fiscal
Discipline and Management, Improved financial management and control, Improved revenue management and control, Improved sectoral and local allocation and
management) which are critical to achieving the goal of the PFM reform.
                                         Unit                                           Target         Frequency        Data      Responsibility           Comments
                                          of    Baseline                                                               Source/      for Data
                                                           Progress by                                                 Methodol    Collection
   PDO Level Results Indicators   Core   Mea
                                                              2011                       2013                            ogy
                                         sure    (2009
                                         ment
                                         Aver
                                                                                                                                                   2.75 (Not Achieved)
1.Improved Macro-Fiscal                  age
                                                                                                     One in second                                 PI-1: B (FY09/10 =
                                         PEF                                                                                      MoF/PFMSP
Discipline measured by PI-1               A
                                                  2.75        2.75                        3.0        year and at the   PEFA
                                                                                                                                  MU
                                                                                                                                                   7.9%, FY10/11 = 6.6%
and PI-11                                                                                            end of Project                                and FY11/12 = 8.1%)
                                         Scor
                                                                                                                                                   PI-11: C+
                                          e20
                                         Aver                                                        One in second                MoF/PFMSP
2. Improved financial                                                                                                                              2.16 (Partially
                                         age                                                         year and at the              MU
                                                                                                                                                   Achieved)
management and control                   PEF                                                         end of Project
                                                  1.6          2                          2.5                          PEFA                        PI-17: 2.5 (C+)
measured by P1-17, PI-24, and             A
                                                                                                                                                   PI-24: 2.5 (C+)
PI-25                                    Scor
                                                                                                                                                   PI-25: 1.5 (D+)
                                           e
                                         PEF                                                         One in second                MoF/PFMSP        C+ (Not achieved)
3. Improved revenue                                                                                  year and at the              MU
                                          A        C           C                          B                            PEFA                        PI-14: (i: C, ii: B and iii:
management and control                   Scor                                                        end of Project                                C)




           20
             For averaging purpose, a numerical value is assigned to a PEFA score, a score A is equivalent to 4, B+ is 3.5, B is 3, C+ is 2.5, C is
           2 and D+ is 1.5 and D is 1




                                                                               28
measured by PI-14                        e


4. Improved sectoral and local         PEF                                                                     One in second                   MoF/PFMSP
                                                                                                                                                                 C (Achieved)
                                        A                                                                      year and at the                 MU
allocation and management              Scor
                                                    D            D+                                C
                                                                                                               end of Project
                                                                                                                                  PEFA                           PI-8: C (i: C, ii: D and
measured by PI-8                                                                                                                                                 iii: B:
                                        e




                                                                Intermediate Results and Indicators
                                                                                                                                                                   Actual value achieved
                                   Unit of                                                                                          Data        Responsibility     at project completion
                                               Baseline      Progress by      Progress to       Target by         Frequenc
                                   Measu                                                                                         Source/Meth      for Date
                                                (2009)          2011          date (2012)         2013                y
                                   rement                                                                                          odology       Collection


Intermediate Result 1: Reliable Aggregate Expenditure Control
                                                                                                                                                                   Achieved:
1. Deviation of out-turn to                                                                                                                                        8.1% (FY11/12, the
budget (budget out-turn is           %           13.8            6.6               8.1          5-10 (NA)        Annual          PEFA           MOF                latest outturn available;
closed to budget plan)                                                                                                                                             and FY09/10 = 7.9%,
                                                                                                                                                                   FY10/11 = 6.6%)

Intermediate Result 2: Budget Process becomes more orderly, providing adequate time for key stakeholders to participate
                                                                             Budget circular                                                                      Partially Achieved:
                                                                              was issued in                                                                       Due to the fiscal
                                                                Budget       April 2012 for                                                                       difficulties faced by
                                                 Budget
                                                             Circular was     FY12-13 (one                                                                        GOL, instead of the
                                                Calendar
                                                             issued (May       moth earlier                                                                       budget circular, PM
2. Annual Budget Calendar is                    exists but                                     Stable Budget
                                                               2011), but     than in 2011).                                                                      Decree on 1st Half and
                                                   not                                         Calendar and
adhered to and Budget              Narrati                     with some     Budget Circular                                     Assessment                       estimates of the 2nd Half
                                                followed                                          budget         Annual                         MOF
Ceilings are issued to ensure       ve                       delay as per    for FY2012-13                                       report                           of FY12/13 NSEDP
                                               rigorously,                                      ceilings are
an orderly budget process                                       budget          instructed                                                                        Execution and FY13/14
                                                no budget                                         issued.
                                                             calendar. No     ministries and                                                                      NSEDP Preparation,
                                              circular was
                                                              ceilings are     provinces to                                                                       including budget
                                                 issued.
                                                              yet issued.         include                                                                         planning was issued on
                                                                                 technical                                                                        March 20, 2013,
                                                                              revenue in the                                                                      providing overall




                                                                                         29
                                                                         Intermediate Results and Indicators
                                                                                                                                                                        Actual value achieved
                                            Unit of                                                                                        Data       Responsibility    at project completion
                                                        Baseline     Progress by        Progress to        Target by         Frequenc
                                            Measu                                                                                       Source/Meth     for Date
                                                         (2009)         2011            date (2012)          2013                y
                                            rement                                                                                        odology      Collection

                                                                                         budget and                                                                    direction for the budget
                                                                                           revenue                                                                     preparation for FY13/14.
                                                                                          collecting                                                                   In general, the budget
                                                                                         agencies to                                                                   calendar was not
                                                                                      break down non-                                                                  followed strictly but the
                                                                                        resource and                                                                   budget plan for FY13/14
                                                                                           resource                                                                    was submitted for the
                                                                                      revenue (mining                                                                  NA’s Approval 15 days
                                                                                      and hydropower                                                                   before the NA plenary
                                                                                       separately. No                                                                  session as defined under
                                                                                       ceilings are yet                                                                the budget law. No
                                                                                            issued.                                                                    ceilings were yet issued.

Intermediate Result 3: Cash is actively managed to ensure it is available to support expenditures and to reduce borrowing costs

                                                                                         Technical
                                                        Debt data
                                                                                       revenue bank
                                                            lack
                                                                        Technical         account
                                                        accuracy,
                                                                     revenue bank     consolidation is
                                                        spending
                                                                         account        progressing        Completion                                                  Partially Achieved:
                                                            unit
                                                                     consolidation     well. TSA has          of the                                                   Technical revenue bank
                                                         accounts
3. Technical revenue bank                                not been
                                                                     is underway.           been          consolidation                                                account consolidation is
accounts are consolidated into                                       TSA has been     implemented at       of technical                                                progressing well at the
                                                       consolidate
                                                                     implemented        BOL and its          revenue                                                   time of the ICR
Treasury and Treasury Single                Narrati        d into                                                                       Assessment
                                                                       at BOL and       branches, as      accounts into     Annual                    MOF              preparation. TSA has
Account Framework is fully                   ve         Treasury,                                                                       report
                                                                      its branches.    well as at two     Treasury and                                                 been implemented at
implemented to allow for more                          lending by
                                                                     TSA roll out       commercial        TSA is rolled                                                BOL and its branches,
                                                        BOL and
active cash management.                                 provincial
                                                                          to one      banks (LDB and          out to                                                   and all state-owned
                                                                       commercial      APB). Roll out      commercial                                                  commercial banks,
                                                            debt
                                                                          bank is         to final            banks.                                                   LDB, APB and BCEL
                                                        guarantee
                                                                     scheduled for      commercial                                                                     was completed in 2013.
                                                          outside
                                                                     March 2012.      bank (BCEL) is
                                                          budget
                                                                                        expected to
                                                       framework
                                                                                        complete in




                                                                                                 30
                                                                       Intermediate Results and Indicators
                                                                                                                                                                       Actual value achieved
                                           Unit of                                                                                         Data       Responsibility   at project completion
                                                       Baseline    Progress by        Progress to           Target by        Frequenc
                                           Measu                                                                                        Source/Meth     for Date
                                                        (2009)        2011            date (2012)             2013               y
                                           rement                                                                                         odology      Collection

                                                                                          2013.



Intermediate Result 4: Improved budget execution reporting

                                                                                    As of Dec 2012,                                                                    Partially Achieved:
                                                                                      MOF reported                                                                     By end of September,
                                                                    NA issued a
                                                                                          that 683                                                                     2013 the balance of
                                                                    resolution to
                                                                                         technical                                                                     technical revenue
                                                                     enforce the
                                                                                          revenue                                                                      accounts outside the NT
                                                                         policy
                                                                                      accounts have                                                                    has been reduced from
                                                        Budget      requiring all
                                                                                       been opened                                                                     75 billion Kip to 35
                                                      execution        spending
                                                                                     with the NT for                                                                   billion Kip and for
                                                         report      units to pay
                                                                                     transaction and                                                                   FY2012/2013 the
                                                       coverage        technical
                                                                                    219 accounts out                                                                   amount of technical
                                                        was not    revenues into                              Budget
                                                                                      of 982 to- be-                                                                   revenue brought onto
4. Improved quality of in- year                       completed    the Treasury.
                                                                                     closed accounts
                                                                                                             execution
                                                                                                                                                                       budget has increased
budget execution report                                 and no           Good                                  report
                                                                                    are still active in                                                                slightly. At the central
                                                       report on     progress is                          coverage will
through expanded coverage (to              Narrati                                   the commercial                                     Assessment                     level, the number of the
                                                     expenditure     being made                             include all      Annual                   MOF
include all technical revenue)              ve                                       banks. Amount                                      report                         bank accounts at the
                                                     financed by   with account                              technical
and utilization of up-graded                                                            of technical                                                                   commercial banks
                                                       technical   consolidation                           revenue and
                                                                                          revenue                                                                      reduced from 251 in
GFIS                                                   revenue.    at the central
                                                                                        included in
                                                                                                          full utilization
                                                                                                                                                                       FY2011/12 to 216 in
                                                          Up-          level but                              of GFIS
                                                                                    FY12-13 budget                                                                     FY2012/2013; whereas
                                                       gradated      progress is
                                                                                       was doubled                                                                     the number of accounts
                                                     GFIS is yet      slower in
                                                                                     compared with                                                                     opened at the NT
                                                       to put in      provinces.
                                                                                    last FY. GFIS is                                                                   increased from 324 in
                                                      operation    PM is to issue
                                                                                     now used by all                                                                   FY2011/12 to 411 in
                                                                   an Instruction
                                                                                    central agencies                                                                   FY2012/2013. At the
                                                                      to further
                                                                                      and provinces,                                                                   local level, the review
                                                                     enforce this
                                                                                       the system is                                                                   shows that there still
                                                                         policy
                                                                                    also rolled out to                                                                 were 352 accounts of
                                                                                    a number of tier                                                                   the budget units at the




                                                                                                31
                                                          Intermediate Results and Indicators
                                                                                                                                                      Actual value achieved
                               Unit of                                                                                    Data       Responsibility   at project completion
                                          Baseline    Progress by        Progress to        Target by       Frequenc
                               Measu                                                                                   Source/Meth     for Date
                                           (2009)        2011            date (2012)          2013              y
                               rement                                                                                    odology      Collection

                                                                        2 agencies of                                                                 commercials banks, of
                                                                       MOE and MOH                                                                    which 289 are still
                                                                                                                                                      active; while the
                                                                                                                                                      number of the accounts
                                                                                                                                                      opened at the NT
                                                                                                                                                      increased from 359 in
                                                                                                                                                      FY2011/12 to 1,397 in
                                                                                                                                                      FY2012/2013 and the
                                                                                                                                                      amount of deposits
                                                                                                                                                      increased from 68
                                                                                                                                                      billion kip in
                                                                                                                                                      FY2011/12 to 185
                                                                                                                                                      billion kip in
                                                                                                                                                      FY2012/2013. GFIS
                                                                                                                                                      was now used by all
                                                                                                                                                      central agencies and
                                                                                                                                                      provinces; the system
                                                                                                                                                      was rolled out to a
                                                                                                                                                      number of tier-2
                                                                                                                                                      agencies of MOE and
                                                                                                                                                      MOH and is planned to
                                                                                                                                                      be rolled out to MOAF
                                                                                                                                                      and MPWT in 2014.
                                                      Consolidation     Work to design         Financial                                              Not Achieved:
                                                       of technical        the future      statement will                                             Work had begun to
                                                       revenue into          IPSAS              include                                               design the future IP-
5.Improved quality of annual             Incomplete     Treasury is        compliant         revenue and                                              SAS compliant
financial statements through              coverage       on-going.          financial        expenditure                                              financial reporting
                               Narrati                                                                                 Assessment
enhanced completeness and       ve
                                           and non-   Coverage and          reporting       from charges    Annual
                                                                                                                       report
                                                                                                                                     MOF              framework to the public
accounting standard                       compliant   usage of GFIS     framework for        for services                                             sector at the national
                                         with IPSAS       has been     the public sector        and the                                               and sub-national levels
disclosure                                               improved,      at both national       IPSAS is                                               with an IMF TA but
                                                        resulting in   and sub national      adopted for                                              there was some
                                                      improvement      levels has begun         phased                                                uncertainty with




                                                                                  32
                                                                  Intermediate Results and Indicators
                                                                                                                                                                Actual value achieved
                                    Unit of                                                                                         Data       Responsibility   at project completion
                                               Baseline       Progress by         Progress to         Target by       Frequenc
                                    Measu                                                                                        Source/Meth     for Date
                                                (2009)           2011             date (2012)           2013              y
                                    rement                                                                                         odology      Collection

                                                               of quality of     with IMF TA         implementatio                                              continuing funding
                                                                the annual      and is expected           n.                                                    sources.
                                                                 financial        to continue
                                                                statement.       under the new
                                                                  MOF is          WB funded
                                                                 preparing           PFM
                                                               proposal to      project/MDTF2
                                                                   Prime
                                                                Minister to
                                                              adopt IPSAS.

Intermediate Result 5: Improved transparency of inter-governmental fiscal relations
                                                                 Decision is    While no formal
                                                                                                                                                                Partially Achieved:
                                                                 pending on            budget
                                                                                                       Non-wage                                                 There had been no
                                                                 whether to     allocation norms
                                                                                                        recurrent                                               formal issuance of
                                                                  formalize      were approved
                                                                                                     budget norms                                               budget allocation
                                                                  non-wage          and issued,
                                                                                                       for at least                                             norms. However, MOF
                                                                  recurrent       MOF reported
                                                                                                     education and                                              reported that some
                                                 Budget             budget           that some
                                                                                                     health sectors                                             allocation norms for
                                                allocation        allocation     allocation norm
                                                                                                       and capital                                              education sector based
                                                    to            norms for        for education
6. Budget Allocation Norms                                                                           budget norms                                               on the ESDF were used
                                                provinces     education and      sector based on
                                    Narrati                                                               are in                 Assessment                     in allocating education
are developed to guide the           ve
                                              and districts   health sectors     the ESDF were
                                                                                                       operation.
                                                                                                                      Annual
                                                                                                                                 report
                                                                                                                                               MOF
                                                                                                                                                                budget.
budget preparation process                    is not based          by PM             used in
                                                                                                      Work under                                                 In addition, from
                                                    on         decree. MOF           allocating
                                                                                                         way to                                                 2011-12, the
                                               transparent      claimed that         education
                                                                                                     develop non-                                               government has
                                                   rules             some            budget. In
                                                                                                          wage                                                  implemented a school
                                                              formulas used     addition, starting
                                                                                                        recurrent                                               block grant scheme to
                                                               for education      from FY2011-
                                                                                                      budget norm                                               channel the resources
                                                                 and health          2012, the
                                                                                                        for other                                               directly to primary
                                                                    budget      Government has
                                                                                                         sectors.                                               schools one per-student
                                                                allocation in    implemented a
                                                                                                                                                                formula.
                                                                  FY 2011-         school block




                                                                                           33
                                                                 Intermediate Results and Indicators
                                                                                                                                                              Actual value achieved
                                    Unit of                                                                                   Data          Responsibility    at project completion
                                               Baseline      Progress by        Progress to       Target by     Frequenc
                                    Measu                                                                                  Source/Meth        for Date
                                                (2009)          2011            date (2012)         2013            y
                                    rement                                                                                   odology         Collection

                                                                2012 but      grant scheme to
                                                                   these        channel the
                                                             formulas were       resources
                                                                    not          directly to
                                                               formalized.    primary schools
                                                             MPI informed     on a per student
                                                                that they         formula.
                                                               continue to
                                                                 use the
                                                                 adopted
                                                                system of
                                                             capital budget
                                                                norm for
                                                                FY12-13
                                                                  budget
                                                              preparation.

Intermediate Result 6: Enhanced tax payer registration
                                                                2400 tax
                                               No unique
7. Taxpayers are properly          Numbe      TIN exists.
                                                              payers have
                                                                                                                                                             Achieved:
identified and registered with                                    been
                                   r of Tax      Lao TIS                                                                                                     At the end of 2013, there
                                                               registered.      6,500 Tax        4000 VAT tax              Report/Statist
the tax authorities through the     Payers        under                                                                                                      were 9,452 tax payers
                                                              Lao TIS tax       Payers are         payer are    Annual     ics of Tax       MOF
number of tax payers                  are     developmen                                                                                                     registered, of which
                                                              registration      registered         registered              Department
registered with the Tax IT         register    t for VAT                                                                                                     6700 tax payers were
                                                              module has
                                      ed        tax payer                                                                                                    VAT payers.
system (LaoTIS)                               registration
                                                             been put into
                                                             full operation




                                                                                        34
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis


Not applicable.




                                    35
Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                Responsibility/
            Names                              Title                Unit
                                                                                  Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation
Saiyed Shabih Ali Mohib         Senior Economist                  EASPT    Public finance
Nipa Siribuddhamas              Financial Mgt Specialist          EASFM    Financial mgt
Sirirat Sirijaratwong           Procurement Specialist            EASR2    Procurement
Donald Herrings Mphande         Lead Financial Mgt Specialist     AFTMW    Financial mgt
Roch Levesque                   Senior Counsel                    LEGES    Counsel
L. S. Christine Wong Shui Wan   Operations Officer                EASPW    Administration
Boualamphan Phoutthavisouk      Team Assistant                    EACLF    Administration
Supervision/ICR
Saysanith Vongviengkham         Public Sector Specialist          EASPT    Task Team Leader
Leah April                      Sr Public Sector Mgt Specialist   EASPT    Task Team Leader
Minh Van Nguyen                 Sr. Public Sector Specialist      EASPT    Task Team Leader
Saiyed Shabih Ali Mohib         Senior Economist                  EASPT    Task Team Leader
Ahsan Ali                       Lead Procurement Specialist       EASR1    Procurement
Sirirat Sirijaratwong           Procurement Specialist            EASR2    Procurement
Christopher Robert Fabling      Sr Financial Mgt Specialist       EASFM    Financial mgt
Nipa Siribuddhamas              Financial Mgt Specialist          EASFM    Financial mgt
Siriphone Vanitsaveth           Financial Mgt Specialist          EASFM    Financial mgt
Malarak Souksavat               Financial Mgt Analyst             EASFM    Financial mgt
Viengmala Phomsengsavanh        E T Consultant                    EASPT    Public finance
Phet Udom Mainolath             Program Assistant                 EACLF    Administrative
Boualamphan Phoutthavisouk      Team Assistant                    EACLF    Administration
Chanthaly Chanthavisouk         Temporary                         EACLF    Administration

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                        USD Thousands (including
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
               FY08                                                         0
                          Total:                                            0
Supervision/ICR
              FY09                             54.1                      224.28
              FY10                             72.9                      484.99
              FY11                            131.1                      503.68
              FY12                            129.5                      469.88
              FY13                             78.8                      653.10
              FY14                             47.8                      263.39
                          Total:              514.2                    2,599.36



                                            36
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results


[NOT APPLICABLE]




                                      37
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results


NOT REQUIRED




                                   38
Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                   39
40
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                    41
42
43
44
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents



Project Documents of the World Bank
    Project Appraisal Document, Lao PDR Public Finance Management
       Strengthening Program Multi Donor Trust Fund, April 8, 2008, IBTF No. 2361.
    Restructuring Paper, Lao PDR Public Finance Management Strengthening
       Program Multi Donor Trust Fund, October 6, 2011, Report No.64963 v1 and v2.
    Restructuring Paper, Lao PDR Public Finance Management Strengthening
       Program Multi Donor Trust Fund, February 24, 2012, Report No. 67193 v1 and
       v2.
    Restructuring Paper, Lao PDR Public Finance Management Strengthening
       Program Multi Donor Trust Fund March 21, 2012, Report No. 67347 v1 and v2.
    Implementation Status and Results reports, Sequence 1-6.
    Aide Memories of Various implementation support missions.

Publications of the Project
    Lao PDR Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA) (June 2010)
       Public Financial Management Assessment, Report No. 61791-LA
    Lao PDR Public Expenditure Review (PER) (2011) , Report No. 63200-LA
    Lao PDR Civil Service Pay and Compensation Review: Attracting and Motivating
       Civil Servant, June 2010

Supporting Documents
    Implementation Completion Report for Lao PDR Trade Development Facility
      Project, September 22, 2013, Report No. ICR2684
    Implementation Completion Report for Lao PDR Financial Management Capacity
      Building Project, December 30, 2011, Report No.ICR00001681




                                       45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 33431R1
                100°E                                                       102°E                                                  104°E                                                 106°E                                        108°E
                This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

                                                                                                       CHINA

                                                                                                                                                                                                             LAO P.D.R.
                                                      To
                                                   Lincang

                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                   Gejiu
                                        To
                                       Daluo
                                                                        Gnot-Ou

                                                                                      Ou
      22°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 22°N

                                                                              Phongsali
                                                          Boun-Nua
                                                                             PHONGSALI

 MYANMAR                                                                                                                                    VIET NA M
                                                                                               Muang
                                      Luangnamtha                                              Khoa
                                                                                                                                                        To
                                   LUANGNAMTHA                                                                                                          Hanoi
                    g
                  kon




                               Meung                                  Xai                                                       Xiangkho
                Me




                                                                                           Nambak
                         BOKEO                                    g                        u
                                                                                                                           Xam-Neua
                                                                                       O




                               Houyxay T a                                                                                                  Viangxai
                                                           n
                                                         Be




                                                        OUDOMXAY LUANGPRABANG
                                                                                                                               HUAPHANH
To Chiang Rai




                                                                       X i a n g k h oa n g Pl a t eau                                                                                                                                     20°N
                                                  Pakbeng                            Luangprabang

                                                                                                                            Kham
                                                                        Nan
                                                                                                 Plain o f J a r s
                                                                           Phokhoun                                Pek
                                                     Xayabuly
                                                                                                         XIENGKHUANG
                                                                              Kasi

                                                 XAYABULY                            VIENTIANE               Phou Bia                                                                                              Gulf of
                                                                             Vangviang                       (2,817 m)
                                                             Ban Nalé
                                                                                                         Xaisomboun
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Tonkin
                                                                                                       Nam Ngum
                                                                                                       Reservoir                       BORIKHAMXAY
                                                                      Viangkham
                                                                  g                                                           Pakxan
                                                             on




                                                             ek                                                                                        Khamkeut
                                               Paklay
                                                        M




                                                                                                                                                       Kadi
                                                                                                VIENTIANE                                                  ng
                                                                                                                                    Me




      18°N                                           Xanakham                                                                                                                                                                              18°N
                                                                                                                                      ko
                                                                                                                                       ng




                                                                                                         PREFECTURE OF                                    KHAMMUANE
                                                                                                         VIENTIANE MUN.
                                                                                                                                                         Cammon Plateau                 Ban Na Phan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    To
                                                                                                                                                                                Xe




                                                                                                                                                            Thakhek                                                Vinh
                                                                                                                                                                                   an
                                                                                                                                                                                  B




                                                                         To                                                                                                             g fai
                                                                      Khon Kaen                                                                                          N oy
                                                                                                          To
                                                                                                       Khon Kaen                                                  Xebangfai
                0            50           100 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                                  Xéno   SAVANNAKHET                Xepon

                0         25         50         75       100 Miles                                           THA ILA ND                                     Kaysone                               Phin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Qui Nhon
                                                                                                                                                                                            g
                                                                                                                                                                                Se Banghion                        Samouay

                           LAO PEOPLE'S                                                          16°N                                                                                                                                      16°N


                           DEMOCRATIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                SARAVANE
                                                                                                                                                                                              n             Saravane
                                                                                                                                                                                            Do

                             REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                                       Khongxedon             SEKONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Lamam
                                  CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                                       Pakxong
                                                                                                                                                              To                Pakxe
                                  PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                          Ubon
                                                                                                                                                          Ratchathani             CHAMPASAK B o l o v e ns
                                                                                                                                                                                                            P l a t e a u ATTAPEU
                                  NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                                     Samakhixai
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Sanamxai
                                  RIVERS

                                  MAIN ROADS

                                  RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                Khong

                                                                                                 14N                                                                                                                                       14°N
                                  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                               CA MBO DIA
                                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                   104°E                                                    106°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OCTOBER 2013
