Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15133-PAM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
NORTHERN HEALTH PROGRAM PROJECT
May 15, 1996
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Rupees (Rs)
US$1.00 = Rs 34.7
(as of April 1996)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ACRONYMS
ADP           -      Annual Development Plan
AJK           -      Azad Jammu & Kashmir
AKHS          -      Aga Khan Health Services
AKRSP         -      Aga Khan Rural Support Program
ARI           -      Acute Respiratory Infection
DHO           -      District Health Officer
DOH           -      Department of Health
ECNEC                Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
FPAP          -      Family Planning Association of Pakistan
GDP           -      Gross Domestic Product
HMIS          -      Health Management Information System
IDA           -      International Development Association
IMR           -      Infant Mortality Rate
GOP           -      Government of Pakistan
KfW          -       Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LHV           -      Lady Health Visitor
LHW           -      Lady Health Worker (formerly National Health Worker)
MAF           -      Marie Adelaide Foundation
MCH           -      Maternal & Child Health
MMR           -      Maternal Mortality Ratio
NA            -      Northern Areas
NGO           -      Non-governmental Organization
PC-I          -      Planning Commission (Form Number) 1
PIHS          -      Pakistan Integrated Household Survey
Rs            -      Rupees
SAP/SAPP    -        Social Action Program (Project)
SMU           -      Social Mobilization Unit
TB            -      Tuberculosis
TBA           -      Traditional Birth Attendant
WDR           -      World Development Report



PAKISTAN
NORTHERN HEALTH PROGRAM PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Program and Credit Summary ............................                                 (i)
I.     Country and Sector Background
A.    Current Health Situation ........................
B.     Main Sectoral Issues .......................2
C.     Sector Strategy .......................3
II.    The Project
A.  Program / Project Approach                           .4
B. Project Objectives                                .5
C. Project Description                               .5
D.   Program / Project Costs and Financing                    .9
E.  Project Implementation                             .0
F.     Lessons Learned from Previous IDA Involvement .11
G.  Rationale for IDA Involvement                         .12
III.    Assessments
A. Technical Assessment .12
B.  Institutional Assessment                           .13
C.   Economic Assessment, Benefits & Risks .14
D. Financial Assessment                               .16
E.  Environmental Assessment                            .17
F.  Participatory Approach                             .17
IV.  Legal Commitment of the Borrower                           .18
ANNEXES
1:  Estimated Project Costs and Financing .20
2:     Procurement, Disbursement, Auditing Arrangements .23
3:  Monitoring and Evaluation Plan .30
4:     List of Documents Available in the Project File .36
5:   Outline of Project Implementation Plan .38
6:  NA Health Policy Statement .39
7:  AJK Health Policy,Statement .4                                                      47
The project was processed under accelerated procedures using simplified documentation. This Staff Appraisal
Report has been derived from this simplified documentation. Further detailed documentation is available as
indicated in Annex 4.



This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Pakistan in July/August 1995. The
mission comprised Messrs./Mesdames C. Walker (Mission Leader), N. Abbas (Procurement Specialist, SAP
Multi-Donor Support Unit, Pakistan), M. Siraj ul Haq (Health Planner, Consultant), J. Herm (Management
Specialist, Consultant), J. Pillai-Essex (Economist, Consultant) and Y. Tayyab (Community Specialist,
Consultant). Mr. I. Kazmi (Aga Khan Health Services) and Ms. A. Kamal (Socio-Economist, Consultant)
assisted with specific aspects of project components for NA. Ms. N. Akhlaque (Social Scientist, Consultant)
and Messrs. M. Mirza (Epidemiologist, Consultant), A. Rehman (Financial Analyst, Consultant) and A.
Wafa (Health Specialist, Consultant) assisted with specific aspects of project components for AJK.  In
addition, Mesdames A. Tinker (Senior Health Specialist), K. Finn (Consultant), and Mr. P. Gavras
(Consultant) contributed substantially during project preparation. The support during project preparation of
the British Overseas Development Administration, the Japanese Policy and Human Resources Development
Fund, and the SAP Multi-donor Support Unit is acknowledged. German KfW conducted an independent
appraisal of the NA component in October 1995. Project processing was supervised by Mesdames M.
Nishimizu (Director, SAI) and B. Herz (Manager, SAIPH). The peer reviewers for the project were
Messrs./Mme. P. Aklilu (EA2HR), A. Duncan (AFIHR) and M. Porter (ASTHR).



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
NORTHERN HEALTH PROGRAM PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT *
Credit And Project Summary
Borrower:                   Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Implementing Agencies:      Department of Health, Northern Areas
Department of Health, Azad Jammu & Kashmir
Cooperating non-governmental organizations
Beneficiaries:              Northern Areas and Azad Jammu & Kashmir
Poverty Category:           Program of targeted interventions
Amount:                     SDR 18.4 million (US$26.7 million equivalent)
Terms:                      Standard, with 35 years maturity
Commitment Fee:             0.50 percent on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
On-lending Terms:           The Federal Government will make available the proceeds of the Credit
to the Northern Areas and Azad Jammu & Kashmir in accordance with
its standard budgetary procedures.
Financing Plan:             See Annex 1, Table 2
Net Present Value:          Not applicable
Project Identification
Number:                     37827
Project Description: Pakistan's social indicators are considerably worse than most other comparable
countries. Northern Pakistan, comprising the Northern Areas (NA) and Azad Jammu & Kashmir (AJK),
is particularly disadvantaged. Nearly four million people live in the two regions scattered over a vast area
of some of the most rugged terrain in the world. Health status and services are substantially worse than
the low levels found elsewhere in Pakistan, especially for women and children. Years of neglect and
eroded budgets have left services in a primitive state. The proposed Credit will finance a long overdue
boost to capital and recurrent expenditure that will bring services to a minimum level and seek to
establish strong community and non-governmental (NGO) involvement in decentralized service
provision. The focus will be on primary health care, supported by obstetric and other emergency referral
care. Priority will be given to ensuring existing services and facilities are functional; almost no new
* The project was processed under accelerated procedures using simplified documentation. This Staff Appraisal Report has been
derived from this simplified documentation. Further detailed documentation is available as indicated in Annex 4.



- ii -
facilities will be built. Pakistan's Social Action Programme (SAP), an important umbrella initiative
supported by IDA and other donors, is addressing social sector problems nationally. The proposed four
year project will complement the overarching SAP initiatives by focusing in detail on NA and AJK's
health sectors. As the project will take a program approach, agreements are necessary between the
Governments and IDA on the overall sectoral policies, on well developed sectoral programs and
implementation plans, and on carefully designed monitoring procedures. IDA financing will be on a
time-slice basis. The project aims to support the Governments in their effort to improve health status
substantially and in particular to reduce infant and maternal mortality by about 30 percent. The project
will help the two regions to: (a) improve quality and sustainability of primary health care especially
through the development of community involvement and NGOs; (b) increase cost-effectiveness and
coverage of Government health services; (c) strengthen human resources development especially for the
critical female paramedical staff; and (d) build institutional capacity through better management and
organizational development.  With the rugged terrain, harsh weather and isolated settlements, a
community based decentralized approach is central to the project design and the only way to provide
sustainable services. To ensure organizational and financial sustainability, project components have
been simplified as far as possible with a careful choice of the most cost-effective interventions. The
community involvement emphasis would help to ensure sustainability. There will be one major annual
review to check project progress on implementing the agreed policy and program measures, to ensure
appropriate financing is available, and to monitor overall project implementation. The project will be
implemented by the two Departments of Health and by cooperating NGOs and community organizations.
Benefits and Risks:   The main benefits will be improving the health of this very poor and under-
served population, with a special emphasis on the needs of women and children who are presently
particularly disadvantaged.  Economic returns to investments targeted at women are high since
improvements translate into the lives of those in her charge. It is estimated that by the end of the
proposed project, over two million women and children will have benefitted from increased access to
better quality primary health care. The project would lower fertility and hence population growth,
through improved health status increase individuals' capacity as economic agents, improve health service
use and cost-effectiveness, strengthen staff skills, and make service provision more efficient.
The main risk is that the limited implementation capacity of the regions would be further strained by the
complexity of the program approach and by introducing community involvement. This is addressed
through including substantial management development and technical support, simplifying project
components as far as possible, completing detailed preparation well in advance, and working with
experienced NGOs as partners. A second risk is that the Government would fail in its commitment to
finance the expanding programs at the agreed levels. The Government's record over the past three years
in protecting social sector budgets from cuts is good. It has generally complied with its budgetary
commitments to the social sectors. Failure to implement fully the proposed changes in health policy and
thereby delay project implementation is a third risk. The program approach design mitigates this risk
through having approved policy documents, annual agreements on specific reforms, and detailed work
plans. The close association with SAP and the strengthened role of NGOs and communities provide
further leverage.  A fourth risk is that essential additional female staff would be unavailable. The
proposed project includes specific measures to enlist women's organizations to help recruit staff,
introduce incentives, provide culturally appropriate training and security, introduce incentives, and
ensure women are posted to their home areas; experience so far is encouraging. Finally, any resurgence
of ethnic or political strife in these regions would affect project implementation; there is little that can be
done through the project to reduce such risks.



- iii -
Poverty Category - Program of targeted interventions: The areas covered by the proposed project are
particularly poor and under-served. The project is primarily aimed at women and children who suffer
disproportionately from poverty and preventable disease. Thus it will benefit poor families more than
others.






ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
NORTHERN HEALTH PROGRAM PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. Country and Sector Background
A. Current Health Situation
1.    Pakistan's economic performance in the past two decades has been relatively strong, with GDP
growth averaging nearly 6 percent per year, although it has fallen to an annual average of 3.6 percent since
1993. The rapid annual population growth of 3 percent has severely restricted per capita consumption gains.
Many years of neglect of the social sectors have put Pakistan among the group of developing countries with
the worst social indicators and widest disparity between males and females in health, education, and
earnings potential. Northern Pakistan, comprising the Northern Areas (NA) and Azad Jammu & Kashmir
(AJK), is particularly disadvantaged and has received a very limited share of Pakistan's increased wealth.
In these two regions, nearly four million people live scattered over a vast area of exceptionally rugged
terrain. Poverty is pervasive and access to even the most basic services is extremely limited. Average
annual per capita income in Pakistan is approximately Rs 10,300, but only about Rs 5,600 in NA and Rs
7,300 in AJK (1991 prices)1. About three years ago, the Government of Pakistan adopted a Social Action
Programme (SAP) to begin to redress the neglect of basic social services. With assistance from donors
including IDA, general support to programs under the SAP umbrella in primary education, primary health,
family planning, and rural water and sanitation are now underway, as well as discrete investment projects in
all four of Pakistan's provinces. However, barely any donor assistance for the social sectors, other than
modest general support through SAP, has reached these two remote regions of NA and AJK.
2.     The two regions share a similar pattem of disease, which differs somewhat from the national
picture. Overall health status is lower in NA than in AJK. The incidence of acute respiratory infection
(ARI) and tuberculosis (TB) is more than in Pakistan's four provinces, while diarrheal diseases are a major
cause of death in the provinces and the two regions alike. Leprosy, not a problem in the provinces, is still a
public health problem in both regions -- while for malaria, the position is reversed. Anemia is widespread
among women of reproductive age in NA and AJK, due to high incidence of intestinal worms and poverty;
iodine deficiency is endemic (affecting one-third of school children in NA).  Due to primitive
communications, rugged terrain, and severe weather conditions, emergency cases often cannot reach
available services. Pakistan's maternal mortality ratio and fertility rate are high, but even worse in NA and
AJK -- maternal mortality is estimated at 700 deaths per 100,000 live births and fertility is close to seven
births per woman. Similarly, infant and child mortality, estimated to be 130 and 160 in NA and 90 and 130
in AJK respectively, are significantly above national levels.
3.     Health care in NA and AJK is mainly provided by the Government; the role of non-government
organizations (NGOs) is limited and that of the private commercial sector is very small. Primary health care
and basic referral services, provided through a hierarchy of Government facilities, are weak and not
effectively linked to communities. Higher referral service are provided by a few large hospitals in the main
centers. Total public spending in the two regions for health is Rs 550 million in 1995/96, equivalent to Rs
162 per capita of which about 57 percent is for primary health (development and recurrent). About 76
percent of the total program budget is for recurrent expenditure. The Federal Govemment provides
substantial support to NA and AJK. NA has autonomy to implement programs but is fully dependent
financially on the Federal Government. The Chief Executive of NA is a member of the Pakistan Cabinet.
1 Punjab Economic Research Institute, 1992.



AJK has autonomy in managing its affairs through its Parliament, but the Federal Government provides
development grants and meets the budgetary deficit. (See also Institutional Assessment, Section III, Part
B).
B. Main Sector Issues
4.     Years of neglect have left the health sector in a very primitive state. The current situation is due
mainly to substantial deficiency in government budget allocations, especially for non-salary recurrent
budgets. Overall budgets in NA and AJK have been declining for the past ten years and, as a result, non-
salary recurrent health expenditure has been squeezed to unacceptably low levels. Rising expenditure on
secondary health facilities has also led to cuts in primary health care spending (especially in AJK). Many
existing facilities are functioning without the staff, medicine, equipment and space necessary for basic
operations. In NA, about one-third of the buildings are 15-25 years old and 85 percent of all buildings have
never been repaired or renovated. The injection of funds necessary to improve the quality of services would
raise the public's confidence in the facilities, increase utilization, and make service provision more cost-
effective. In AJK, given the adverse conditions, the health system is functioning relatively well. The
strategy, therefore, is to build on the gains made through current efforts to develop the health sector. In both
regions, the proposed Credit will finance a much needed and long overdue boost to both capital and
recurrent expenditure that will bring the health services to a minimum level, especially in NA where the
situation is worse.
5.     Providing health services to a widely scattered population in rugged, mountainous terrain is
relatively expensive on a per capita basis. Northern Pakistan is the apex of many of the highest mountain
ranges in the world. Communications are poor and population density is very low, only about 15 persons
per square kilometer. With a limited network of functioning health facilities, complications of pregnancy
and accidents, as well as diseases such as pneumonia and TB, are major killers. Provision of even basic
primary health and family planning services is significantly more difficult than in the rest of the country.
The dearth of health services provided by the commercial private sector puts an added burden on
Government services.  But, the potential pay-off from  providing preventive and basic services is
correspondingly high.
6.     The main public health needs -- reproductive and child health services -- are not being effectively
addressed. Current provision of these services is very limited with little preventive and promotive care,
almost non-existent outreach services, and poor referral services. In NA, where government services are the
most deficient, part of the vacuum in primary health service provision has been filled by the Aga Khan
Health Services (AKHS), an NGO that provides successful community-based services in two districts (20-
25 percent of the NA population); they rely on the public sector for referral facilities. Limited services are
also provided by two NGOs: the Family Planning Association of Pakistan (FPAP) and the Marie Adelaide
Foundation (MAF), which runs a very effective leprosy and TB control program. In AJK, only 15 percent of
facilities are providing maternal and child health (MCH) services; the rest lack the space, staff, equipment
and medicines required. FPAP and MAF are also active in AJK.
7.     Lack of trained staff-- especially female -- is a major problem. Female patients can usually only
be treated by female health staff. The limited number of female staff, especially Lady Health Visitors
(LHVs), is a major constraint to improving the health of women and the children under their care. In NA,
there are 64 LH`Vs working under the auspices of AKHS and only 14 for the government -- or I per 35,000
people. There are two gynecologists in all of NA. In AJK, the position is only marginally better. At the
community level, the Government has recently initiated an effort to recruit female staff to provide basic
health and family planning services and advice through the national Lady Health Workers (LHWs)



- 3 -
Program. Recruitment and training are underway in both NA and AJK. In both regions, in-service training
for all categories of staff is inadequate and not practically oriented.
8.    Institutional and management capacity is limited. Management at the headquarters and district
level is weak, particularly in NA, and a proper system is needed to coordinate with NGOs and communities.
In both regions, managers of the Government health services are very few and overworked. The current
centralized system is not amenable to delivering services in these extreme conditions. In AJK, the current
dual system of management, with significant military involvement in the provision of health services,
makes administration inefficient. Furthermore, the staff (predominantly male) and drugs that the military
provide are mismatched to a program with a strong maternal, child and community-based approach. In both
regions, management reorganization is also needed to integrate immunization and communicable disease
control services with other health services. Management information systems are underused and require
strengthening.
9.     Community involvement has been limited and needs to be expanded. Given the extremely adverse
conditions, it is very difficult for any centralized system to function; it is essential that communities are
involved in the management and provision of their own health care and fostering such participation is
integral to the proposed project. Genuine community involvement improves service acceptability, cost-
effectiveness, sustainability and quality of service provision. In NA, the Aga Khan Rural Support Program
(AKRSP) has been successful in organizing general community involvement, while AJK has only very
limited and recent community involvement experience.
C. Sector Strategy
10.    The Governments' strategies to address the above issues and to develop the sector is articulated in
the 1995 NA and AJK Health Policy Statements (Annexes 6 and 7). The Statements were drafted and
formally approved during project preparation. They incorporate a substantial reform agenda and, in contrast
to earlier health policies, give genuine priority to primary health care and women's health. This is an
important development; it is the first time that health sector policy for these regions has been documented.
Similar documents have not generally been prepared elsewhere in Pakistan, nor are existing policies as
strong in their emphasis on primary health care. The Statements were prepared separately by the twvo
Governments but propose similar approaches. Recognizing the economic and social benefits that flow from
improved health status, the overall goal is to improve the health status of the public, particularly mothers
and children, by 30 percent in the next five years. The strategies are to strengthen the promotive and
preventive components of health care, improve the quality of basic curative services, improve the overall
performance of the Departments of Health (DOH) in each region, coordinate planning, management, and
operations among government agencies, NGOs and communities, and provide more effective federal
support to health operations and management in the two regions. As part of these strategies, MCH and
family planning services specifically will be expanded and improved. The strategies call also for a lean but
effective system of referral facilities, including essential obstetric care, staff development, and a more
equitable distribution of services among areas. More broadly, the strategies emphasize decentralized
management, using NGOs to facilitate community involvement in the planning and provision of care, but
recognize the likely modest role of the private commercial sector. They call for increased total expenditure
on public health to redress past neglect and resolution of the chronic non-salary recurrent budget problems.
The strategies emphasize bringing existing facilities up to minimum operating standards through
investments over a limited time, with very limited construction of new facilities. IDA endorses this focus
on primary health care, supported by obstetric and other emergency referral care, as well as increased
involvement of NGOs and the community, as a cost-effective way to address health needs in NA and AJK.
This approach is consistent with, and supportive of, the overall SAP strategy.



- 4 -
II. The Project
A. Program/Project Approach
11.    A "program" approach will be followed, similar to that adopted in the recent Pakistan SAP2 and
Population Welfare Program3 Projects. This approach requires an agreement between the Governments and
IDA on the overall sectoral policies and strategies, including directions for reform, during the next four to
five years, well developed programs of activities and implementation plans, and carefully designed
monitoring and evaluation schemes. The proposed project will operate under the umbrella of the national
SAP, with the detailed project work in each region contributing to the development of the broad SAP annual
plans. SAP conditionality, financing and disbursements will be complementary to those for the project. The
program activities, implementation plans, progress indicators, and budgets for NA and AJK, both
development and recurrent, have been developed within the framework of the Health Policy Statements, and
have been agreed between the Governments and IDA. Each year, progress made during the previous year
will be reviewed, and the health sector program for the coming financial year (both in budgetary terms and
in content, plus the specifics of the reform measures to be implemented) will be defined in detail. IDA
would need to have seen adequate progress during the previous year, ensure compliance with any
overarching SAP agreements and approve each annual plan before releasing project funds for that year.
With this approach, the Governments will have more flexibility in implementing the program than with the
traditional project approach, but they will be responsible for meeting performance targets in order to receive
annual funding.
12.    The program comprises the total activities of the government health sector in NA and AJK plus
eligible health-related activities with communities and NGOs, for the four years 1996/97 to 1999/2000.
During project preparation it became clear that there were a number of large approved development
schemes especially in AJK which could not be accommodated within the projected staffing and financial
resources for the next four years. These were almost all for hospital development and therefore of a lower
priority within the new health policies. The Governments agreed to scale down or defer such schemes.
They also agreed that no new referral facilities would be built without prior consultation with IDA. These
agreements will be carefully monitored through the annual review process.
13.    Within the agreed programs, the proposed project comprises all incremental aspects of primary
health in NA and AJK plus the critical supporting parts of the first referral level of accident, emergency and
obstetric care. Activities in these areas will be financed on a time-slice basis by IDA while cooperating
donors will finance conventionally. Details of the project are included in various Government project
documents, and particularly in the project PC-ls. Development projects in Pakistan must be presented to
the approving Government authorities in a prescribed detailed format, known as a PC-I.
14.    The policy agenda for the four years, as included in the two Health Policy Statements, is outlined
above and represents a very substantial shift toward giving primary health care and especially MCH true
priority in the allocation of sectoral resources, in taking steps to ensure the availability of trained staff and
supplies for rural facilities, in developing genuine community and NGO involvement in primary services,
and in improving and decentralizing management. The details of the policies vary between the two regions
but key features of each are: (a) NA -- a strong focus on community involvement and ownership, including
decentralization and community operation of facilities; rapid expansion of the immunization program;
availability of oral rehydration salts through public and private channels supported by a strong health
2Pakistan Social Action Progrwn Project, Credit No. 2593-PAK, approved in March 1994.
3Pakistan Population Welfare Program Project, Credit No. 2688-PAK, approved in March 1995.



-5-
education program; emphasis on acute respiratory infections; expansion regionwide of female community
workers; top priority for training and posting of female paramedical staff; and strengthening health
education and micronutrient programs; (b) AJK -- introduction regionwide of female community workers
for rural and urban areas; provision of MCH services at all basic facilities; ensuring referral services for
obstetric emergencies; introduction of an essential drugs list; collection and retention of user fees by
hospitals; priority for recruiting and training female paramedical staff; establishment of technical and
managerial in-service training; integration of disease control programs; provision of family planning
services at all facilities; strengthening nutrition and micronutrient programs; encouraging the development
of the private commercial sector; and phasing out military support.
B. Project Objectives
15.   The goal of the proposed project is to support the Governments' programs in NA and AJK to
improve the health status of the population throughout all districts, with a specific target of reducing infant
and maternal mortality by about 30 percent over the four years. Achieving this goal would also require
reduced fertility.  With a targeted, time-limited investment largely to improve existing services, a
functioning system would be put in place to deliver a minimum set of cost-effective health services.
Improved health status would result from achieving four objectives: (a) improving quality and sustainability
of primary health care, including preventive measures, especially through the development of community
involvement and NGOs; (b) increasing cost-effectiveness and coverage of Government health and family
planning services, particularly through strengthening nearly 500 DOH health facilities including the basic
referral level; (c) strengthening the capacity of the health sector through human resources development,
including training over 600 female staff, and (d) building institutional capacity through better management
and organizational development.
16.   Annex 3 presents the operational targets within these four objectives and the performance
indicators that will be used to monitor progress. Operational targets for the four objectives include: (a)
increasing village and women's organizations such that the number of facilities with active community
participation increases by 10 percent per annum; (b) fully staffing and equipping 320 facilities in AJK and
230 facilities in NA; (c) training 230 LHVs in AJK and 100 in NA, 200 female nursing assistants in AJK
and 100 in NA and 200 paramedics in AJK and 100 in NA; and (d) providing in-service management
training to about 150 staff in NA and 650 staff in AJK.
C. Project Description
17.   The proposed project will comprise four main components: (a) strengthening community and NGO
participation; (b) strengthening Government health services; (c) human resource development; and (d)
management and organizational development.
18.   Strengthening Community and NGO Participation (US$12.2 million equivalent estimated base
cost, 22 percent ofproject cost) Fostering the genuine involvement of communities in their health services
would be a major contribution towards the combined objectives of improved quality and acceptability of
services, cost-effectiveness, and sustainable health improvement. To date, community involvement in
health services has been largely confined to NGO-run activities, particularly in two districts of NA. By its
nature, the details of this component will evolve during project implementation, but the aim is to introduce
community participation to most of the regions' existing health services by the end of the project. This
would be achieved through a combination of: (a) strengthening and expanding existing NGO services; (b)
adding new NGO services; and (c) introducing community and NGO involvement to existing Government



-6 -
services. The personnel of the larger established NGOs will participate as appropriate in the human
resources and management development project components (see paras. 27 and 29). NGOs are more
developed in NA than in AJK. In NA, where there is a tradition of NGO-Government cooperation, the
proposed project will support: (a) strengthening and expanding the successful and pioneering community-
oriented primary health model of the AKHS in the two districts where it presently operates plus
experimenting with new initiatives and increasing Government-AKHS cooperation and service
rationalization in those districts; (b) through the extensive network of AKRSP-developed community and
women's organizations, introducing community concepts to existing Government primary health services in
the remaining three districts of NA with technical advice, social mobilization, training and supervision
provided by AKHS, AKRSP and associated NGOs; and (c) strengthening and expanding the existing and
effective programs of the FPAP and MAF such that good quality family planning and leprosy/TB
community-oriented services will be generally available, typically working from Government health
facilities throughout NA.
19.   In AJK, where there are long-standing informal partnerships between communities and government
but few established NGOs, the project will build on these partnerships and support: (a) the establishment of
an autonomous Social Mobilization Unit (SMU), representing communities, NGOs and the DOH, with
teams in each district to plan, coordinate, implement, and supervise the introduction of community
involvement in existing primary health services, which are largely Government-run; and (b) the
strengthening and expansion of the existing programs of the FPAP and MAF (as in NA). Government has
formalized involvement of the main NGOs in NA and AJK through a signed memoranda of
understanding for each.
20.   While the details will vary depending on locally determined needs, in both NA and AJK it is
expected that the focus of the community services will be on MCH preventive and curative services
provided by a paid facility-based LHV supported by a network of community-based workers or LHWs and
traditional birth attendants (TBAs). Through a system of local and district committees (see "Project
Implementation" below) communities will help: (a) plan the types and levels of services to be provided; (b)
manage, supervise, and monitor provision of these services; (c) contribute to service financing (through
land, buildings, volunteers, or cash as appropriate) and monitor expenditure; and (d) provide feedback to the
district level. Local groups may be male, female, or mixed depending on local circumstances, but
coordination between these groups will be important. As has already happened on a small scale in NA, it is
expected that some local groups would evolve so that they could take over management of their local
government facilities. Similarly, experience has shown that it is feasible to introduce a system of modest
fees to recoup part of the medicine and consultation costs provided that the quality of services is
maintained. Also, the project will experiment with the endowment fund concept (based on the SAP
Community School Program) to help finance operations and maintenance of health facilities. The local
adaptation of these financing and delivery models will vary, in accordance with the community's demand
for health services, ability to pay, and management experience.
21.   In NA and AJK, the communities will be involved in addressing the problem of insufficient female
staff. Communities will be asked to nominate TBAs and qualified women for training as LHWs. After
training, they will be linked to the health facility in their community. Similarly, after training, LHVs will be
posted to facilities in their home areas and would only be transferred by mutual agreement and after review
by a senior level committee.
22.   Finally, to strengthen and support smaller NGOs in building community organizations and
providing health and family planning services, an NGO fund will be created. The fund will be managed by



- 7 -
the NGO Program Committee reporting to the overall Program Steering Committee, (see "Project
Implementation" below) which will be responsible for coordinating all NGO activities in the health sector.
The proposals for NGO funds will be reviewed, approved and funds disbursed in accordance with the
criteria and procedures agreed between the Government and the donors. These criteria include: (a) for
NGOs -- registered for one year, basic management and financial capacity, ability to generate funds, and
rural community-based; and (b) for projects -- development rather than welfare oriented, partly self-
financing, replicable, locally oriented, not duplicative, and preferably MCH-focused.
23.    Strengthening Government Health Services. (US$29.0 million equivalent estimated base cost; 52
percent of project cost) The objective of the proposed project component is to improve the quality and
coverage of Government health services, with particular attention to improving and expanding services for
women and children, through an intensive one-time effort to upgrade existing facilities and services to a
fully operational but basic level. The focus will be on upgrading and includes posting additional LHVs,
providing working space, equipment and accommodation where deficiencies exist, and generally
strengthening MCH and family planning services at health facilities.  Communicable disease control
programs will be strengthened and integrated more fully with other public health activities. Nutrition advice
-- and health education generally -- and micronutrient supplements will be included in pre- and post-natal
care and child health services.
24.    With respect to infrastructure development, the proposed project will bring all existing primary
facilities up to a minimum standard by the end of the project period. A detailed mapping exercise will be
conducted to assess the adequacy of health facilities relative to the population distribution. Primary care
facilities without MCH service space (165 facilities) will be expanded. For the few cases of new
construction, land is available for almost all sites and procurement of the balance has been initiated. In
addition to ensuring that all primary level health facilities are minimally equipped, supplied and
functioning, the project will provide essential equipment and communications systems to higher level health
facilities (at the district level and below) in order to strengthen the referral system. At the referral level, the
emphasis will be on upgrading capacity to treat emergency cases, especially women with pregnancy
complications, critically ill children and serious accidents. With the rugged terrain, improved transport and
communications are essential; vehicles, including ambulances and motorcycles, will be provided to
facilitate emergency transport, supervision, logistical support and outreach.
25.    Provision of health education will be strengthened through reorganization of the present system and
through increased activities and training. A position to coordinate health education activities will be created
in each District Health Office and a local program pursued. Additionally, all levels of health personnel will
be trained in health education and provided with materials.
26.    The proposed project will assist in phasing out the military's support to the DOHs. Apart from
replacing senior and middle level staff as trained civilians become available in NA and AJK, the cost of
medicines currently being supplied by the military for AJK will be phased into the DOH recurrent budget.
27.    Human Resource Development.  (US$4.2 million equivalent estimated base cost; 7 percent of
project cost -- about 40 percentfor pre-service and 60 percentfor in-service training). Under the proposed
project, pre-service and in-service training will be provided to ensure adequate numbers of appropriately
trained health personnel and to improve the quality of service delivery at all levels. Emphasis will be placed
on increasing the number of female providers including LHVs and community-based workers trained in
MCH and family planning. The development of female staff is crucial to meeting the objective of
expanding access to and quality of essential health care for women and children. A training plan has been



-8 -
developed for each region, which includes measures to ensure the availability of trainers and trainees. For
trainees, such measures include helping with basic education requirements, ensuring security, close liaison
with parents, a generous stipend, and ensuring non-transferable employment in their home area. While
Government requirements predominate, all training will be a joint NGO-Govemment undertaking,
especially in NA. To address the shortage of female staff in NA and ensure their availability over the
longer term, the present School of Midwifery will be upgraded and redesignated as a Public Health School.
It will be the only such training school in NA and will train 100 LHVs during the project. In AJK, existing
schools for pre-service training of LHVs and nurses will be strengthened and 230 LHVs and 80 nurses will
be trained. Total staff is expected to increase at about 4.5 percent per year until the year 2000 in NA and 1
to 1.5 percent per year in AJK, with the number of LHVs expected to grow faster than any other cadre.
Since TBAs perform most deliveries, they will also be trained; trainees will be selected by the local village
or women's organizations.
28.   Three small Regional Training Centres in AJK and two in NA will be established to provide
systematic in-service training, linked with supportive field supervision, in both technical and managerial
skills. Courses will be aimed particularly at providing in-service training to primary level health staff,
including LHVs, nurses, and communicable disease program workers. Attention will also be given to the
needs of medical officers and higher management staff. Technical training will be provided to about 1310
and 3250 NGO and Government course participants in NA and AJK respectively, and health education
training will be provided to 2550 and 7050 NGO and Government course participants in the respective
regions.
29.   Management and Organizational Development. (US$3.3 million equivalent estimated base cost; 6
percent of project cost). The objective of this component is to develop the DOHs' and, to some extent the
NGOs', management capacity to plan and implement more effectively the enhanced programs. DOH
management particularly needs strengthening in NA. The component will support staff development,
including strengthening the planning units, integrating the management of the vertical programs into the
overall health system, replacing military staff, and strengthening the management information system.
Capacity for planning and management at the district and community levels will be enhanced and
responsibilities will be increasingly decentralized to these levels through a phased program which links
training to management and financial devolution. This will mitigate the severe logistical problems and
facilitate community participation. In-service management and supervisory training, which presently does
not exist, will be provided to about 150 course participants, mainly Government but including some NGO
supervisors and facility managers, in NA and 650 in AJK through the new training centers.
30.   Technical assistance, provided through NGOs and otherwise, will focus on community
participation, management development, health education, and human resource development. Technical
assistance will also support project supervision and scholarships. Much of the technical assistance will be
provided by local consultants.



-9-
D. Program / Project Costs and Financing
31.   A breakdown of program and project costs and the financing plan are shown in Annex 1. The
total cost of the health program in NA and AJK is estimated at US$136.7 million equivalent (including
NGO and community participation activity) (NA -- US$47.1 million and AJK -- US$89.6 million). The
total project cost is US$57.7 million equivalent (NA -- US$26.0 million and AJK -- US$31.7 million or
58 and 34 percent respectively of the programs).  Project costs include allowances for physical
contingencies (US$3.5 million equivalent) and for inflation (US$5.6 million equivalent).  Price
contingencies plus physical contingencies are equivalent to 19 percent of project base costs. Project costs
include an estimated US$7.2 million equivalent in taxes and duties. Foreign exchange costs are estimated
at US$18.7 million equivalent, or about 32 percent of project costs including contingencies.
32.    The Government will finance an increasing proportion of the total program and project costs
(including incremental recurrent costs) over the four-year implementation period, financial years 1996/97
to 1999/2000; the donors will finance the balance. The Federal Government will make available to NA
and AJK proceeds of the proposed IDA Credit in accordance with its standard budgetary procedures. The
estimated IDA contribution will be US$26.7 million (46 percent of total project cost), including financing
of about US$8.6 million equivalent for incremental recurrent costs on a declining basis. The contribution
from the proposed next round of support for the SAP, which will be complementary to this project, is
anticipated to be about US$6.1 million (11 percent of total project cost). Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
(KfW) will contribute about US$10.6 million (19 percent of total project cost) under parallel financing
arrangements -- to support NGOs, transport and equipment in NA.
33.    The proposed project will be carried out in NA and AJK, an area over which India and Pakistan
have been in dispute since 1947. By including finance for US$26.7 million in the proposed Credit, IDA
does not thereby intend to prejudice the determination of the claims of the parties.
34.    Both NA and AJK are considered "Special Areas" by the Federal Government and are dependent
on the transfer of resources from the Federal Government for both development and recurrent
expenditure; NA is totally dependent, while AJK receives about two-thirds of its requirements from the
center. The history of severe underfunding of the sector in the two regions requires substantial inputs to
remedy accumulated past deficiencies and to ensure the future provision of an acceptable level of
minimum services. For the past ten years, overall budgets for NA and AJK have declined in real terms,
which has resulted in pressure on development and recurrent expenditure in the health sectors. One result
is that non-salary recurrent health expenditure has been squeezed to unacceptably low levels (down from
32 percent in 1990/91 to 14 percent of the NA recurrent health budget in 1994/95). There has also been a
tendency for primary health development budgets to fall as expenditure on secondary health facilities
rises, most notably in AJK where primary health development expenditure has fallen from 60 percent to
20 percent over the past five years. The proposed project will sharply reverse these trends, through
budget-related covenants and agreed expenditure programming. Significant sustained increases in the
health budgets are essential for the four-year project period (see Annex 1, Tables 3 and 4). Overall
increases average 18% for NA and 11% for AJK, in constant terms. Sub-divided by development and
recurrent budgets these increases average 15 percent and 18 percent per year from the levels of 1995/96
for the development and recurrent budgets respectively for NA and 5 percent and 12 percent per year for
AJK (in constant terms), with the largest increases concentrated in the first two years of project
implementation. Within the recurrent budget, the critical non-salary part will increase by an average 34
percent and 18 percent per year for NA and AJK respectively. (See also Economic and Financial
Assessments, Section III Parts C and D.)



- 10-
E. Project Implementation
Institutional Arrangements
35.   As the proposed project is an integral part of the sector program, its implementation will be the
same as for the program as a whole and will be integrated with continuing work. The four-year project
will be implemented by the NA and AJK Departments of Health and cooperating NGOs at the
headquarters, district and community levels. Where necessary, the implementing agencies will be partly
reorganized and reinforced with additional staff, training, and technical assistance. A detailed project
implementation plan has been prepared by the Governments and appraised by IDA. The Director of
Health Services in NA and the Director-General of Health Services in AJK will have overall
responsibility. Administrative and financial powers that are now centralized at headquarters will be
increasingly delegated to District Health Officers (DHOs), Hospital Medical Superintendents, and below.
IDA will deal directly on day-to-day matters with the NA and AJK governments; the federal Ministry of
Kashmir Affairs and Northern Areas role will be limited to oversight. For the main NGOs, one senior
officer in each will be nominated as project coordinator.
36.   For primary services, the program will become a joint effort between communities, local
government, health-related NGOs and the DOHs. To provide fora for interaction, committees are being
established both at the headquarters level and at the district and village levels with agreed membership
and terms of reference. This hierarchy of committees is designed to assist management of the program,
facilitate decision-making at appropriate levels, promote coordination and involve relevant parties.
Generally, no such committees exist at present. The Program Steering Committee, will be the overall
policy, decision-making and coordinating body for the project. The District Health Committee, chaired
by the DHO, will be the main health body for district operations and will advise on overall district health
operations and monitor progress toward reaching objectives, including the use of the budget. The DHOs,
with greater autonomy, will become more responsive and accountable to communities. Community
Health Committees will be established in NA, linked to existing development committees as appropriate,
and Union Council Health Committees will be established in AJK. These should evolve into an effective
network of committees starting in the second year of the project. Their responsibilities include
identifying and prioritizing community needs, managing health operations for the community, and
providing feedback to the district committee.
37.   In NA, the NGO Program Committee will be chaired by Director of Health Services. It is an
executive arm of the Program Steering Committee and will include representatives from the three major
NGOs (AKHS, FPAP and MAF); any health-related NGO working in NA may participate by mutual
agreement. This committee will approve and monitor NGO-related activities and create a forum for
inter-NGO and NGO-Government coordination; the committee will also consider NGO-related policy
recommendations. In AJK, where the role of NGOs in mobilizing communities is more limited, an
SMU will be established by the DOH to provide technical assistance to district mobilization units. The
SMIJ will be managed by two community development consultants, with expertise in program
development, management and human resources development and will be responsible for mobilizing
communities and working to establish community-based service provision.
Procurement and Disbursement
38.   Details on procurement, disbursement, and auditing arrangements are provided in Annex 2. IDA
will finance: (a) goods totaling about US$1.7 million to be procured through international competitive
bidding (ICB) procedures; (b) works and goods (including medicines) totaling about US$8.8 million to



be procured through national competitive bidding (NCB) procedures; and (c) goods, works, services and
operating costs totaling about US$16.2 million to be procured through other procedures, including direct
contracting and shopping.  Procurement categories and estimated procurement arrangements are
provided in Annex 2, Table 1. KfW will finance activities in NA only, on a parallel basis, focusing on
NGOs, equipment, and vehicles and will administer procurement according to their rules and procedures.
39.   The proposed IDA Credit of US$26.7 million equivalent will be disbursed over 4.5 years, with
disbursements completed by December 31, 2000. Estimated annual disbursements are shown in Annex
2, Table 3. Disbursements will follow similar procedures to those being followed under SAP and will
reimburse the Governments for a proportion of all eligible expenditures.  Specific disbursement
arrangements for the various expenditure categories are presented in Annex 2, Table 2. To facilitate
disbursements to NGOs, a Special Account will be established in AJK. This account will be the
mechanism to provide grants to the affiliated NGOs and communities, which will not have the resources
to finance activities in advance. The special account will be managed by the AJK DOH and Program
Steering Committee. Since KfW will fund NGO activities in NA, IDA will not establish a Special
Account for NGO activities in NA.
Monitoring and Evaluation
40.   Details on the proposed project's monitoring and evaluation arrangements, including key
performance indicators to monitor progress in carrying out the various components and achieving the
development objectives, are provided in Annex 3 and have been agreed between IDA and the regions.
The Directorates of Health Services in NA and AJK, supported by local consultants and inputs from
NGOs, will be responsible for monitoring project implementation; both Governments and IDA have
agreed on a comprehensive list of monitoring indicators. A substantial cross-sectoral monitoring system
has already been established through SAP and is now in use. The project will be integrated into this
overall system, as will the project activities to strengthen the management information system and its
use. A mid-term review will be conducted by September 1998.
F. Lessons Learned from Previous IDA Involvement
41.   The design of the proposed project draws on the experience of five health and population-related
projects supported by IDA in Pakistan, only one of which has closed. They are: SAPP, three ongoing
projects in the health and population sectors (Family Health4, Second Family Health Project5, and the
recently effective Population Welfare Program Project) and a population project completed in 19896. The
main lessons learned include the need for: (a) IDA and other donor support for "reformers" in securing
health policy development and major budgetary shifts, combined with strong "ownership" of these
measures by line Departments; (b) securing long-term government commitment to increasing the total
budget and non-salary recurrent budgets critical to ensuring quality in the social sectors; (c) addressing
gender issues of both staff and beneficiaries; (d) realism about institutional constraints on capacity building
and program implementation; (e) community involvement in service provision, especially in supervision
and contributions; and (f) staff continuity in the line Departments and IDA. Lessons from non-health social
sector projects in Pakistan include the importance of advance preparation, obtaining early government
approvals, community participation, and working through the existing implementation system.
4 Pakistan Family Health Project, Credit No. 2240-PAK, approved in May 1991.
5 Pakistan Second Family Health Project, Credit No. 2464-PAK, approved in February 1993.
6 Pakistan Population Project, Credit No. 1350-PAK, approved in April 1983.



- 12 -
42.    The proposed project has incorporated specific measures that reflect lessons learned, including: (a)
substantially greater involvement of the governments and NGOs in project preparation than is normally the
case, as well as ensuring the development and approval of the Health Policy Statements; (b) advance action,
detailed plans and proposed covenants for phasing in increased recurrent and development allocations for
health budgets (in addition to funds reallocated from the military to the health budget); (c) the recruitment
and training of sharply increased numbers of female paramedical workers, including innovative approaches
to increase the number of female health workers; (d) management training and support to increase central
and district level capacity combined with decentralization; (e) strengthening community involvement,
including developing bodies representing the Government, NGOs and communities to support coordinated
planning, implementation and supervision; and (f) reaching an understanding that staff transfers would be
limited. The annual plan and review mechanism will be central to ensuring sustained progress on many of
these critical factors.
G. Rationale for IDA Involvement
43.    The proposed project is fully consistent with IDA's Country Assistance Strategy for Pakistan,
discussed in the Board on December 19, 1995, and with the conclusions of the recently completed Poverty
Assessment7. Pakistan's social indicators and gender-based differences in education and health are among
the world's worst. These problems contribute to high population growth which itself impedes efforts to
alleviate poverty. The health sectors in NA and AJK are considerably worse off than in the provinces, and
have been seriously neglected by both the Federal Government and the donors. SAP is crucial to IDA's
policy to promote increased public and private activity in the social sectors and to alleviate poverty. Overall
funding and policy issues for primary level health in NA and AJK are beginning to be addressed through
SAP; the two regions' performance under SAP has been encouraging. These macro efforts must be
underpinned by efforts to advance the entire health sector, by increased institutional capacity, and by a
detailed operational plan. The project and SAP closely complement each other.
44.   IDA is committed to advancing the health sector in Pakistan and has made significant progress in a
relatively short time through three health and population projects and the umbrella SAPP all in the past five
years. The proposed project will extend this commitment to NA and AJK and thus complete national
coverage. To date, political circumstances have precluded other donors' support to programs in NA and
AJK. As a multilateral agency with significant experience in the health sector in South Asia, IDA is in the
best position to assist these long neglected regions.
m. Assessments
A. Technical Assessment
45.    The project design is technically sound and based on internationally accepted standards
recommended by the World Health Organization and the 1993 World Development Report (WDR),
Investing in Health. The focus on improving services for reproductive-aged women and children reflects
attention to the most vulnerable groups. The proposed project will support expansion and strengthening
of the most cost-effective interventions available to reduce infant, child and maternal morbidity and
mortality, as well as to reduce fertility. These well-established straight-forward interventions have been
proved throughout the world and have the endorsement of international and Pakistani professional
organizations.
7 Pakistan Poverty Assessment, Report No. 14397-PAK, September 1995.



- 13 -
46.   Interventions to improve maternal health include: pre-natal care (including tetanus toxoid
injections); nutrition services, especially for iron deficiency; management of normal deliveries;
identification and management of pregnancy-related complications; post-natal care; and identification
and treatment of sexually transmitted diseases. Substantial and sustained improvements, particularly in
maternal mortality, will require a continuum of care which includes detection and adequate management
of obstetric complications, such as obstructed labor and hemorrhage, and other emergencies; thus, the
project should address selected aspects of hospital-level capacity and efficiency, as well as transport and
communications. Interventions to improve family planning include: access to a range of quality clinical
and non-clinical methods of contraception (both temporary and permanent) and counseling. Interventions
to improve child health include: immunization; treatment of life-threatening illnesses like diarrhea, TB,
and ARI; treatment of other illnesses, like worm infestations, measles, and poliomyelitis; and
identification and management of pediatric complications that require hospital care. Other interventions,
which would benefit all groups, include: nutritional services, especially for iodine deficiency; facilities
and equipment to treat the most common life-threatening emergencies; referral and transportation
systems that direct patients to appropriate levels of care; and health education that is relevant,
appropriate in content and medium to the locality, and focused on key themes like nutrition, hygiene,
disease prevention, and family planning.
B. Institutional Assessment
47.    The institutional capacities in NA and AJK are very different. In NA, management systems for
effective provision of health services are weak, but services have been very successfully provided by
NGOs and communities, especially AKHS. While NGO services will expand, Government capacity also
needs to increase to ensure service availability throughout NA. In AJK, the DOH has strong civilian
management with better support systems, yet there has been very little involvement of NGOs and
communities.  Through the proposed project, each region is well placed to strengthen weaker
institutional aspects by learning from its neighbor's successes.
48.    The DOH in NA has not had any major organizational change in 15 years -- it has only been
slowly expanding services. It has only two professional staff at the center, one of which, the Director, is
seconded from the military. Management is underdeveloped due to lack of adequate staff and lack of
staffing continuity. As a result, systems that have evolved are subjective and person dependent. At the
district level, management comprises local well-qualified civilians, who are highly committed. But, lack
of management systems at the center necessarily means that they are handicapped at this level also.
Nevertheless, district managers perform reasonably well, given the very limited resources available to
them, and are highly motivated to introduce better planning and management.
49.    AKRSP and AKHS will play a significant role in institutional capacity building efforts in NA.
They do not have a highly formalized structure or operational guidelines (common for NGOs), but the
staff are highly motivated and committed to quality performance. They are used to working with donor
agencies and have limited experience with formal Government relations, but are committed to forging a
productive working relationship with Government.
50.   In AJK, although there is a military Secretary, the Director-General and his central staff (about
10 civilian managers and professionals) control day-to-day DOH activities. Although most staff have
some management training, they are eager to improve their health planning and management skills.
While this top-down approach has provided reasonable health services, NGOs and communities are an as



- 14-
yet untapped resource. The AJK DOH has only limited experience in community involvement, but they
are keen to experiment with different community participation strategies.
51.    Technical assistance will draw on lessons from  the neighboring region and will address
institutional weaknesses in such areas as management and information systems, logistics, training, and
community development. The assistance will take into account the particular difficulties of managing
and supervising basic service provision with limited resources in extremely harsh conditions.
Management development, especially in NA, has already started.
C. Economic Assessment, Benefits and Risks
Benefits
52.   The proposed project will improve the health status of this very poor and under-served
population. There will be a special emphasis on improving the health of women and young children,
who are particularly disadvantaged, by meeting the urgent need for increased MCH and family
planning services. It is estimated that by the end of the project, over two million women and children
will have benefited from increased access to better quality primary health care services. This would
result in a decline in infant and maternal mortality of about 30 percent over four years. Other groups
in the population would also experience gains in their health status, in terms of both reduced mortality
and morbidity.
53.    The above health benefits are desirable in themselves -- that is, they would have a direct impact
on the welfare of households, quite apart from any effects on economic productivity. Improvements in
health status would also increase individuals' capacity as economic agents. Healthy individuals are
more productive contributors to the economy and lose less work time as a result of illness. Moreover,
well-nourished children learn better and are likely to become more productive adults.
54.   The proposed project will also contribute to the national goal of reducing fertility.  An
objective of the project is to increase the provision of family planning services, thereby helping
individual families to determine the number and spacing of their children and reduce exposure to the
risks associated with pregnancy. At the same time, improvements in MCH would contribute to demand
for contraception. Through increased access to family planning services, the project anticipates that the
contraceptive prevalence rate in NA and AJK would increase from about 10 to about 24 percent.
Cost Effectiveness
55.   The design and preparation of the proposed project are intended to develop the most cost-
effective approach for achieving the objectives. In both NA and AJK, where the needs are very basic
and the existing services are rudimentary, the project will focus on ensuring the availability of the most
essential basic services, along the lines of the minimum essential package of services defined in the
1993 WDR. Committing to the essential package requires giving priority to investments in public
health -- including immunization, family planning and nutrition information -- and to essential clinical
services -- including pregnancy-related care, control of TB, and care for the common serious illnesses
of young children.
56.   The question of how to deliver these services most cost-effectively in the conditions of NA and
AJK was focused on. Alternatives analyzed include: (a) facility-based births versus home-based births;
(b) various numbers of ante-natal visits for expectant mothers; (c) providing separate MCH centers



- 15-
versus integrating such services in existing facilities; (d) new construction versus upgrading existing
facilities; (e) heating either by firewood, electricity, kerosene, or solar energy; (f) creating new
institutions for pre-service training versus modifying existing institutions; and (g) strengthening existing
vertical communicable diseases control programs versus integrating the programs into the overall health
system. In each case, the most cost-effective alternative was chosen.
57.    Due primarily to the inhospitable terrain, low  population density and highly scattered
population, harsh climate and the lack of basic infrastructure, per capita operating costs of delivering
health services in NA and AJK will be relatively high compared to the rest of the country. At present,
the average per capita cost in the provinces is US$2.3, while in NA and AJK it is US$3.6 and US$3.8.
Moreover, in the provinces, the amount that individuals pay from their pockets for health services is
typically at least as much as the Government spends. In NA and AJK, private commercial health
services are almost non-existent and the government has to assume the full burden of providing health
services. Thus, per capita government costs could be expected to be substantially greater than those of,
say, Punjab and still be reasonable.
58.    For the first time in Pakistan, a detailed analysis of unit costs for different levels of health
facilities (including staffing and operational costs) has been completed during the preparation of this
project. These data provide a firm basis for estimating the programs' costs for essential primary and
basic secondary services. At the end of the project, the average annual per capita cost of delivering
health services is expected to be approximately US$8.9 in NA and US$7.2 in AJK (current prices) --
about 2 to 2.5 times the present per capita cost of delivering health services in the two regions. This
jump is substantial but sustainable (see "Financial Assessment") and warranted, given the past neglect
of these regions and the improved quality and quantity of services. Furthermore, the estimated annual
per capita cost of providing the more limited minimum essential package of services in NA and AJK is
US$6.2 and US$4.3 respectively, well below the 1993 WDR average estimate for low income countries
of US$12 per capita (1990 prices). An analysis of cost-effectiveness using the Disability Adjusted Life
Years (DALY) approach, as outlined in the 1993 WDR, was also conducted. The analysis shows that
the average cost of a DALY saved as a consequence of the project would be about US$30. This figure
is in line with the estimates of the 1993 WDR for similar interventions in low-income countries under
reasonably efficient conditions, which generally range from US$12-US$50 per DALY saved. The
above comparison indicates that the project interventions would be highly cost-effective.
59.    The program approach (described in Section II) will ensure that limited public resources are
efficiently and effectively allocated throughout the health sector through a holistic approach. This
approach is based on agreement on overall sector policies and a well-developed plan of activities for the
four year period, conflrmed through detailed annual agreements. This will ensure the financing of the
highly cost-effective minimum essential package of services and fewer politically popular, but not cost-
effective, investments.
Risks
60.   The main risk is that the limited capacity of the DOHs would be further strained by their lack
of familiarity with implementing a program approach, and by introducing community participation
including relying on substantial NGO cooperation. If such problems arose, they would undermine the
entire project. This risk would be addressed by: (a) including substantial management development
and technical support to ensure that the health systems function in a more efficient and streamlined
fashion; (b) simplifying the project components as much as possible, limiting them to essentials,
completing detailed preparation well in advance and recognizing that the program approach is less



- 16 -
administratively demanding than a traditional approach; and (c) particularly in NA, drawing on the
experience and support of NGOs that have operated in these types of geographical and socioeconomic
conditions for many years, working extensively with these NGOs during project development, and
ensuring increased involvement of communities.
61.   A second risk to the health programs in the two regions is that the Government would fail in its
commitment to finance the programs initially or continue with their financing, especially since the
Federal Government is committed to reduce the fiscal deficit and recently made cuts in expenditure.
However, social sector expenditure has been -- and is expected to continue to be -- protected, especially
through the umbrella of SAP, a program to which the Government is sincerely committed. Since SAP
began, the Government's record in complying with budgetary undertakings for the social sectors has
been good. Again, if such problems arose, it would undermine a substantial part of the project.
62.   A third risk is that proposed changes in health policies would not be achieved or would be
significantly delayed and stall overall implementation. This risk is addressed through the program
approach design, which requires agreed policy documents as well as annual agreement on specific
reforms in addition to detailed work plans. Close links with the SAP umbrella operation would provide
further leverage, as would the strengthening of the role of NGOs and communities in the provision of
health services.
63.   A fourth risk is that the requisite female staff necessary to provide MCH services would prove
to be unavailable. If this occurred, it would negate the most important operational objective of the
project -- improving women's health. Gender issues were carefully considered in the project design,
which includes working through community and women's organizations to recruit female staff. Pre-
service training under the project is mostly for women and special efforts to recruit suitable tutors have
already begun. Incentives for female staff would be introduced and female health staff would be posted
to facilities located in their home areas. Experience during preparation has been encouraging.
64.   A fifth and political risk is that any resurgence of ethnic strife in NA would impede
implementation there. Similarly, any increase in tension over the disputed status of NA and AJK could
affect project implementation. Given the high priority of improving health care in these neglected
areas, these risks overall are considered acceptable.
D. Financial Assessment
65.    Financial requirements of the proposed project have been reviewed and agreed upon with the
Governments, who have committed to provide the additional resources required. The design of the
project, with the program approach applied to the whole of the development and recurrent budgets, the
link to SAP, and the project financial conditions ensure that financial feasibility is fully considered and
that additional resources would materialize. The health sector budgets of NA and AJK are a small part
of the total Federal budgets -- only about .09 percent. So the increases planned for NA and AJK health
sector budgets as a part of the overall budget are extremely small and sustainable. One result of the
accumulated past budget deficiencies is that staff salaries have cut into non-salary budget components,
further eroding the quality of service delivery. The situation is especially acute in NA, where the
salary component in 1994/95 absorbed about 85 percent of the health recurrent budget. It is essential
that this is rectified (a good start has been made with the doubling of the NA non-salary recurrent
budget during 1995/96, as agreed under the SAP). Nearly 60 percent of the program costs are
recurrent. The proposed IDA Credit will finance, on a declining basis, approximately 42 percent of the



- 17 -
incremental recurrent budget during the program period, easing the burden on Government over the
four-years and ensuring the effectiveness of public health services.
66.   Adequate and timely provision of funds to the sector is critical to the success of the proposed
program. Releases of funds have improved considerably in the last two years due to SAP agreements.
Over the four years, the development part of the budgets would need to increase in real terms by an
annual average of 15 and 5 percent in NA and AJK respectively. Expenditure would be mainly for
replacement equipment and transport, plus some upgrading, especially for training facilities. Similarly,
the recurrent part of the budgets, which is mainly non-salary expenditure, would need to increase in
real terms by an annual average of 18 and 12 percent in NA and AJK respectively, not counting the
phasing-out of the military contributions. These are large proportional increases, but very modest in
absolute terms. It is projected that, at the end of the program period, the share of the health sector in
the total budget (development plus recurrent), assuming a four percent real annual increase in GDP,
would rise from 8 and 7 percent to 12 and 9 percent for NA and AJK respectively, with most of the
increase in the recurrent part of the budgets. These are marginal increases within the context of the
total federal budget; the Federal and regional Governments have committed to fund these enhanced
levels and allocate them as in the agreed programs. This undertaking is critical and will be carefully
monitored both through the proposed project and the SAP.
67.   Both NA and AJK Health Policy Statements give priority to implementing the package of
minimum essential services. Such minimum essential services would in principle be provided free or at
only nominal charges -- given the depth and breadth of poverty in the regions. Nonetheless, within the
component to strengthen community and NGO participation, there will be experiments to
institutionalize user fees, especially for curative services, with revenues retained by the facility. This
may be additional to other community inputs such as labor and land. At the referral levels, forms of
user fees are already in place, with charges somewhat higher than in the rest of Pakistan -- but cost
recovery is still marginal. Both NA and AJK recognize the need for more realistic user fees at referral
levels, given adequate safeguards for the poor.
E. Environmental Assessment
68.   No adverse impact on the environment is expected from the proposed project; it was determined to
be in screening Category C. In the long term, it would benefit the environment through lower population
pressure and improved health conditions. All medical waste from health facilities will be sorted by type and
collected in color-coded polythene bags. Tissue waste will be buried a- -ay from human settlements. Non-
tissue waste from district HQ hospitals will be incinerated while that from lower-level facilities will be
buried.
F. Participatory Approach
69.    A central element of the proposed project is the development of a partnership between the
Government, NGOs, and communities. Such a strong community-oriented approach has not been tried
previously in large health projects in Pakistan. However, experience suggests that such an approach is
feasible, especially given favorable cultural factors and encouraging experiences of facilitating community
participation through NGOs. As discussed above, NA already has well-established community participation
and community-oriented health services that can be expanded. In AJK, where experience with community
organization is more recent, the approach will be to build on communities' long-standing informal
cooperation with the DOH and various types of partnership will be tested and carefully assessed before
replication on a wider scale.



- 18-
70.   "Ownership" of the proposed project in NA and AJK is unusually strong; project preparation was
undertaken by the DOHs with the assistance of Pakistani consultants, NGOs and beneficiary representatives,
with technical advice from the World Bank Resident Mission in Pakistan. A series of project development
workshops were held and a large amount of information collected and analyzed. High quality work was
completed in a very collegial way.
IV. Legal Commitment of the Borrower
71.   The formally adopted NA and AJK Health Policy Statements include, in the Governments' own
words, many key technical reforms including commitments on community participation, provision of
family planning services, increasing female paramedical staff, decentralization of powers, severely
limiting new clinic construction, and improving medicines purchase and supply. These and related
understandings were confirmed at Negotiations.
72.   During Negotiations, the Federal Government on behalf of the NA Administration and the AJK
Government as appropriate provided assurances that:
(a) (i) annual operational plans for each project year will be prepared and agreed with IDA,
covering both government and non-government inputs, and their activity, financial (both
development and recurrent) and reform content agreed with IDA; (ii) the agreed plans will be
satisfactorily implemented; (iii) any material changes to the agreed plans would have the prior
approval of IDA; and (iv) funds will be released to the Departments of Health by the fifteenth of
the first month of every quarter (para. 11);
(b) during the period 1996/97 to 1999/00, the overall level of spending on the program and on the
non-salary recurrent part of the program will rise by an average of 18 percent and 34 percent per
annum, respectively, for NA and 11 percent and 18 percent per annum, respectively, for AJK, all
in constant price terms (para. 34);
(c) an adequate number of qualified service delivery staff will be made available to assist in
implementation of the program and no actions to restrict or prohibit the recruitment of such staff
will be taken (para. 27);
(d) additional management positions in the district offices of the Departments of Health, as
agreed upon in the first operational plans, will be created and filled by February 28, 1997 (para.
29);
(e) arrangements satisfactory to IDA will be made for obtaining and maintaining adequate
provision of technical assistance and the involvement of NGOs and communities in the
implementation of the project (paras. 18 & 30);
(f) the Steering Committee, the NGO Program Committee, and the District Health Committees
will each meet at least quarterly (paras. 36 & 37);
(g) NA and AJK will participate in annual government/NGO/community/donor reviews of the
past year (para. 11); and



-19 -
(h) standard conditions for monitoring program implementation; providing brief semi-annual
progress reports; auditing; holding a mid-term review by September 1998; and preparing an
Implementation Completion Report (paras. 39 & 40).
73.   The special conditions of Credit Effectiveness are: (a) (i) receipt of satisfactory operational plans
for health sector activities for NA and AJK for 1996/97 and (ii) documentation of satisfactory progress for
1995/96; and (b) approval of the project PC-Is by the Executive Committee of the National Economic
Council (ECNEC) (paras. 11 & 13).






-20 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 3
PAKISTAN
NORTHERN HEALTH PROGRAM PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 1: Estimated Project and Program Costs
(1996/97 - 1999/2000)
(USS million)
Project             Program
Component                     Local    Foreign     Total       Total
Community Participation and NGOs                   7.7       4.5    12.2        12.2
Strengthening Health Services
Primary Health Care                        13.7       6.2    19.9        54.0
Referral                                    6.0       3.1     9.1        37.7
Human Resource Development                        3.5        0.7     4.2         4.7
Management and Organizational Development          1.9       1.4     3.3         6.3
Total Baseline Costs                             32.8       15.8    48.6       114.9
Physical Contingencies                            2.0        1.4     3.5         8.0
Price Contingencies                                4.2       3.6     5.6        13.8
Total Costs                                      38.9       18.7    57.7       136.7
NMte: Numbers may not add due to rounding
Table 2: Program & Project Financing Plan
(1996/97 - 1999/2000)
(US$ million)
GOP        IDA       SAP*      KfW        NGOs &        Total
Beneficiaries
Project     11.3       26.7      6.1       10.6       3.0           57.7
Program     90.3        26.7      6.1       10.6       3.0**         136.7
No: Numbers may not add due to rounding
' assumes SAP financing will continue
I excludes continuing NGO activities



21                                             ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3
Table 3: Estimated Health Sector Budgets Over Life of Project
Current Rs million and SUS million (where noted)
AJK                                                                                        96/97-99/00   Avg. Annual
1995/96      1996/97      1997/98      1998/99      1999/00   4 Yr Total    % Increase
Development                       92.0        225.1        222.3        161.8        152.8        762.0       13.5%
Non-Development                  312.1        388.5        471.5        568.5        670.7       2099.2       21.1%
Salary                         200.3        234.6        274.0        321.7        374.1       1204.4        16.9%
Non-Salary                      111.8       153.9         197.5       246.8        296.6        894.8        27.6%
AiKBudgetTotal                   404.1        613.6        693.8        730.3        823.5       2861.2       19.5%
AiKBudgetTotal($US)       $      13.0  $      17.7  $      18.8  $      18.9  $      20.4  $      75.7        11.8%
NGOs                                         45.6         40.1         43.4         46.3         175.4
Contingencies (all)                          52.0         84.9        100.9        113.8        351.6
AJK Program TOTAL                404.1        711.2        818.8        874.6        983.6       3388.2       24.9%
AJK Program Total (SUS)  S       13.0  S      20.5  S      22.2  S      22.6  S      24.3  $      89.6        16.9%
NA                                                                                         96/97-99/00   Avg. Annual
1995/96     1996/97      1997/98      1998/99      1999/00   4 Yr Total    % Increase
Development                       41.9        101.8        106.5        102.1        101.0        411.4       24.6%
Non-Development                  103.9        160.2        199.7        240.5        277.1        877.5       27.8%
Salary                          77.9        100.8        121.4        142.6        164.7        529.5        20.6%
Non-Salary                      26.0         59.4         78.3         97.9        112.4        348.0        44.2%
NA Budget Total                  145.8        262.0        306.2        342.6        378.1       1288.9       26.9%
NA BudgetTotal (SUS)      $       4.7  $       7.6  $       8.3  $       8.9  $       9.4  $      34.1        18.8%
NGOs                                         30.2         31.4         68.5         69.9        200.0
Contingencies (all)                          35.7         58.7         96.7        108.6        299.7
NA Program TOTAL                 145.8        327.9        396.3        507.8        556.6       1788.6       39.8%
NA Program Total (SUS)    S       4.7  S       9.4  S      10.7  S      13.1  $      13.8  S      47.1        30.8%
Northern Health Program
Project TOTAL                    549.9       1039.1       1215.1       1382.4       1540.2       5176.8       29.4%
N/thern Health Program
Project TOTAL (SUS)       S      17.7  S      29.9  S      32.9  S      35.7  $      38.1  S     136.7        21.1%
Note: Numbers may not add due to rounding
Table does not reflect the phasing out of military contributions



22
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 3
Table 4: Estinated Health Sector Budgets Over Life of Project
Constant Rs million and SUS million (where noted)
AJK                                                                                         96/97-99/00   Avg. Annual
1995/96      1996/97      1997/98      1998/99      1999/00   4 Yr Total    % Increase
Development                       92.0        204.6         187.6        127.5        112.7        632.5         5.2%
Non-Development                  312.1        353.2         398.0        448.1        494.5       1693.7        12.2%
Salary                          200.3        213.3        231.3        253.5        275.8        973.9         8.3%
Non-Salary                      111.8        139.9        166.7        194.5        218.7         719.8       18.3%
AJK Budget Total                 404.1        557.8         585.6        575.6        607.1       2326.2        10.7%
AJK Budget Total ($US)    $       13.0  $      17.3  $      17.9  $      17.6  $      18.5  $      71.3          9.2%
NGOs                                          41.5         33.8         34.2         34.1         143.6
Contingencies (Physical)                      12.9         13.5         10.8          10.2         47.4
AJK Program TOTAL                404.1        612.2        633.0         620.6        651.4       2517.2       12.7%
IAJK Program Total ($US)  $       13.0  $      19.0  S       19.4  S      19.0  S      19.9  S      77.1        11.1%
INA                                                                                          96/97-99/00   Avg. Annual
1995/96      1996/97      1997/98      1998/99      1999/00   4 Yr Total    % Increase
Development                       41.9         92.5          89.9         80.5         74.5        337.4        15.5%
Non-Development                  103.9         145.6        168.6        189.5        204.3        708.0        18.4%
Salary                           77.9         91.6        102.5        112.4        121.4        427.9        11.7%
Non-Salary                       26.0         54.0         66.1         77.2         82.9         280.1       33.6%
NA Budget Total                  145.8        238.2         258.5        270.0        278.8       1045.4        17.6%
NA Budget Total ($US)     $        4.7  $       7.4  $       7.9  $       8.2  $       8.5  $      32.0         16.0%
NGOs                                          27.5         26.5         54.0         51.5         159.5
Contingencies (Physical)                       8.8          9.4         10.9         10.0          39.1
NA Program TOTAL                 145.8        274.5        294.3        334.9         340.3       1244.0       23.6%
NA Program Total ($US)    $       4.7  S        8.5  S       9.0  S      10.2  S      10.4  $      38.1        21.9%
Northern Health Program
Project TOTAL                    549.9        886.6        927.3         955.5        991.8       3761.2       15.9%
N/thern Health Program
Project TOTAL ($US)       S       17.7  $      27.5  S      28.4  S      29.2  S      30.3  S     115.3        14.3%
Note: Numbers may not add due to rounding
Table does not reflect the phasing out of military contributions



I



-23 -
ANEX2
Page 1 of 7
PAKISTAN
NORTHERN HEALTH PROGRAM PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Procurement, Disbursement and Auditing Arrangements
A. Procurement
1.    The program nature of the proposed project makes it difficult to forecast in detail, at the outset,
both the total procurement amounts for different categories of expenditure and the anticipated amounts
of IDA financing within these categories. Figures given below and in Table I should be regarded as
indicative; final details will be discussed between the Govemments and IDA as part of the regular yearly
agreements. Procurement of goods, services, and works financed by the IDA Credit will be undertaken in
accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995).
The project's cofinancier, KfW, will administer procurement for the parts of the project that it is
financing according to its rules and procedures. With the close association between this project and
SAPP, procurement procedures for both will be the same; the arrangements summarized below mirror
those already approved for SAPP. Each DOH has prepared sample contracts for the procurement of civil
works, vehicles, drugs and medicines, and technical assistance; these documents were confirmed as
being generally acceptably by IDA.
2.    Approximately 35 percent of total project costs are recurrent, covering operational expenditures,
including medicines (64 percent of funds for community participation and NGOs are included in this
category). Most procurement is expected to involve small contracts often spread over widely dispersed
geographical areas and throughout the project period. The nature of such contracts is unlikely to attract
the interest of foreign bidders and will therefore be suitable only for National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) and prudent shopping. The requirement for large procurement operations will be confined to
vehicles and consultant contracts; with minor exceptions, these will be suitable for International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) which will be based on the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents.
Procurement will be conducted by the DOHs and NGOs as appropriate.
3.    The civil works included in the proposed project amount to US$7.5 million (IDA financing is
US$4.3 million) and mainly comprises modest additions and upgrading to existing rural clinics, plus six
small training facilities. A provision of US$700,000 from the IDA financed amount has been made for
remote areas where contracts, each valued not more than US$25,000, will be awarded by soliciting bids
from at least three local contractors. Equipment and furniture expenditure over the four-year period will
be approximately US$5.4 million (IDA financing is US$2.5 million) and comprises clinic equipment,
kits for staff, medical accessories, small audio-visual equipment, and basic furniture. Most items will be
procured through NCB except for items which cannot be grouped into packages of at least US$25,000,
up to an aggregate not to exceed US$400,000 per agency, which may be procured on the basis of prudent
shopping.  Expenditures on medicines are estimated at US$4.9 million (IDA financing is US$1.5
million) and comprises pharmaceuticals and reagents. These will mostly be procured through NCB.
Special provision totaling US$400,000 of the IDA financed amount over the life of the project for
contracts valued not more than US$25,000 has been made for other methods such as shopping in the
event of unforeseen shortages or to cover other emergencies.



-24 -
ANNEX2
Page 2 of 7
4.     Government's NCB procedures, already used in on-going IDA funded projects, are satisfactory
and acceptable to IDA. To address shortcomings identified in their implementation, provisions have
been made under SAPP for training of staff involved in procurement, and will be extended to cover
procurement of goods and services under ICB procedures. Under SAPP, provision has also been made
for procurement consultants to review, among other things, the selection process for all contracts costing
US$100,000 or more and to review all contracts above US$50,000. These arrangements are in place and
will continue. Since few contracts will reach these thresholds, the need for such reviews will be small.
Contracts above US$200,000 will be reviewed by IDA.
5.    Concerning items requiring ICB procedures, vehicles (about US$6.1 million for the project, of
which IDA financing is US$1.7 million) should be procured by the local DOHs. However, in order to
meet urgent needs, contracts for vehicles totaling up to US$500,000 of IDA financing over the life of the
project may be procured through NCB procedures. In addition, the few vehicles to be purchased by
NGOs may be procured through National Shopping.
6.    As described in para. 18 of the main text, direct project support for NGO-related activities is in
two main parts: (a) to three well-established existing NGOs; and (b) to strengthen and support smaller
NGOs. The three highly reputable NGOs (the Aga Khan Network and especially the Aga Khan Health
Services in NA only; the Family Planning Association of Pakistan in NA and AJK; and the Marie
Adelaide Foundation in NA and AJK) are well-established in these regions with substantial continuing
programs of their own which are well coordinated with the governments' programs. The project will
support expansion of these existing programs both geographically and in content. These three NGOs are
the only sizable NGOs currently operating in the health sector in these two remote regions. Increased
services provided by them are a highly cost-effective means of providing quality inputs in very difficult
terrain. There are no alternative ways of providing such services and so the project will finance inputs
directly to these three NGOs.
7.    In both NA and AJK, modest funds will be established to strengthen and support smaller NGOs
and community groups which wish to start or expand health and family planning activities (see para. 22
of the main text). The Government and the Donors have agreed upon criteria which the NGOs and their
project proposals must fulfill-- any project must qualify both on NGO and proposal grounds to be
considered for funding. Meeting these criteria will ensure that only established legitimate NGOs
participate in the NGO fund. The criteria for NGOs include being: a registered body in existence for at
least one year; able to generate, manage and account for funds; able (at an appropriate level) to manage,
monitor, account, report, fund-raise and audit; willing to work in rural and/or difficult areas; willing to
use community-oriented approaches; and willing to work in partnership with the public sector. The
criteria for NGO Projects include: responsiveness to local health needs; technical and economical
feasibility; development-oriented rather than welfare-oriented approach; ability to be replicated; services
that are distinct and do not overlap or duplicate other services; services that are offered to all members of
the community especially women and children; and, demonstrable plans to become financially
sustainable beyond the period of funding. Particular care will be exercised to ensure that the NGOs are
genuinely administratively and operationally autonomous from the Government. Proposals for all NGO
Projects must be submitted before June 30, 1999. Projects will be limited to a maximum duration of
three years. IDA will review the first three NGO Project proposals submitted for funding and all
proposals of over US$100,000. Other applications will not require IDA's prior approval, but detailed
documentation will be maintained by the NGO Program Committee for possible future review.
Eligibility criteria will be the same for NGOs and NGO Projects in both NA and AJK, but, KfW will
finance NGO activities in NA and IDA will finance NGO activities in AJK.



- 25 -
ANNEX2
Page 3 of 7
8.     Technical assistance contracts for NA and AJK are anticipated to be mostly small, but some
international procurement will be necessary. The DOHs will be responsible for procurement of technical
assistance for institutional development and training (US$2.0 million, entirely financed by IDA) in
accordance with Bank policies and procedures on the selection and employment of consultants for
specialist services, overseas training, and studies as contained in Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981). Consultant contract
packages that exceed US$100,000 will be based on the Bank's Standard Form of Contracts for
Consultants, June 1995. Consultant contracts with individuals that are smaller than US$100,000 will use a
simpler contract form.
9.    IDA will review all ICB and contracts above US$200,000 equivalent, as well as the first four
contracts in each agency irrespective of their value; all other contracts will be subject to selective post-
review. Consultant services will be engaged by the NA and AJK authorities concemed, as appropriate.
All consultants will be selected in accordance with IDA guidelines, which include prior review of all
contracts with consulting firms costing the equivalent of US$100,000 or more and with individual
consultants costing the equivalent of US$50,000 or more. Other procurement arrangements subject to
prior review by IDA include: all single-source consultant contracts, consultant contracts for assignments
of a critical nature as determined by IDA, amendments to IDA-financed contracts of consulting firms
raising the contract value to the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, and amendments to IDA-financed
contracts of consulting individuals raising the contract value to the equivalent of US$50,000 and terms of
reference for technical assistance (including studies) and training.
10.   The training, technical support and direct assistance provided by the SAPP Multi-Donor Support
Unit to NA and AJK staff will be instrumental in facilitating national or international procurement of
goods and services.
B. Disbursement
11.    Credit disbursement under the proposed project will follow the procedures developed for SAPP.
To ensure that Government commitment is translated into increased allocation and timely release and
timely expenditure of funds, the project will reimburse against actual expenditure and on the basis of
actions already taken. The project will reimburse a proportion of all eligible expenditures incurred in the
health sectors in NA and AJK, excluding any already funded by other donor-aided projects. The annual
agreement between Government and IDA (and other project donors) will include detailed identification of
eligible categories of expenditure.
12.    The proposed project will provide reimbursements for incremental expenditures under the project,
while SAPP will continue to reimburse at about its established level for NA and AJK. Both projects
would place particular emphasis upon increasing non-salary recurrent allocations and ensuring the timely
release of the budgets within the first quarter of each fiscal year.
13.    Certain categories of expenditure have been identified as outside the project, and therefore
ineligible for project funding. These include services in the referral sub-sector other than for accident,
emergency, and obstetric care. Other expenditure categories, such as land acquisition, taxes and duties
are ineligible under IDA rules. Apart from these exceptions, all expenditure incurred in delivering the
health programs will be eligible including salaries, operating expenses, supplies, goods, civil works and
maintenance expenses. Given the nature of the health program, the only potential problem arises from the
need to exclude taxes and duties. However, as under SAPP, the resulting reimbursement rate on eligible



- 26 -
ANNEX2
Page 4 of 7
expenditure will be such that this constraint will not be binding. The tax component will therefore not be
isolated for purposes of calculating reimbursement.
14.    The present functional and object classification for budgeting and reporting is adequate to
distinguish between eligible health and non-eligible health expenditures as now envisaged. However,
should new categories of non-eligibility be agreed in the future, Government would develop (and agree
with IDA on) suitable classifications. The existing reporting system is adequate to permit monthly
identification and reporting of all qualifying expenditures.
15.    As with SAPP, reimbursement will be claimed at least quarterly and perhaps more frequently,
depending on the capacity of the NA and AJK Governments to generate the claims. Claims will normally
be made in the form of a Statement of Expenditure (SOE) specifying categories of expenditure (civil
works, staff costs, goods, operating expenditure, etc.) and total eligible expenditure. Disbursement for
training will also be made on the basis of SOEs. In those few cases where contracts for goods and civil
works exceed US$200,000 equivalent, consulting firms exceed US$100,000 equivalent, and individual
consultants exceed US$50,000 equivalent, full documentation will be required. Each SOE will be
supported by a financial statement, retained by the borrower, separating expenditure by function and
object, together with a summary of Annual Development Plan (ADP)-scheme expenditure. The SOE will
not differentiate between foreign and local content. Where an SOE covers expenditure within an on-
going project, the SOE will specify the portion eligible for reimbursement. Reconciliation of the
statements of receipts expected from other donors, if any, will be required. All claims will be certified by
the Secretaries of the respective DOHs, who will then submit them to IDA. Only claims above
US$50,000 equivalent will be submitted to IDA for reimbursement/ payment. SOEs will have to be
received by IDA within four months of the end of the fiscal year in which the expenditure was incurred.
This will ensure flexible reallocation of unused resources from portions of the program which may be
underspending, and maximum funding availability for those areas of the program where expenditures are
occurring.
16.    Credit disbursements will finance: (a) for vehicles (procured by ICB): 100 percent of foreign
expenditures of direct imports, 100 percent of ex-factory cost for locally manufactured items procured
through ICB, and 65 percent of local expenditures for items procured locally; (b) for consultant services
and training and grants for Community Participation and NGOs (see below), 100 percent of the costs net
of taxes (except for vehicles, where 65 percent of local expenditures for items procured locally will be
financed). Expenditures on other items for approved sub-programs will be reimbursed at a fixed
percentage, agreed annually between the Governments and IDA. See Table 2 for a summary of
Disbursement Categories.
17.   NGO Special Account: It is expected that almost all disbursements for NGO activities, whether
to dhe three larger NGO programs or the NGO fund, will pass through the Special Account that will be
established and used only for NGO-related disbursements. The DOH and the Program Steering/ NGO
Committee will manage the NGO fund for both NA and AJK. In order to facilitate implementation, a
Special Account of US$400,000 will be established in Muzzafarabad (AJK). This Special Account will
be used to finance all eligible (foreign and local) expenditures. Replenishments to the Special Account
will be submitted on a monthly basis or whenever 20 percent of the Special Account outstanding balance
has been used, whichever occurs first. At its option, for expenditures above US$100,000, DOH of AJK
may submit payment requests directly to IDA outside the Special Account. Since KfW will fund NGO
..ctivities in NA (see para. 39 of main text), IDA will not establish a Special Account for NA.



- 27 -
ANNEX2
Page 5 of 7
18. Disbursements for the proposed IDA Credit of US$26.7 million will cover expenditures incurred
from 1996/97 to 1999/2000. Actual annual disbursement will depend on performance, the pattern of
expenditure agreed upon, and the availability of other donor funds. See Table 3 for estimates of annual
disbursements.
C. Accounts and Auditing
19.   The DOH and the large NGOs in each region will maintain separate accounts of project
expenditures in accordance with sound accounting practices, and project accounts will be audited in
accordance with Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World
Bank (1992).  The accounts, SOEs and procurement documentation will be audited each year by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The audit reports will be submitted to IDA no later than nine
months following the end of the Government fiscal year. The reports will include an assessment of the
adequacy of the accounting system and internal financial control, the reliability of the SOEs and the
degree of compliance with agreed financial arrangements.



-28-                                               Annex 2
Page 6 of 7
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
NORTHERN HEALTH PROGRAM PROJECT
(US$ Million)
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements       /
Project Element         Procurement Method              SAP  Other Donors 3/1  TOTAL  I TOTAL
|ICB      NCB         Other  21 l       (fW, NGOs)  I PROJECT |PROGRAM
CIVIL WORKS                              6.3         1.2                                    7.5         17.2
(3.8) *     (0.7) *                                (4.5)       (4.5)
GOODS & SERVICES
Equipment & Furniture                  2.4         1.0                     1.9            5.4         11.8
(1.8) *     (0.8)                                  (2.5)       (2.5)
Vehicles                      2.6      0.8                                 2.7            6.1         10.8
(1.7)    (0.5)                                              (2.2)       (2.2)
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Institutional Development                         1.4                                    1.4          1.4
(1.4)                                  (1.4)       (1.4)
International Training                            0.6                                    0.6          0.6
(0.6)                                 (0.6)        (0.6)
COMMUNITY
PARTICIPATION and NGOs                   1.8         5.3                     7.5           14.6         14.6
(1.7)       (5.1)                                  (6.7)       (6.7)
OPERATIONAL COSTS
Salary                                             8.4                     1.2            9.6         38.1
(5.0) *                               (5.0)        (5.0)
Non-Salary                                          3.7        4.1                        7.8        25.95
(2.2)                                  (2.2)       (2.2)
Medicines                              1.8         0.8        2.0          0.3            4.9         16.3
(1.1) *     (0.5) *                                (1.6)       (1.6)
TOTAL COSTS                    2.6      13.1        22.3        6.1         13.6           57.7        136.7
Of Which:
IDA (NH Project) Financing    (1.7)    (8.8)      (16.2)                                 (26.7)       (26.7)
Note: Numbers may not add due to rounding
ICB: International Competitive Bidding
NCB: National Competitive Bidding
I/ Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts estimated to be financed by the IDA Credit. All figures include contingenci
Asterisks (*) indicate that this is an estimate of IDA financing of the items. Exact amounts to be financed by IDA will be
determined through the annual agreements with the Governments.
2/ Other procurement methods: shopping, direct contracting, and consulting services engaged following Bank Guidelines.
3/ Other Donors: Non-IDA, Non-government financed.



- 29 -
ANNEX2
Page 7 of 7
Table 2: Disbursement Categories
Amount in US$
Allocated by the
Expenditure Category             Association                Financing Percentage
1.Sub-Program expenditures
(including works, equipment,
materials, medicines and
operating costs):
(a) for AJK                up to 2,100,000 for FY    19% for FY 1997 and thereafter such
1997 and, thereafter,    percentage as may be determined by the
such amount as may be   Association from time to time
allocated by the
Association from time
to time
(b) for NA                 up to 1,600,000 for FY   22% for FY1997 and thereafter such
1997 and, thereafter,    percentage as may be deternined by the
such amount as may be  Association from time to time
allocated by the
Association from time
to time
2. Vehicles:                                       100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory costs) and
65% of local expenditures for other
vehicles procured locally.
(a) for AJIK                      2,000,000
(b) for NA                         200,000
3. Consultants' services and
training:                                          100%
(a) for AJK                       1,300,000
(b) for NA                         700,000
4. Grants for Community           6,700,000        100% of Grants made
Participation and NGOs
5. Unallocated                    12,100,000
TOTAL                            26,700,000
Table 3: Estimated IDA Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Years
US$ Million
FY 97         FY98          FY99           FY00            FY01
Annual               3.0           6.6            6.8            6.9            3.4
Cumulative             3.0           9.6           16.4          23.3            26.7



- 30 -
ANNEX3
Page 1 of 6
PAKISTAN
NORTHERN HEALTH PROGRAM PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Monitoring And Evaluation Plan And Project Performance Indicators
A. Progress Reviews and Reporting
1.    The Directorates of Health Services in NA and AJK, supported by local consultants and inputs
from NGOs, will monitor and report independently every six months to IDA on program progress and,
annually, prepare a detailed operational plan for the coming year. The respective Governments' will
produce semi-annual progress reports, the detailed forrnat of which will be agreed with IDA during the
project launch mission. The initial progress report will be due on February 28, 1997, with succeeding
reports due on August 31 and February 28 of each year until project completion. The reports will: (i)
include a concise, narrative section describing major project achievements and problems encountered;
(ii) use a simple, tabular account to show details of actual accomplishments compared to agreed plans;
and (iii) propose future actions. The key indicators to be used in monitoring and evaluating overall
project implementation progress and results, and assessing the performance of each of the components,
are provided in Table 2 below.
2.     Ultimately, service providers are accountable to the communities they serve. With the greater
participatory approach and delegation of decision authority, monitoring at the district level and below is
particularly important. During preparation, a concerted effort was made to establish qualitative systems
of monitoring client satisfaction at the grassroots level by involving representatives of beneficiaries and
field-level service providers. The Project Steering Committee, and their counterparts at the district and
lower levels, will use monitoring indicators for making and reviewing management decisions as well as
for reviewing progress.
3.    Prior to Negotiations, the Governments and IDA agreed on a list of monitoring indicators.
During Negotiations, it was agreed that: (a) semi-annual progress reports would be prepared by the
DOHs and submitted to IDA; (b) a joint Government and IDA mid-term review would be conducted by
September 1998; and (c) an Implementation Completion Report and a plan for operating the completed
project would be submitted by the Governments to IDA within six months of the closing date of the
project.
4.     Before Negotiations, draft PC- I s for the proposed project were prepared, reviewed to ensure that
they were satisfactory to IDA and approved by the NA, AJK and Federal Governments. Approval of the
proposed project PC- Is by ECNEC will be a condition of Credit Effectiveness.
B. Project Evaluation
5.    The proposed project will be monitored and evaluated from the perspectives of input, process,
output, and impact. Input evaluation will focus on whether the required resources are in place to
implement the program activities and services. Input information will be monitored and assessed
continuously (reported quarterly, semi-annually, or annually, depending on the specific input) to identify



- 31 -
ANNEX3
Page 2 of 6
problems in the delivery of inputs so that they may be resolved before causing significant delays in
implementation. Process evaluation will examine the approaches used in training, service delivery and
community participation, attempt to explain variations in levels of performance for comparable project
inputs, and derive suggestions for improved approaches. This type of evaluation will be undertaken
quarterly or semi-annually (depending on the specific process). Input and process indicators will be the
primary indicators used for continuous monitoring and subsequent "fine-tuning."
6.     Output evaluation will focus on the immediate results of activities, as demonstrated, for example,
in MCH service utilization or contraceptive prevalence. This evaluation will be undertaken annually or
semi-annually (depending on the specific output indicator). Impact evaluation will focus on program
outcomes in terms of the region's long-term health sector goals. This evaluation will review the
program's effects on the infant mortality rate (IMR) and maternal mortality ratio (MMR) to ensure that
program implementation is in fact improving the health status of beneficiaries.
7.     The respective Governments, with supporting inputs from NGOs and local consultants, will be
responsible for routine monitoring and periodic evaluations. The Project Launch Workshop will include
one day of specific training in monitoring and evaluation.
8.     Baseline surveys to supplement other data sources, will be conducted in each region. Terms of
reference for research studies used for evaluation will be reviewed and agreed upon with IDA.
Evaluations will be undertaken by using sample surveys, supervisory visits, review of audit/evaluation
reports, the management information system and drawing upon data already collected by other agencies.
An important independent source of information outside the departmental statistics system is the
Pakistan Integrated Household Survey (PIHS), undertaken annually in order to monitor all SAP
components. Technical assistance, mainly from local institutions, is included to support these activities.
C. IDA Supervision Requirements
9.    The remoteness of these regions means that standard supervision arrangements, particularly led
from headquarters, would not be feasible. Much of the responsibility will be taken by IDA's Resident
Mission in Pakistan and by local consultants. Nonetheless, program and project supervision will still be
conducted semi-annually, although a full mission will only be mounted annually -- typically in
April/May -- to coincide with the budget approval cycle. This mission will also undertake a full annual
review of program performance and seek to finalize the annual operational plans, including the reform
programs and budgets. The semi-annual missions will coincide with their counterpart SAP supervision
missions. Local consultants to be financed under the IDA Credit will assist in supervising and evaluating
the program, and will be responsible for most of the routine supervision especially during the
October/November missions. IDA's Resident Mission in Pakistan will take the lead in overall program
and project monitoring on behalf of IDA. Cooperating donors will participate in missions and otherwise
contribute to overall monitoring and supervision.
10.   Table I (see next page) summarizes field supervision needs. These inputs are in addition to
regular supervision needs for the review of progress reports, procurement, supervision report preparation
and correspondence (which are estimated at six staff weeks per year throughout project implementation).



- 32 -
ANNEX3
Page 3 of 6
Table 1: Bank Mission Schedule
Approximate                                                           Staff Input
Dates                Activity                                                (staff weeks)
6/96          Project Launch/initial supervision mission                     6
11/96        Interim review mission                                          2
5/97          Annual review mission                                          4
11/97        Interim review mission                                          2
5/98          Mid-term review mission                                        8
11/98        Interim review mission                                          2
5/99          Annual review mission                                          4
11/99         Interim review mission                                         2
5/00          Final supervision mission/Implementation Completion Report mission  6
11.    Annual supervision missions will: (a) require at least two weeks in the field, (b) require the
services of specialists in public health, training, management, and finance; and (c) review progress of
program components and procurement, financial statements and disbursements, loan covenants, and the
implementation of technical assistance. Specialized skill requirements will be added to the missions
according to needs identified by previous supervision missions and will concentrate on: maternal and
child health, logistics, and monitoring and evaluation.
D. Program Performance Indicators
12.    The performance indicators will measure progress toward program and project objectives. A
summary of performance indicators for the proposed project is provided in Table 2; the more detailed
lists of performance indicators, prepared separately by NA & AJK Governments, are included in the
implementation plan. The summary table, which arranges the indicators by the component with which
each is associated, presents one indicator of each type (inputs, process, outcome and impact) for each
component to the extent possible. While impact and output indicators will measure the progress made
over the life of the project, input and progress indicators will be used continuously to monitor
performance and revise implementation procedures as necessary. In the table, the two components
Strengthening community and NGO participation and Strengthening government health services have
been combined to simplify the presentation of objectives. These indicators will assist managers in
monitoring progress and achievements of the proposed program and project as well as for SAP-related
purposes.
13.   The table represents a minimum set of indicators which can be monitored with information
generated by the existing service statistics system, the baseline and other ongoing sample surveys,
operations research activities, and the results of the Pakistan Integrated Household Survey. Each district
will identify additional locally specific indicators which will be monitored regularly at the district or
service delivery level. Rapid assessment techniques will also be used. Since managerial information
needs will change as the program evolves, the indicators menu can and should be adapted; changes will
be proposed at the time of preparing the annual plans.
14.    The DOHs will develop detailed guidelines for tracking and performance-monitoring at district-
level and below. The guidelines will be designed so that the reporting burden is minimized. Technical
assistance will be provided by local consultants, financed by the IDA Credit.



Table 2: Summary of Monitoring Indicators
Frequency      Method of
Objective                    Indicator                         Target                 of         Evaluation
._____________________     _ .  lEvaluation
Components 1 & 2: Strengthening Community and NGO Participation & Strengthening Government Health Services
Increase community   % of population belonging to a VO/   pending analysis of baseline  semi-       sample survey,
& NGO participation  WO;                                  data currently being collected    annually    supervision
% of districts with NGO-provided                                 then         records
health services                                                   annually
% health services staff trained in  pending analysis of baseline  semi-       training
community participation techniques  data currently being collected    annually  operations and
then        evaluation reports
annually
Improve maternal    MMR                                   decrease MMR to 450 by 2000   MTR, end   sample survey /
health                                                                                 of project   census
% of hospitals (civil, tehsil & district)   pending analysis of baseline  annually    supervision
with capacity to manage obstetric   data currently being collected            reports, sample
emergencies                                                                   survey
% of pregnant women receiving 3 or  pending analysis of baseline  annually
more antenatal visits               data currently being collected            facility records
% of births attended by trained birth  pending analysis of baseline
attendants                          data currently being collected    annually    sample survey
Improve infant and   IMR                                  decrease IMR to 85 by 2000   MTR, end   sample survey /
child health                                                                           of project   census
% of child deaths due to diarrhea;  dec by 12% p.a.               annually    facility records,
% of child deaths due to ARI        dec by 16% p.a.                           sample survey
% of infants immunized;             inc by 20% p.a.              annually    sample surveys &
% of pregnant women immunized       60% of pregnant women                     service statistics        o
against IT _T_ __
% of households with a regular supply   pending analysis of baseline  semi-   sample surveys             o x
of ORS                              data currently being collected    annually



: .     .   .: .. . . . . . . . . . . .  ... ........................            .     ...     ...   ... :: : :: :: :: : :.:.. L.L....L..::   :   :   :   :: : :  : : ::   :
Decrease population    CPR                                                 increase CPR to 25%  (4%  p.a.)    annually            sample survey
growth
proportion of facilities providing family    pending analysis of baseline            quarterly        service statistics
planning services                              data currently being collected        for 2 years    &
then semi-    facilities records
annually
-:::--    .-::. ..:: . : .:.:   ...:: :  : .:    ..-   ..:. . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ....: .:::..::: ::..-:::.:.::.:.:--::.::.:::::...-:..........   ......:::::::::    :::.....::
Improve overall            prevalence of I1)D;                             dec by 20%  p.a                       annually         sample surveys &
population health          prevalence of anemia;                           dec by 10% p.a.                                        service statistics
# TB deaths;                                   dec by 5% p.a.________
#t of patient visits to health facilities      pending analysis of baseline          semi-            sample surveys &
data currently being collected        annually        service statistics
amount & proportion of ADP budget              Year 1:                               semi-            budgets, SOEs,
allocated for health                           A1K: inc by 44%                       annually         audit reports,
NA: inc by 52%                                        facilities records
Year 2: 
AIK: inc by 14%
NA: inc by 13%
Year 3:
A1K: inc by 11%
NA: inc by 5%
Year 4:
AJK: inc by 9%
________ _______     _______       NA:   inc byl13%_                          _    _   _
Improve skills &           #t females enrolled in preservice medical  pending analysis of baseline               semi-           facilities records
increase proportion        and paramedical training;                       data currently being collected        annually         and evaluation
of women in medical   % of medical and paramedical                                                                                reports
& paramedical staff    posted who are female                               X__________________
%  of health services staff who have           pending analysis of baseline          semi-           training                          er )
completed in-service training                  data currently being collected        annually         operations and               
evaluation reportsox



# of health professional staff by area and  pending analysis of baseline  semi-  facilities records
type of facility;                    data currently being collected    annually  and evaluation
% of Union Councils with I LHV       100%                                      reports
Component 4: Management and Organizational Development
Improve the          % of facilities adequately staffed &  pending analysis of baseline data  quarterly    inventory
management and       stocked with drugs, contraceptives and    currently being collected             statistics,
organization of the    medical supplies;                                                             supervision
public heath sector   % of LHWs receiving pay according to                                           reports
protocol
% of facilities / staff visited by DHS or   pending analysis of baseline data  quarterly,    supervision
DHO managers in accordance with      currently being collected     then         records, sample
supervision guidelines;                                            annually    surveys,
% of SMOs trained in delegating                                                 observation
authorities;
% staff trained in management skills;
# of regular meetings of steering district
and community level committees
number of districts incorporated into the  pending analysis of baseline data  semi-  facilities records
HMIS                                 currently being collected     annually
a, 
OD
Fh X
ON w



- 36 -
ANNEX4
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
NORTHERN HEALTH PROGRAM PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Documents in the Project File
Project Proposals and Supporting Documents
Azad Jammu & Kashmir Directorate of Health Services (1995) PC-I Northern Health Project: Azad
Jammu & Kashmir 1996-2000.
Northern Areas Directorate of Health Services (1995) PC- I Northern Health Project: Northern Areas
1996-200Q.
Azad Jammu & Kashmir Directorate of Health Services, Report on Azad Jammu & Kashmir Health
Project Workshop, December 28-29, 1994.
World Bank Resident Mission, Northern Health Project: A few project preparation guidelines,
December 1994.
Government of Pakistan (1994) 1994/1995 SAP Operational Plans for FANA.
Government of Pakistan (1994) 1994/1995 SAP Operational Plans for AJK.
Government of Pakistan (1995) 1995/1996 SAP Operational Plans for FANA.
Government of Pakistan (1995) 1995/1996 SAP Operational Plans for AJK.
Azad Jammu & Kashmir Directorate of Health Services (1995) Northern Health Project Program
Implementation Plan.
Northern Areas Directorate of Health Services (1995) Northern Health Project Program Implementation
PEl
Northern Areas Health Services (1995) Health Policy Statement.
Azad Jammu and Kashmir Directorate of Health Services (1996) Health Policy Statement.
Planning and Development Department, Northern Areas, (1996) Social Action Programme. Progress
Report: 1995-96 & Operational Plan: 1996-97. Primary Education. Primary Health & Rural Water
Supply and Sanitation. (Draft copy)
Azad Government of the State of Jammu and Kashmir Health Department (1996) Social Action
Programme - Primary Health, Progress Report: 1995-96 and Operational Plan: 1996-97
World Bank Documents
World Bank (1995) Pakistan: Country Assistance Strategy, November 1995.



- 37 -
ANNEX4
Page 2 of 2
World Bank (1995) World Development Report 1995.
World Bank (1995) Sector and Project Performance Indicators for Population. Health and Nutrition, First
Edition Note, PHN Department, April 1995.
World Bank (1995) Staff Appraisal Report: Pakistan: Population Welfare Program Project, February
10, 1995 (Report No. 1361 1-PAK).
World Bank (1994) Staff Appraisal Report: Pakistan: Social Action Program Project. March 8, 1994,
(Report No. 125 88-PAK).
World Bank (1995) Pakistan: Poverty Assessment. June 30, 1995 (gray cover).
World Bank (1993) World Development Report: Investing in Health.
World Bank (1993) Staff Appraisal Report: Pakistan: Second Family Health Project January 25, 1993
(Report No. 11 127-PAK).
World Bank (1993) Pakistan: Health Sector Study: Key Concerns and Solutions, June 25, 1993 (Report
No. 10391-PAK).
World Bank (1991) Staff Appraisal Report: Pakistan: Family Health Project, April 12, 1991 (Report
No. 9345-PAK).
World Bank (1989) Women in Pakistan: An Economic and Social Strategy.
Other Documents
Government of Pakistan, Federal Bureau of Statistics (1992) Pakistan Integrated Household Survey:
Final Results. 1991.
Pakistan: The Aga Khan Rural Support Program. Second Interim Evaluation, 1990.
LeSar, John, Siraj ul Haq, Ann Duncan, Tariq Hussain, and David Newberry (1990). Evaluation of the
Northern Pakistan Primary Health Care Program. Phase I (1987-1991). Aga Khan Health Service,
Pakistan.
United Nations Children's Fund (1993) The Progress of Nations. New York: UNICEF.



- 38 -
ANNEX5
Page 1 of 1
PAKISTAN
NORTHERN HEALTH PROGRAM PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Outline of the Project Implementation Plan
(Two Volumes: Northern Areas and Azad Jamnmu & Kashmir)
I     Socio-economic background
2     Project / program activities
A.    Summary of sectoral policy objectives in matrix form
B.    Implementation plan for each component
C.    Workload demand and supply analysis
3     Implementation arrangements
A.    Role of the Department of Health
B.    Role of committees
C.    Community participation activities
D.    Draft annual operational plan
4     Monitoring and evaluation
A.    Key monitoring indicators
B.    Terms of reference for the mid-term review
5     Economic and financial analysis
6     Procurement and disbursement arrangements
7     Terms of reference for technical assistance
A.    Community participation
B.    Organization and management
C.    Health education
D.    Human resource development
E.    Institutional development
8     List of drugs and equipment by facility
9     Designs for civil works components- MCH facilities and training centers
10.   Draft bid documents for civil works, vehicles and equipment (under preparation)



Annex 6
7age 1 of 8
HEALTH POLICY
NORTHERN AREAS HEALTH SERVICES
PAKISTAN
* ~tkr.v'lLL Ct. 5s}kr        t8.tsiw
W0  0t  ir&vt ' \txS-v so1g1c3)ss
s v-'1, *4.



40                                                  Annex 6
4'age 2 of 8
STRATEG'Y:
The Empliasis is to consolidate the gains already aciiieved in the healthi sector. Etforts
will be made to improve tihe quality of services/care by creating a balance of preventive amid
curative care and removal of inie(qualities. Imbalanice iii the liealtlh manpower will be reduced
and manalement weaklness of the hiealthi system  addressed. The public hieathi sector will be
(lecenitralize(l. Villages wlhiclh still reimaill uliserve(d will be providecd withi reasonlable otilreaci
services. Ani area of imnportance will be provisioll ot adequate maternial anid cli ild health
(MCH) services.
Primary Ilealth Care (1P1I111  in the rirmal areas: In additioll to) thle existlilg sysrtell
ot providing IPHC at dispensaries. civil hospitals and first aid posts a programmein  of Natioial
health workers (NHWs) is being exten(led to disseminiiate PHC to tlle entire pop)LkriCaonl of
NAs. The NHWs, selected a), beingtrainled anid supervised by the professionial saff of I leatlth
Facilities who will be adequately trained andl e(quippeld for this functioin. T'Ihe nmto(kllile's for
training and(i support has beeni carefully worked out. The coininulties have beeni involv(e
fromii thie very inceptioni of the programimie withi the intent of    mak-ilig [lte programmne
commuilniiity based and comimiiiuinity owned. NHWs will act as bridge between tile c0mml11unity1
an(l tile hiealtlh units whiich at thle miomiienit are isolatedl fromi thieir catcihimeint popilatiOlls.
To imiiprove referral care and( bring services closer to villages hiealthl facil ties will he
upgraded andel ima(le fully tunctional. Upgrading, will inivolve availa7bility ot statt.
ilmppovemlielit of skills of staff ald adequate provisioll of equipinenlt and(l tranisport.
UIporadation will also involve prrovisioni of ade(luite aitilOultS inl the iloio-salaried cOimpiiotleiii
of tile recLirrelit budget so that the fLunctionlaries of liealth outlets do niot r1t I iito operatlirig
problems. Civil Hospitals, Dispenisaries anid First Ail Posts liave. durine thie p     grtmrowin iI
Iulthers. It is niow imlperative to improve thieir (-uJalitV o1 services ail(l quality of mimalpower.
It is thierefore imperative to upgrade the rural healtilh sysemi and idr1111p1mc llet (qial1riV
tit care to the extenit that Civil Hospitils are able to iake care of:
(i)    Pregnanit wvomen wiith life  threaten iln  comiionlls.
(ii)    Critically sick clilidreii.
(i ii)   Stabilize Traumna/Burins.
(iv)    P'rovide essential drugs/Ilife saviMtg TreatLme.t
tv)    Family planinig services.
2



Annex 6
4'1
41                                           .age 3 of 8
TARGETS 1993-9
i)     Reductionl of IMR froin 130 to 65 per thlousand live birtis.
ii)    Reduction of MMR from  6 to 2.0 per thiousand live birthis.
iii)   lincreasing immuniization coverage to 80%  (of children below 01 year fully
iuiii iuniized).
iv)    Reduction of deatlhs fromic diarrhioea by at least 50 %
v)      Reduction of deaths from  pneumiloniia by at least 3rd of 1990 level.
vi)    Eliminiation oft new cases of lodine Deficienicy Disorders.
vii)    Elimiiiatioln of 3rd degree mnalniltritioni.
The tollowing programimiies hiave been identified to achiieve tlhe targets enulileratecl
above.
I.     EXPANDEI) PROGRANIIME OF IMIMIUNIZATIQN: To increase Lover.te
to 80%  of cihilclreni tuilly imm'1unlized would  nee(d ail intensivc effort. Tele
programme for ilnlIlUnization hiave to be executed as a "craslh programme" as
tihe existing level ot' coverage - 30%  is too low to hiave any positive impact on
liifnimit Mortality. The iniinilimuI reCuUirern1e1lts 'or bringing iiiproveimient in ilhe
programimne are as follows:-
(a)    Structural Adjustments at N.A. anGd District Level: T'he programme
sIhoLuld he adinilistered/executed ind(lependiently. by a senior statt otticer
at the Health[ Director Level. The personi coul(d be in BP'S 1'). It shall
be his responsibility to un(lertakie all activities of programme. Ile
should be provided adequate support facilities. All clistricts shoUld have
the positioni ot' a Field Supervisor Medical Officer (FSN'i4(O) which is the
inorili.l] patterin iiimost of Ilih prov ilees.
(b)    lImprovemileitis in the Coldl Chiain: All C'ivil Hospitals shioild(I have
appropriate tacilities for storage of vaccinles. The possibility  it
procuring, solar refrigerators nee(ds consicderationl at least in places
where electric supply is a tfretluenit problemll.
(c)    Tile number of' StatiC Unit(s in N. A. is suLfficielnt to achieve tlie targeted
tigures (f imnilillnizaltioll. Ilowever m1o1bility wouldc still be reC ILi re(l t'f)
reaciniiig "hard"' areas. It is suggested that all civil hospitals (N  23) he
provided witlh a four whieel (drive vehicle and all dispensaries be
supplied wilih miotor cycles. One civil hiospital cani support 4 - 5
dispenlsaries aIInd 4 - 5 first aid posts. The staff at tilese f(acilities are
generally un(terutilised andc thiey hiave enoughl time at their (lisposll to
go in thle fieldt for imminunizationi and( other hlealthi related activities.
Wlhat is requirecl is miobility traininig and( iimotivation. The traininig can
be imipartecl by the Nationail EPI Ulnit at NI II I slamahad. NMIotivat ional
3



42                                                Annex 6
Page 4 of 8
aspects can ibe taikeni caire ol by coilifliuility iiivolveiietit.
(d)    It is difficult for a male teclinicialn (acceptability) to adiniiister Tetanus
Toxoid to the mothers. All dispensaries shiould have budgete(d posts of
lady health visitors (LHV). Thie ultimate objectives is to traini llocal girls
(preferably fromii the samie village) as l1-IVs. The Nortilerni Areas
Adininistraiion imay scud 20 girls eaicl year to schiools of PluIblic health
to different locatiotis in the counitry. Meantimile a schiool of midwifery
has been establislhed at the DHQl hospital Ciilgit. The school, at proper
stage, be upgraded as a public health school.
(e)    Ani intensive llealtih Educationi camizpaigin be launiclied. Community
llealtil workers anlid trainied birilh attenldants cani play an imlportant role
ill 11Oti\'atill" tile COmmunllllllity lor getting thleir clildreni inluiiiilize(l.
(t)    A simiple inormnationi systemi be developed tor COnltilnUtoUS nionliorintg ot
the programme.
(0)    A Cold Ciaini techiiiiciiani be ac(luiredI oni perimianenet ibasis.
(11)   .Supply of vaccine and cold chaini slhoul(d be the responsibility ot
National EPI Unlit at NIHI Islakmn111ialbd while otther elemienits of the
programme inCluci ing purchase of vehicles. syriniges, niee(iles etc. be
decentralized.
(i)    The policy of onie nieedle. one svrin2e shiouldl be strictly adhered to.
2.     CO(NROL OF)I                        NorRR1MI1(1)A I: Notrn   WOUld Heed abill t1 .5 in ill i 0
packets ot ORS durinig the inext five  Tears. 1 e packets availabil iv should he
CenSured at all pubClic h1ealth1 outlets. AII cllichmists be directe(d  o Sc IOCk () RS
packets. It may be worthiwh ile lo conisidler availability  of' ORS IpaLkets at
grocery shiops. Thle availability of ORS5 however will not be etlectiVe ule1CSS i
is accompanied by ani initenisive lhealhll eduCilionl campaigni to inicrcase thie
kniowledge, attitude alld practice ot miot hers. riis health educaioln w,ill be
carried out by all healhll outlets aid all hiealtli personiel. ORS sliould( be
supplied free ot charge tor tile tirst iwio years of the programme. A chliarge ol
5S) paisas should be levield fromi year 03 of' tlhe program me and fIull cost o1'
recovery shouil(d be possible bzy ithe enl of lie program me. lIt is is nucessary it)
maintain the program me. Susta'inab ility will also lie ewsure(l throLwih promoting
homiie based relhydrlion imietlihods".
hlie trainling anid research eleiie nts ot  lie program me will he Ithe res)oUisibi Ii 
of the National C[D)[) Pirogramimile. h'lle prOCUIremlielit of (O)RS packets will
4



Annex 6
require Rs. 4.0 mlillioni over the next 05 years.                           >!ge 5 of 8
3.     CONTROL OF ARI: An estimated One/third of inifanit deaths OCcUir due to
acutre respiratory infectionis. The aimii is to reduice miiortality (lue to pinieumlolnia
in chiildreni below 05 by a tlhird of 199() level. The prograiimle strategies
includes traininig in case mianagemiient startinlg from} thle top. Training niec(s
will lhave to be worked out in term1s of
i)     ARI Programme Managemiient
ii)    Supervisory Skills
iii)    Case Manlllagemiienit
iv)    Trainlilng ol Medical Of'ficers and othier I lcaltli Personiniel ncltiuding
VlIWs & TI IAs.
The programme management will be tlie responsil)ility of tihe N. A. I.I'l II nil.
Provisionis for drugs i.e antibiotics slhould be mtade at all health facilities. Fle
ca(dre of NHWs/TBAs will also be supplied witlh drugs for treatmienit ot
pneumtnonlia.
4.     IN'IPROVEIENT/UPGRADATION OF CIVII.
HOSPITALS/DISPENSARIES: Most of the existing lhealtlh facilities are nt)
miore tlhan eimpty brick anid concrete shiells. Tlhey suffer from1 clhronic shortage
of drugs. equip)ment ail( lack of trainied statt for (delivering Primary Health
Care. No new hiealthi tfacilities be constructed at P-iC level during the next fiVe
years. Instead thle tocus Will be on upgradationi/imiproveminenlt of exisilmn
facilities and training of staff. Ulpgradation will involve provision of adequate
1111inou  S in the non-salary coniponCeit of rectirring bUdget SO that IIt Mcttihnaries
of health outlets do nlot ruIln ;Ito operatmilg problems. Tlic upgrad:mtion II  ll
inClude resi(letiil accomllmlod(altioil tor ladv liahtll visitors at all
dispensaries/'ci vi1 lhospi tals.
5.     Nl-IWs PROGRAMIINI: IPolicies tor "Health lor All by tlie Yea;r 2t)0)
envisage primnary lhealthl care (PHC) as the crucial strategy to atta ii lhealtlii
improvemnenlt goals that are liiiked to socio-ecolioin ic development. Witlilli
PI -lC the use of Na[ional lhealili workers (NlIWs) is seeni as ole ol [lie mual jor
ways to imlplemiienit primary hiealtlh care. National health workers arc viewed aIs
key to artaininiig ilte acceptability of primary lhealtlh ciare. NllWs ire workers.
who are:
Indigenous to the settlement or the social class of those to he sur\Ud.
Trained to functioni at the grass - root level ot hieaitlt care.
Trained to work closely witlh thle comimunities they serve. so as to
involve com munlilties in thle process of i mprovinig tlieir owil 1ieallIt1.



44
Annex 6
*       Cliarged withi tasks sucih as:                                                 Page 6 of 8
*       Materinal and clilid lhealtli care includinig fainiily planiti ug.
*       Collaboration withi El'l teams for getting all cliil(ireil vaccitialed
againist Polio, T.B. Diphtheria, IPeriussis, Tetaus and MeaSLIIS.
*       Proimotionl of Oral Relhy(drationl Thierapy (ORTr) (Lurillg
diarrlioeal episodes.
*       Colisnllilig the tfail iles onl thle nleed of adequate supplementary
toocl lor intants betweeni 4-6 months anlid later.
*       Management ot Acule Respiratory  Tratct Intectioins (ARI).
*       Provision of I-lealthi Edlucation1.
*       I'llPromotionI ot uOO(f Ilyinile alnd proper sanitation inI thle viltia"e.
*       Appropriate treatment (Mi iciludmidg relerral) of comimoii allel)ns
alidl iilfections.
Northierin Areas hias already experience withi projects ce (iterel onl rIe Lise of
NIIWs. Trhis hSlas hielped in ideitntityinlg paramielers involve( inM coimimlnnitV
based hiealthi programme. Keepin1g Ill view  the urgen1cy of (issemnimnati jg PllW(
the programme is extended to all of tlhe Nortihern Areas. A beginillng is beillg
iiadie iii oit ot' reaicih villages. Wlhile issues like training, suLpervision. UI)IplIes.
sulpport, muotivation and liniikages withi healthI services have beeni wOrked oul.
NHWs sIhould niot become puLblic tulcltioiaries. Ile long terim  obljecives is to
traini one NIIW  tor each village. The programme for trainingtl of rTBAs will be
nienl.ls i t Fle d
6.      IRA INING    F LA; DY  FIALTAI   IIII V ISITOR()S (0,11 ): The al-rL-h-,lol'c tof 1heL
nlew health and Nutriti I Prooramn ine iii thle Northerni Areas W WOIII(I rcvt l\e
at-omind(i the I.HVs. It is planied to locale one 1. lVs ill eacih of 103  IInhiOll
C ouicils/dispensariles in addliioll to iltose ill thie Ilospitals. It is fltl 11that thic
I.IIV  Could play tile (decisive role iti reaching almos  tlle ent(ire femle;i1
p)opulat;6ion1 (utlite estsily. Apart troii providHing  ithe tr(lirtiOlal ServiL-CS Ol
MC(II/TBA  traininig, it is  propose(d to  tilize tlieir positioni tor imnmnuti/atiOn.
Iealll edlUcatioll, nuLItrition a(lvice ani(j provi(Hing f ily plalillilg services. II is
tIf tilat the LlIVs WoUld hilave thIe malxllmiuli  positive Impact aiotmlle woutiell
Silice thley COUld relate with dict I on  ani a ill ilillmte olloe-to-onle basis. '[lie ir  advice
onl lhyg!iene, (lie lnee(d ot spacillt, cliil(lreln or tieiliale ed ucat ion  tc. is lilkcly it
carrv the miessage homitiie.
'I'lie present program me envisage thie postingr of onie LFIV per  li ion C l  olicil
based iin existimimi lhealih secior uniits. It is tle respolisililiry of tIte 1ealt1h
(.eliarlielit to recim-nlit themII trin all over tlhe Noriliernt  Areas st) H     tim  III V
6



Annex 6
45  -)age- 7 of 8
ctumd lhe posd wiain tzw very lose to, dtir  umes 1k woud be besc for LHv
mD -onre ha,M. afier a daYs wqr and OiUr. WYkn tbis is ni   .sibie li m-ned
aarcmodatioa around El-e rnedicat unit would be conLstructed where L-t\V
couLd Llve with. her lauiuiy  For touring purpaose  a group of 4-5 LIENV would be
provided one jeep se- that not only maternity cases. but for her other duties
too.she can. reachi the target group. conven.iently. Tlle four w.heel drive can be
located' at a Civil H-ospital.
A Midwifery Trainiing Schiool lhas. beeni establisihed in District Heacd Quarter
HRiopiaal Giiljgit frim 6C J.s RnMUE  tWi3 25 gi&41s are ea dt  r  ye;- Laid-
wifery training, course, the qualified candidates will be deputed fur LHV
EraiLtnig tEL downi country and upgrading the M!vidiwi-fery TraiLiiingi S ihookl to
public health school. The Scihool has been recognised by FP.N.C.
7.     HEALTH EDUCATION UNIT: Success of all hiealrli programnies depend on
a stron Iv moti'vateU pulakic t;(s maIke t;rnels use of lhiealtl ser,e,ies anidl .k, o ,r&
for improveinenit of thleir owil healthi. The strategy for Northiern Areas will
stress the following imnprovemiienits in hcealthi education ancd CO1iuiLiCationl
(H EC).
Establishment of a Healthi Education lJniit withi all support staff and ml-arterills.
The unlit will:
a)     CLialk out a comlposite lonig terilm plaln of action for HE(.
b)     Traini Healthi Manpower at all levels in teciniiques of iiterpersolial
motivationl for hlealthiy living style and.
C )    Produce quality hiealrth euica r ion material.
The focus of hiealtlh ediucation during t[Ie straLeg,y will be o01n ,it.  Wcr-lw'o
iandl clildl survival. HEC will le ani 1nfpor[alni Conpoiiei Pi k i'Li iLh%illieCi.
8.     NUTRITION  IN PRIMARY  HEALTH CARE: The Nutrition ( Component in1
primnary healtih care will be strengtilenle(d and a nutritioni delivery systemil would
be put on the groulld by:
i)     Establishiimlenit of Nutr-itioni Clinics in dispen.saries and eivil hospitals.
ii)    Nutritioni Surveillance Svysceri throuLh groth uricoriicoriln. am
promotioni.
iii)    Food deimolistrationi for improved feeding. weaning ancd supDpelementary
teeding of chlildireni anid mnothers.
7



Annex 6
46                                             T'Dp,ft 8 of 8
9.     SCHOOL FEEDING PROGRAMME: School Feedinlg Programiiie will be
intoduced. It will inot oniy improve tile nutritionial situation but-also act as an
incenitive for the clildkren to comie to scliools. It imiplemilelitationls will l)e
carried out tiirougih the Edlucationi Department.
10.  INTERVENTIONS FOR DISEASE OF NUTRITIONAL ORIGIN: Micro-
nurrient deficiency such as lodine, and Iron are severely affectinig a sizeable
segmlent of population, particularly the vulilerable grou;ps and the populationi in
the Northerin Areas whiichi is ainong the world's imost severe endlemilic areas of
iodine deficienicy. A thiree pronged strategy of salt iodization, iodine oil
capsules and injectionis Will be launclie(d to eradicate the problem. Iron
deficiency anaeinia of nutritionial origin and protein energy  imalinutrition are
the othier serious problems. Distribution of Iron Sulphiate thiroughi PHC
network coupled withi proper niutrition education will be launclied to) control
aniaemiiia.
11.   STRATEGY  FOR IMPLEMENTATION: In line witlh tlhe Natiolail strategy
it will be implemiienlted thiroughi a close collaboration betweeni communli1.llity
institutiols, NCiOs anid Iiine departiments. Thle participatory miechilallisilms
embodying broad-based, decentrilliZed, IOCaIl Organizations at tlie village and
neighbor-hood level have already been initiated ir Nord-tern Arcas and.] the
situationl is optimal to extenld Co nILIllunity based  healthi care to tlhe enltire
population. In general, whiere coim ilunlities hiave already beeni organiize(i ande
rural institutionis establishedl the mzodalities of tlieir i miolvement inI the
imainitenanice and operation of various programimies will be worked out. Whlere
these institutions hiave gained experienice andc can rake over anld miailtaini any
of existinig institutionis the terms atli conditions for sucih tranister will he
worked out witlh their conicurrenice.
I uteri ii irrani(ciiielnts to involve connInnILity t)V be put iII place where r-Ural
illStituLtiOllS arc nlot available. lo,Cal ('o0111Cil.S (cold 1d h mp1or1az ellft ClmelmIICts ill
thle imlp lementt ion pIrocess.  'lle Local ('ou ncils lacki tainc ia. techin cal and
manpower resources and tlt us are 110t e(IL ippedl to take over sOcial sector
activities. Their resources tieed to he beefed uLP it aldditiollnll resSpolnsibilities
are to be transftrred to tilheii.
For better iiiiplemileniltationi in the hiealtih sector the over CL ntralizedl management
and administrationi structure will hiave to be revamlipe(d. Specially the personnel
miianiagemilenit fuillCtiOnls would be dc-cenitralized. Provision of Iled(liciines and
othier non-salary iniputs will be enlsured thlroughi adequatoe rectirrent Lil1l(lilng.
The key objective ot imiplemiienitationi reforimi in thils sector is to institLitionialise
tile process of inicreasinig coiimmuinity involvemiienit and decreasing burden on the
recuirrent budget.
X



4 7                   Annex 7
Page 1 of 14
J3AAXW  ]POLICY
AZAD JAMMU AND KASHMIR
DIRECTORATE OF HEALTH
SERVICES
MUZAFFAMBAD
April, 1996



48                                             Annex 7
Page 2 of 14
*
HEALTH POLICY
AZAD GOVERNMENT OF THE STATE OFJAMMU AND) KASHMIR
INTRODUCTION.
1.     Numerous HealLh Assembly resolutionis have reaffirmed that health is a basic
human right and a worldwide social goal; and that is to be attained by all
people by the year 2000, a level that will permil them to lead a socially and
economically productive life.
2.     An acceptable level of health cannot be achieved by thc health sector alone. It
can only be attained through national poliiical will and the coordinated efforts
of the health sector and relcvarn activities of other social and economic
developrnent sectors. In this way stratcgies for the health and social and
economic sectors will be mutually supporLive, and together contribute to the
ultimate goals of the society.
3.     There is political comunitmenit at the highest ofricial level for achieving the
goal of health for all by die year 2000 in the Azad State of Jammu and Kashmir
In ordcr to build a healthy, confident nation, full of vigour and vitality, ready to
take on the challenges that lie ahead.
4.      Health policy of the Azad Govcrnment of State of Jammu and Kashmir Is an
expression of goals for improving the health siltuatiop, the priorities among
thoac goals, and the main directions for attaining them. lt Is based on the
following five sets of recommendationis of thc Declaration of Alma-Ata
(WHO. 1978) and subsequent thinking:-
a.     lealth services should bc effective, cMclent, affordable and
acceptable;
b.     Efforts to deal with health should Include disease prcvention, health
promotion, and curative and rehabilitative services;
c.     There should be universal coverage with hcalth services;
d.     lndividuals and comniunities should participate in health activities
that promote sclf reliance and reduce dependence; and
e.     Health activities should be integral to community and national
development.
The Healdt Policy will rectify the priority areas in the short term which are
idontifled in subsequent part of the policy and in the long temi autempts to provide
comprehonsive health car.
* Hath oolicy wa approd by the Cabinct
en Apri 3,196



4 9                                                     Annex  7
Page  3 of  14
HISTORICAL BACKGROUND.
S.       In 1948 ihere were two hospitals with 30 beds and 1 I dispensaries. After the
formation of the Govemment of the Azad State of Jammu and Kashmir in thc liberated
territory, the Governnent as well as Pakistan Army started their devoted strggle to
establish health care delivery system for the population
6.       Since 1955, considerable funds were made available for the uplift of health
services which resulted in expansion of hcalth services which is reflccied in the table
below:-
FACILITY/HUMAN RrESOUKCF    1943    1955    1983    1995         FACILIUY
POPULA1IION RATIO
FACILITIFS                      -       2       2       2
I) CMIs                                 2       2       2
ii) District HQ hospitals       -       2       2       2
iii) Tel&Civil hospital         2       -       6       8
iv) Hospiul beds.               30      170    10l   I 156    2280
v) Rural halth Canth            -       -       18      23
vi) Baic Health Units           --      -       ISO     132
vii) Dispensaies.                 1     42      128     J0s      uppadcd.
viii) Firit Aid posts.                  --      49      175
ix) TB hospital                 -       -       I       I
x) EPI cenLres                  -          -    a       56
xi) Jinnah Dental Hosp                  -       -       I
xii) Unani Dispensaries         -       10      10      I1
xiii) MCH eenucs I Services     -               74      36       2674/ wVA
HUMAN RPSOURCES.
xlv) Specialists including
Manaent                        -               61      109)
6839
xv) Doctors                     -               207    277)
xvi) Denal Surgeons             -       -       29      36       73,333
xvii) Nurses.                   --      -       95      114      3 hosp beds (does not
include RHCs)
xviii) Lady Health Visitors     -       -       36      92       SOOO/WAR
xiv) Viilei)niskT               -       ,       1928   1938)
TBAs   TRAs)   1294
-      -       ) 211    225)
DAIS   DAIS)
xx) rcmaleCHWs/NiIWs            -       -               1500



50                                          Annex 7
Page 4 of 14
CURRENT SITUATION.
7.     Current healIh situation in the Azad State ol Jamrnu and Kashmir is
summarized blew:
- Life expectancy at birth.                   60 Years
- Crude birth rate.                           3,9%
- Crude death rate.                           12.
- Population growth ratc.                     2.7%
- Infant mortality rate.                      90/1000 live births.
- Under 5 mormlity rate.                      J80/1000
* Matemal mortality rate.                     6-711000
- Newborns with birth weighit of aticast 2500 g  70%
- Infants fully immunized.                    58%
- Women immunized during pregnancy with TT    16%
- Population with safc drinking water.        46% rural
76% urban
- Population with adequate excrcta disposal
facilities.                                  38.1%
- Adult literacy rate.                        43%
- Total Govi spending on health.              6.9%
8.     The literacy rate in AJK is 43% with female litcracy rate at only 12%, but
almost all children are in primary school. lHealth slandards are still poor. The matemal
mortality rate is 600-700 per 100,000 live births, and child mortality is 130 per
thousand live births. Immunization covcrage is 92 perccnt and the population / hospital
bed ratio of 1900 is worse than the national average of 1,600. Due to thc difficult terrain
and severc weather conditions during winicr and heavy rainfall in summcr, the primitive
communication system breaks down, making it difficult for pcople to obtain health care
from static facilities. About 25% of the disease burden is due to respiratory infections,
and TB is more provalent than in die rest or the country. Leprosy is still a public hcalkh
problem, iodine deficiency disorders are endemic and anaemia is common. Due to the
poor back up services and primitive communications, Tnaten)al mortality is higher than
the national avcrage; similarly, htality among accident victims Is common.
9.     AJK, has over 500 PHC facilitics ranging from Rural Health Centres to First
Aid Posts. Refenral services are weak and outreach services arc limited with the difficult
geography, providing services is expensive on a per capita basis. Almost all sanctioned
staff positions are filled , but many facilities have no MCII services. Anned Forces
provide some staff, drugs and medicines worth in all about Rs. 50 Million annually.
Demand far exceeds the highly inadequate supply for FP services, although the FPAP
operates actively throughout the State Apart from FP and leprosy and 1TB control , few
NGOs arc active in AJK. Comnmunity involvemeni, die privatc sector , and traditional
medicines are limited.
10.    There is an urgent need to affect a fundamental change in basic philosophy
and adopt a new approach. For any real and meaningfuil devclopnient in the health
status, improvements in health services dcliveiy system, safe water supply, sanitation
and nutrition are needed.



51                                              Annex 7
Page 5 of 14
11.     At present major problems faced by tie health sector are as follows:
Deficient midwifery services especially in primary health care. Existing services not
operated at a reasonablc level. The staff is not adequate, sanctioned positions for
female cadres aTc not there, drugs anid medicines are not sufficienl. Thcre  are
not enough funds to meet operating costs of vehicles/ ambulances and
supervisory functions especially due to terrain first referral level services arc
remote and deficicnt in emergency care to handle obstetric emergencics and
ccident emergencies. Inservicc staff can not bc abreast with scientific
development because there is hardly any continuous training programme. Pre-
service training programme are not geared to the nceds or the people but are
justified for the requirement of the job positions. Management is centralized and
very little community participation.
OBJECTIVES.
12.     The objectives of the Policy includc;-
i)     to make primary health care available to all citizens
without discrimination which include;
- Maternal and child health carc including family planning.
- Immunization against the major infectious diseases;
- Educationi concerning prevailing hcalth problems and the methods of
prcvcnzing and controlling them;
- Promotion of food supply and proper nutrition;
- Adequate supply of safe waler and basic sanitation;
- Prevention and control of locally cndcmic discascs;
- Appropriate treatment of common diseases and injuries; and
- Provision of essential drugs .
ii)     To improve the referral system so that hospital carc becomes
available
to those who actually need it.
iii)    Development of health services infrastructure based on primary health
care.
v)      Decentralization of the administration of health care system.
vI)     Strengthening of managerial skills and informiation system.
vii)    Community participation in hcalth and healtih related programmes.
viii)   Iniersectoral collaboration.
-ix)    Use of appropriate tcchnology in heaIth care system.
x)      Delinkage of Anny suppoit in phased manner.



52                                            Annex 7
Page 6 of 14
TARGETS.
13.    In spcific terms, the Health Policy hopcs to achieve the following
targets by the year 2000;.
a) To make primary health care available to the entire population.
b) To enhance nutrhional status so that:-
- at least 90% of newborn infants have a birth weight of
atleast 2500 grams.
* aicasi 90% of children have a weight for their age that
corrcsponds to the rcfcrence values.
c) T'o achieve infant mortality rate for all identifiable sub- groups to be
below sa per 1000 live births.
d) To reduce maternal mortality rate by 30/D
e) To achieve life expectancy at births of well above 60 years for both sexes.
14.     Some of the additional quantiriable targets to be achieved by year 2000 and
2010 appear in the following table:



5 3                                            Annex 7
Page 7 of 14
TARGETS FOR YEAR 2000 AND 2010
S.NO FACILIrY            19os   (POPULATION   200   (POPUl ATION  2010   (POPUIATI
2.690  MILLION     2.959   MILLON)     3.7W0   09
MILUON)
No    FACILITY     NO.   FA(:I'JTY     No,    FACIIJTY
PUB' ATIO           POP RATIO           POP. A710
1. HospiI beds.          1158  2280          2232   1326        2800    1350
2. Priniary hcaith cue
f(cilitiea.            525   5021          575   5146          750    5040
3. MCH ecrn/senvcis      80    5750 WRA      197    3065 WRA    merge   wilh DII[Us
4. L1iVs.                92    5000 ,,       240    2959,,      600    1500 WAR
S. Nurses.               114   I;: bcd      210    1:1I beds   600    1:5 bods
6. Dociors,              336   6839          646    4580         1200   31S0
7. Dentiau.              36    73333         50    59180        120    31500
STRATEGIES.
15.    The Govermment's strategy is to remedy the problems stated earlier and focus
on improving the quality and coverage of primay health care while keeping a strong
MCH focus. The emphasis would be on sirengthening and upgrading facilities rather
than construction of additional facilities. In the short run, existing extensive stock of
health facilities will be brought upto a proper standard by the turn of the century, fully
staffed and equipped anid provided an adequate budget for medicines and other
operating expenises besides recently completed non operative facilities made fully
functional In the long run emphasis would be to improve the primary and reforral
services and rcmove the imbalances in various categories of trained human resource.
Steps will be taken for substantial community involvement In health care delivery and
creating a partnership between communities, NGOs and the Government which would
promote service delivery effectivcness and sustainabiliry.
[)Primary Health Care In rural areas.
In addition to the existing system of providing PHC at BHUs and RHCs, a programme
of female NHWs introduced to disseminate PI IC to the community will be expanded to
include the entire State. The femalc NHWs, selected by the communities will be trained
and equipped adequately. They will act as a bridge bclween the community and the
health units. BHUs/RHCs will become an integral part of the programme. It is proposed
to train one female NHIW for each census village.
ii) Primary Health Care In urban areas
In addition to hospitals. PHC in all urban localities will be provided by training of
female NHWs in each ward represented by City Fathers.



54                                                Annex  7
Page 8 of 14
iii) Maternal and Child Health Services in Primary Hlealth Carc.
a) At the villagelMunicipal Ward level, MCH Services will be provided by National Health
Workers, trained Dais and 'Iraditional Birth Auendants. These will include antenatal and
postnatal care, ideniifying risk pregnancics, deliveries of non-risk pregnancies, nutrition,
supplemental foods and nutrients, especially iron and iodine, mictivation for immnunization,
child spacing, provision of contraceptives and treating a limited rangc of problems such as
pneumonia and diarThoea.
b) In the short run, a Basic Health Unit, aileast, one in a Union Council will havc MCH
Centre which will provide services for womcn cspecially in the reproduclivC age (1549
years) and children below the age of S years. As a long term measure, all BHU will provide
MCH Services. This Centre will provide ante-natal and post-natal carc, immunization,
treatmcnt of minor illness among females and children, family planning services, nutrition
education and supply micronutrients, health education, receive referrals from National
Hlealth Workers and refer hih risk pregnancies and crilically ill cases. The Centrc will train
TBAs and NHWs and will be staffed by a Lady llealth Visitor (LHV) and a Dai and will
have sufficient stock of drugs and medicines.
c) Each Rural Hcalth Centre will have professional staff and beds and will provide
paediatric and obstetric care except for those which require specialized carc. Thcse Centres
will be able to take care of somc of the obstetric emergcncies:
Iv)Jmprovemont in rcfcrral system.
In order to improve referral system and bring hcalth services closer to first contact point,
all rural health facilities will be upgraded and made fully functional. Upgrading will involve
availability of staff, improvement of skills of staff, blood transfusion scrvices, operating
facilities, adequate provision of equipment and ambulances, so that the health aciliuies are
abic to take care of:
a)      Pregnant women with life threatening conditions;
b)      Critically sick children: and
c)      Stabilise trauma/burns.
v) Hospital Services.
a)AII Public hospitals will act as referral units. THQ Hospitals will act as the
firstreferral centres and will provide care to all emergencies and acutely ill cases except
those requiring specialized care. lliey will be fully equipped with trained staff and
necessary equipment to undertake caescrian section. District Hcadquarter I lospitals will
provide specialized care atleast in obstetrics, paodiatrics, medicine and surgery with
appropriate range of diagnostic services. They will have qualified and trained
specialists with adequate nursing and paramedical staff in order to provide quality
care. They will be fully equipped to undertake quality operating ilicatre finctions,
transfusion scrvice and post- operative care.
b)      All public hospitals will be provided drugs according to tho National Formulaty
for Hospitals and a drug schedule will be introduced so as to ensure availability of
such drugs.



55
Annex 7
Page 9 of 14
vi)    User Charges.
In addition to the funds rcceived from Government, all public hospitals will
receive schedulcd users fces for outpaticnt visit and inpatient stay. All hospitals
will be allowed to retain the user charges collected and to disburse them on agreed
priorities established by the Govemnmcnt.
vil)    Human Resources D)evelopmient.
a)     Human Resources Dcvelopment  (HRD) will bc institutionalised
byesrablishing "HRD Cell" in the Directorate Gencral of Hlealth which will
maintaii updated data-base of all categorics of the health care providers.
b)     The shortage of Nurscs, LHVs, llealth Tcchnicians and other paramedics
and enhancement of their status will be overcomc. It is absolutely necessary to
produce public health nurses and lady health visitors in sufficient number and to
cnhance the knowledge and skills of TBAs/Dais.
c)     A cadre of Family Physicians will be developcd and given recognition as
a specialty.
d)     Short term local training programmes will be organized to improve the
managcrial capabilities at different levels of the health system with emphasis on
Primary Health Care by problem solving approach. Special incentives will be
offered to those professionals who chose to be career managcrs.
e)     Training opportunities will be provided for medical specialists, nurses
and paramedical staff in Primary lhealth Care.
viii)Dccentralization of the Administi ation of Ilealth Care System.
Health Department will undertake a process of planned organizational
development, This will be a priority as it will bc a mechanism by which services will be
improved. Thc organizational development effort will be at all levels which will aim at
decentralization of managerial systetn and decision making. Pollcy will be implemented
through devclopment of district plans which will bc reviewed and updated on a yearly basis.
ix) Health Management Information System.
Existing health information system will be replaced by newly developed HMIS
based on PHC in all govcrnment managed first level care facilities.
Training of health personnel in all districts will be arranged for data collection procedures
for the newly designed system.
Data processing for the new system will be computerized at approprialc levels in the health
system and supervisors at all levols will receive training in the usc of information for health
planning and management of health services.
A simple HMIS for the hospitals will also be impicmcnted.
H4MIS will providc necessary information to monitor thc implementation of this Policy.
x)Community participation.
People of die community will be involved at die outsgt in identifying their needs,
choosing the sequence and in implementing and supervising the health programmes.
Ciration ofa pannership between thc health department aud the pcople will enable



56                                              Annex 7
Page 10 of 14
both to assumc rcsponsibility and accountability for managing thc outcome of investmcnts
in the provision of health services. Therefore, this policy aims at establishing lHealth
Committees at village, Union Council, Tehsil and District Icvcls. 1These committees will be
responsible ror advising, implementing and monitoring healtkh programmes. The
par ricipation of NGOs will be encouraged especially of Maric Adelaide Leprosy Centre and
[IAP while other NGOs will be supported to reduce the burden on the public purse.
xl)Intcrsecloral collaboration.
Efforts will be made to develop an integrated mcchanism which would make the
prinary health care approach a continuing reality in Education, Agriculture,
Sanitation, Women's and youth organizations. In this regard, a package of services to
meet Basic Minimum Needs will be adoptcd as is partly bcing done under Social Action
Programme.
xii)Uae of Appropriate Technology.
A list of Essential Drugs will be introduccd to make drugs available at reasonable
prices to the general public.
Drug package for treatment of common diseases will bc made available in villages and
BIHUsRlIlCs.
Unani system if medicines and Homeopathy will bc recognized. The drugs and medicines
of these systens will also be regulatcd.
xiii)lntegrated Diseases Control.
Comnmon diseases will bc controlled through an intcgraied approach of disease control
through Primary Hcalth Care different levels of health services system. Programme
activities relating to immunizatIoni, diarrhoeal discases, acute respiratory infections,
malaria, tubeculosis, lcprosy, IDD Cancer, Cardiovascular discascs, AIDS, diabetes,
mental disorders, dental diseases etc will be strcngthened at primary hcalth care level.
Extensive health education campaigns will be lawuched. Peoplc will be motivated to adopt
healthy life styles which will provide support to all prograunmes. The integration of
communicable diseases control programme will be undertaken by the following approach.



57
Annex 7
Page 11 of 14
xiv)Communicable Disease Control (CDC).
CDC programs will be merged into a broad-based CDC program to follow a
health care approach in contrast to singic multi-purpose indepcndent programs
which thrive at the cosL of primary hcalth care programs. This will improve
efficiency by involving the communiity and local health manager and provides
service as a component of PHC through existing health care facilities. At the
comnmunity level, National Heath Workers will provide promotivo and
prevcntive services in addition to matenity and family planning services. Each
BIHU will have two CDC workers: One to be available at the facility and the
second to provide outreach services and support NJIWs. The RHCs will have
adequate staff from the exisilng vertical programs to provide scrvices fbr the
CDC program and laboratory services. The District llealth Ofircer will be
assisted by the CDC officcr to be made availMblc by redesignating existing
staff. At the Directorate level, an Importait section of the CDC program will
be created by mncrging existing vcrtical program  staff and adding some
additional staff. MOH is co-financing CDC programs nationwide. Tbe Federal
Ministry of Health (MOH) will provide equipment transport, vaccines,
reagents cold chain cquipment and insecticides for malaria control, EPI and
AIDS activities. These programs will be suppoited by the Social Action
Programme.
xv) Other aspects of integrated disease control measure includes:
a) ORS packets will bc allowed to be sold through all commercial
outlets and its availability wil bc ensured.
b) lodised salt supply will 'be ensurcd.
c) Case finding and surveillance systcm will be improved.
d) AvailabiliLy of essential diagnostic tools in the BN4Us/ RHCs will
be ensured.
transfusion ccntres will be nesured              * "  "  '
f) Cancer registiy will be establishcd in cach hospital. All district
hospitals will have early detection facilities.
xvi) Proper Food and Nutrition.
Special attention will be given to improve the nutritional status. Food
supplements will be provided to vulncrable and malnourished groups
especially lactaLinb mothcrs, infants and children. Efforts will be made to
Improve the percentage of newborns weighing aticeast 2500 grams at birth,



58                                           Annex 7
Page 12 of 14
xvil) Family PlanUing.
Family Planning advice including performiance of various procedures
will be port and parmel of all MCH Cenures, 13HUs, RilCs and
Hospitals. The female (related) health personnel will be trained in
conuacoptive methods.
xviii) Nutrition.
The Nutrition component of PIIC will be strcngthened by the
following measures:-
a)             Nearly all expectant mothers will reecive proper antenatal
care including nutritional assessment and PHC facilities will
offer advice for micro-nutricnis. Nutritional status will be
monitored during subsequent visits.
b)             Post natal advice will include how to maintain nutritional
status of lactating morhers and their offsprings.
c)             CDC, ARI and immunization will facilitate in maintaining a
reasonable lcvel of nutritional status of children below 5
years of age.
d)             Provision orlLHVs at MCH Centres will improve the
nutritional status of women in the reproductive age and
children below S years of age. In addition to providing
services m7entioned bi other items lhcy will provide
micronutrients and FP services.
For effective managcment of the nutritional aspects of the
project, the office of the DHO is being strengthened by
providing a nutrition cum health education expert and
asistant InspeCUess of Health Services (a senior L1IV).
i)             National hlealth Worker will have a specific slice of her
work for nutritional status improvements.
xix)Private Sector.
Theo Investment in tertiay care by the public sector will be selective
on priority need. This would create a favourable environment for private
sector's investment.
xx)RnAironmental and occupational heaith.
Environmental problems in AJK includes deforestation, air and water
pollution and poor and hazardous wastes disposal. Efforts will be
mad to onforeo Environmental Qualily Standards approved by the National
Protection Council.



5 9                                               Annex 7
Page 13 of 14
xxi) Rehabilitation Services,
The programme for the disabled will focus on development of
institutional facilities for disabilities prevention and rchabilitation through
PHC network, hospitals and rehabilitation centres,.
xxil) Army Support
Presently army provides supporn in terms of manpower at District
level hospitals and material support for RHCs antd 11 [Us. This support will be
gradually transferred lo the civil sidc.
16. IMIPLEMENTATION ARIANGEMENTS.
Implementation of thc Policy will be kept under constant watch by
an over-sight coinniiticc, which will mcel every 3 months. Secretary
Health will be die chair person of this committee with DO Health as
Vice Chairperson and Director Planning as Secrctary. All DHOs,
Medical Supcrinteidents of DI-IQ  Hospitals will bc members
alongwith representativcs from Planning and Finance Depanrments
and PWD. The Policy will be largely implemented through district
plans, For effective implementation of the Policy the managerial
capacity of the departmcnt of health will be beefed up. This will be
done by:
At the Directoratc level by:
a) adding additional professional staff to develop the staff functions of
planning, monitoring / information system, and research as well as improve
line function programme support to comnunuicable disease control (CDC).
b) Providc management training for all staff.
c) Provide technical assistance.
d) a few support stafE.
e) ofrice automationl- computers/printcrs, fax, photocopiers, etc; and
f) transport.
At the District level.
a) four professional staff will be added; one Additional District Health Officer
(ADI 10), an AssisLant Inspectrcss of Ilealth (AIHS) ,a Planning Officcr and a
lHealth Educator.
b) Providing managemenl training to all staff.



60                                                    Annex  7
Page 14 of 14
c) technical assistance.
d) Office automation- computers/printcrs, fax, photocopiers etc and
c) transport.
For monitoring purposos, coordinating functions will bc cntrustcd to the
Ofricer responsible for IIMIS and his/her associates at thc district level.






IMAGING
Report No:      151i33 PAK
Type: SAP



