Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22263
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-28830)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 18.4 MILLION (US$26.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR
THE NORTHERN HEALTH PROGRAM PROJECT
June 21, 2001
HEALTH, NUTRITION AND POPULATION SECTOR
SOUTH ASIA REGION
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 25, 200 1)
Currency Unit = Rupees (Rs)
Rupees 62.1 = US$ 1.00
US$ 0.0161 = Rupee 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
July 1  June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AJK            Azad Jammu and Kashmir
AKHS           Aga Khan Health Service
BHU            Basic Health Unit
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CDC            Communicable Disease Control
CDWP           Central Development Working Party
DHCs           District Health Committees
DHOs           District Health Officers
DoH            Department of Health
DOTS           Directly Observed Treatment Short-course
FP             Family Planning
FPAP           Family Planning Association of Pakistan
HMIS           Health Management Information System
IMR            Infant Mortality Rate
KfW            Kredilanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LHVs           Lady Health Visitors
LHWs           Lady Health Workers
MALC           Marie Adelaide Leprosy Control Society
MCH            Maternal and Child Health
MMR            Maternal Mortality Rate
MTR            Mid Term Review
NA             Northern Areas
NHSS           Northern Health Household Survey
NRSP           National Rural Support Program
NGOs           Non-Governmental Organization
RHC            Rural Health Centre
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SAPP           Social Action Program Project
TBAs           Traditional Birth Attendants
UCHC           Union Council Health Committee
VHCs           Village Health Committees
Vice President:    Mieko Nishimnizu
Country Manager/Director:    John W. Wall
Sector Manager/Director:    Richard Lee Skolnik
Task Tearn Leader/Task Manager:    Hugo Diaz-Etchevehere/Shahnaz Kazi



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
NORTHERN HEALTH
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  12
6. Sustainability                                                                      13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     17
9. Partner Comments                                                                    18
10. Additional Information                                                             18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  30
Annex 8. Borrower/Implementing Agencies Contribution to the ICR                        31
Annex 9. Cofinanciers Contribution to ICR                                              41
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P037827                                        Project Name: NORTHERN HEALTH
Team Leader: Shahnaz Kazi                                  TL Unit: SASHP
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: June 23, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: NORTHERN HEALTH                                 L/C/TFNumber: IDA-28830
CountrylDepartment: PAKISTAN                                              Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: HC - Primary Health, Including Reproductive
Health, Chi
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  10/21/1994                               Effective:  10/16/96           12/12/97
Appraisal:  06/26/1995                                MTR: 09/30/98               06/30/99
Approval:  06/13/1996                               Closing:  12/31/2000          12/31/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOP/HEALTH DEPTS; GOP/AJK & FANA
Other Partners: KFW
STAFF                 Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                            Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager:      John W. Wall                               Sadiq Ahmed
Sector Manager:       Richard Lee Skolnik                        Barbara Herz
Team Leader at ICR:   Hugo Diaz-Etchevehere                     Christopher D. Walker
ICR Primary Author:   Shahnaz Kazi
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        U
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The overarching objective of the project was to support the Government's programs in the
Northern Areas (NA) and Azad Janmmu and Kashmir (AJK) to improve the health status of the
population with a target of reducing maternal and infant mortality rates by 30 percent. Improved
health status was to result from achieving four specific objectives: a) improving quality and
sustainability of primary health care, especially through the development of community
involvement and NGOs; b) increasing cost-effectiveness and coverage of Government health and
family planning services; c) strengthening the capacity of the health sector through human
resource development; and d) building institutional capacity through better management and
organizational development.
In NA, Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW), through a parallel financing mechanism, was to
support: strengthening of district hospitals, and expansion of existing programs of NGOs
specifically Aga Khan Health Service (AKHS), Marie Adelaide Leprosy Control Society (MALC)
and Family Planning Association of Pakistan (FPAP). The project was implemented within the
overall policy and institutional framework of the Social Action Program Project (SAPP) I and II,
which aimed at enhancing access and quality of basic social services including primary health care.
3.2 Revised Objective:
There was no change in the original objectives.
3.3 Original Components:
Strengthening Community and NGO Participation (US $12.2 million) through: a)
strengthening and expanding existing NGO services; b) adding new NGO services; and c)
introducing community and NGO involvement to existing government services. Additionally in
AJK, the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) called for the establishment of an autonomous Social
Management Unit representing communities, NGOs and the Department of Health with teams in
each district to assist in fostering community involvement in management of primary health care.
Strengthening Government Health Services (US $29.0 million) through a) upgrading existing
facilities for improved provision of maternal and child health (MCH) services by inducting female
paramedics, expanding physical space and providing essential equipment and supplies; b)
strengthening communicable disease control (CDC) programs; c) enhancing capacity at the
referral level to manage emergencies particularly accidents and emergency obstetric care; and d)
promoting health education through re-organizing the existing system and increasing activities and
training.
Human Resource Development (US $4.2 million) through: a) upgrading pre-service training and
increasing the number of female service providers including Lady Health Visitors (LHVs) and
Lady Health Workers (LHWs); and b) introducing in-service training through establishing three
regional training centres in AJK and two in NA.
Management and Organization Development (US $3.3 million) through: a) strengthening
- 2 -



planning capacity at the central and district level; b) integrating vertical programs into the overall
health system; c) strengthening the management information system; and d) decentralizing
administrative and financial authority to the district level.
3.4 Revised Components:
The project, after negotiations, was considered for final approval by the Central Development
Working Party (CDWP), the key economic decision making body of the Government of Pakistan.
The CDWP found it overly ambitious and decided to reduce the size of the project. Formal
government approval of the scaled down version of the project was granted nearly 18 months
after appraisal. Since official clearance was a condition of project effectiveness, the
implementation period was reduced from over four to three years.
The cuts were mainly exercised on activities in the public sector component. These included: a)
new construction of referral hospitals and nursing hostels in AJK, b) civil works in district offices
and supervisory vehicles; c) reduction in the number of MCH Centres to be constructed in the
Northern Areas from 74 to 56; and d) substantial decrease in the scope of technical assistance for
both areas and of the Social Management Unit in AJK. As a result of these changes the amount of
IDA Credit was reduced from $26.7 million to $20.6 million in October 22, 1997.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
A formal review by the Quality Assurance Group was not conducted for the project.
This section reviews consistency of project objectives with the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) and government priorities and adequacy of project design. An assessment of the Bank's
performance during preparation and appraisal and readiness of the project for implementation is
presented in Section 7.1.
The project objectives were consistent with the CAS presented to the Board on November 22,
1995 which aimed to support human development through the Social Action Program Project and
complementary projects in the health and education sectors. The strategy emphasized a
community-based approach to improve effectiveness of service delivery with a special focus on
rural women and children. The northern parts of Pakistan were specifically mentioned as areas
where needs are greatest but which have not received sufficient donor attention. The project was
also responsive to the Health Policy Statements of the two regions which emphasized preventive
health care, staff development, decentralized management and increased collaboration with NGOs
to promote community participation in planning and provision of health services.
Some features of the project design were innovative. First, a substantial role was envisaged for
NGOs who were to work in partnership with the Departments of Health and community
organizations. Second, a program approach was followed based on mutually agreed health
policies in the two areas over the four-year period. Detailed plans within the policy framework
were to be developed and agreed with IDA each year and progress monitored through annual
reviews.
The design envisaged considerable expansion of physical infrastructure at both the primary and
referral level together with extensive software inputs to improve utilization and quality of
- 3 -



services. The latter included introduction of an in-service training program, reorganization of
health education, promotion of community participation in government health facilities,
strengthening of government NGO partnerships, integration of communicable disease programs
and decentralization of management. The design was overly complex and not based on a realistic
assessment of institutional capacities.
The timing and sequencing of interdependent activities were not well thought-out in the design of
the four-year operation. For instance, decentralization was to proceed through a phased program
linking in service training to devolved tasks. At the same time introducing an in-service training
program in itself was likely to be a time intensive process particularly so in the two regions where
the requisite expertise in primary health care, managerial sciences and teaching training
methodologies was lacking. The timetable was also too short for the extensive participatory
component, whose effectiveness in turn was dependent on considerable autonomy at the district
level.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
At appraisal an elaborate monitoring plan was developed with a large number of indicators.
Subsequently during the Mid-Term Review it was decided to focus on a smaller set of indicators
to monitor progress towards development objectives. These included contraceptive prevalence,
antenatal coverage, immunnization of women and children, trained attendance at delivery, infant
mortality and TB case finding and conversion rates.
The most recent source of household level information is the regionally representative Northern
Health Household Survey (NHSS) which was fielded in mid 1999, roughly half way through the
project. An assessment of changes over time is precluded for some of the indicators due to lack of
baseline information. Also, no follow-up household survey has been conducted after the 1999
survey.
The data indicate a rising trend in immunization of women while trends in the coverage of
children have been mixed. Between 1996 and 1999 the proportion of women immunized with
tetanus toxoid vaccine increased from 16 to 52 percent in AJK and from 17 to 48 percent in NA
against a target of 60 percent. Over the same period the proportion of fully immunized children
aged 12 to 23 months increased from 30 to 41 percent in NA and fell from 58 to 40 percent in
AJK as compared to the project goal of 60 percent.
The use of family planning services has increased quite substantially according to service statistics.
The number of new family planning clients rose by 150 percent in AJK and 40 percent in NA
between 1997 and 2000. As compared to the end-project goal of 25 percent, the contraceptive
prevalence rate in mid-1999 (as estimated from the NHSS) was 28 percent in AJK and 21 percent
in NA.
Evidence from the NHSS, further, shows that the project target of infant mortality rate was
surpassed in both regions. In 1999 infant mortality rates in NA and AJK were 70 and 84 per 1000
live births respectively against an end of project target of 85 per 1000 live births in both areas.
- 4 -



Here it is worth noting the wide inter-district differences in indicators in NA with much better
levels of MCH care in the relatively more developed districts served by the AKHS. For instance,
in 1999, variation across districts in antenatal coverage was between 81 percent and 26 percent;
contraceptive prevalence between 32 percent and 9 percent; and inimunization coverage of
children between 72 and 9 percent. In the absence of district level baseline estimates it is not
possible to assess the extent to which these differences have diminished over the project.
The TB program target of 90 percent sputum conversion rate was met with estimated rates of 91
percent in AJK and 93 percent in NA in 2000. However, case detection rates for the same year
were 39 percent in AJK and 17 percent in NA --considerably lower than the end of project goal of
70 percent. Nevertheless, progress in TB control has been significant as compared with the
pre-project situation, when the TB program was practically non-existent.
These results are attributable to a variety of factors both within and outside the health sector.
AJK for instance has the highest female education rate in the country, which undoubtedly is an
important deterninant of health outcomes. However within the health system the project was the
main vehicle supporting primary health services in both the public and non-governmental sector.
To the extent that there have been improvements in the set of monitoring indicators (and, as
already noted, the data available make a complete assessment difficult), the project is likely to
have contributed substantially to those improvements -- particularly through the establishment of
effective NGO-Government collaboration, increased deployment of female service providers and
provision of medicines. These key interventions were well underway at the time of the 1999
survey.
Overall project inputs contributed to: substantial improvements in at least some of the agreed
performance indicators; effective govermment-NGO partnerships; increased availability of female
service providers; decentralization of administrative and financial powers to the district level; and
to a lesser extent to building planning capacity in AJK. In view of the above attainments the
project is rated as satisfactory in meeting its objectives.
Progress towards meeting specific development objectives was generally good and is described in
detail in the section that follows.
4.1.1. Strengthening NGO Involvement and Community Participation in Service Delivery
A major achievement of the project was strengthening NGO-government partnerships in primary
health care. Effective collaboration was developed with MALC in strengthening TB Control
using Directly Observed Treatment Short-course (DOTS) strategy and with the FPAP in
expanding family planning services.
In AJK the FPAP provided services through government facilities while in NA it relied primarily
on development and expansion of its own outlets. The results were more impressive in AJK where
the program was initiated earlier and NGO activities were more closely integrated with public
provision of primary health. According to government service statistics the number of new family
- 5-



planning clients rose by 150 percent in AJK and 40 percent in NA between 1997 and 2000.
The partnership between the Departments of Health (DoH) and the Marie Adelaide Leprosy
Center (MALC) has significantly improved TB management in NA and AJK. The decision to
shift from traditional clinic based management initially supported by the project to the use of
DOTS was taken during the MTR. In the first year of its operation the coverage of the TB
DOTS program has been extended to 50 percent of the population of AJK and 30 percent of NA
as compared to a national average of 12 percent. Two key features of the partnership with MALC
deserve mention. First, the program was managed by the NGO using government facilities and
personnel while the Department's role was limited to providing oversight. The staff working for
the program was provided "incentives" by the NGO. Second, both partners shared equally in the
financing of the program.
In the Northern Areas, the Department of Health with technical assistance from the AKHS has
piloted a comnmunity based primary health care model in 4 clusters covering a population of over
120,000 in the three districts. The program's operational targets of formation of village health
committees (VHCs), training of Traditional Birth Attendants (TBAs) selected by communities and
of government health personnel have largely been met.
4.1.2. Strengthening Government Health Services
The objective of improving access to MCH and family planning (FP) services through increasing
availability of female service providers and upgrading physical infrastructure has been substantially
met in AJK and partially fulfilled in the Northern Areas. The Northern Health Household Survey
data indicate a threefold increase in antenatal coverage and immunization of pregnant women
between 1996 and 1999. Further, the data show that nearly 60 percent of antenatal clients in AJK
and over half in NA were receiving services from public providers.
The number of LHVs has risen from only 12 to 64 in the Northern Areas and from 92 to 158 in
AJK. The female staff was inducted within the first year of project effectiveness. Additionally in
AJK 48 newly constructed facilities have been made functional. The quality of the services has
been enhanced through the timely supply of medicines in both regions and procurement of
equipment in AJK. Consequently MCH services in AJK are now available in 70 percent of union
councils as compared to 44 percent in 1997. In NA MCH services were only available in district
hospitals prior to the project while currently these services are provided through roughly 50
percent of first level care facilities.
With respect to communicable disease control (CDC), the main attainment has been the
introduction of TB Control using DOTS strategy and improvement in immunization of pregnant
women. However, immunization coverage of children has shown little improvement; in 1999 the
proportion of fully immunized children was 40 percent in both regions against a project target of
60 percent.
4.1.3. Human Resource Development: The goals for pre-service training of female staff have
been largely fulfilled. Over the duration of the project 92 LHVs were trained in NA against a
- 6-



target of 105 and 152 in AJK as compared to an adjusted target of 156.
However, the project has fallen far short of its objective of establishing an in-service training
program. In AJK faculty for the three planned in-service training centres was appointed in the
final year of the project and a few ad-hoc training courses in technical areas conducted in the six
months prior to closure. In NA the faculty for the two planned centres has yet to be appointed.
Neither of the Departments was able to effectively utilize technical assistance to facilitate the
development of the program. A consultant was hired in AJK but the quality of his work was
found unsatisfactory. In NA suitable candidates were not available locally and it was difficult to
attract expertise from outside.
4.1.4. Management and Organization Development. The project has supported strengthening of
the Directorate and district offices through appointment of additional planning and supervisory
staff in both regions. The results are mixed with significantly better accomplishments in AJK
where the staff was appointed early and through continuity of tenure has gained on the job
experience. In NA the potential of this intervention could not be fully realized due to delays in
filling key managerial positions and high turnover of planning staff.
Significant progress has been achieved in decentralizing administrative authority in both areas.
The District Health Officers, who had very limited powers prior to the project, are now
authorized to appoint all categories of paramedics. In NA the administrative delegation was also
accompanied by considerable delegation of financial powers to District Health Officers (DHOs).
As noted in the preceding section, the project did not succeed in introducing systematic in-service
management and supervisory training. Consequently the requisite skills in fulfilling their new
responsibilities could not be developed and will require attention beyond project life.
The Health Management Information System (HMIS) is now well established with a reporting
rate of 99 percent in AJK and 68 percent in NA. In neither region are the data being used as
management tools. The time period was too short to change the culture of decision making
although some efforts are underway in AJK to promote the use of HMIS.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Strengthening Community and NGO Participation
Collaboration with FPAP on Farnily Planning Program: The FPAP assistance to AJK includes:
provision of FP services through over 300 public health facilities and 268 private sector outlets;
training of over 1,140 service providers (623 public and 517 private sector providers); and IEC
activities. In addition, FPAP has conducted mobile carnps for IUD insertion and injectable
services and organized contraceptive surgery camps in Tehsil and District hospitals as well as at
Rural Health Centres. The number of new acceptors has increased by 150 percent from 11,612 in
1997/98 to 25,052 in 2000.
In the Northern Areas, FPAP has primarily focused on service delivery through its own outlets.
These include: the Family Health Hospital in Gilgit; nine Family Health clinics; and mobile RH
teams, which have covered 98 villages. It has also provided contraceptive supplies to govemment
facilities and has trained 120 doctors and pararnedics in the government and NGO sector. The
- 7 -



number of new acceptors has increased by 40% from 2,284 in 1998 to 2,935 in the first three
quarters of 2000.
Collaboration with MALC on TB Control: The project inputs in both areas include: training of
staff including chest specialists, TB technicians, and supervisors; equipping and furnishing of TB
centres; provision of motorcycles and vehicles; and regular supply of drugs in blister packs. In
qualitative terms MALC has successfully operationalized the National TB Control Program's
guidelines.
In AJK, 53 of the 60 TB centers are implementing the DOTS strategy. A total of 3,998 new cases
were registered during the calendar year 2000, of which 1,102 (28%) were sputum positive. With
an estimated load of 2,800 new sputum positive cases per year, the case detection rate was 39%.
The cure and completion rate was 91%.
Overall the program has been less effective in NA. The TB DOTS strategy was initially
introduced in all 16 centres in NA, however only 9 centres were functional at project closure due
to posting out of trained staff. Further, only half the patients were being managed using DOTS
due to limited involvement of LHWs and other outreach workers as treatment observers. In
addition some technical aspects of the program including low sputum positivity and likely over
diagnosis in children require a detailed review. These problems were highlighted during the ICR
mission and will be followed up by the National TB Control Program. During the first
three-quarters of calendar year 2000, 1,654 new cases were registered of which only 8 percent
were sputum positive. With an estimated caseload of 1,000 new sputum positive cases per year,
the case detection rate comes to 17 percent. The sputum conversion rate after 2 months of
intensive phase treatment was 93 percent.
Community-Based Primary Health Care in NA: The DoH with technical assistance from AKHS
has piloted community-based primary health care in four population clusters covering 168 villages
with an estimated population of 120,000. The pilot, which is based on the AKHS model, is being
implemented in the three districts not served by the NGO. The objectives of this initiative are to:
organize communities to promote their involvement in primary health care; and sensitize health
personnel to the community-based approach.
AKHS has provided on-the-job-training to four DoH teams in community dialogue and
mobilization, curriculum development, TBAs training and in conducting baseline surveys. The
government teams with assistance from AKHS have undertaken intensive community dialogues
leading to the establishment of 13 out of a target of 15 VHCs. The members of VHCs have been
trained in their roles and responsibilities and have facilitated communities in selecting the TBAs
for training. So far, 204 TBAs have been trained against a target of 160. Out of the four teams,
two are now working independently while the other two are operating with ongoing AKHS
assistance. Despite constraints of mobility due to irregular availability of vehicles and avoidable
delays in distribution of TBA kits, the pilot has been implemented as planned and in some
instances, such as TBA training, surpassed operational targets.
A shortcoming of the design was the rather narrow focus on promoting community involvement
-8 -



and training of TBAs rather than an integrated approach covering a wider range of activities and
involvement of other field-based workers such as LHWs and vaccinators.
A key issue relates to the sustainability of the community-based approach and its gradual
expansion to other areas in the three districts. While the government has committed to extending
the collaboration, the DoH's field teams remain uncertain of the continuity of the initiative after
project closure. The concerns relate particularly to the availability of logistics support, TBA kits
and replenishment of kit items, which were problematic even during project life.
Small NGOs Program in NA: The project has also supported 12 small NGOs working on primary
health care across all districts in NA. The investment costs were financed through KfW assistance
and the operational costs through the IDA Credit. The selection criteria was agreed at appraisal.
A new set of NGO proposals were invited in FY200 1 and have been processed. However, the
continuation of the program is uncertain since under the original arrangement KfW support is
limited to investment and with the closure of the Bank's component there is no altemative source
of assistance for the operational expenditures of these NGOs.
Cnommunity Involvement through District and Union/Village Health Committees: The project
envisaged a system of local and district committees with the objective of promoting community
involvement in planning, monitoring and supervision of health services. At the local level Union
Council Health Committees (UCHC) were to be established in AJK and Village Health
Committees were to be established in NA.
The District Health Committees (DHCs) were notified early in both areas and comprised
representatives of the department of health, of education, and of public works as well as local
councilors (e.g. Union Council chairmen), civil society and NGOs. In practice there is little
evidence of effective functioning of DHCs in AJK with slightly better results in NA. The DHCs
were premised on a considerable degree of autonomy at the district level, which did not
materialize till the final phase of the project. In discussions with some DHC members in AJK it
was evident that they were not even aware of their roles and responsibilities. Further, in their view
there was little motivation for DHCs to meet since the problems identified by the Committees
were seldom addressed due to lack of resources or authority.
In AJK none of the planned Union Council Health Committee could be established till May 2000.
During the last six months of the project 29 committees were set up in two districts, however,
their effectiveness is questionable. Considerable efforts were made during implementation to pilot
the participatory component with the assistance of the National Rural Support Program (NRSP),
a national NGO with experience in social mobilization around rural development issues. However,
the details of the collaboration could not be worked out in spite of prolonged discussions
extending over 18 months.
In the Northern Areas the performance of DHCs was relatively better in the AKHS served
districts, which have a long history of close coordination between government and NGOs, and
more recently in the districts of Diamir and Ghanche as a result of the community based primary
health care module. The DHCs were most effective in health promotion efforts such as mobilizing
-9-



support for polio campaigns and in controlling outbreaks of cholera. The community based
primary health care module was also instrumental in establishing 13 VHCs.
Component 2: Strengthening Government Health Services
In AJK there has been considerable expansion of maternal health services; at present MCH
services are available in 124 public health facilities as compared to 80 in 1996. The number of
female paramedics has risen by more than 70 percent increasing from 92 to 158. The number of
LHWs has risen from 1,500 to 1,749 over the same period thereby extending coverage of
community based services from 52 to 62 percent of the population. The quality of the services has
been enhanced through the supply of medicines and equipment.
Physical targets have also been largely met. During the three-year period 46 newly constructed
first level care facilities (23 MCH centres, 17 BHUs and 6 RHCs) have been made functional and
staffed including with female paramedics. An additional 50 MCH Centres which have been
recently completed and equipped will be made functional by the end of the current fiscal year. On
operationalization of these Centres maternal and child health services will be available in 174
facilities falling only slightly short of the project target of 180 facilities.
Improvement in MCH services in NA is mainly due to the increase in the number of female
paramedics while development of physical infrastructure has progressed relatively slowly. Prior to
the project there were only 12 LHVs providing MCH/FP services in the three district hospitals.
Since then an additional 52 female paramedics have been recruited and are providing MCH/FP
services in one RHC, 16 out of 23 targeted Civil Hospitals and 10 out of 17 targeted BHUs. The
remaining LHVs who were initially providing a lniited range of service at Civil Dispensaries have
been shifted recently to completed MCH centres.
In NA a total of 40 out of the planned 55 MCH Centres have been constructed. Of these 32 were
made functional soon after project closure.
Monitoring and supervision of MCH/FP: A supervisory cadre of MCH services has been created
in both regions headed by the Inspectoress Health in the Directorate and Assistant Inspectoress
Health at the district level. However monitoring and supervision of MCH services has remained
weak in both areas, more so in NA where three out of six managerial positions have remained
vacant for most of project life. The problem stems from the very limited availability in NA of
mid-level female professionals required for these posts. Attracting candidates from outside NA to
work as supervisors in these hard to reach areas has also proven difficult. Further, the appointed
staff in both regions were unable to carry out their functions effectively due to lack of: training in
management and supervisory skills; monitoring tools and logistical support.
Health Education: Positions of health education officers have been created at the Directorate and
district level, however, the responsibilities and functions at the different levels are not clearly
defined. Nor is there a well thought out plan of activities including coordination with other health
workers. There has been little progress in re-organization or intensification of health education
activities. The project objective of instituting in-service training in health education could not be
- 10 -



implemented.
Strengthening Referral Services: In AJK referral services have been enhanced in 5 district and 8
tehsil hospitals through upgrading operating theatres and providing laboratory and imaging
equipment. In addition 39 ambulances have been provided to referral facilities and 10 BHUs
located in relatively remote areas. The number of gynecologist/obstetricians and anesthetists at
district and sub-district hospitals has increased from 18 to 26 over the period. In NA the project
has supported construction/renovation of three district hospitals, however, the procurement of
KfW financed equipment for these facilities has been delayed and will be available by the end of
FY01. The procurement of ambulances also financed by KfW will be completed in the next fiscal
year.
Integration and Strengthening of Communicable Disease Control (CDC): Limited measures have
been taken recently in AJK toward integration of CDC programs. These include establishment of
a Communicable Disease Control Unit at the Directorate and assigning responsibility to additional
DHOs at the district level for coordination of CDC activities.
A major achievement in CDC has been the impressive expansion of TB control using DOTS
strategy (as described in Section 4.1. 1). However, there has been little improvement in
immunization coverage of children.
The poor performance in this regard is partly attributable to limitations of logistical support
particularly the inadequate supply of vaccines and syringes. Additionally the operational budget
for supervision, repair and maintenance has been insufficient. During the MTR it was agreed to
improve immunization coverage through involvement of facility-based staff, NGOs and
communities and increase resources for operational expenditures. Subsequently in NA, LHVs
were trained in EPI and some equipment repaired but there has been no progress in AJK.
Component 3: Human Resource Development: Pre-service Training
Goals for pre-service training of female paramedics have been largely met with modest shortfalls.
The total number of LHV graduates is 92 in NA and 152 in AJK against targets of 100 and 156
respectively. Selection has been well handled to ensure that only trainees from areas where there
are shortages of LHVs are recruited. After qualifying the LHVs return to serve in their home
areas. As a result the number of candidates from under-served areas has risen from three to 35
over the duration of the project. However, even after deployment of these female paramedics
roughly 40 to 50 percent of the LHV positions in the three less developed districts will remain
vacant.
The project also introduced a new cadre of female nursing assistants-to work in RHCs. A total of
50 nursing assistants were trained in AJK and 20 in NA against targets of 200 and 100
respectively. This was mainly due to high dropout rates and limited demand for the training. At
MTR it was decided to convert the training of nursing assistants to midwifery training which was
more in line with staffing needs of MCH services and allowed candidates better career prospects.
Training for the first batch of 50 students has commenced in AJK.
- 1 1 -



Pre-service training has been strengthened through appointment of needed tutors, provision of
adequate budgets including for student stipends, development of physical infrastructure and
transport facilities, and delegation of financial authority to principals of training schools.
In-Service Training: Three small in-service training centres in AJK and two in NA were to be
established to provide systematic in-service training in technical and management areas. There has
been limited progress in institutionalizing these centres. Faculty posts have been sanctioned for all
five centres but staff has been appointed to only three centres in AJK. Neither area was able to
effetively utilize technical assistance to develop the program. In the final year of the project some
short courses were conducted in the functional centres in AJK. The training was undertaken on an
ad hoc basis without adequate planning and assessment of the needs of the Department. Most of
these courses were in technical areas while training in planning, management, monitoring and
supervision was entirely lacking.
The three centres in AJK have been completed, furnished and equipped. In NA an existing
building has been renovated while construction of the remaining centre will be completed in
FY2002 through government financing.
Component 4: Management and Organization Development
This component has already been fully discussed in Section 4.1.4.
4.3 A'et Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
A major achievement has been the institutionalization of pre-service training of female
paramedics. Technical assistance and on-the-job experience have also enhanced skills in
procurement and financial management, which can be effectively used in future programs.
To a lesser extent the project has contributed to strengthening the Directorate and district offices
through creation of planning and supervisory positions. Additionally there has been substantial
decentralization of administrative and financial authority to the district level in both areas.
However, due to the limited progress in instituting in-service training the managerial and
supervisory skills of staff could not be fully developed.
Nevertheless these interventions were relatively more effective in AJK, which started with a
stronger institutional base, and where a core team of managers were trained and could provide
guidance to others. Further, recruitment of staff was timely and continuity was maintained
thereby enabling on the job learning. In NA, where the initial management base was weak, staff
appointments were delayed and turnover was high, the impact on building managerial and
planning capacities is likely to have been modest at best.
- 12-



Regional differences are also notable in the institutional impact of the NGO component. In AJK
the project has successfully strengthened NGO-Government collaboration in health services
delivery and set the basis for continuing these partnerships in the future. However, in NA
collaborative mechanisms could not be instituted due to limited commitment on the part of the
govermment to a longer term relationship
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control ofgovernment or implementing agency:
Due to delays in finalizing arrangements of KfW financing for NA, disbursements could not
commence till June 1999. The closing date for KfW assistance was subsequently extended to
May 2002. The different time frame of the two co-financiers lead to lags in making referral
facilities renovated by IDA resources functional. Additionally as a result of escalation of tensions
across the line of control in AJK between India and Pakistan some MCH centres and TB clinics in
the vicinity of the border could not be upgraded as planned.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Due to the delay in formal government approval of the project, which was a condition for
effectiveness, the implementation period of IDA supported activities was reduced from over four
years to three years.
In the Northern Areas, inadequate allocations and late releases of development funds remained a
problem throughout the project. In contrast in AJK allocations were released on demand and were
not a constraint on development activities. Increase in non-salary budgets in both areas have been
in accordance with financing plans.
Appointment of experienced and competent managers and low staff turnover was critical to
smooth implementation in AJK. At appraisal management capacities in AJK were considerably
more developed than in NA and were further strengthened by adherence to a policy of maintaining
staff continuity. AJK also has a system to ensure smooth transition whereby designated successors
work closely with outgoing or retiring officials. In general an effective bureaucracy with greater
flexibility was conducive to better performance in AJK. In contrast, NA started with a much
weaker institutional base, changes in key positions were frequent and procedures particularly
related to financing cumbersome.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
In AJK appointment of competent staff in the Directorate and ensuring their tenure over the
duration of the project by and large compensated for the delayed start and resulted in effective
implementation of the project. The Department also utilized technical assistance in financial
management and hired a firm for top supervision to ensure quality of civil works. The relatively
weak performance in NA was largely attributable to high turnover of key staff and delays in filling
critical positions. The Deputy Director Planning was changed thrice while the position of
Inspectoress Health Services remained vacant over most of project life. The Department failed to
utilize technical assistance to strengthen management. A consultant for capacity development was
engaged but his findings were largely disregarded.
Implementation proceeded smoothly in the initial year in both regions partly due to advance
- 13-



actions and planning during the preparation stage. Recruitment and deployment of female
paramedics was completed early. Medicines were procured and distributed expeditiously and the
NGO-Govemment collaboration was initiated early in -AJK. Delays in commencement of NGO
activities in NA as mentioned earlier were due to factors beyond the Directorate's control.
In the latter half of the project, implementation was constrained in NA due to managerial
inefficiencies. Weak management was reflected in: the inability to provide timely support in terms
of transport facilities and TBA kits to the community based teams; transfer of trained staff from
TB Centres; late provision of necessary teaching aids and furniture to the midwifery school; and
delays in procurement of MCH equipment and vehicles.
Both Departments displayed limited commitment to the development of the in-service training
program reflected in the fact that tutors were not appointed in AJK till the final year of the project
while in NA the faculty is still not in place. Further, neither Department was able to engage
technical assistance to facilitate the development of the program. In general software aspect of
components aimed at strengthening public service delivery and in-service training did not get due
attention partly due to limitation of time and capacity and partly due to the higher priority evident
to physical aspects of implementation. Consequently there was little success in developing a plan
for continuing education, enhancing the human resource base of trainers, and strengthening
monitoring and supervision of MCH and family planning services.
.5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The Staff Appraisal Report presented estimated cost and financing figures for both the program
and the project. The program comprised the total activities of the government health sector in
NA and AJK plus eligible health-related ac6ivities with communities and NGOs, for the four years
1996/97 to 1999/00. Within the overall program, the project comprised all incremental aspects of
primary health in NA and AJK plus the first referral level (accident, emergency and obstetric
care). Total program cost was estimated at US$136.7 million while total project cost was
estimated at US$57.7 million.
Here, it should be noted that the program that was agreed under the Northern Health Project was
also the program that was to be monitored for determining reimbursement eligibility for SAPP II.
Further, reimbursements from SAPP II were additional to the external financing from the
Northern Health Project.
Of the total project cost estimated at appraisal of US$57.7 million, US$11.3 million was to be
financed by the Government of Pakistan, US$26.7 million was to be financed by IDA, US$6.1
million by a consortium of donors (including IDA) under the Second Social Action Program
Project (SAPP II), US$10.6 million by a KfW grant, and US$3.0 million by participating NGOs.
At the time of closing of the IDA Credit, total project expenditure was estimated at US$32.1
million, amounting to about 56 percent of the appraisal estimate. The total project expenditure
was financed as follows: government contribution of US$7.08 million; IDA credit, US$16.55
million; KfW grant, US$4.32 rnillion; and SAPP II, US$4.1 million.
The difference between appraisal and actual project costs is attributable to a combination of
- 14 -



factors. These are (in order of importance): (a) scaling down of the project subsequent to
appraisal; (b) the KfW grant is still under disbursement until June 2002; (c) slower than expected
pace of implementation in NA; and (d) foreign exchange related savings.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating.
The rising trend in contraceptive prevalence rate and antenatal care is likely to continue as
completed MCH Centres become functional including 42 centres in NA which will be
operationalized by the end of FY01. Further, immunization is a core priority area in the health
sector. Increased government commitment to strengthening immunization coverage is reflected in
the development of a strategic plan, which is awaiting approval.
The staff positions and budgets of paramedic schools in both areas have been integrated into
regular operations of the Department. The growing demand for midwifery training even in the less
developed region of NA is apparent in the large number of applicants, nearly five to six times the
number of available seats.
The sustainability of government-NGO collaboration is highly likely in AJK but uncertain in NA.
A proposal for extending the government-MALC partnership over the next five years to expand
coverage of the TB DOTS program in AJK has been recently approved. Negotiations are also
well advanced for continuing the collaboration with FPAP. In contrast there is little evidence of
the NA government's commitment to sustaining through its own resources the small NGOs fund
and the partnership with AKHSP on the community based primary health care model. Both these
initiatives were supported by IDA project funds. KfW grant financing for FPAP and MALC is
available till FY2002, however, at present there are no plans for continuing the arrangement
beyond this period.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
In NA all 966 posts created under the project have been regularized. In AJK so far 309 of 602
project positions have been transferred to the regular (Current) budget. These include key
positions for the in-service training centres, paramedic schools, and strengthening planning and
management. The government has notified the transfer of the remaining 293 positions to the
regular budget and the creation of the 114 positions for MCH centers on July 1, 2001.
Adequate allocations for operational costs might be a concem given the difficult fiscal situation of
the Government. Under its evolving poverty reduction strategy the government is committed to
protecting the social sector expenditures. In addition IFI supported adjustment operations are
expected to provide leverage for protecting critical recurrent expenditures in the social sectors.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank assisted the line departments in the development of health policy statements and project
preparation.
- 15 -



The preparatory work on Government collaboration with NGOs was well managed. Involvement
of NGOs was initiated early in AJK. NGO partners with proven competencies, experience and
good working relationship with the governments were identified at appraisal and memoranda of
agreement were signed with the government regarding the scope of their work. As a result
implementation of the NGO component proceeded smoothly. However, the question of
sustainability of NGO involvement was not adequately addressed.
The project fulfilled several criteria for readiness at entry, which are now standard practice but
were less common at the time. Detailed project implementation plans were prepared for the first
year, including procurement plans and bidding documents for equipment and drugs. Land sites
were confirmed and detailed construction drawings were ready. However, an assessment of
financial management capacity was not undertaken at appraisal nor were the Departments
informed about the Bank's fmnancial management requirements.
Perhaps the most serious oversight in the preparation process was the minimal engagement with
the Ministries of Finance and Planning which subsequently raised serious questions on the size and
scope of the project, and implications for the sustainability of recurrent costs. As a result the
project was scaled down and formal approval was granted nearly 18 months after appraisal.
7.2 Supervision:
A rapid assessment undertaken by the Quality Assurance Group in July 98 rated the quality of
supervision satisfactory in all respects including focus on development impact, fiduciary aspects,
adequacy of supervision inputs and processes and realism of performance ratings.
Supervision missions with an extensive range of expertise including specialists in public health,
social development, procurement and financial management were undertaken biannually and
continuity of team was largely maintained. A comprehensive MTR was undertaken in June 1999,
which in addition to regular mission members also included international experts in reproductive
and public health. All aspects of implementation were comprehensively reviewed, problems were
clearly identified and agreements were reached to intensify the focus on priority areas. These
included the decision to shift from a traditional clinic based approach to TB control through the
DOTS strategy and renewed emphasis on decentralization of administrative and financial authority
to districts which were successfully implemented. Compliance was weak on some critical actions
particularly related to strengthening of EPI coverage. A shortcoming of supervision was the
inadequate attention to software aspects of some components particularly of the in-service
training prograrn and reorganization and strengthening of health education.
The supervision of fiduciary aspects received adequate attention. Financial management
specialists were regular members of the team. Deficiencies in financial management were
identified and assistance provided to the Departments in developing action plans to remedy the
situation. As a result of persistent follow up and working with financial management staff of the
implementing agencies, financial management improved significantly. Loan covenants were
enforced. Use of SOEs was discontinued in June 2000 as a result of delay in submission of audit
report and qualified opinion given by auditors. It was resumed in January 2001 on satisfactory
resolution of audit issues.
- 16 -



Concerned borrower staff received basic procurement training through workshops conducted by
the Islamabad Field Office, and courses conducted at other institutions. One round of ex-post and
end-use audit was also conducted through a specialized audit firm and issues were followed with
the concerned agency (in AJK).
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
The overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Departments of Health took the lead in project preparation. Health Policy Statements for
both areas were articulated for the first time during project preparation. The project design was
developed through a participatory process with active involvement of partner NGOs. However,
the involvement of the Ministries of Finance and Planning was limited, as evident in the initial lack
of consensus within the government on the size and scope of the project. As a result formal
approval was obtained after considerable delay on a scaled down version of the appraised project.
The several advance actions taken to ensure timely implementation detailed in Section 7. 1.
compensated for the delayed start of the project.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government performance varied across the two regions. It was satisfactory in AJK and marginally
satisfactory in NA. As noted in Section 5.2, the project was implemented in a very supportive
environment in AJK with timely provision of funds and appointment of competent senior
managers who remained in position over the duration of the project. In contrast implementation
was constrained in NA due to insufficient and delayed release of resources, frequent changes of
mranagers and procedural delays.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The project contributed to significant improvements in coverage of MCH services, increased
availability of female service providers, strengthened NGO-Govermnent partnership in family
planning and TB DOTS programs and considerable decentralization of administrative authority.
Despite the inordinate delay in project effectiveness almost all planned procurements were
successfully completed in AJK while in NA some of the physical targets could not be achieved.
Neither region could establish a fully functional in-service program, reorganize and intensify
health education efforts or strengthen monitoring and supervision of MCH services. AJK had little
success in promoting community involvement in government health services and NA in
strengthening planning and management capacity. Nonetheless significant results were attained
within a three-year time span, by departments with little experience in managing donor-assisted
operations and in difficult, remote regions of the country.
Procurement: Almost all relevant officials were trained (at both basic and advanced levels) in
Bank's procurement guidelines and procedures early on in the project cycle. Procurement plans,
rosters and efficient record keeping and monitoring systems were also developed early. The
systems developed particularly in AJK set a standard for other social sector projects to follow in
Pakistan. Nevertheless, ex-post audits revealed the practice of restricting sale of bidding
documents in the procedures adopted by the Public Works Department AJK, which potentially
limited competition. The deviation from Bank requirements brought most of the civil works in
- 17 -



AJK on the verge of misprocurement. However, this was waived upon assurance of strict
compliance in the future and verification by the Bank's procurement specialist that the practice
has been discontinued for new contracts of all repair works.
In the NA management of procurement in the latter half of the project was deficient.
Procurement of MCH equipment and vehicles (financed by KfW) was delayed. Awards had to be
re-tendered due to inadequate specifications of equipment and change in specification of vehicles.
Financial management issues: Financial management was not addressed at appraisal. In NA
financial management was initially weak but improved with the induction of an Accounts Officer.
In AJK the financial management system has been modified to cater to the Bank's requirements
and further strengthened by the appointmnent of a financial management consultant. There were no
significant deviations from Bank's financial management policies (OP/BP 10.02) except that audit
reports were mostly received late and were qualified.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall borrower perforrnance is rated satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The experience in AJK underscores the importance of preparatory work and government
ownership to developing successful government-NGO collaboration. Key partner NGOs with
proven competencies were identified early and were fully involved in the design phase. The
memoranda of understanding between the government and the NGOs were signed prior to
appraisal. In contrast, efforts to involve NRSP later during implementation failed and the details
of the arrangement could not be worked out even after 18 months of negotiations. FPAP and
MALC also had a long history of working with the two Departments while there had been no
previous association with NRSP. It is also likely that the technical inputs provided by the two
partner NGOs were highly valued while the Departments saw little tangible benefits of promoting
community participation, which was to be supported by NRSP assistance.
Government ownership is also fundamental to sustainability of NGO involvement. Commitment
to working with NGOs on a sustained and continuous basis needs to be demonstrated through a
supportive policy framework and through integrating mechanisms for financing NGO services in
recurrent budgets.
The experience of the participatory component underlines the need to pay greater attention to
practical difficulties in operationalizing community involvement in planning, supervision and
monitoring of government health services. For instance mechanisms for establishing local
committees or by which the health staff would be made accountable to community groups need to
be specified. Issues of incentives to formation of these organizations at the district or the local
level in terms of control of resources or decision-making authority deserve greater prominence, as
they are fundamental to the success of such endeavors.
The limited success achieved in the in-service training program is partly attributable to the culture
of planning in the country whereby completion of physical infrastructure precedes recruitment of
- 18 -



staff and other related inputs. As a result software components are often delayed or compressed
at a late stage of the project. To counter this tendency software components need to be de-linked
from physical inputs. This should be explicitly reflected in the time frame of the project
implementation plan and the phasing of these inputs carefully monitored by supervision missions.
The choice of indicators in the SAR such as the MMR and IMR were inappropriate for a
four-year operation. It would have been more useful to monitor intermediate indicators
representative at the district level rather than average regional figures for higher level outcomes.
This is especially relevant to contexts like the Northern Areas where average rates are not likely
to capture wide inter-district variations in indicators.
A critical lesson learnt was the need to involve the Ministries of Finance and Planning during
preparation which is particularly important from the perspective of sustainability of recurrent
costs. Formal approval should be obtained prior to negotiations to ensure that the Ministries are
fully on board.
Careful assessment of financial management capacity of implementing agencies needs to be
undertaken during project preparation. Measures for establishing requisite capacity should be
specified and adopted prior to appraisal.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower/implementing agencies evaluation is presented in Annex 8.
(b) Cofinanciers:
The project was co-financed by KfW. KfW support will continue till May 2002 to allow for the
completion of activities affected by the delay in commencing disbursements. The KfW evaluation will be
conducted after the closure of their assistance but the organization has provided comments on the project
experience which are presented in Annex 9.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
None.
- 19 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
IndicatorlMatrix                   Projected in last PSR                ActualLatesL Estimate
Improve health status of the population in    Reduce IMR to 85 per 1000 live births.  Infant mortality rates in NA and AJK were 70
AJK and NA                                                                 and 84 per 1000 live births in 1999 (Northem
Health Household Survey, 1999).
Increase contracepbve prevalence rate to    Contracepbve prevalence rates in NA and
25 percent.                          AJK were 21 and 28 percent respectively in
1999 (Northem Health Household Survey).
Between 1997/98 and 2000 the number of
new acceptors increased by 150 percent in
AJK from 11,612 to 25,052 and by 40
percent in NA from 2,284 to 2,935
(Govemment service stabsbcs).
Increase ante-natal coverage to 60 percent of In 1999 the proporton of women availing
pregnant women.                      antenatal care by qualified providers
(doctors, nurse, LHV) was 51 percent in NA
and 58 percent in AJK (Northem Health
Household Survey, 1999)
Increase Tetanus Toxoid (TT) coverage  Tetanus Toxoid coverage in NA increased
to 60 percent.                       from 17 percent in 1996 to 48 percent in
1999 and in AJK from 16 percent to 52
percent over the same period (Health Policy
Statements for AJK & NA, 1996; Northem
Health Household Survey,1999).
Increase trained attendance at birth (no  In 1999 21 percent of births in both NA and
target)                              AJK were supervised by trained attendants
(doctors, LHV, nurses) (Northem Health
Household Survey, 1999).
Increase immunization coverage of children  The proportion of fully immunized children
<1 year to 60 percent.               aged 12 to 23 months increased from 30 to
41 percent in NA and fell from 58 percent to
40 percent in AJK during the period from
1996 to 1999 (Health Policy Statements for
AJK & NA, 1996; Northem Health Household
Survey, 1999).
Expand coverage of TB control using DOTS  Between 1999 and 2000 the coverage of the
strategy.                            TB DOTS program has been extended to 50
percent of the population of AJK and 30
percent of NA as compared to a national
average of 12 percent. In 2000 the case
detection rate for AJK was estimated at 39
percent and the sputum conversion rate at
91 percent. The corresponding estimates for
NA for the same year were 8 percent and 93
percent respectively.
Output Indicators:
IndicatorlMatrix                   Projected in last PSR                ActuaULalt Estimate
- 20 -



Strengthening Health Services         Increase availability of female paramedics.   The number of LHVs has risen from 92 to
158 in AJK and from 12 to 64 in NA during
the project period. Since project closure an
additional 32 LHVs have been recruited in
NA.
Provide MCH services at the Union Council  MCHIFP services in AJK are now available in
level.                                70 percent of union councils as compared to
44 percent prior to the project In NA in 1996
MCHIFP services were only available in
district hospitals whereas currently these
services are provided through 50 percent of
first level care facilities.
In AJK referral services have been
Strengthen capacity at the referral level.    strengthened in 13 district and sub-district
hospitals through upgrading operation
theatres and provision of laboratory and
imaging equipment. Additionally 39
ambulances have been provided to referral
facilities and 10 BHUs located in remote
areas. In NA the projed has supported
construction/renovation of 3 district hospitals,
however, the facilities are not fully equipped
due to delays in procurement financed by
KfW grant assistance.
Strengthening NGO and community       Strengthen Government NGO collaboration  Effective collaboration has been developed
participation                         in primary health care.               with MALC in strengthening TB control using
DOTS strategy and with FPAP in expanding
family planning services. The success of
these partnerships in AJK is demonstrated
by the govemments willingness to extend the
colaboration for the next 5 years. In NA KfW
financing for MALC and FPAP wil continue
till 2002.
In NA the Department of Health with
Promote community involvement in primary  technical assistance from AKHS has piloted
health care.                          a community based primary health care
model in 4 clusters covering a population of
120,000. So far 204 TBAs (against a target
of 160) selected by the communities have
been trained and 13 VHCs out of a target of
15 VHCs have been established. In AJK,
Union Council Health Committees could not
be established.
Human Resource Development            Train 100 LHVs in NA and 156 in AJK.    A total of 92 LHVs have been trained in NA
and 152 in AJK.
Institutionalize in-service training by  The project was not successful in
establishing 3 in-service training centres in  institutionalizing in-service training. Facutty
AJK and 2 in NA.                      posts have been sanctioned for aDl 5 centres
but staff was appointed in the ffhai year of
the project in the 3 centres in AJK. Facuity is
not yet in place in NA. Physical
infrastructure for the 3 AJK centres is
complete.
Provide in-service technical training to 1310  A total of 181 participants trained in technical
and 3250 NGO and govemment participants areas in AJK.
in NA and AJK respectively
Provide in-service training in health educabon In-service training in health education has not
to 2550 and 7550 NGO and govemment    been initiated.
participants in NA and AJK respectively.
- 21 -



Management Organization and Development
Decentralizabon of administrative and  Significant progress has been achieved in
financial authority.                  decentralizing administrative authority in both
areas. The DHOs who had very imited
powers prior to the project are now
authorized to appoint all categories of
paramedics. There has also been
considerable delegation of financial powers
to DHOs in NA.
Provide in-service management and     In-service management and supervisory
supervisory training to 150 course   training has not been initiated.
participants in NA and 550 in AJK.
Integration of vertical programs.     Limited measures have been taken in AJK
towards integrabon of CDC programs. These
include establishment of a CDC unit at the
Directorate and assigning responsibilities to
Additonal DHOs at the district level for
coordination of CDC activities.
The HMIS is well established in AJK with a
Strengthen the Health Management      reporting rate of 99 percent while the
Information System (HMIS).            reporting rate in NA has improved from 52
percent in 1997 to 68 percent in 2000
End of project
- 22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in USS million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest   Percentageo.
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million    US$ million
Strengthening Health Services                      28.90          22.34             77
Human Resource Development                          4.20           1.78             42
Management and Organization Development             3.30           3.58            109
Community Participation and NGOs                   12.20           4.35             34
Total Baseline Cost                                48.60          32.05
Physical Contingencies                             3.50
Price Contingencies                                5.60
Total Project Costs            57.70          32.05
Total Financing Required            57.70          32.05
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB           NCB         Other        N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         6.30         1.20         0.00         7.50
(0.00)       (3.80)       (0.70)       (0.00)       (4.50)
2. Goods                     2.60         3.20         1.00         4.60         11.40
(1.70)       (2.20)       (0.80)       (0.00)       (4.70)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         2.00          0.00        2.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (2.00)       (0.00)       (2.00)
4. Community                 0.00         1.80         5.30          7.50        14.60
Participation & NGOS
(0.00)       (1.70)       (5.00)       (0.00)       (6.70)
5. Medicines                 0.00         1.80         0.80         2.30         4.90
I   (0.00)       (1.10)       (0.50)        (0.00)       (1.60)
6. Other Operating Costs     0.00         0.00         12.00        5.30         17.30
(0.00)       (0.00)       (7.20)       (0.00)       (7.20)
Total                     2.60         13.10        22.30        19.70        57.70
(1.70)       (8.80)       (16.20)      (0.00)      (26.70)
- 23 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procurement Method'
Expenditure Category         ICB         P                               N.B.F.   - Tota*Co.
NCB          Other'
1. Works                         0.00           4.18           0.45           0.00          4.63
(0.00)         (3.50)         (0.28)         (0.00)        (3.78)
2. Goods                         1.79           3.45           0.61           0.50           6.35
(1.43)         (1.15)         (0.49)         (0.0)        (3.07)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00           1.32           0.00           1.32
(0.00)         (0.00)         (1.32)         (0.00)        (1.32)
4. Community                     0.00           0.00      I    0.97           3.38           4.35
Participation & NGOS
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.87)         (0.00)        (0.87)
5. Medicines                     0.00           1.26           0.65           2.20          4.11
(0.00)         (0.53)         (0.41)         (0.00)        (0.94)
6. Other Operating Costs         0.00           0.00           9.00           2.34          11.34
(0.00)         (0.00)         (6.57)         (0.00)        (6.57)
Total                         1.79           8.89           13.00          8.42          32.10
(1.43)         (5.18)    L   (9.94)          (0.00)        (16.55)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of A F
Component              Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate      - P       f Appraisal
IDA       Govt.     CoF.       IDA       Gove       CoF.    I[DA  -wt. -CoF.
Strengthening Health      16.38     7.32       9.20      13.58      4.09      4.67     82.9   55.9   50.8
Services
Human Resource            1.20      0.86       3.00      0.76       0.65      0.37     63.3   75.6   12.3
Development
Management and            2.32      2.99       0.00      1.34       2.24      0.00     57.8   74.9   0.0
Organization Development
Community Participation  j  6.80    0.13       7.50      0.87       0.10      3.38     12.8   76.9   45.1
and NGOs
Total                    26.70      11.30     19.70      16.55      7.08      8.42     62.0   62.7   42.7
- 24 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic costs and benefits analysis was carried out at the time of project appraisal or for the ICR.
- 25 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Irnplementation   Development
Month/Year   Count            S ecial                         Progress       Objective
Identification/Preparation
Identification/Pr           2   Mission Leader, Health
eparation                        Specialist
11/08/1994 -
11/29/1994
Preparation/Pre-A           7   Mission Leader, Economist,
ppraisal                        Social Scientist, Public Health
04/09/1995 -                    Specialist, Health Specialist
04/26/1995                      (Health Services), Management
Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
Appraisal                   8   Mission Leader, Economist,
07/15/1995 -                    Social Economist, Public
08/01/1995                      Health Specialist,
Procurement Specialist,
Management Specialist,
'Community Specialist,
Health Specialist (Health
Services)
Negotiation                 5   Task Manager, Financial
04/18/1996 -                    Management Specialist,
04/25/1996                      Procurement Specialist, Lawyer,
Disbursement Officer
Supervision
2/09/1998 -                 6   Public Health Specialist,            S               S
2/23/1998                       Health Specialist, Consultant
(Social Sectors), Social
Development Specialist,
Procurement Specialist,
Architect
3/30/1998 -                 3   Public Health Specialist,            S               S
04/06/1998                      Disbursement Analyst, Architect
6/21/1998 -                 6   Public Health Specialist, 2          S               S
07/09/1998                      Procurement Specialist,
Disbursement Analyst,
Community Development
Specialist, Civil Engineer
- 26 -



10/31/1998 -                 7   Public Health Specialist, Health      S                S
11/20/1998                       Specialist, Consultant (Social
Sectors), Disbursement
Specialist, Financial
Management Specialist, 2
Procurement Specialists, Civil
Engineer
06/06/1999 -                11   Health Specialist, Consultant         S                S
06/25/1999                        (Social Sectors), Women Health
Specialist, Lead Specialist
(QAG), Economist,
Disbursement Specialist,
Financial Management
Specialist, NGO/Community
Development Specialist, 2
Procurement Specialists, Civil
Engineer
11/22/1999 -                 9   Health Specialist, Consultant         S                S
12/08/1999                        (Social Sectors), Health
Specialist, Disbursement
Specialist, 2 Financial
Management Specialist,
NGO/Community Development
Specialist, Procurement
Specialists, Civil Engineer
05/15/2000 -                 9   Health Specialist, Health              S               S
05131/2000                        Economist, Disbursement
Specialist, 2 Financial
Management Specialist,
NGO/Community Development
Specialist, Procurement
Specialists, Civil Engineer,
Consultant (Social Sectors)
ICR
11/20/2000 -                 6    Economist,Public Health              S                S
12/06/2000                        Specialist, Social
Development Specialist,
Public Health Specialist,
Procurement Specialists,
Financial Management
Specialist
-27 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                 Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks            US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              9.5                      33.06
Appraisal/Negotiation                  40.0                     120.00
Supervision                           111.0                     332.89
1CR                                    21.8                      65.40
Total                                 182.3                     551.35
Source: Project Details at a Glance dated 05/08/2001
-28 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
 Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Sector Policies                          O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
 Physical                                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Financial                                  H    SU * M   O N  O NA
F Institutional Development                -! H  0 SU * M  0 N  0 NA
Environmental                           OH  Ol SU O M  O N  * NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                 OH  O SU   M  O N  O NA
Z Gender                            O H * SU O M O N O NA
E Other (Pleasespecify)               H  OSU OM  O N  O NA
Z Private sector development               OH  C SU * M  O N  O NA
M Public sector management                     H       SU * M  O N  0 NA
L: DOther (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 29 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
Z Lending                                            OHS O S *U OHU
Z Supervision                                        OHS *S  OU   3 HU
Z Overall                                            O HS * S  O  U  C HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
Z Preparation                                        OHS 3 S   * U  O HU
Z Government implementation performance              O HS * S   0 U  C) HU
Z Implementation agency performance                  O HS * S   0 U  3 HU
S Overall                                            OHS * S    ) U  3i HU
- 30 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Abdur Rahman Associates, Northern Health Project Household Survey: Northern Areas, August 1999.
2. Abdur Rahman Associates, Northern Health Project Household Survey: AzadJammu and Kashmir,
August 1999.
3. World Bank. Staff Appraisal Report, Northern Health Project, Pakistan. May 1996.
4. World Bank. Northern Health Final Supervision/ICR Mission Aide Memoire, November 20-December
6, 2000.3.
5. World Bank. Northern Health Mid Term Review Aide Memoire, June 7-20, 1999.
- 31 -



Annex 8. Borrower/Implementing Agencies Contribution to the ICR
Evaluation Report Northern Health Project: Azad Jammu and Kashmir
1.   Introduction
The NHP was the first joint Project of Govt. of AJK and World Bank in Health Sector. It became
effective from 12th December 1997. The project stipulated period was four years but due to
delayed approval it got only three and a half years and closed on 31st Dec 2000.
According to the Health Policy of AJK, the emphasis and focus is on improvement of PHC and
greater attention on sustainability of services especially the PHC and reproductive health care
services. The Project had direct relationship with the objectives of the sector policy and has
strengthened the PHC facilities, human resource development especially female paramedics and
Government-NGO partnership.
2.    Project Objectives
a.    Strengthen Government Health Services.
b.    Strengthen Community and NGO participation.
c.    Staff development especially female paramedics.
d.    Improved management and organizational development.
3.    Implementation Arrangements
There was no separate Project Implementation Unit (PIU). The implementation was integrated
with routine activities of managers. The Director General Health was assigned the responsibility
of Project Coordinator and for his assistance the existing planning cell was strengthened through
some additional posts. Project Steering Committee and NGO Program Committee were
established for institutional support to management.
4.    ACHIEVEMENTS:
4.1   Maternal Health Services and Family Planning.
The target set for the project was to provide maternal health services in all (180) Union Councils
of Azad Kashmir. By the end of the Project 174 Union Councils had been provided matemal
health services through:
a.    Construction of buildings of 181 MCH Centers.
b.    Provision of equipment and furniture.
c.    Provision of trained female staff.
In coordination with FPAP, family planning services have been expanded through:
a.   Provision of FP services to over 300 public health facilities and 268 private sector
- 32 -



outlets.
b.   Training of about 623 Government and 517 private providers.
c.  IEC activities.
d.   Arranging camps for IUD and Injectable services.
For monitoring and supervision of MCH and FP services, posts of Inspectress of Health
Services and Assistant Inspectress have been created.
To improve the physical condition of health facilities, the buildings of about 209 BHUs,
Dispensaries and RHCs have been repaired.
4.2. Referral System.
Following steps have been taken for improvement and upgradation of referral services:
a.  In 5 district and 8 Tehsil level hospitals, x-rays machines, laboratory and OT
equipment have been provided.
b.   39 Ambulances have been provided to referral facilities and border areas.
c.   During the project period, 550 hospital beds have been added.
d.  In 13 RHCs, dental services have been added through provision of space, dental
units and dental staff.
e.   To cover the staff deficiency in 29 RHCs, about 593 new posts have been
created during the project life.
4.3   Integration of communicable disease control programs (CDC)
Some steps have been taken towards integration of CDC programs. All the vertical programns like
EPI, TB Control, etc., have been put under a CDC Unit at Directorate level.
4.4   TB Control Programme.
The partnership between the Departnent and Marie Adelaide Leprosy Center (MALC) has
successfully introduced DOTS strategy. The program has made excellent progress and the DOTS
strategy is being implemented in 63 TB centers located within health facilities, providing access to
approximately 50% of the population. The strategy includes case detection through sputum
microscopy, directly observed treatment, and regular supply of anti-TB drugs and establishment
of a monitoring system. DOTS is being carried out through:
a.   Center-based directly observed treatment for patients living in close proximity
of TB centers.
b.   Community-based directly observed treatment using LHWs, health care
workers or family members. A total of 3,998 new cases were registered in
2000, of which 956(24%) were sputum positive. With an estimated load of
2,800 new sputum positive cases per year, the case detection rate is 39%. The
sputum conversion rate after two months of treatment was 88% during the first
three quarters of 2000.
- 33 -



4.5   Human Resource Development.
4.5.1 Pre-Service Training.
Under the project following existing training schools have been strengthened through provision of
some teaching equipment, two buses for in-service training schools, teaching staff and non-salary
operating costs.
*     Public Health Nursing School Mirpur
*     School of Nursing Mirpur
*     Paramedical School Mirpur
The output of above schools over the project period is as under:
*     80 LHVs have been trained whereas 20 are under training.
*     To provide trained female staff in RHCs a new cadre of Female Nursing Assistant has
been introduced and so far 55 females have completed training.
67 Nurses have been trained.
4.5.2. In-service training.
Under the Northem Health Project three new In-service Training Centers have been
established at Mirpur, Muzaffarabad and Bagh. Over the project period, short training courses
have been conducted for doctors and paramedics on following areas:
Trauma
*     Emergency obstetric care package
*     Nutrition & EPI
*     Store Management
*     Teaching methodology
-     Primary Health
*     Traumatology
*     Theater Management and IPC
*     Medical Collegial Course
Medical Emergency and ICP for Paramedics
*     Medical Emergency and ICP for MOs
Training for DDOs
Cardio Pulmonary Resuscitation
Forensic Medicine
*     Lab Management
HMIS Workshops
4.6   Management and Organization Development.
Over the project period following steps have been taken for the improvement of
management and organization of health sector.
Office of DG Health has been strengthened through provision of 17 posts.
- 34 -



*     3 Health mangers have been given short training outside Pakistan.
*     At district level, 16 new staff positions including Planning Officers, Health Education
Officers and Assistant Inspectress of Health have been created.
*     Posts of Senior Medical Officers as In charge RHCs have been created.
DHOs have been empowered to appoint staff above BPS-9 including LHVs. Before the
project, they were not authorized to appoint staff above BPS-5.
*     Some financial powers have also been decentralized to district officers.
4.7 Community Mobilization and NGO Participation.
*     Two NGOs, MALC-Karachi and FPAP, were successfully involved in provision of FP
services and TB Control program through DOTS. The performance of the NGO-Government
partnership has already been elaborated.
*     District Health Committees have been formed in all districts.
*     Over the project period total 29 Union Council committees have been formed but these
are not fully functional.
5.   Main achievements in terms of output / outcomes.
During the project period:
IMR has decreased from 90/1000 in 1995 to 56/1000 in 1998 against project target of
60/1000.
The percentage of women immunized against tetanus has risen from 16% in 1996 to 52%
in 1999.
*     lThe contraceptive prevalence rate (CPR) has raised up to 20% in 1999.
*     lThe percentage of women who have received antenatal care from a Government health
facility was 33% in 1999 as compared to 16% national wide.
*     The availability of female paramedics in FLCF has risen by 70%.
6.  World Bank Performance
Throughout the project life, the performance of World Bank remained good. The World Bank
provided support and guidance for management, procurement and streamlining of the project
through consultants and regular visits. With the interaction of Bank staff, the DOH staff has
learned a lot. However, despite of achieving the outcome targets the reimbursements from World
Bank remained stopped for about a year. In future the AJK DOH would like to continue its
collaboration with the Bank to improve the health status of the people of Azad Kashmir.
7.  Lessons learned
It was the first experience for AJK DOH to implement such a heavy project in collaboration with
World Bank. The DOH staff has tried its best to implement the NHP and to a large extent DOH
has been successful in its efforts. However, during the project life a number of difficulties had to
be faced. But the plus point of these difficulties is the lessons learned by DOH. Some major
lessons learned are as under:
- 35 -



7.1 Project Design
Overall project design was reasonably flexible and having a lot of room to adjust the activities as
per actual ground situation. However, following problems were faced during implementation that
needs to be reviewed in future projects:
*     Some activities of the project were not fully elaborated and well defined in the project
documents, which created some confusion.
Some ongoing projects were also included in the project that created confusion.
*     It was difficult to explain whether it was a project or a program.
Reimbursement mechanism or non-availability of FE component was also very difficult to
understand by Accountant General, Finance Department and P&D Departmnent.
No separate project implementation unit was established. Despite its advantages due to the
absence of PIU the staff of DOH had to face a very tough time, because the NHP generated a
huge number of activities in addition to routine assignments without providing any extra
incentives.
7.2   Procurement
Implementation of procurement procedures and guidelines of World Bank lead to following
issues.
a.    It was very difficult to make the Accountant General Office understand the World Bank
procurement procedures, that resulted in unnecessary delay in clearance of payments from the
Accountant General. Situation was further aggravated by imposition of ways and means clearance
by Finance Department.
b.    For procurement of medicines and vehicles to follow the World Bank guidelines was a
very hard nut to crack as it created many issues such as:
*     There was a general feeling among the specialists of DOH that the medicines supplied by
lowest responsive bidders are not up to standard although these were cleared by DTLs.
*     As the World Bank procedures were new and difficult to understand for senior officers
and political leadership, it created doubt in their minds and resulted in the DOH staff having to
waste a lot of their time and energies in facing  audits and enquiries.
The civil works of the project were executed through Public Works Department but PWD
staff were not well aware about World Bank procurement procedures. In addition to this, their
frequent transfers also increased the difficulties.
7.3. Some conditions of the project Credit Agreement were very difficult to meet especially
annual enhancement in the current budget.
- 36 -



7.4 Some components of the Project were not very clearly elaborated in the Project documents
like procedure for community participation. That lead to difficulties rather failure in
implementation.
7.5  For the same amounts the Department had to face multiple audits in the name of NHP,
SAPP, routine, Special Federal Audits and Third Party Validation etc., and most of the time and
energies of health department staff were consumed in this process.
7.6 While procuring the Consultancy Services DOH had to follow all the Govemment lengthy
procedures in addition to World Bank Guidelines that resulted in undue delay.
7.7    Due to delay in approval of the project, only three and half years were available to
implement the project.
7.8  During the approval process some critical components of the project like establishment of
SMU and referral secondary care components were slashed which affected the community
participation aspect of the project.
7.9  Creation of posts was a very critical and difficult aspect of the project. Due to the financial
crunch/constraints, it was very difficult to convince the Finance Department to create required
new posts.
7.10    The Government of AJK over-centralized the recruitment of staff which resulted in
unnecessary delay of recruitments, which hindered the implementation of the project.
7.11   Due to land and site disputes some MCH buildings could not be completed during the
project period. In future such problems should be avoided, through timely resolution of such
issues.
7.12 Although the project was approved by AKDWP, AKCDC and ECNEC after a thorough
examnination and appraisal of the project, during the implementation the justification of some civil
works was again called into question by P&DD and Chief Secretary Office, which resulted in
delayed start of civil works. Such interruptions need to be avoided in future projects.
7.13    The collaboration with NGOs, like MALC and FPAP, was a new and successful
experience. However, during the NGO supported activities, it has been felt that the monitoring
and supervision from Government end was not excellent due to absence of clear understanding. In
future, this area needs to be given special attention.
7.14 It has been felt that the concept of community participation is new for DOH and the staff
of Health Department needs training in this area and it is difficult for DOH alone to promote
effective community participation.
8. Conclusion
- 37 -



The project was the first experience for Health Department to collaborate with World Bank.
During the project a number of factors have hindered the implementation of the project. However,
despite of all difficulties the project has achieved almost all its targets. The coordination with
NGOs was a new experience that may be followed in other areas of Pakistan. During the
implementation process, the staff of Health Department has got lot of experience that may be
useful for planning and implementation of such type of foreign aided projects in years to come.
NORTHERN AREAS HEALTH PROGRAMME PROJECT, NORTHERN AREAS
EVALUATION REPORT BY THE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
INTRODUCTION
1.     The Northern Areas Health Program Project (NHPP) Northern Areas (NAs) was
launched in December 1997. The NHPP is jointly financed by the GOP, the World Bank
and KfW and implemented by the Department of Health (DoH) NAs in collaboration with
NGO partners including the Aga Khan Health Services (AKHSP), Family Planning
Association of Pakistan (FPAP) and Marie Adelaide Leprosy Center (MALC). Its stipulated
completion date is July 2003 according to the approved PC-I. IDA was requested to
extend the project up to July 2003, but they have not agreed to the DoH's request, leaving
certain components still to be completed. The KfW will continue to finance the project
components up to June 2002 for procurement of ambulances and medical equipment and
also the NGO programs of AKHSP, FPAP and MALC.
OBJECTIVES
2.   The Project aims to improve provision of health services to the under-served and
un-served population in the NAs. The existing status of health facilities was to be upgraded
and brought up to appropriate standard, be fully staffed and equipped and provided with
adequate funds for operating expenses. These were closely linked to the creation of a
partnership between communities, NGOs and the Government, to promote effectiveness of
services and sustainability. The overall structure of the project was:
I.   Strengthening health services specially PHC through community level activities
including NGOs.
II. Human Resource Development
III. Management and organization development
3.   The overall objectives were aligned to local needs and priorities as identified by the
DoH in the health policy statement of 1995. However, the objectives were ambitious in
terms of time in which they were planned to be achieved especially keeping in view local
capacity for implementation, both of the DoH and implementing partners. The project was
- 38 -



revised and scaled down and its timeframe was also reduced, however, project objectives
were not changed and it became difficult to achieve them in three years. The project targets
should also have been reduced and planned to be achieved in two separate phases, one
during NHPP and a second following it.
4.   The project design focussed on promoting community participation and partnership
between government and non-government sectors to improve MCH services, improve staff
competencies and management and organization development. The design was appropriate
and feasible in the context of NAs with a history of community participation and NGO
government collaboration. However, a key weakness in the design was development of
parallel systems of service delivery by NGOs and public system of delivery. This has created
some areas of duplication of services that could have been avoided and has long-termn
financial implications. In some cases the NGO-government partnership was able to prevent
such duplication during the project.
IMPLEMENTATION STATUS OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
5.  The project has significantly improved some deficiencies of the system by progress in:
- Civil works: Civil works is a major component of NHPP. The main achievements include: a)
Completion of DHQ Hospital Chilas; b) construction of 55 MCH centers; (12 centers are still
in finishing phase), c) construction of two HRDCs with Hostels; d) repair of 59 CDs and 16
Civil Hospitals and 80 FAPs; e) Construction of Midwifery Training School Gilgit; and f)
Casualty Block, X-ray Block and Female Block of DHQ Hospital Gilgit and Skardu (portion
of female block in Gilgit still remains to be completed). There have been delays in completion
of civil works due to short working season in Northern Areas. The project has supported
development of major infrastructure and further need for infrastructure development is limited
in some areas.
C  Procurement: Procurement of medical equipment, teaching equipment, office equipment,
MCH kit, TBA kit, furniture and medicines have been completed, using the World Bank's
bidding procedures for all the procurements. Equipment has been put to use and is likely to be
useful for the health sector for five to ten years.
*  Human Resource Development:
*  Pre-Service Training: The project supported training of 70 Midwives and 32 are under
training at Midwifery Training School Gilgit and 12 at HRD Center Skardu. 50 LHVs
completed training and 30 are under training at PHS Peshawar. Similarly the project has
also supported training of 50 Nursing Assistants (25 male and 25 female) and 200 TBA.
These will contribute to improving and strengthening MCH services in NAs.
*  In-Service Training: The project supported development of in-service training units and
some staff was trained. However, the center could not be fully made functional and staff
development objectives were not fully realized.
* Health Services Delivery:
* 55 MCH centers could not be made functional during the project life. Equipment, furniture
and cold chain equipment has been procured. 995 posts in various categories (BPS 1-19)
have been created and brought to regular footing during the project life. Almost all the
- 39 -



posts have been filled in.
* Community based PHC with collaboration with AKHSP has strengthened capacity for
commnunity work, however, it needs to be continued and gradually expanded. The
coverage of TB DOTS program has been extended to 15 centers of all five districts (40%)
in collaboration with MALC. FPAP is providing family planning conmnodities to
Department of Health Northem Areas. The project also supported 12 small NGOs assisted
financially for provision of MCH services with conmnunity participation. All of the above
and support of NGOs program by KfW have improved service provision and access to
health care in NAs.
* Management and Organizational Development
* Decentralization of Administrative and Financial Powers: Decentralization of
administrative and financial powers has taken place. Recruitment of BPS 01-05 has been
assigned to District Health Officers, increasing their administrative powers. The financial
powers are being decentralized down to tehsil level and the process for training of Medical
Officers has been initiated. These are developments in the right direction.
* Baseline Survey and Mapping Exercise: Baseline Survey and Mapping Exercise
have been completed. These tools are being used in future planning
6. Overall performance of the project implementation is satisfactory during the project period
(3 years). Howeveer, the desirable results could not be fully achieved due to late
commencement of the project, reduction of scope and timeframe of the project and peculiar
geographic and climatic conditions of Northern Areas. It would have been more appropriate
to implement the project even with reduced scope in at least four years.
PERFORMANCE OF THE GOVERMENT
7. This was a major initiative and DoH had not implemented a project of this scale. The
overall performance of the government in terms of project implementation is satisfactory
though it could have been even better, leading to improved project performance.
*  Project Coordination, decision-making and leadership for implementation was to be provided
by Project Steering Committee. The committee met infrequently with delayed decisions and
slowing project progress. However, the coordination with non-government partners and
donors was satisfactory and effective.
*  The coordination by Department of Health with District staff to implement and monitor
project activities was inconsistent and lacked focus. It should have been given more attention.
Similarly the DoH could not get the right people with skills to manage key posts during
project life.
*  The performance of the Finance Department for timely release of allocations left a lot to be
desired causing delays in completion of activities.
*  A key weakness was lack of emphasis on development of human resources, which could have
been an investment in the future. It is unfortunate that DoH could not use this opportunity
effectively.
-40 -



8.  The Federal government initiative for development of this project was key for sector
development. However, effectiveness of the project was minimized by reducing of the scope
of the project. The reduction of scope of the project was not systematic and some key areas
were deleted without taking into consideration the impact.
PERFORMANCE OF THE WORLD BANK
9..   The World Bank performance during design and revision of the project was good and very
much helpful.
10.   The overall performance of the staff and the task leader during project implementation was
satisfactory with provision of adequate technical support and advice to the DoH. The DoH also
acknowledges support from the Bank for making effort for timely releases of the allocations. The
World Bank was however, not flexible to allow project extension. This was despite the fact that it
was quite evident that weather conditions and other factors made for slow progress. Similarly the
DoH feels that the Bank could have been more proactive and facilitate early procurement of
goods through KfW and also for identifying resources for staff training, a key need for improving
effectiveness of irnplementation of services during project life and thereafter.
PERFORMANCE OF THE NGO PARTNERS
11.   The overall performance of the NGO partners during design and implementation has been
satisfactory. They have been able to deliver what was agreed. The NGOs made sure that
coordination with the DoH was ensured. The NGOs have adequate capacity for effective
implementation and also means to identify resources for sustaining programs.
LESSONS LEARNT
12.   The key lessons learnt include:
*  For implementation of project of this nature, effective coordination is a key factor, both within
the Department and with other departments and partners.
*  All key posts needed for implementation should be filled before project implementation is
started.
*  Need for clarity of concepts and framework.
*  Adequate time needs to be provided for completion of various tasks especially civil works
keeping in view the peculiar weather conditions of Northern Areas.
*  For effective implementation of such projects there should be a special assignment accounts
instead of regular budget which is affected by delayed releases and inadequate allocations.
*  Support to NGOs should be continued but there needs to have development of processes and
procedures for sustainability.
- 41 -



Annex 9. Cofinancier's Contribution to the ICR
KfW - German Financial Co-operation with Pakistan
Northern Areas Health Programme (NAHP) - 1995 66 993
Your Project Cr. 2883-PAK
At the present stage of the FC-component it is not yet the time to asses the project objectives and
implementation because the construction works and the delivery of the equipment for the
Government hospitals as well as for the three Non Governmental Organizations (Marie Adelaide
Foundation, Aga Khan Foundation and Family Planning Association of Pakistan) are still under
process.
We couldn't yet evaluate the lessons learned of our component but with regard to design further
support for public Hospitals and activities of NGO in the basic health care services, focus on
reproductive health and tuberculosis control in accordance with DOT(s)-strategy seems to be the
appropriate way to face the health problems in the Northern Areas.
Concerning the co-operation between Government of Pakistan, DoH Northern Areas and KfW
the exchange of information in particular about the results of the World Bank missions was
effective for us. In general we are satisfied about the co-operation so far.
However, in two areas we have some proposals for improvements; The first is in regard to the
health sector related policy dialogue. Obviously there is a need for better harmonization of public
and private health services within the reference system. This concems the user fees for services
and fees for pharmaceuticals and contraceptives. While most services of public providers are free
of charge and even some NGO are offering their services free of charge other private
organizations like the Aga Khan Foundation are charging the users of the health centers. If
financial sustainability is one of the major objective of each project, a sector wide policy for
income generation of public and private health providers is necessary. This policy dialogue is still
outstanding in the Northern Areas.
A second point concerns the two NGO-funds, one financed out of IDA-funds and one out of
German funds. Obviously DoH, World Bank and KfW have missed to harmonise the criteria for
financing the investments of smaller NGO's. As far as we are informed by the DoH Northern
Areas, the IDA-funds have been used for investment without taking into consideration the
financing of the future operational costs related to these investments. As the IDA funding is
closed now the NGO's are requesting subsidies for operational costs out the German contribution.
However, following KfW-criteria for the NGO-funds operational costs are excluded for financing.
Thus, there seems to be a high risk that the investments financed out of IDA-funds could not be
operated as probably planned.
-42 -



