Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2883 PAK
                    Development Credit Agreement
                  (Northern Health Program Project)
                               between
                    ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                                 and
                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated  July 18, 1996
                                               CREDIT NUMBER 2883 PAK
                    DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated  July 18, 1996, between  ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
PAKISTAN, acting by its President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Borrower intends to contract from Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau (KFW) a grant (the KFW Grant) in an amount of
$10,600,000 equivalent to assist in financing part of the Project on
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the KFW Grant
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and KFW;
      (C)   the Project activities in Azad Jammu and Kashmir (AJK)
will be carried out by AJK with the Borrower's assistance, and as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to AJK
part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Association and AJK;
Page  2
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
                   General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with
the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
      (b)   the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read as
follows:
            "Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
            agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of
            expenditures in the territories of any country which is
            not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or
            services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the
            purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any
            import of goods, if such payment or import, to the know-
            ledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of
            the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter
            VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "AJK" means the Territory of Azad Jammu and Kashmir and
includes any successor thereto;
      (b)   "Fiscal Year" and "FY" mean a fiscal year covering the
period from July 1 to June 30;
      (c)   "Grants" means, collectively, grants made or proposed to
be made by AJK out of the proceeds of the Credit for the purposes of
paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and "Grant" means each
and every such Grant individually;
      (d)   "NGO" means a non-governmental organization established
and operating in the territory of the Borrower;
      (e)   "NGO Fund" means the fund to be established by AJK by
June 30, 1996, for making grants to NGOs and communities in AJK;
      (f)   "Northern Areas" and "NA" mean the Northern Areas of
the Borrower within the administrative jurisdiction of its Ministry
of Kashmir Affairs and Northern Areas;
      (g)   "Program" means the Borrower's activities in the health
sector in the Northern Areas and AJK for the four Fiscal Years
1996/1997 to 1999/2000;
      (h)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and AJK of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
      (i)   "SAP" means the five-year (FY 1994 through FY 1998)
Social Action Program of the Borrower prepared within the overall
framework of the Borrower's Eighth Five-Year Plan, with the
objective of expanding and improving the coverage of delivery of
services in the primary education, primary health, population welfare
and rural water supply and sanitation sectors;
      (j)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
Page  3
      (k)   "Subprogram" means activities to be carried out each
Fiscal Year as part of the Program under the Project as agreed upon
between the Borrower and the Association and which shall be reflected
in an operational plan within the framework of the Program satis-
factory to the Association.
                             ARTICLE II
                             The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
eighteen million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 18,400,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of  the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the National Bank
of Pakistan on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and
attachment, for purpose of carrying out the Project, as described in
Schedule 2 hereto, in AJK. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June
30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph
(a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied
from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15 commencing
Page  4
November 15, 2006 and ending May 15, 2031. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on May 15, 2016, shall be one and
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of
such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by
them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms
of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring
the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not
yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise
such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that,
in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change
the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may,
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment
to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph
(a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
      Section 2.09. The Additional Chief Secretary of AJK is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement and Article V of
the General Conditions, in respect of expenditures in AJK under the
Project.
                             ARTICLE III
                      Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end:
            (i)   shall carry out or cause to be carried out activities
                  in the Northern Areas under the Project, through the
                  Department of Health of the Northern Areas, with due
                  diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
                  priate administrative, financial and health practices,
                  and with the Health Policy for Northern Areas Health
                  Services dated September 17, 1995, and shall provide,
                  promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
                  and other resources required for such activities under
                  the Project; and
            (ii)  without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
                  obligations under the Development Credit Agreement,
                  shall cause AJK to perform all its obligations set
                  forth in the Project Agreement, shall take or cause to
                  be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
                  facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
                  appropriate to enable AJK to perform such obligations,
                  and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
                  which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
Page  5
      (b)   The Borrower shall make available to AJK the proceeds of the
Credit allocated from time to time to Categories 1 (a), 2 (a), 3 (a) and
4 of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
in accordance with its standard budgetary procedures, for purposes of
activities under the Project to be carried out by AJK.
      (c)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out or cause to be carried
out the activities under the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of
activities in AJK under the Project shall be carried out by AJK
pursuant to Section 2.03 (a) of the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions, and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed
for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan
for the future operation of the Project; and
      (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan.
                             ARTICLE IV
                         Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the activities to be carried out in the
Northern Areas under the Project of the departments or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for carrying out said activities.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in para-
                  graph (a) of this Section, including those for the
                  Special Account for each Fiscal Year, audited in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied by independent auditors
                  acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than nine months after
                  the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                  the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                  scope and in such detail as the Association shall
                  have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
Page  6
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the
                  Association has received the audit for the Fiscal
                  Year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine
                  such records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included
                  in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
                  of this Section and that the report of such audit
                  contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
                  whether the statements of expenditure submitted
                  during each Fiscal Year, together with the pro-
                  cedures and internal controls involved in their
                  preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
                              ARTICLE V
                     Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   AJK shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall
have arisen which shall make it improbable that AJK will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to
the Borrower.
                             ARTICLE VI
                     Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions.
      (a)   The Association: (i) has received satisfactory Subprograms
for NA and AJK for FY 1996/1997; and (ii) is satisfied with the
progress made in the carrying out of activities in the health sector
in NA and AJK in FY 1995/1996; and
      (b)   The Executive Committee of the Borrower's National
Economic Council has approved the Planning Commission (PC)-1 docu-
ments with respect to the Project.
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to
be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Asso-
ciation, namely, that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by AJK, and is legally binding upon AJK in accordance with
its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Page  7
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE VII
             Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs Division, or any Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer in that Division of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan
            Economic Affairs Division
            Islamabad, Pakistan
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                  ECONOMIC                     ECDIV-05-634
                  Islamabad
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                  INDEVAS                      197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.             248423 (RCA),
                                                64145 (WUI) or
                                                82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                  By /s/ Mansoor Elahi
                                          Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Mieko Nishimizu
                                     Acting Regional Vice President
                                                         South Asia
                             SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
Page  8
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated               % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
 (1) Subprogram expenditures
     (including works, equipment
     materials, medicines and
     operating costs):
     (a)  for AJK          Up to 1,450,000       19% for FY 1997 and,
                           for FY 1997 and,      thereafter, such
                           thereafter, such      percentage as
                           amount as may be      may be determined
                           allocated by the      by the Association
                           Association from      from time to time
                           time to time
     (b)  for NA           Up to 1,100,000       22% for FY 1997
                           for FY 1997 and,      and, thereafter,
                           thereafter, such      such percentage
                           amount as may be      as may be determined
                           allocated by the      by the Association
                           Association from      from time to time
                           time to time
 (2) Vehicles:                                   100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures, 100%
     (a) for AJK           1,380,000             of local expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory cost)
     (b) for NA              140,000             and 65% of local
                                                 expenditures for other
                                                 vehicles procured
                                                 locally
(3)  Consultants' services                       100%
     and training:
     (a) for AJK             900,000
     (b) for NA              480,000
(4)  Grants                4,640,000              100% of Grants made
(5)  Unallocated           8,310,000
                          __________
     TOTAL                18,400,000
                          ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made:
      (a)   in respect of a Subprogram, unless such Subprogram has
been approved by the Association in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement or
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, as the case may
be;
Page  9
      (b)   in respect of a Grant, unless the Grant has been made in
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; and
      (c)   in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for Subprograms,
Grants and expenditures under contracts not exceeding the equivalent
of:  (i) $200,000 for goods and works; (ii) $100,000 for services of
consulting firms; and (iii) $50,000 for the services of individual
consultants, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.
                             SCHEDULE 2
                     Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to support the Northern Areas and
AJK in improving, in an equitable manner, the health status of the
population in all districts by implementing  Subprograms, focusing on
reductions in infant and maternal mortality and which: (i) improve the
quality and sustainability of primary health care; (ii) increase the
cost-effectiveness and coverage of health and family planning services;
(iii) strengthen the capacity of the health sector through human
resources development and training; and (iv) build institutional
capacity through improved management and organizational development.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objective:
      The carrying out of Subprograms for:
1.   the strengthening of community and NGO participation in health
services by, inter alia, making grants from the NGO Fund for
establishing and increasing community involvement in such services,
expanding existing NGO health services and encouraging new NGO
health-related initiatives;
2.   the strengthening of health services administered by the
Departments of Health of NA and AJK through upgrading of primary
health facilities to a minimum standard of service provision for
preventive and basic curative care, upgrading of first level referral
services, particularly, to handle maternal emergencies and critically
ill children and enhancing health education activities;
3.   developing human resources through increasing the number of
trained staff, particularly female paramedical staff, and establishing
and upgrading paramedical training schools and in-service training
facilities; and
4.   strengthening of the management and planning capacity of the
health services staff through management training and provision of
technical assistance.
                        *             *             *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
                             SCHEDULE 3
                Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the pro-
visions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and
Page  10
revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions
of this Schedule, as applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
      Except as provided in Part C of this Section I, vehicles shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions
of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
      The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with
the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of
the Guidelines.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    National Competitive Bidding
      Except as provided in paragraph 2 below, contracts for (i) works,
equipment, materials and medicines, and (ii) vehicles estimated to cost
the equivalent of $500,000 in the aggregate, may be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.    National Shopping
      Contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 each or
less for: (i) equipment and materials equivalent in the aggregate upto
$400,000 for NA and AJK each; and (ii) medicines equivalent in the
aggregate upto $250,000 and $150,000 for AJK and NA, respectively,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.    Contracts for works in remote areas estimated to cost $25,000
per contract or less and in the aggregate up to $700,000 may be
procured by inviting bids from at least three contractors.
4.    Goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Grants made under paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement shall
be purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other
relevant factors, such as time of delivery and efficiency and
reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance facilities
and spare parts therefor, and in the case of services, of their
quality and the competence of the parties rendering them.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts,
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to
the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement
of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to the first four contracts each in NA and AJK and,
thereafter, each contract for vehicles, equipment, materials and works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  11
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts
using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued
by the Association, with such modifications as shall have been agreed
by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have
been issued by the Association, the Borrower shall use other standard
forms agreed with the Association.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts,
shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts
for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Association review
shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b)
single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (d)
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising
the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments
to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                             SCHEDULE 4
                       Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall:
      (a)   by March 31 of each Fiscal Year during the implementation
of the Project, or such later date as may be acceptable to the
Association, provide or cause to be provided to the Association, for
its assessment and review, each proposed Subprogram to be carried out
in the next following Fiscal Year;
      (b)    by June 30 of each such Fiscal Year during the implemen-
tation of the Project, or such later date as may be acceptable to the
Association, provide to the Association for its approval, each such
Subprogram modified in a manner satisfactory to the Association,
taking into account its comments and recommendations;
      (c)   carry out or cause to be carried out each such Subprogram
in accordance with modalities and procedures as approved by the
Association and in a manner satisfactory to the Association;
      (d)   not make any material changes to the agreed Subprogram
without prior approval of the Association; and
      (e)   ensure that sufficient funds shall be released to the
Department of Health of NA, not later than the fifteenth day of the
beginning of each quarter during the period of the Program, for the
purposes of implementing such part of the approved Subprogram as is
to be carried out in that quarter.
2.    The Borrower shall, with the participation of the Association,
NGOs and community representatives, carry out: (a) no later than
March 31 of each Fiscal Year during the implementation of the Project,
an annual review of the Project for purposes, inter alia, of monitoring
and evaluating progress made in the carrying out of the Project and the
Subprograms carried out in the current Fiscal Year; and (b) no later
than June 30 of each Fiscal Year during the implementation of the
Project, an annual review of the Project for purposes, inter alia, of:
Page  12
(i) reviewing the eligibility of Subprograms for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit in the following Fiscal Year, including the
amounts to be allocated out of the proceeds of the Credit for such
approved Subprograms; and (ii) obtaining the approval of the
Association in respect of the expenditure program and the financing
plan for the following Fiscal Year and the Borrower's contribution
relating thereto.
3.    The Borrower shallduring the period 1996/1997 to 1999/2000,
increase the overall level of spending on the Program, and on the
non-salary recurrent costs under the Program by an average of 18%
and 34% per annum, respectively, for NA and 11% and 18% per annum,
respectively, for AJK, in constant price terms.
4.    The Borrower shall ensure that an adequate number of qualified
service delivery staff are available to assist in the implementation
of the Program and shall not take any action to restrict or prohibit
the recruitment of such staff.
5.    The Borrower shall create and fill additional management
positions in the district offices of the Department of Health by
February 28, 1997. The additional management positions shall be
agreed upon as part of the Subprogram for FY 1996/1997 approved
pursuant to paragraphs 1 (a) and (b) of this Schedule.
6.    The Borrower shall make arrangements satisfactory to the
Association for obtaining and maintaining adequate provision of
technical assistance and the involvement of NGOs and communities
in the implementation of the Project.
7.    The Borrower shall ensure that the Program Steering Committee,
the NGO Program Committee and the District Health Committees shall
each meet at least quarterly.
8.    The Borrower shall, without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 9.06 of the General Conditions, monitor and evaluate the
implementation of the Program and, additionally, furnish the
following reports to the Association:
      (a)   semiannual summary reports on the progress of the Program,
not later than 60 days after the end of each six-month period during
the implementation of the Project; and
      (b)   detailed progress reports on the Program by July 31, 1998,
which reports shall discuss, inter alia, the achievement of the
objectives of the Program.  The Borrower shall review such reports
with the Association by September 30, 1998.
                             SCHEDULE 5
                           Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Category" means Category (4) set forth
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means, an amount
equivalent to $400,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an
amount equivalent to $200,000 until the aggregate amount of with-
drawals from the eligible Category shall be equal to or exceed the
equivalent of SDR 2,000,000.
Page  13
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do
not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower, as the case may be, shall furnish to
                  the Association requests for deposits into the
                  Special Account at such intervals as the Asso-
                  ciation shall specify.
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request,
                  the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been paid
                  out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Category, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to
the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Category, minus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
Page  14
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Category shall
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund,
as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association
such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
