Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2883 PAK
                          Project Agreement
                  (Northern Health Program Project)
                               between
                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                 and
                       AZAD JAMMU AND KASHMIR
                         Dated July 18, 1996
                                                CREDIT NUMBER 2883 PAK
                          PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 18, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and AZAD JAMMU AND KASHMIR, acting by its
President (AJK).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighteen million
four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 18,400,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement,
but only on condition that AJK agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
      WHEREAS AJK, in consideration of the Association's entering into
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
                             Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
Page  2
                             ARTICLE II
                      Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a) AJK declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out in the territory of AJK
the activities under the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and health practices, in conformity with the Health Policy
of AJK dated April 3, 1996, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Association and AJK shall otherwise
agree, AJK shall carry out in the territory of AJK the activities under
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. (a) AJK shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
      (b)   For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions
and without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section, AJK shall:
            (i)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to
                  the Association and furnish to the Association not
                  later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or
                  such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
                  between the Association and AJK, a plan for the
                  future operation of the Project in the territory
                  of AJK; and
           (ii)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
                  exchange views with AJK on said plan.
      Section 2.04. (a) AJK shall, at the request of the Association,
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of
the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
      (b)   AJK shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the
performance by AJK of its obligations under this Agreement.
      Section 2.05.  (a) AJK shall make Grants only on the terms and
conditions and according to the procedures set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
                             ARTICLE III
                         Financial Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) AJK shall maintain records and accounts adequate
to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of its activities under the
Project, of the departments or agencies of AJK responsible for carrying
out such activities.
Page  3
      (b)   AJK shall:
            (i)   have its records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (a) above for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
                  with appropriate auditing principles consistently
                  applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
                  Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available, but
                  in any case not later than nine months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by said
                  auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Association shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts as well as the
                  audit thereof, as the Association shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE IV
                    Effective Date; Termination;
                     Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of AJK thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of
the following two dates:
            (i)   the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
                  shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
           (ii)   the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
      (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance
with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this
Section, the Association shall promptly notify AJK of this event.
      Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension
under the General Conditions.
                              ARTICLE V
                      Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when
it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or
radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be
given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the
party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so
specified are:
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                 197688 (TRT),
                   Washington, D.C.        248423 (RCA),
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                            82987 (FTCC)
Page  4
      For AJK:
            Additional Chief Secretary
            Planning and Development Department
            Government of Azad Jammu and Kashmir
            Muzaffarabad
            Pakistan
      Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and
any document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement
on behalf of AJK may be taken or executed by the Additional Chief
Secretary, Planning and Development Department or such other person or
persons as AJK shall designate in writing, and AJK shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
      Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counter-
parts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one
instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Mieko Nishimizu
                                     Acting Regional Vice President
                                                         South Asia
                  AZAD JAMMU AND KASHMIR
                  By /s/ Mansoor Elahi
                                          Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE 1
                       Implementation Program
1.    AJK shall:
      (a)   by March 31 of each Fiscal Year during the implementation
of the Project, or such later date as may be acceptable to the Asso-
ciation, provide or cause to be provided to the Association, for its
assessment and review, each proposed Subprogram to be carried out in
the next following Fiscal Year;
      (b)    by June 30 of each such Fiscal Year during the implementa-
tion of the Project, or such later date as may be acceptable to the
Association, provide to the Association for its approval, each such
Subprogram modified in a manner satisfactory to the Association, taking
into account its comments and recommendations;
      (c)   carry out or cause to be carried out each such Subprogram
in accordance with modalities and procedures approved by the Associa-
tion and in a manner satisfactory to the Association;
      (d)   not make any material changes to the agreed Subprogram
without prior approval of the Association; and
      (e)   ensure that sufficient funds shall be released to the
Department of Health of AJK not later than the fifteenth day of the
beginning of each quarter during the period of the Program, for the
Page  5
purposes of implementing such part of the approved Subprogram as is
to be carried out in that quarter.
2.    AJK shall, with the participation of the Association, NGOs and
community representatives, carry out: (a) no later than March 31 of
each Fiscal Year during the implementation of the Project, an annual
review of the Project for purposes, inter alia, of monitoring and
evaluating progress made in the carrying out of  the Project and the
Subprograms carried out in the current Fiscal Year; and (b) no later
than June 30 of each Fiscal Year during the implementation of the
Project, an annual review of the Project for purposes, inter alia,
of: (i) reviewing the eligibility of Subprograms for financing out of
the proceeds of the Credit in the following Fiscal Year, including
the amounts to be allocated out of the proceeds of the Credit for
such approved Subprograms; and (ii) obtaining the approval of the
Association in respect of the expenditure program and the financing
plan for the following Fiscal Year.
3.    AJK shall during the period 1996/1997 to 1999/2000, increase
the overall level of spending on the Program, and on the non-salary
recurrent costs under the Program by an average of 11% and 18% per
annum, respectively, in constant price terms.
4.    AJK shall ensure that an adequate number of qualified service
delivery staff are available to assist in the implementation of the
Program and shall not take any action to restrict or prohibit the
recruitment of such staff.
5.    AJK shall create and fill additional management positions in
the district offices of the Department of Health by February 28, 1997.
The additional management positions shall be agreed upon as part of
the Subprogram for FY 1996/1997 approved pursuant to paragraphs 1 (a)
and (b) of this Schedule.
6.    AJK shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Association for
obtaining and maintaining adequate provision of technical assistance
to and the involvement of NGOs and communities in the implementation
of the Project.
7.    AJK shall ensure that the Program Steering Committee, the NGO
Program Committee and the District Health Committees shall each meet
at least quarterly.
8.    AJK shall, without limitation upon the provisions of Section
9.06 of the General Conditions, monitor and evaluate the implementation
of the Program and, additionally, furnish the following reports to the
Association:
      (a)   semiannual summary reports on the progress of the Program,
not later than 60 days after the end of each six-month period during
the implementation of the Project; and
     (b)    detailed progress reports on the Program by July 31, 1998,
which reports shall discuss, inter alia, the achievements of the
objectives of the Program. AJK shall review such reports with the
Association by September 30, 1998.
                             SCHEDULE 2
            Procedures and Terms and Conditions of Grants
1.    Grants under paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement shall be managed by the NGO Program Committee, which shall
report to the Program Steering Committee, and shall satisfy the
following criteria:
      (a)   the purposes for which such grants shall be made shall be
to provide direct project support for NGO-related activities (Grant
activities);
      (b)   such grants: (i) shall be made to the Family Planning
Association of Pakistan and the Marie Adelaide Foundation to support
Page  6
the expansion of their existing programs; and (ii) may, subject to
subparagraph (c) below, be made to NGOs and community groups which:
(1) are registered bodies in existence for more than one year; (2)
have the capacity, commensurate with the size of the NGO or community
group, to generate and manage funds and maintain and audit accounts
for such funds; (3) have the capacity, commensurate with the size of
the NGO or community group, to manage, monitor and report on Grant
activities; (4) are willing to work in rural and difficult geo-
graphical areas; (5) are community-oriented; and (6) are willing to
work in partnership with the public sector (collectively, the
Beneficiaries);
      (c)   notwithstanding subparagraph (b) (ii) above, grants shall
be made to NGOs (other than the Family Planning Association of
Pakistan and the Marie Adelaide Foundation) and community groups only
for projects which: (i) are responsive to local health needs; (ii)
are technically and economically feasible; (iii) are development,
rather than welfare, oriented; (iv) are replicable; (v) do not overlap
with or duplicate other services; (vi) offer services to all members
of the community, especially women and children; and (vii) demonstrate
plans to become financially sustainable beyond the period of funding;
      (d)   notwithstanding subparagraph (b) above, Grants shall be
made only to NGOs that are administratively and operationally inde-
pendent from the Borrower and AJK; and
      (e)   the work program for a Grant activity shall not exceed
three years.
2.    (a)   AJK shall submit to the Association, for its approval, the
first three Grant proposals under the Credit and, thereafter, all
proposals for Grants equivalent to $100,000 or more each.
      (b)   When presenting a Grant to the Association for approval
under subparagraph (a) above, AJK shall furnish to the Association an
application, in form satisfactory to the Association, together with:
(i) a description and appraisal of the Grant activity, including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request.
      (c)   When submitting requests for withdrawals under the Credit
in respect of Grants not covered by subparagraph (a) above and not
requiring the Association's prior approval, AJK shall furnish to the
Association documentation containing the date of the Grant and the
name of the beneficiary and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request.
      (d)   Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of subparagraphs (b) and (c) of this paragraph shall be presented to
the Association on or before June 30, 1999.
3.    No expenditures for goods or services required for a Grant
activity shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
Credit unless such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than
ninety days prior to the date on which the Association shall have
received the application or request referred to in subparagraphs 2
(b) and (c) above, respectively.
4.    Grants shall be made on terms whereby AJK shall obtain, by
written contract with the Beneficiaries or by other appropriate
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the
Association, including the right to:
      (a)   require the Beneficiary to carry out and operate the
Grant activity with due diligence and efficiency and accordance with
sound technical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain
adequate records;
      (b)   require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be purchased in accordance
with the provisions of Part C.4 of Section I of Schedule 3 to the
Page  7
Development Credit Agreement; and (ii) such goods and services shall
be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Grant activity;
      (c)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the
Association if the Association shall so request, such goods, works,
plants and construction included in the Grant activity, the operation
thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
      (d)   require that: (i) the Beneficiary shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks
and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business
practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the foregoing, such
insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transpor-
tation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit to the place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder
to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the Beneficiary to
replace or repair such goods;
      (e)   obtain all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administra-
tion, operations and financial condition of the Beneficiary and to
the benefits to be derived from the Grant activity; and
      (f)   suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the
use of the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Beneficiary
to perform its obligations under its contract with AJK.
