Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15691
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
GUAVIO HYDRO POWER REPORT
(LOAN 2008-CO)
May 22, 1996
Infrastructure and Operations Division
Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Exchange Rate effective April 1981
US$1 = Col$52.49
Exchange Rate effective 1990
USS$1 = Col$502.2
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I Megawatt (MW)         I ,OOOkW
1 Gigawatt-hour (GWh)   =    1,000,000 kWh
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 to December 31
ABBRE VIA TIONS AND ACRONYMS
EEB - Empresa de Energia de Bogota -
IDB - Inter-American Development Bank
ISA - Interconexion Electrica S.A.
The utility changed its name, effective August 1990, from Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota
(EEEB) to Empresa de Energia de Bogota (EEB). Throughout this report, EEB will be used.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
GUAVIO HYDRO POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 2008-CO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. PREFACE ...........................................................................;
2. EVALUATION SUMMARY ...........................................................................;;
3. PART L PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ............................................................1
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES ............................................................................1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ............................................................................2
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT .............................................4
D. PROJECT  SUSTAINABILITY ............................................................................9
E. BANK  PERFORMANCE                       ........................................................................... 10
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE .......................................................................... 10
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ...........................................................................                                                                   12
H. FUTURE OPERATION ...........................................................................                                                                        12
I. KEY  LESSONS LEARNED ..........................................................................                                                                     13
4. PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES ..........................................................................                                                              s15
A. TABLE  1: SUMMARY  OF ASSESSMENTS   ..........................................................................                                                      15
B. TABLE 2: RELATED  BANK  LOANS/CREDITS ...........................................................................                                                   17
C. TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE ..........................................................................                                                               17
D. TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ................................ 18
E. TABLE 5A: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION/ PLANNED AND ACTUAL PERFORMANCE
INDICATORS ..........................................................................                                                                                  19
F. TABLE 5B: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION/ PLANNED AND ACTUAL FINANCIAL
INDICATORS ...........................................................................                                                                                 20
G. TABLE 6: KEY  INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION .......................................................................... 21
H. TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED  IN  PROJECT ..........................................................................                                                   22
I. TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS ...........................................................................                                                                 22
J. TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING ..........................................................................                                                              23
K. TABLE 9: ECONOMIC  COSTS AND  BENEFITS ..........................................................................                                                   24
L. TABLE  10:  STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ...........................................................................                                                   23
M. TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS ................................................... 26
N. TABLE  12: BANK  RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS ..........................................................................                                                 26
0. TABLE  13: BANK  RESOURCES: MISSIONS ..........................................................................                                                     27
APPENDIX: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ............................................... 28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



I



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
GUAVIO HYDRO POWER PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 2008-CO)
1. PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Guavio Hydro Power
Project in Colombia, for which Loan No. 2008-CO in the amount of US$359.0 million
equivalent was approved on May 28, 1981 and made effective on October 29, 1982.
The final closing date was June 30, 1990, two years after the original closing date
of May 30, 1988. The loan was fully disbursed, and the last disbursement took place on
November 13, 1990. Cofinancing for the project was provided by the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB).
The ICR was prepared by Ms. Sandra Joss of the Latin America and Caribbean
Region and reviewed by Messrs. Jayme Porto-Carreiro, Peter Ludwig, and Robert Crown,
LA3IN Task Manager, Division Chief, and LA3 Project Adviser, respectively.
The ICR is based on material in the project file, interviews with Bank staff
involved in project preparation and implementation, and additional information requested
from the borrower to facilitate the Bank's review of the project. The borrower prepared
its own evaluation of the project (Appendix) and reviewed the Bank's draft ICR (no
comments received). Given the closing date of June 30, 1990 and project completion in
December 1993, no supervision or ICR mission has taken place since July 1991.
Therefore, an Aide-Memoire (as normally required under BP13.55 of April 1994) has not
been prepared for the ICR.



I



11
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
GUAVIO HYDRO POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 2008-CO)
2. EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
(i)    To provide the electricity supply needed to support growth and employment, and
to allow substitution for more costly fuels, Colombia's energy balance indicated, at the
time of project preparation, that 6,600 MW would have to be added to national power
capacity by 1988. The project was the least-cost investment in the National Power
Expansion Program, and its primary objective was to contribute 15% of these
requirements through development of renewable energy resources (para. 1).
Project Objectives
(ii)   The project comprised: (a) a hydroelectric plant constructed on the Guavio river.
The plant included river diversions, rockfill dam and spillway tunnels; intakes and
diversion tunnels; pressure tunnel, underground power house and transformer, caverns
with access tunnel, and tailrace tunnel; ancillary electromechanical equipment for the
power house; a step-up sub-station; two double-circuit transmission lines; and
infrastructure for the project of access and service roads, and five bridges; (b) a regional
load-dispatch and telecommunication center at Empresa de Energia de Bogota (EEB'); (c)
studies; and (d) training for EEB's technical staffl(para. 3).
(iii)  Project objectives were consistent with the Government's strategy for the energy
sector which aimed at increasing the use of low cost domestic sources (such as
hydropower) which were in abundant supply. Nevertheless, it is fair to say that the
magnitude of the project was not consistent with the implementing and financial capacity
of EEB, particularly in light of known financial and institutional weaknesses (para. 4).
Implementation Experience and Results
(iv)   The project is considered partially successful in achieving its major physical
objective of providing new capacity and energy needed by EEB and the rest of the
National System to meet forecast demand (para. 5). The project's civil works, equipment
The utility changed its name, effective August 1990, from Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota
(EEEB) to Empresa de Energia de Bogota (EEB). Throughout this report, EEB will be used.



iii
installation and associated activities were carried out as planned. The power plant, with an
ultimate capacity of 1,600 MW, was completed and has been commissioned. Initial
installed capacity is 1,000 MW (five 200-MW units). Environmental and socioeconomic
studies were completed and have been useful for this project and follow-on activities. Staff
training, in Colombia and abroad, in the operation and maintenance of the plant and its
control and communications system has been successfully carried out. The partially
successful rating takes into account the fact that, despite the project's relative success in
reaching objectives, this has been at a high cost. The additional six years taken to complete
the project has meant a deferral of anticipated revenues to EEB. It has yet to recover from
this. In short, EEB is bankrupt (paras. 5, 7).
(v)   The project will likely maintain the achievements generated in relation to its major
objective of providing new capacity and energy needed by EEB and the rest of the
National System to meet forecast demand. Two key factors for sustainability stand out:
first, the simple maintenance required of the plant, which is being done effectively; and
second, the low operating costs necessary for the plant. EEB's financial difficulties are
not expected to negatively impact sustainability in light of the recent decision to lease the
plant to a private operator to help pay the debt of the Guavio plant. Therefore, it is
expected that the Guavio plant will continue to generate electricity well into the 21 st
century (para. 25).
(vi)   The total cost of the project was US$2,545 million in comparison to the appraisal
estimate of US$1,303 million. Overall poor management within EEB is a key contributor
to the high project cost overrun (para. 24). Delays in completing the individual
components of the project put the commissioning of the plant back by approximately six
years, resulting in a completion date of December 1993 (paras. 10, 19-22).
(vii)  The project was declared effective on October 29, 1982 and loan closing was June
30, 1990, two years after the original closing date of May 30, 1988. Potential risks were
not realistically calibrated at appraisal (para. 9). Needless to say, the project did
experience a number of difficulties throughout much of the implementation phase (para.
10). The resettlement of a much larger than estimated population (1,774 families versus
250 families estimated at appraisal) was a critical issue. Although the Bank was
instrumental in directing the borrower's attention to the serious social and rural
displacement problems caused by the project, and continued to follow-up on progress of
the corrective action program (implemented under the Power Sector Adjustment Loan
(PSAL), 1988-90), much of the project's problems could have been diluted with attention
to the resettlement issues early on (paras. 11-14). Other contributory factors to the
project's highly unsatisfactory outcome include EEB's financial difficulties (paras. 15-16);
ineffective management of the project, particularly in the early phase of project
implementation (para. 17); and a landslide and adverse geological conditions (para. 18).
(viii) The Bank's overall performance is considered deficient. The Bank failed to
appraise the project adequately. The magnitude of the project was not consistent with the
implementing and financial capacity of the borrower; and there was insufficient analysis of



iv
the risks (para. 26). On a more positive note, during implementation, the Bank showed a
good deal of flexibility in modifying elements of the project to more effectively meet the
changing needs of the borrower (para. 27).
(ix)   The overall performance of the borrower is considered deficient in preparing and
implementing the project. In part due to limited capacity, the borrower's involvement in
project preparation was passive. EEB's performance during project implementation was
seriously hampered by its ongoing financial difficulties, the lack of continuity in senior
management, and the overall poor management of the project which gave rise to strong
public criticism. On the positive side, during implementation the borrower did respond
effectively to issues such as the landslide, and the adverse geological conditions and, much
later, the relocation of project affected families (para. 28).
(x)    Generally speaking the project's outcome has to be considered highly
unsatisfactory. Notwithstanding the partial success in achieving project objectives, this has
been at a high cost, particularly in terms of the non-viability (financial and economic) of
the project at completion (paras. 8, 29, Table 9).
Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
(xi)   A technical and economic feasibility study is being conducted to determine how
many units should be added to the plant, and the best timing, in order to boost its
generating capacity particularly at times of peak demand. The administrative, operational
and maintenance arrangement has worked fairly well to date, and will continue in place
until the best operating approach for the EEB is determined (paras. 30-33).
(xii)   The review of this project yields four key lessons, which have already been built
into follow-on projects and instituted in both Bank policy and Colombia's sector policy:
* Greater attention is required early in the project cycle to resettlement issues
for a project's affected population. Involuntary resettlement is an integral part
of project design and should be dealt with from the earliest stages of project
preparation. In this project, there is clear evidence of the limited focus early
on to the issue of resettlement, which led to delays in project implementation,
an excessive cost overrun, and distrust on the part of the affected families. The
Bank has now institutionalized early assessments as well as broader policies
for involuntary resettlement2, and the Government also has placed
resettlement planning at a more prominent level in the country's dam planning.
2 The Bank's OD4.30 of June 1990 broadens the treatment of resettlement issues beyond hydropower and
irrigation projects to all types of investment operations, emphasizing the need for (a) minimizing
involuntary resettlement; (b) providing people displaced by a project with the means to improve, or at
least restore, their former living standards, earning capacity, and production levels; (c) involving both
resettlers and hosts in resettlement activities; (d) a time-bound resettlement plan (prior to appraisal
start-up); and (e) valuation and compensation principles for land and other assets affected by the
project.



v
Quality at entry (involving country commitment through broad-based
participation in project preparation and ownership through borrower's
leadership of project preparation) is paramount for project success. Clearly
evident in this project is the lack of quality at entry: there was passive
involvement by borrower during project preparation, in part due to limited
capacity, indicating limited commitment and ownership; the project's
magnitude was not consistent with institutional capacities. Resettlement
particularly lends itself to active participation of borrower and stakeholders
but with the underestimation of the affected population, participation of the
stakeholders was not actively pursued at the early stages of the project.
* Rigorous analysis of project risks is required at early phases of the project
cycle. The institutional framework and external environment are critical to a
project's success. In this project, a greater degree of certainty has been
conveyed than is warranted, hence overly optimistic objectives/targets. More
rigorous analysis of risks, such as the implementing and financial capacity of
borrower; and the economic, social and environmental risks associated with
resettlement, should have been undertaken.
T There is a need to undertake a realistic appraisal of the underlying institutional
framework of the sector and the borrower, and to include institution-building
components in a project only if there is a commitment and a policy to
implement required reforms. In general, the poor performance of EEB is
rooted in the institutional set-up which did not provide incentives for the
company to improve its performance. Political interests and short-term
motives have taken precedence over financial and commercial objectives.
Clearly, the long-term solution for the company's problems lies in the
restructuring of the legal and institutional framework of the power sector
(para. 34).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
GUAVIO HYDRO POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 2008-CO)
3. PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Objectives
I.    To provide the electricity supply needed to support growth and employment, and
to allow substitution for more costly fuels, Colombia's energy balance projections
indicated, at the time of project preparation, that 6,600 MW would have to be added to
national power capacity by 1988. The project was the least-cost investment in the National
Power Expansion Program, and its primary objective was to contribute 15% of the
country's requirements through development of renewable energy resources. In exchange
for providing 40% of the local investment cost, the sale of 40% of the annual Guavio
output was to be guaranteed to ISA for the benefit of its shareholders. The remaining
60% of the plant's output was to be retained by EEB. The project was also expected to
promote measures to strengthen weaker institutions in the sector and EEB's own financial
planning, management and maintenance capabilities. In addition, a program was to be
prepared and carried out to ensure environmental protection of the Guavio River and
reservoir.
2.    The project aimed at (i) providing new capacity and energy needed by EEB and
the rest of the National System to meet forecast demand; (ii) assisting EEB to participate
with the other ISA partners in the least-cost operation of the National System, as well as
to improve its own efficiency; (iii) assisting EEB in improving its maintenance practices
through studies and a training program for its technical staff, (iv) encouraging adequate
environmental protection in the project area; (v) assisting EEB in the execution of the
studies required to complete the assessment of the environmental impact of the Guavio
hydroelectric plant; and (vi) promoting Government efforts to improve overall sector
organization and to ensure sufficient access to local financing needed for the National
Power Expansion Program.
3.    The project comprised: (i) a hydroelectric plant constructed on the Guavio river.
The plant included river diversions, rockfill dam and spillway tunnels; intakes and
diversion tunnels; pressure tunnel, underground power house and transformer, caverns
with access tunnel, and tailrace tunnel; ancillary electromechanical equipment for the
power house; a step-up sub-station; two double-circuit transmission lines; and
infrastructure for the project of access and service roads, and five bridges; (ii) EEB's



2
regional load-dispatch and telecommunication center; (iii) studies; and (iv) training for
EEB's technical staff.
4.     Project objectives were consistent with the Government's strategy for the energy
sector which aimed at increasing the use of low cost domestic sources (such as
hydropower) which were in abundant supply. Despite the clarity of objectives, it is fair to
say that the magnitude of the project3 was not consistent with the implementing and
financial capacity of EEB, particularly in light of known financial and institutional
weaknesses4. Delays in project preparation, while not significant, can be traced to two key
factors: first, a temporary return to power sector policies in Colombia which allowed for
extreme regionalism rather than promoting a combined and coordinated effort in the
national interest5; and second, persistent financial difficulties in EEB (electricity sales
decreasing due to rationing during dry period 1980-8 1, higher tariffs, and increase in
electricity theft) which slowed down the acquisition of land and resettlement of the
affected population.
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
5.     Overall Objectives. The project is considered partially successful in achieving its
objectives, particularly that of providing new capacity and energy needed by EEB and the
rest of the National System to meet forecast demand. Other objectives met have been (i)
assisting EEB to participate with the other ISA partners in the least-cost operation of the
National System, as well as to improve its own efficiency; (ii) assisting EEB in improving
its maintenance practices through studies and a training program for its technical staff,
(iii) encouraging adequate environmental protection in the project area; (iv) assisting EEB
in the execution of the studies required to complete the assessment of the environmental
impact of the Guavio hydroelectric plant; and (v) promoting Government efforts to
improve overall sector organization and to ensure sufficient access to local financing
needed for the National Power Expansion Program. This rating takes into account the
fact that, despite the project's relative success in reaching objectives, this has been at a
high cost. The additional six years taken to complete the project has meant a deferral of
anticipated revenues to EEB. It has yet to recover from this.
6.     Physical Objectives. Planned: Construction of hydroelectric plant (950 million
m3 useful capacity reservoir; river diversions, rockfill dam and spillway tunnels; intakes
3 This loan was for US$359 million, the largest ever loan to be made by the Bank to a Latin American
country, to assist in the construction of the largest hydroelectric facility in Colombia.
4 For Loan 1807-CO (March 1980-December 1986), EEB's performance during implementation was
below expectations, and effectiveness was, in fact, delayed one year because of EEB's high level of
overdue accounts. The project experienced major delays, revenue covenants were generally not met,
in some years the utility was unable to cover its debt service with internally generated funds, power
losses increased substantially, and there was a large accumulation of accounts payable and receivable.
5 During 1972-77, no Bank lending for power was possible because the shareholders could not reach
agreement on coordinated and sound development whereby they, through ISA, would combine
resources for the construction and operation of large plants.



3
and diversion tunnels (about 4km) to conduct waters of the Chivor and Batatas Rivers into
the Guavio reservoir; pressure tunnel (about 15km), underground power house and
transformer, caverns with access tunnel (about 2km), and tailrace tunnel (about 5km);
five generating units to be located in the underground power house; ancillary
electromechanical equipment for the power house; a step-up sub-station at Guavio; two
double-circuit 230kv transmission lines to Bogota (about 200 circuit-km), and four 230kv
line bays at the Circo and Tunal substations in the Bogota 230-kv ring; and infrastructure
of access and service roads (107 km) including equipment for their maintenance, five
bridges and about 37km of 115kv transmission line and terminal substation; regional
load-dispatch and telecommunication center (EEB); studies based on recommendations of
the Environmental Reconnaissance study for Guavio, and study and implementation of a
maintenance improvement program for EEB's generating plants; training program for
EEB's technical staff including training in Colombia and abroad for staff who would
operate and maintain the EEB's load-dispatch and telecommunications center, and training
for staff responsible for operating and maintaining EEB's generating plants.
7.    Achievements: The project's civil works, equipment installation and associated
activities were carried out as planned. The power plant, with an ultimate capacity of 1,600
MW, was completed and has been commissioned. Initial installed capacity is 1,000 MW (five
200-MW units). Following are the principal features of the completed project:
*  An earth-and-rockfill dam 250 m high with a 1.012 billion m3 capacity
reservoir. Spillway consisting of a control structure and two 500-m tunnels.
Auxiliary tunnel giving access to the two valve houses and undersluice.
Diversion and sluiceway tunnel. Submerged intake connected to the
penstock.
*  Two 2-km diversion tunnels to convey water from the Chivor and Batatas
rivers into the Guavio reservoir.
*  A 17-km underground conduit between the intake and underground
powerhouse, consisting of a 13-km upper penstock, 500-m-high surge tank,
pressure shaft 500 m high, and lower penstock, which branches into two
conduits each 1,400 m long ending in distributaries that deliver water to each
of the generating units (banks of four units per distributary).
*  Underground powerhouse at a depth of 600 m, with two bays housing the
generating plant and transformers. A 2-km access tunnel. Two cable vaults
each 500 m high to transport energy to the surface.
*  Freeflow tailrace tunnel 5 km long to restore water to the Guavio River.
*  Control houses, outdoor substation and switchyard connecting to 230-kV
transmission lines. Load-dispatch and communications center.



4
*   Transmission system: two double-circuit 230-kV transmission lines, 80 and
150 km long, convertible to 500-kV single-circuit; 11 5-kV transmission line
40 km long with two terminal substations at Mambita and Ubala.
*   About 100 km of access and service roads and heavy equipment for their
maintenance. Infrastructure, camps, offices, shops, general services buildings.
*   Environmental and socioeconomic studies. Training of staff, in Colombia and
abroad, in the operation and maintenance of the plant and its control and
communications system.
8.     Return on Investment. The return on investment, at appraisal, was calculated as
15 percent which compared favorably with the opportunity cost of capital for Colombia,
estimated to be 11 percent. According to EEB, the re-analysis of the return on investment
is now estimated at 8 percent, indicating the project is not economically viable. The
increased construction period (approximately six years longer than envisaged) together
with changes in the variables that had been used for the appraisal are contributing factors
to the decrease in rate of return (Table 9).
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
9.     This section analyzes factors affecting project implementation. The project was
declared effective on October 29, 1982, eleven months after the original effectiveness date
of November 29, 1981. Additional time was required by the borrower to ensure
satisfactory arrangements were made for financing of balance of EEB's investment
program for 1982-83, a condition of effectiveness. The loan was closed June 30, 1990,
two years after the original closing date of May 30, 1988. At appraisal, no major risks
were cited other than those normally associated with construction of large dams and
underground works. The assumption was made that if the land was acquired in a timely
manner, and the Project Management Unit appropriately staffed, then the project would be
carried out as scheduled. In fact, potential risks were far greater and were not realistically
calibrated at appraisal: (i) despite EEB's relatively sound financial standing for some
years, recent years had shown a deteriorating financial trend which could jeopardize the
project's success6; (ii) EEB's implementation capacity for the project, particularly in light
of the ongoing implementation difficulties of Loan 1807-CO (para. 4), was not consistent
with the magnitude of the project; and (iii) past experience had shown that most large
hydroelectric projects lead to a large influx of foreign construction workers, creating a
"boomtown" phenomenon and the associated economic, social and environmental risks7.
6 EEB's 1979-80 financial situation was unusually difficult. There was a trend, over the previous five
years, for operating costs to rise at a faster pace than tariffs, despite substantial tariff adjustments in
real terms. In addition, delays in obtaining authorization for timely tariff increases and lack of local
financing have negatively impacted EEB's financial situation. (SAR, May 6, 1981, pg. 30)
7 In this project, such population was estimated at 3,800 at its peak in 1984. This influx of foreign
workers taxed the region's limited urban housing stock, increased its dependency upon outside food



5
10.   Needless to say, the project did experience a number of difficulties throughout
much of the implementation phase, including problems with resettlement of a much larger
than estimated population; EEB's financial difficulties; ineffective management of the
project, particularly in the early phase of project implementation; and a landslide and
adverse geological conditions. All of these factors contributed to a delay in project
completion to December 1993 (six years later than appraisal estimate) and a seven and a
half year implementation phase for disbursement (versus appraisal estimate of six and a
half years); and a 195 percent cost overrun (Table 8, para. 24).
11.   Resettlement Issues. At appraisal it was thought that only 250 families would be
affected by the project and hence a resettlement plan was not considered necessary and
EEB planned to simply purchase the land. The reality is another story. At project
completion, 1,774 families were displaced due to land acquisition required for the project.
Of this number, 1,002 families (54%) left the region (since no resettlement took place in
the early years, they were left on their own. There is no information about the socio-
economic impact on this population.) Consequently, 772 families (46%) remained in the
region. According to EEB8, 521 families have suffered significant socio-economic
problems due to the displacement while 207 families suffer no significant impacts after the
displacement (as per the 1988 census). As of the end of 1995, there were 17 families still
awaiting relocation, which EEB is in the process of finalizing9.
12.   The Power Sector Adjustment Loan (PSAL, Loan 2889-CO), which was
implemented 1988-90, became the vehicle for correcting the social, as well as the
environmental, issues confronting the projectl'. The PSAL was instrumental in addressing
these concerns despite the continuing managerial neglect in EEB. Such neglect included
lack of vehicles for the community relations unit staff, poor coordination with other units
working on the Guavio project; bureaucratic inaction on key issues such as compensation
payments for defrauded resettlers and land regularization; and failure to resolve
expeditiously conflicts between EEB's contractors and the resettlers.
13.   While the numbers above tell the sad story, such outcome must be tempered by the
fact that Bank policy for resettlement was still evolving. The Bank's comprehensive policy
for resettlement (OD 4.30) did not come out until June 1990 when the project closed.
This policy substantially strengthens the Bank's first resettlement policy of 1980 (OMS
2.33) and its follow-on policy of 1986 (OPN 10.08). Since 1991, EEB has been able to
put in place a Rehabilitation Plan (Plan de Manejo de Impactos Socioeconomicos), with
supplies, led to sharp increases in homicide and other crime rates, and generated a need for greater
public health, police, and other governmental services.
8See EEB's report on the socioeconomic impact of the Guavio hydroelectric project, March 1996, in LAC
Information Center.
9 A condition for further preparation of the follow-on project with EEB will be satisfactory relocation of
the remaining 17 families, as well as satisfactory economnic and social results of the mitigatozy actions
put in place.
10 For a comprehensive assessment of the social and enviromnental issues of the Guavio project see Report
No. 13453 of August 17, 1994 (PCR for Loan 2889-CO).



6
the Bank's assistance, which has benefited 257 displaced families and 158 families that
were economically affected but not displaced. This must be recognized.
14.   In sum, three key planning problems hampered the resettlement component of the
project: (a) population estimates seriously undercounted the population to be displaced,
including the new settlements attracted by the construction work; (b) widespread
illiteracy and people's lack of information were used by dishonest officials to commit
compensation fraud; and (c) resettlers who realized they had been left out of the
compensation program, defrauded, or left without enough resources to move elsewhere,
became politically active and joined forces in strikes with dam workers. Eventually fraud
was eliminated, replacement lands were provided for remaining settlers, and research and
resettlement planning have now become more prominent in Colombia's dam planning. As
a result, the same organizational structures that initially channeled frustrations into
organized resistance are now providing the architecture for developing resettlement
procedures and support for resettlers' re-establishment.
15.   EEB's financial difficulties were surfacing as early as 1981 (and continued
throughout implementation), forcing EEB to rely on borrowings and delays in payments to
ISA and contractors to finance its investments. Expected revenue was eroded by rationing;
investment targets were unattainable with the lack of domestic financing (providing an
uncertain short-term outlook for carrying out the construction program); and an overall
lack of confidence and aggressiveness in financial management pervaded the utility. Key
contributing factors to EEB's poor financial performance which prevailed throughout
implementation of the project were: (i) decreased electricity sales due to rationing
particularly during the period 1980-81; (ii) increase in electricity theft resulting from poor
commercial management; and (iii) the country's economic recession.
16.   In addition, the traditional strong municipal and trade union influence prevented
EEB's management from following a proactive rational tariff policy and introducing long
overdue operational efficiency improvements. ISA's shareholders were also unable to
meet planned contributions to Guavio because of similar liquidity problems. To
ameliorate the acute funding constraints of the project, EEB resorted to extreme current
liability financing by increasing its accounts payable related to purchased energy (from
ISA) and contractor's billings. These practices caused a deterioration in the compliance
with financial covenants of existing multilateral loan agreements which in turn delayed
processing of new multilateral and linked commercial financing operations included in
Guavio's financing plan. In June 1988, the Government created a Management Steering
Committee for Guavio composed of management representatives from Interconexion
Electrica S. A. (ISA). The Steering Committee had a significant positive effect in the
overall management of the project. Its mandate of issuing "prior formal opinions" on all
fundamental project matters improved the implementation transparency of the project.
But, handicapped by the above mentioned financial constraints, the improved management
framework failed to demonstrate its effectiveness" .
For a more comprehensive study of the financial issues see Report No. 8893 (June 28, 1990), OED
Report on Colombia - The Power Sector and the World Bank, 1970-1987.



7
17.   Ineffective management of the project adversely affected implementation of the
project. The Project Management Unit was weak, particularly at project start-up, with
unclear definition of the organization, functions and staffing for the Unit together with
cumbersome procedures. Frequent top management changes at EEB (between 1985 and
1988 EEB had 3 changes in the General Manager position) together with weaknesses in
organization and mid-level management all contributed to ineffective management of the
project. In June 1982, a delegation from EEB came to the Bank/IDB to seek help in
improving the Unit's functioning. This resulted in improvements to the Project
Management Unit. And, in November 1987, in order to more effectively deal with arising
critical issues, two additional units were created in the EEB for project management - one
for planning and control and the other to deal with the social issues of the project.
Nevertheless, project management did continue, in many respects, to remain weak,
primarily due to: (i) interference of EEB's top management (Board) in project
management; (ii) unclear responsibilities of numerous actors in project supervision
(besides EEB project unit there were four consulting firms); and (iii) lack of experience of
EEB staff in project management, which was further exacerbated in an environment where
financial losses were increasing and the magnitude of the work was overwhelming.
18.   Project implementation was seriously delayed when, on July 28, 1983, a landslide
at the intake site killed about 200 people working on project construction, interrupting
work on the river diversion component. The investigation found the contractor had taken
the necessary safety precautions, citing the exceptional rainfall on July 8 (170mm at the
dam site) as the major contributor, which drastically increased the movement rate of
unstable mass, resulting in a "debris avalanche". In addition, adverse geological
conditions, especially at the pressure shaft site and powerhouse discharge tunnel,
contributed to delays. A second pressure shaft collapsed in March 1988 after the first one
was abandoned in September 1987. Both events were beyond the control of the
implementing agency.
19.   Timing of Project Completion. Delays in completing the individual components of
the project put the commissioning of the plant back by approximately six years. The following
table shows planned and actual completion dates of the main structures and erection work:



8
SCHEDULED
PHYSICAL COMPONENT                    COMPLETION (1)    COMPLETED
Infrastructure, accesses, roads, camps              May 1985          September 1988
Dam and auxiliary features                          April 1986          March 1990
Batatas diversion                                  January 1984        August 1984
Chivor diversion                                   February 1986       October 1987
Underground powerhouse and conduits               November 1986        Januaiy 1991
Electromechanical equipment                       November 1987       December 1992
Control houses, outdoor substation, switchyard     August 1985       December 1992 (2)
Transmission lines                                 October 1986      December 1993 (3)
Plant conmmissioning                              November 1987       December 1993
NOTES:
(1)    Staff Appraisal Report, May 6, 1981, Annex 4.6, page 56.
(2)   Installation work in cable vault A was completed in May 1995.
(3)    At the outset, as the transmission lines for the project were being completed, energy
produced by the Guavio plant was delivered through the priority connection with the Chivor plant.
Lines for the central corridor were completed in December 1993 and for the south corridor in May
1994.
20.   Reasons for Project Completion Delays. Construction work was started hurriedly
on this project in July 1981, in an effort to help make up an energy shortfall which forced the
country to ration electricity that year and the next. Early on, a series of difficulties with loan
disbursements and acquisition of land, coupled with geological and construction problems,
prompted the first complaints from contractors. This led to a first general rescheduling of the
project in July 1985, which moved its expected completion date from November 1987 to
March 1989.
21.   Energy-efficiency and energy-substitution campaigns launched in the wake of the 1981 -
1982 rationing drove demand figures down drastically, and the expansion plan had to be
revised accordingly. The combination of successive adjustments to the plan and the
government's macroeconomic policy prompted a second overall rescheduling of the project in
mid-1987. Calls for tenders for equipment supply and installation likewise had to be adjusted,
and the expected date for completion of the project was put at late 1993.
22.   Finally, in April 1992, in the midst of an economic state of emergency and severe
electricity rationing, the government decided to step up the pace of work on the project to see
it completed quickly. The first generating unit was commissioned in December 1992 and the
four others in 1993, the last of them in July of that year.



9
23.   Performance of Consultants. The consultants' performance was generally
satisfactory. During the construction phase a number of complaints were filed by contractors
who alleged that consultants were at times taking too long to do their work. The consultants
took an active role in resolving these problems. A Colombian consulting firm was awarded the
contract for basic and detailed design engineering, preparation of bid documents for the main
civil-works contracts and equipment supply and installation, examination of bids, and
construction advisory services. The design concept and technical features were reviewed
periodically by a Consultants' Committee of four international experts and two local consultants
representing EEB. Three local consortia were engaged to supervise and monitor the
construction and installation contracts, providing inspection, technical, administrative, and
accounting services. They supervised construction of the dam and appurtenant structures and
oversaw construction of the underground structures and instaDlation of electromechanical
equipment. A local consortium was hired to design the transmission system and provide
advisory support during its construction, and another Colombian consortium supervised
erection of the lines.
24.   Project Cost Overrun. The total cost of the project was US$2,545 million in
comparison to the appraisal estimate of US$1,303 million. The increase in costs is due
mainly to increases in (i) engineering and administrative costs because of the longer
period of project construction and higher than expected participation of consultants in
project supervision; (ii) infrastructure and land acquisition costs underestimated at
appraisal; (iii) civil works costs due to geological problems found at tail-race tunnel and
power shaft; and (iv) equipment costs initially underestimated. It should be noted that 63
percent of the overall cost overrun and 85 percent of the foreign cost overrun is
attributable to interest during construction. In short, overall poor management within
EEB is a key contributor to the high project cost overrun (Table 8a).
D. Project Sustainability
25.   Project sustainability is considered likely, i.e., the project will likely maintain the
achievements generated in relation to its major objective of providing new capacity and
energy needed by EEB and the rest of the National System to meet forecast demand.
Certainly the project is a financial disaster in terms of the high project cost overrun, and
overall poor management within EEB during the project timeframe has been a large
contributor to this12. While EEB's financial difficulties could negatively impact
sustainability, to date this has not occurred and it is considered unlikely to do so,
particularly in light of the recent decision to lease the plant to a private operator to help
pay the debt of the Guavio plant. In support of sustainability, two key factors stand out:
first, the simple maintenance required of the plant, which is being done effectively; and
second, the low operating costs necessary for the plant. Therefore, it is expected that the
Guavio plant will continue to generate electricity well into the 21st century.
12 It should be noted that the financial difficulties are also shared by Interconexion Electrica S. A. -
Generation (ISAGEN) and its shareholders.



10
E. Bank Performance
26.   The Bank's overall performance is considered to be deficient. The Bank failed to
appraise the project adequately. As stated in para. 4, the magnitude of the project was not
consistent with the implementing and financial capacity of the borrower; and there was
insufficient analysis of the risks. The Bank's continued failure to supervise the social
program in the early years of implementation sent a signal to project management that
these issues could be left aside, which they were until they reached crisis levels. In
addition, the project was deficient in not having a well developed and detailed
environmental management plan (with a specific budget, timetable, and implementation
targets) before project construction began. An acceptable Environmental Management
Plan for the project was produced in 1988, long after construction had begun"3.
27.   On a more positive note, during implementation, the Bank showed a good deal of
flexibility in modifying elements of the project to more effectively meet the changing needs
of the borrower. For instance, the Bank agreed to temporarily advance disbursements
through the Special Action Program and to finance interest during construction for two
debt service payments, when the borrower was particularly vulnerable. Numerous other
modifications, including reallocations, were agreed to by the Bank to facilitate the
Borrower's implementation of the project. In addition, the Bank did eventually play a key
role in directing the borrower's attention to the serious social and rural displacement
problems started by the project, and continued to closely follow-up the corrective action
program, primarily through the PSAL.
F. Borrower Performance
28.   The overall performance of the borrower is considered to be deficient in preparing
and implementing the project. In part due to limited capacity, the borrower's involvement
in project preparation was passive. And clearly, EEB's performance during project
implementation was seriously hampered by its ongoing financial difficulties, the lack of
continuity in senior management, and the overall poor management of the project which
gave rise to strong public criticism. In general, the poor performance of EEB is rooted in
the institutional set-up which did not provide incentives for the company to improve its
performance. Political interests and short-term motives have taken precedence over
financial and commercial objectives. Clearly, the long-term solution for the company's
problems lies in the restructuring of the legal and institutional framework of the power
sector. (See Box 1 for history of EEB, highlighting the cycles of public and private sector
involvement. This history is similar to that of several other utilities in Latin America). On
a positive note, during implementation the borrower did respond effectively to arising
issues such as the landslide, and the adverse geological conditions and, much later in
3 The Bank's environmental assessment procedures (OD 4.01 October 1991) now require that (for
Category "A" environmentally sensitive projects) a draft environmental management plan be
prepared prior to start of appraisal.



11
implementation, the relocation of project affected families. The Resettlement Report
prepared by EEB's Community Relations Office provided a virtual gold mine of statistical
information on the demography and socio economic situation of the rural population
displaced by the land acquisition program at the Guavio site. Regrettably, such analysis
was not performed at the preparation stage of the project. It is safe to say, however,
today the Colombian power sector is among the Bank's most advanced borrowers in its
ability to manage social issues.
Box 1 The History of Empresa de Energia de Bogota (EEB)
Cycles of Public and Private Sector Involvement
A successful concession was foiled by bad tariff regulation ... In 1885, the Municipality of
Bogota signed a concession contract with a local entrepreneur for the formation of the Electric Company
of Bogota (EEB) to generate and distribute light and power to the city. It was stipulated that the
electricity tariff should be determined by free competition with alternative sources of light and power (at
the time, wvax candles, oil, gas and other lighting companies). In 1890, EEB started to supply electricity
to BogotA from its 300 kw hydro plant. The Company was an immediate success, with rapid growth in
electricity consumption for the next two decades. By 1920 EEB was exploiting to the limit the hydro
potential available to it and expansion would have to be based on coal-fired plants. Electricity tariffs,
however, according to the concession contract were set below long-run marginal costs and did not
generate enough resources for the transition from low cost hydro-electricity to higher cost thermal-
electricity. After two years of deterioration in quality of service and decline in energy consumption, EEB
was allowed to double its tariffs in order to finance the expansion of the system. As would be predicted
consumer reaction to the price increase was strong.
But predatory price competition over a natural monopoly was not the answer... .The
Government decided then that the best way to control electricity price increases was to end EEB's
monopoly and introduce competition in the electricity industry through the creation of the National
Electricity Company (NEC). Nevertheless, the end-result of competition was not the intended one. NEC
invested heavily in generation equipment and developed a distribution network alongside the existing one
owned by EEB. Soon after the start of NEC's operations, predatory competition began between the two
power companies which, as is typical for power utilities, had high investment costs and low short-run
marginal costs. The result of the price war, when many consumers moved from one company to the other
without paying their bills, was the financial insolvency of both companies and a power crisis.
Mixed ownership of a single supplier was an improvement.... In 1927, the Municipality of
Bogota was forced to intervene by buying half the shares of EEB and the whole of National Electricity
Company, merging them into a single mixed company. The power crisis was thus solved and from 1928
to 1950 the electricity market resumed healthy growth, supplied by a well-managed and profitable utility.
Public ownership with private control also yielded acceptable results .... In spite of the
satisfactory services rendered by the local power company, the Municipality of Bogota in line with the
then current practice in Latin America, decided to increase its control over the power utility through
complete ownership of its assets. In 1951, the Municipal Government obtained financing from local
commercial banks and bought the totality of shares of EEB. The commercial banks involved, concerned
with the good management of EEB, demanded control of Company's board. Under the commercial
bank's control, EEB continued to be well run and profitable.
Until the public sector took full control.... In 1971, after liquidation of the twenty-year debt, the
Municipality took full control of EEB. From then on the history of EEB is one of continuous decline.
Between 1971 and 1990, operating costs grew 83 percent in real terms, total electricity losses increased
from 10 to 22 percent, and the company's financial situation went from healthy to critical. Recently, EEB
has had six commercial managers in a period of two years.



12
G. Assessment of Outcome
29.   Generally speaking the project's outcome has to be considered highly
unsatisfactory. Notwithstanding the partial success in achieving project objectives, this has
been at a high cost, particularly in terms of the non-viability (financial and economic) of
the project at completion
H. Future Operation
30.   The Guavio hydroelectric plant has been built for an ultimate capacity of 1,600 MW,
but is currently operating at 1,000 MW. With its current capacity it can generate 5,200 GWh
of firm power annually. The plant can be expanded by installing three additional 200-MW
units; the civil works needed for this increase in plant capability are complete at this writing.
31.   As part of the National Interconnected System, the plant must adhere to the rules of
the National Load-Dispatch Center. The restrictions this has entailed have kept the plant's
output below the design levels to ensure overall economic efficiency of the power system. As
of December 1995 it had produced approximately 13,017 GWh (an annual average of 4,300
GWh), as follows:
YEAR          ENERGY           WATER STORAGE
1992          62 GWh         786 Mm3       100%
1993         4,111 GWh       771 Mm3       98%
1994        4.444 GWh        766 Mm3       97%
1995         4,400 GWh       735 Mm3       94%
32.   A technical and economic feasibility study is being conducted to determine how many
units should be added to the plant, and the best timing, in order to boost its generating capacity
particularly at times of peak demand.
33.   The EEB has been administering, operating, and maintaining the plant with its own
funds. Seeing to these tasks for the Guavio Project Office are its Operations and Installation
Division and Construction Division, which handle operations and maintenance on site with a
team of temporary operators. These units receive technical, administrative and logistical back-
up from the Engineering Division and Contracts Division and from the Socioeconomic Group,
which deals with issues affecting communities in the region. This administrative, operational
and maintenance arrangement has worked fairly well to date, and will continue in place until
the best operating approach for the EEB is determined.



13
I. Key Lessons Learned
34.    The review of this project yields four key lessons, which have already been built
into follow-on projects and instituted in both Bank policy and Colombia's sector policy:
Greater attention is required early in the project cycle to resettlement issues
for a project's affected population. Involuntary resettlement is an integral part
of project design and should be dealt with from the earliest stages of project
preparation. In this project, there is clear evidence of the limited focus early
on to the issue of resettlement, which led to delays in project implementation,
an excessive cost overrun, and distrust on the part of the affected families. The
Bank has now institutionalized early assessments as well as broader policies
for involuntary resettlement'4, and the Government also has placed
resettlement planning at a more prominent level in the country's dam planning.
*   Quality at entry (involving country commitment through broad-based
participation in project preparation and ownership through borrower's
leadership of project preparation) is paramount for project success. Clearly
evident in this project is the lack of quality at entry: there was passive
involvement by borrower during project preparation, in part due to limited
capacity, indicating limited commitment and ownership; the project's
magnitude was not consistent with institutional capacities. Resettlement
particularly lends itself to active participation of borrower and stakeholders
but with the underestimation of the affected population, participation of the
stakeholders was not actively pursued at the early stages of the project.
- Rigorous analysis of project risks is required at early phases of the project
cycle. The institutional framework and external environment are critical to a
project's success. In this project, a greater degree of certainty has been
conveyed than is warranted, hence overly optimistic objectives/targets. More
rigorous analysis of risks, such as the implementing and financial capacity of
borrower; and the economic, social and environmental risks associated with
resettlement, should have been undertaken.
*   There is a need to undertake a realistic appraisal of the underlying institutional
framework of the sector and the borrower, and to include institution-building
components in a project only if there is a commitment and a policy to
implement required reforms. In general, the poor performance of EEB is
14 The Bank's OD4.30 of June 1990 broadens the treatment of resettlement issues beyond hydropower
and irrigation projects to all types of investment operations, emphasizing the need for (a) minimizing
involuntary resettlement; (b) providing people displaced by a project with the means to improve, or at
least restore, their former living standards, earning capacity, and production levels; (c) involving both
resettlers and hosts in resettlement activities; (d) a time-bound resettlement plan (prior to appraisal
start-up); and (e) valuation and compensation principles for land and other assets affected by the
project.



14
rooted in the institutional set-up which did not provide incentives for the
company to improve its performance. Political interests and short-term
motives have taken precedence over financial and commercial objectives. The
long-term solution for the company's problems lies in the restructuring of the
legal and institutional framework of the power sector.



- 15 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
GUAVIO HYDRO POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 2008-CO)
4. PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
A. Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of                   Substantial                     Partial                    Negligible                 Not Applicable
objectives
Macro policies                                                        E                            El                           x
Sector policies                          ni                           oo                                                        x
Financial objectives                     O                            n                            3                            x
Institutional development                L                            X                            3L
Physical objectives                      C                            X                            3                            L
Poverty reduction                        31                                                        3                            x
Gender issues                           3                             3                            3                            x
Other social objectives                  3                            x                            3                            X
Enviromnental objectives                 3                            x                            3                            X
Public sector management                El                            Li                           LI                           x
Private sector development               3                            x                            L                            0
Other (specify)                          L                            1X                           0                            3
B. Project sustainability                           kely                             Unlikel                             Uncertain
x                                   LI                                  D
C. Bank perforrnance                        Highly satisfactory                     Satisfactory                         Deficient
Identification                                      K                                    I
Preparation assistance                                                                  Li                                   x



- 16-
Appraisal                                      C                                 H                                X
Supervision                                                                      X        
H                      ~~~~~~~~x m-
D. Borrower Perfornance                 Highly satisfactory                 Satisfactorv                       Deficient
(/)                              (/)                              (v)
Preparation
Implementation
Covenant compliance                            F]
Operation (if applicable)
E. Assessment of outcome      Highly satisfactory           Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory          Highly unsatisfactory
O                         C                                                     x



- 17 -
B. Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits'5
Loan/credit title        Purpose                   Year of approval               Status
Preceding operations
1. 681 -CO               Chivor Hydroelectric        1970                       Completed
2. 874-CO                Guatape II Hydroelectric    1973                       Completed
3. 1582-CO               San Carlos I Hydropower     1978                       Completed
4. 1628-CO  (EEB)        Mesitas Hydroelectric       1978                       Completed
5. 1725-CO               San Carlos II Hydropower    1979                       Completed
6. 1807-CO  (EEB)        Bogota Power Distribution   1980                       Completed
7. 1868-CO               Guadalupe IV Hydropower    1980                        Completed
8. 1953-CO               Playas Hydropower           1981                       Completed
Following operations
1. 2401-CO              Power Development Finance   1984                        Completed
2. 2449-CO               Rio Grande Multipurpose     1984                       Completed
3. 2634-CO  (EEB)       Bogota Distribution II       1986                       Completed
4. 2889-CO               Power Sector Adjustment     1988                       Completed
5. 3278-CO              Public Sector Reform         1990                       Ongoing
C. Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle             Date planned'6    T   Date actual/ latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)   1979/80            May 18, 1979/Jan. 16, 1980
Preparation                               1980                  January - December 1980
Appraisal                                December 1980          December 1980
Negotiations                             April 1981             April 1981
Letter of development policy (if applicable)   NA               NA
Board presentation                       May 1981               May 28, 1981
Signing                                  August 1981            March 8, 1982
Effectiveness                            November 1981          October 29, 1982
First tranche release (if applicable)    NA                     NA
Midterm review (if applicable)           NA                     NA
Second (and third) tranche release (if   NA                     NA
applicable)                                                          ____
Project completion                       November 30, 1987      December 31, 1993
Loan closing                             May 30, 1988           June 30, 1990
Includes projects in the same sector/subscctor as this project and adjustmcnt operations with related objectives.
16 As provided in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) No. 3408b-CO.



- 18 -
D. Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
. FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91
Appraisal        53.0    98.0   166.9  254.7   328.1   355.9   359.0
estimate                                                                                       I
Actual            0      41.7   70.1   157.0  203.4   295.0   348.5   352.4   358.0  359.0
Actual as %       0       43      42      62      62      83      97      98      99.7    100
cf estimate
Date of final disbursement: November 13, 1990



- 19-
E. Table 5a: Key Indicators for Project Implementation/ Planned and Actual Performance Indicators17
Empresa de Energia de           1980          1981          1982          1983          1984          1985          1986          1987          1988     1989      1990     1991     1992      1993     1994
Bogot6                                                                                                                                                                      _        _
-Service
- Gross generahion,own   (3,601) 3,330  (4,108) 3,222  (4,777) 3,490  (4,842) 3,862  (5,347) 2,706  (5,611) 2,714   (5,635) 3.233  (7,597) 4,316  (8.791) 3,780    3,441  3,861  4,265    3,802    7,914    8,205
plants (GWh)
- Purchases (GWh)        (1,625) 1,523   (1,643) 1,391   (1,587) 1,672  (2,179) 1,636  (2,361) 2,972  (2,891) 3,306  (3,787) 3,247   (2,678) 2,637  (2,476) 3,473    4,127    4,132    3,935    3,481  695  1,055
Total Suppy          (5,226) 4,853   (5.751)4,613  (6,364) 5,163  (7.021) 5,498  (7,708) 5,678  (8,502) 6,020  (9,422) 6,480   (10275)6,953   (11267)7,253    7,568    7,993    8,200    7,283    8,609    9,260
- Sales                  (4.009) 3,956  (4,410) 3,832  (4,875) 4,178  (5,393) 4,183  (5,967) 4,259  (6,605) 4,551   (7,315) 4,876  (8,104) 5,140  (8,982) 5,435    5,857    6,145    6,525    5.909    6,422    6,929
Losses and unaccounted   (1,097) 898    (1,208) 781    (1,177) 985  (1,229) 1,315  (1,310) 1,419  (1.403) 1,469  (1,508) 1,603  (1,593) 1,813  (1,690) 1,818    1,710    1,848    1.675    1,373    2,188    2,331
for (GWh)
%io                 (21 0))227%   (21 0) 20 4%   (18 5) 23 6%    (17 5) 31 4%    (17 0) 33.3%   (16 5) 32 3%   (16 0) 32 9%   (15 5) 35 3%   (15.0) 33 5%    29 2%    30 1%    25.7%    23 2%    34 1%    33 6%
Number of customers         (580) 560     (633) 585     (690) 622     (753) 666     (822) 710     (898) 764     (980) 805    (1,071) 859    (1,170) 914   973     1,023     1,085    1,120    1,142    1,292
(1000)
Number of employees"    (2,662) 2,729  (2,822) 3,079  (2,991) 3,210  (3.170) 3,443  (3,361) 3,636  (3,562) 3,771   (3,776) 3,972   (4,003) 4,165  (4,243) 4,064    4,193    4,307    4,339    4,301  4,255    4,297
Customers per employees    (218) 205      (224)190      (231)194      (238) 193     (245)195      (252) 202     (260) 203     (268) 206     (276) 225     232       238      250      260       268      301
Energy sates per employee   (1,506) 1,227    (1,563) 753    (1,630) 968    (1,701) 740    (1,775) 623    (1,854) 780    (1,937) 904    (2,024) 975  (2,117) 1,371  1,664  1,838    2,186    1.608    2,167    2,632
(MWh)
Financial
-Rate of return for the year  (92) 24.4    (15 3) 212  (14.5) 191    (14 5) 217    (16 8)16.0    (20 2)14 9    (25 2)12.0    (23 2)105      (20.5)8.1     8 6      12 0      6 6       6 0      7 7      5 9
- Self-financing ratio (%) '  (32) 33       (21) 25       (32) 30       (37) 39       (36) 34      (49) 104       (55) 34       (70) 27       (97) 75      31        31       23       36        16       31
annual
-Debt service coverage      (2 3) 2 6      (1.8) 2 5     (1 6) 2 0     (1.5)1 8      (1 7)1 8      (1.7) 3.0     (18)1 7       (2 3)1 5      (2 4)1 1      1 0      1 0       1 0      0 6      1 4      0 6
ratio"1
- DebVtequity ratio n      (40/60) 62    (47/53) 70    (51/49) 75    (51/49) 75    (51/49) 79    (49/51) 84    (46Y54) 85     (41/59) 84   (33/67) 84      84        86       81       82        73       67
Accounts recervable as a      (23) 47       (21) 57       (19) 48       (17) 42       (17) 41       (17) 43       (17) 44       (17) 38       (17) 68      44        36       35       47        43       33
% of annual sates
17 Planned Performnance Indicators in brackets.
'I Percent of total supply.
19 Projected to grow at an average of about 6% per year.
20 Net intemal cash generat3on/construction program plus interest during construction and Investment in ISA.
21 Times that total debt service is covered by net income.
n Total debt (including ISA contributions to Guavio and liability reserves)/total equity.



- 20 -
23
F. Table 5b: Key Indicators for Project Implementation/ Planned and Actual Financial Indicators
Empresa de Energia de             1980           1981          1982           1983          1984           1985          1986           1987          1988      1989      1990      1991     1992      1993      1994
Bogota
Rate of Return
Aver Net Fixed Assels     (19133) 12851  (24489)21438  (45032) 34029  (72081) 54332  (96680) 87185      (125839)      (155303)      (276134)       (423434)   780574  1064665  1381487  1766599  2232431  2697633
(Mil col)                                                                                                153703        266244         415033        584710
Net Operating Income (Mill    (1880) 3140    (3750) 4547    (6543) 6506  (10428)11796  (16276)13975  (25458) 22862  (39134) 31934  (64304) 43500  (86682) 47081    67139   128281    90720   106546   172874   159518
Cot )
Rateof Return(%)              (9 2) 24.4    (153) 212     (14 5) 191     (14 5) 217    (168)160       (20.2) 14.9    (252)120      (23 3) 10.5    (20 5) 81       86      120        66        6 0       7 7      5 9
Debt
Debt Service Coverage          (2.3) 2 6      (1.8) 2.5     (1.6) 2.0     (1 5)1.8       (1 7)1.8      (1 7) 3 0      (1 8) 1.7     (2 3) 1.5      (2 4) 1 1      1 0      10        1 0       06        1 4      06
(times)
DebtIEquity Ratio            (40/60) 62     (47/53) 70    (51/49) 75     (51/49) 75    (51/49) 79     (49/51) 84    (46/54) 85     (41/59) 84    (33/67) 84       84        86       81        82        73       67
Cash Generation Ratio (%)      (32 2) 33     (20 9) 25     (32 2) 30      (36.5) 39     (36.1) 34     (49.2) 104      (54 5) 34     (70.4) 27      (96.9) 75      31        31        23       36        16       -31
Accounts Receivable             (23) 47        (21) 57       (19) 48        (17) 42       (17) 47        (17) 43        (17) 44       (17) 38        (17) 6B      44        36        35       47        43        33
(as a percentage of annual
sates)
Operating Ratio                 (1.0) 52      (1 0) 50       (1 0)53       (0.9) 45       (0 8) 53      (0 7) 43       (0 8) 43      (0 8) 41       (0 9) 50      48        53        59       64        53        64
CurrentRatio                   (1 3)0.6      (1.6)0.8       (18)0.9        (17)11        (1.4)09        (1.6)07       (18)05         (1.8)05       (21)04         0.4       03       0.5       05       08        0.7
Depreciation                   (39)53         (38)1.8       (43)51         (3.7)58       (3.8)57        (38)5.1       (3.8) 1.5      (4.0)3.8      (35)3.8        35       40        38        07       2.8       33
(as a percentage of average
gross fixed assets)
Cost of Borrowin (%M                7.8           6.6            7.3           5.4            4.8           2.9            2 2           35             4 6       58        42       30        3 2      23 9     221
23 Planned Financial Indicators in brackets.



- 21 -
G. Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I.  Key implementation indicators
Service
Gross generation (Gwh)
Purchases (Gwh)
Total Supply (Gwh)
Sales (excl. own consumption)
Losses & unaccounted for
No. of customers
No. of employees
Customers per employee
Energy Sales per employee (Mwh)
Financial
Rate of return for year (%)
Self-financing ratio (%)
Debt service coverage ratio
Debt/equity ratio
Accounts receivable as a
0% of annual sales
Implementation Indicator projections are still being determined by EEB and will be incorporated in the proposed follow-on project,
now being identified/prepared.



- 22 -
H. Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study              Purpose as defined at            Status                Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
Institutional       Assess improvements in EEB's   Completed            Institutional studies
operation and maintenance                           recommended EEB staff training
planning and practices in                           programs, which staff undertook
generating plants. Recommend                        to improve skills for operation,
training required by EEB's staff                    control and maintenance of
in charge of operation and                          generating plants.
maintenance of generating
plants.
Environmental       Environmental Impact of         Completed            On the basis of the study,
Project                                             program was set up to alleviate
adverse effects of project.
Further studies were also carried
out on environmental issues,
such as development of a Five
Year Environmental Action
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ._ __._ __._ __._ _   P la n .
1. Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)             i              tual (US$M l
Item                      Local costs    Foreign       Total      Local costs    Foreign       Total
. __________________________  _____________  costs                                costs
Engineering and Admin            51.6          6.4         87.4        230.6           1.9       232.5
Infrastructure and Land          12.7          9.1         21.8         71.9          16.9         88.8
Main Civil Works                172.8        292.2        465.0        329.1        251.4        580.5
Electro-mechanical                4.7         89.1         93.8         66.0          92.6        158.6
Equipment.
Transmission System               7.5         19.2         26.7         10.9         36 0         46.9
Load-Dispatch Center              2.1          13.0        15.1           8.1        39.8          47.9
Studies and Training              0.5          0.8           1.3                      0.4           0.4
Contingencies
Physical                         40.0         60.5        100.5        132.0        200.0        332.0
Price                            83.0        187.9        270.9       -118.2        138.9         20.7
Subtotal                        123.0        248.4        371.4         13.8        338.9        352.7
Total Project Cost              374.9        678.2       1053.1        730.4        777.9        1508.3
Interest during                   0.0        250.0        250.0        206.2        831.1        1037.3
construction
TOTAL                           374.9        928.2       1303.1        936.6       1609.0       2545.6



- 23 -
J. Table BB: Project Financing
Item                Appraisal Estimate      ActualLatest Estimate
(US$m)                   (US$m)
Commercial Bank                      340.0                    1,158.1
Suppliers                            129.0                     169.3
I1DB                                 100.0                     859.2
World Bank                           359.0                     359.0
TOTAL                         928.0                    2,545.6



- 24 -
K Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
__________________                 ~~(millions  of U.S. dollars)__                           __   __  __   _
Year              C                  AO&M                Toal              Energy          Net Revenues-
CosIts             Costs              Cost               Sales              E    .
I         1980                                                            0.0 
2         1981                     56.6                                  56.6                                   -57
3         1982                     21,6                                  21.6                                   -22
4         1983                    1493                                  149.3                                  -149
5         1984                    201.4                                 201.4                                  -201
6         1985                    213.7                                 213.7                                  -214
7         1986                    226.9                                 226.9                                  -227
8         1987                    223.2                                 223.2                                  223
9         1988                    286.8                                 286.8                                  -287
10        1989                     222.0                                 222.0                                  -222
11        1990                     250.7                                 250.7                                  -251
12        1991                     1802                                  180.2                                  .180
13         1992                    243.9                0.2              244.1                2.3               -242
14         1993                     34.9                1.2               36.1              128.0                 92
15        1994                     197.2               11.5              208.7              161.0                -48
16        1995                      10.0               28.2               38.2              174.2                136
17         1996                                        26.7               26.7              197.2                171
18         1997                                        25.0               25.0              219.2                194
19         1998                                        23.1               23.1              250.0                227
20         1999                                        24.4               24.4              282.4                258
21         2000                                        24.8               24.8              277.5                253
22         2001                                        25.7               25.7              292.3                267
23         2002                                        26.5               26.5              301.5                275
24         2003                                        28.1               28.1              342.3                314
25         2004                                        28.2               28.2              325.5                297
26         2005                                        28.1               28.1              298.5                270
27         2006                                        29.3               29.3              321.3                292
28         2007                                        30.2               30.2              330.9                301
29         2008                                        31.1               31.1               340.9               310
30         2009                                        32.0               32.0               351 1               319
31         2010                                        33.0               33.0              361.6                329
32         2011                                        34.0               34.0              372.5                33B
33         2012                                        35.0               35.0               383.7               349
34         2013                                        36.1               36.1               395.2               359
35         2014                                        37.1               37.1               407.0               370
36         2015                                        28.3               28.3               419.2               391
37         2016                                        39.4               39.4               431.8               392
38         2017                                        40.6               40.6               4448                404
39         2018                   196.3'               41.8              238.1               458.1               220
40         2019                                        43.1               43.1               4718                429
41         2020                                        44 4               44.4               486.0               442
42        2021                                         45.7               45.7              500.6                455
43        2022                                         47.1               47.1              515.6                469
44        2023                                         48B5               48.5              531.1                483
45         2024                                        49.9               49.9              547.0                497
46         2025                                        51.4               51 4              563.4                512
47         2026                                        53.0               53.0               580.3               527
48         2027                                        54.6               54.6              597.7                543
49         2028                                        56.2               56.2              615.7                559
50         2029                                        57.9               57.9               634 1               576
51         2030                                        59.6               59.6               653.1               594
52        2031                                         61.4               61.4              672 7                611
53         2032                                        63.2               63.2              692 9                630
54         2033                                        65 1               65 1               713 7               649
55         2034                                        671                671               7351                 668
56         2035                                        69.1               69 1               757.2               688
57         2036                                        71.2               712                779.9               709
58         2037                                        73.3               73.3               803.3               730
59         2038                                        75.5               75 5              827.4                752
60         2039                                        77.8               77 8               852.2               774
61         2040                                        80 1               80 1               877 8               798
62         2041                                        82.5               82.5              9041                 822
63         2042                                        85 0               85.0               931 2               846
Total                       2714 7             2232 2             4946.9            24513 9            19567 0
12%
11%
10%
9%
8%/
Net Present Value                                                                                              1360)
373)
241
(3)
Internal Rate of Return I                                    I                  I                                  8
'Replacement of the equipment after reaching a life sWn of 25 years.
2 Asunptiona used are: (i) Constat USS of December 1993; (ii) exchange rate of lIUSS=ColS804.33; (iii) discount rate 9%; (iv) life span 50 years, 5 years for equipment;
(v) use of long term teriff  arting at USS30.S7/MWh; (vi) operation and maintenance costs and transference according to the Environmental Law are included in the
tables; and (vii) genetion: tarting with 4200 MW and reaching 5000MW in 1998, then constant.



- 25 -
L. Table 1024: Status of Legal Covenants
CONTRACT                                          COMPLIANCE DATE
SECTION              SUBJECT-MATTER                PER CONTRACT             COMPLIANCE STATUS / COMMENTS
3.03(b)i    Environmental inpact assessment          July 1983        C: Letter 320951, May 30/83. I BRD acceptance,
letter July 18/83
3.03(b)ii    Discussion with the Bank                July 1983        C: Letter 320951, May 30/83. I BRD acceptance,
letter July 18/83
3.03(b)iii   Implementaton of program in            January 1984      C: Done
accordance with environmental impact
assessment
3.03(c)     Employment of consultants for study of   April 1985      C: Done
maintenance program, and
implementation of same
3.03(c)i    Training part d(1)                                       C: Done
3.04(a)(b)   Insurance policy                                         C: Policies in force through June 25, 1996
3.05(c)i    Quarterly report on the project         (Periodically)   C: Done. 55 reports sent
3.06       Land                                                     CP: Negotations complete for all land required for
the project. Instability in reservoir area made it
necessary to purchase 10 new properties.
Titles being formalized
3.07       Environmental impact                                     C: Being fulfilled pursuant to Section 3.03(b)iii
5.02(a)i-iii  Audited financial statements           (Periodically)   C: Most recent report sent by EEB with note
563021 of June 6/95
5.02(b)     Rate of retum                           (Periodically)   C: Most recent report sent by EEB with note
563021 of June 6/95
5.02(c)     Balance sheet projecUons for seven      (Periodically)   C: Most recent report sent by EEB with note
years                                                       523863 of October 31/94
5.05(a)(b)   Energy sales                                             C: Most recent report sent by EEB with note
563021 of June 6/95
5.06-5.07-5.08   Tariff review                                          C: Current National Tariff Board directives being
.__ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _applied
Complied with
': Complied with partially
Because of the time lag between the project closing and the preparation of the ICR, and the change in the MIS for covenant
compliance, together with no records in the files for covenant compliance, at the Bank's request the borrower has prepared a
summary of covenant compliance.



- 26 -
M. Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
(Not Applicable)
N. Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of project cycle        Planned                  Revised                    Actual
l___________________    Weeks          US$         Weeks         US$         Weeks         US$
Through appraisal                                                                68.6    73,537
Appraisal-- Board   X                           _ X___X___7.8   38,819
Board -- effectiveness    NA           NA           NA           NA              23.9    26,233
Supervision                                                                      72.8   235,271
Completion                                                                      13.5 "    23,425
1 This time includes the output of an internal report on assessment of the resettlement component as a divisional exercise.



- 27 -
0. Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
_                                                 -
Stage of project   Month/   Number   Days in    Specialized         Performance Rating        Types of
cycle          year       of         field     staff skills                              Problems
p ersons                  represented
Implnemntation  Development
status      objectives
Through             10/79        3         12         pe,fa,lo
appraisal           12/79       2           5           pe
Appraisal --        12/80        5         12       pe,fa,lo,dc
through Board
approval
Board --            6/81         1          5           ec
effectiveness       9/81         1          5           pe
Supervision         10/81       2           5           pe            2/2                        f, m
12/81       1           5           fa
12/81       1           5           pe
12/81       1           5           fa            3/3                       f, m
4/82        3          5           pe
6/82        1          5           pe            3/2                        f,m
7/82        1          5           trg
11/82       1           5           pe
6/83        1          5           pe
12/83       1           3           pe
1/84        1          3           fa
3/84        1          5           pe            2/2                        f,m
10/84       1           5           pe            2/2                       f,t,m
11/85       2           5         pe,fa
8/86        2          5          pe,fa
11/87       4           5         3pe,fa           2             2
1/88        1          5           ss
2/88        1          5         anthro
4/88        5          5       2pe,fa,2trg        3              3
12/88       3           5         2pe,fa           3             3
6/89        2          5           2pe            3              3
10/89       1           5           pe
3/90        1          5          socio
8/90        1          5          pe,fa           2              2
3/91        1          5         anthro
7/91        3          5           pe             3              3
pe= power engineer    fa-fin.analyst
lo=Ioan ofricer       ececologist
ss=social scientist    anthro=anthropologist
socio=sociologist     -ffinancial
m-management          t-technical



- 28 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
GUAVIO HYDRO POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 2008-CO)
Appendix: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    INTRODUCTION
This report on the implementation of the Guavio hydro power project was prepared by staff of the Guavio Project
Management Unit, with input from the Finance Department of Empresa de Energia de Bogota (EEB).
The project, which took twelve years to complete, was funded with a loan from the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development (IBRD) and cofinancmg from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), commercial banks, and Financiera
Energ*tica Nacional (FEN). The local counerpart was furnished by the shareholders of Interconexion El6ctrica S.A. (ISA) and
EEB itself.
2.   BACKGROUND
The Guavio project was added to the National Energy Sector Expansion Plan in 1977 to meet projected new demand for
the period 1984 to 1988. It was slated to begin operations in 1987, in the hope of averting the need for stringent energy rationing in
the late 1980s or early 1990s. In 1979, the shareholders of ISA (including EEB) agreed that Empresa de Energia E1lctrica de
Bogota (today EEB) would take charge of construction and would own the plant. ISA would be entitled to 40% of the installed
capacity and of the energy generated by the project, in return for funding 40% of the total investment. ISA thereupon handed over
to EEB the studies, contracts, infrastructure, and land negotiatons it had completed as of that date.
Heavy constructon and work on the main structures began in July 1981, with an expected completion date of 1987. As
the project got under way, electricity was being rationed in Colombia. Early on, a series of difficulties with loan disbursements and
acquisition of land, coupled with geological complications and construction problems, prompted the first complaints from
contractors. This led to a first general rescheduling of the project in 1985, which moved its expected completion date to 1989.
In the wake of adjustments to the Energy Expansion Plan and the central government's macroeconomics policy, the project
timetable was completely revamped for a second time. In the process, midway through 1987 the timetable of tenders for the
procurement and installation of equipment for the plant was rewritten, and the expected date for completion of the project was put
at late 1993.
Finally, in April 1992, in the midst of an economic state of emergency and severe electricity rationing which remained in
place for over a year, the government decided to step up the pace of work to see the project completed quickly. The first generating
unit had its commercial commissioning on December 15, 1992, and the four others in 1993, the last of them in July of that year.
3.     ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The general objectives of the project can be summed up as follows:
-     To provide new capacity and energy needed by EEB and the rest of the national power systern to meet forecast
demand.



- 29 -
-     To enable EEB to deliver energy at least cost and take part, with other ISA shareholders, in least-cost operation
progms in the national intercomnected system, and to operate more efficiently.
-     To help EEB improve its maintenrnce practices through study and training programs for its operations staff.
-     To encourage adequate environmtal protection in the Guavio River basin and reservoir, developing a clean and
renewable water resource.
-     To promote government efforts to improve organization of the sector and ensure sufficient acces to local
financing needed for future expansion plans.
3.1    Physical Objectives
The project's physical targets were achieved according to plan. The power plan, with an ulimate capacity of 1,600 MW,
was completed and conumissioned. hital installed capacity is 1,000 MW (five 200-MW units). The following are the prncipal
features of the power-plant complex.
-      An earth-and-rockflhl dam 250 m high with a 1.012 billion m3 capacity reservoir. Spillway cnsisting of a control
structure and two 500-m tunnels. Auxiliary tunnel giving access to the two valve houses and undersluice. Submerged intake
connected to the penstock.
-      Two 2-km diversion tunnels to convey water from the Chivor and Batatas rivers into the Guavio reservoir.
-      A 17-km underground conduit between the intake and underground powehue , consisting of a 13-km upper
penstock, 500-m-high surge tank, pressure shaft 500 m high, and lower penstock, which branches into two conduits each 1,400 m
long ending in distributanes that deliver water to each of the generating units (banks of four units per distributary).
-      Underground powerhouse at a depth of 600 m, with two bays housing the generating plant and tLansfonners. A
2-km access tunnel. Two cable vaults each 500 m high to transport enrgy to the surface.
-      Freeflow tailrace tunnel 5 km long to restore water to the Guavio River.
-      Control houses, outdoor substation and switchyard connecting to 230-kV transmission lines. Control and
communications center.
-      Transmission system: two double-circuit 230-kV lines, 80 and 150 km long, convertible to 500-kV single-circuit;
115-kV transmission line 40 km long with two terminal substations at Mmnbita and Ubali.
-      About 100 km of access and service roads and heavy equipment for their maintenance. Infirastructure, camps,
offices, shops, general services buildings.
-      Environmental and socioeconomic studies. Training of staff, in Colombia and abroad, in the operation and
maintenance of the plant and its control and communications system.
Cumulative delays in completing the physical elements of the project postponed the plant's commissioning by 5.5 years.
The following table compares scheduled and actual completion times for the most important works:



- 30 -
SCHEDULED
PHYSICAL COMPONENT                    COMPLETION (1)   COMPLETED
Infrastructure, access and other roads, carnps     May 1985            September 1988
Dam and auxiliary features                         April 1986            March 1990
Batatas diversion                                 January 1984           August 1984
Chivor diversion                                 February 1986           October 1987
Underground powerhouse and conduits             November 1986            January 1991
Electromechanical devices                       November 1987           December 1992
Control houses, outdoor substation, switchyard    August 1985         December 1992 (2)
Transmission lines                                October 1986        December 1993 (3)
Plant commissioning                             November 1987         December 1992 (4)
NOTES:
(1)    Staff Appraisal Report, May 6, 1981, Annex 4.6, page 56.
(2)    Installation work in cable vault A was completed in May 1995.
(3)    At the outset, as the transmission lines were being completed, energy produced by the Guavio plant was delivered through
the priority connection with the Chivor plant. Lines for the central corridor were completed in December 1993 and for the south
corridor in May 1994.
(4)    The first unit went on stream in December 1992, the second in January 1993, the third in March 1993, the fourth in June
1993, and the fifth in July 1993.
3.2    Overall Project Timetable
According to the original plan, construction work was to start in 1981 and be completed in 1987. The actala chronolog.
was as follows, divided into three main periods.
1979 to 1984: Civil works tendered; extemal borrowings finalized; access and other roads and camps completed; river-
diversion works to prepare for construction of the dam.
1985 to 1989: Construction of the dam, penstocks, and underground powerhouse. Bids called for electrical and
mechanical devices. Determination of scope of work that could not be completed by pnme contractors without remaining on the
site with concomitant cost overrun.
1990 to 1993: Civil works completed; tunnel supports and equipment installed. Transmission configuration decided
upon, system tendered and erected. This period was marked by the effects of electricity rationing in 1981 and 1982.
The variances between the original timetable, the 1987 rescheduling (Table 1), and actual completion times (Table 2) are
attributable to the setting in which the project unfolded and a series of problems, the most serious of which are described in this
report.
4.     RESULTS



- 31 -
This section sumnmaims the outcorne of the project.
On the positive side, the power plant was constructed in conformity with the inital design parameters; geneatig
efficiency has improved; less expensive fuel now is being used in energy generation, stored water reserves have been boosted; EEB
now plays a stronger role in least-cost operation programs within the national iterconnected systemn; a stronger element of
competition was introduced in the energy marketplace; operations staff have been taught state-of4he-art technology; maintenance
practices have irproved considerably; and there have been heavy resource transfers for protection of the envirounent in the
Guavio basin.
However, the fact that the project was completed years later than plarned clearly takes away fomn its success. In the face
of the delays, finncl projeaons that had been posited on the plants being conmissioned as origially scheduled fell apart. The
deferral, for nearly six years, of anticipated revenues took a toll on the cmpanys finances from which it has yet to recover. This is
harming its chances of securing local funding needed for its future expansion plans.
On balance, then, the project from a concetual standpoint stands as a highly satisfactory achieverm, but a very
unsatisfactory venture from the standpoint of financial projections.
5.   RETURN ON INVESTMENT AND PAYBACK PERIOD
The Staff Appraisal Report, in a preliminary assessment, estimated a 15% rate of return for the project, which was
pointed out as comparing favorably with the opportunity cost of capital fur Colombia, estimated to be 11% at the time.
Changes in the variables that had been used for the appraisal, plus a construction period 5.5 years longer than envisaged,
explain in large measure the variance in the project's costs and benefits, on the basis of which the project's return now is estimated
at 8% (see Table 6 produced by the EEB Finance Departnent).
One original projection that is unlikely to materialize concerns the project's financial flows and payback period. As part of
the national interconnected system, the Guavio plant must adhere to operating rules and policies goveniung the energy sector. The
limitations this enWails for its output will make it impossible to generate the fimds originally projected.
6.     PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
6.1    Main difficulties experienced
The following are the main problems encountered in the successive stages of implenentation of this project.
6.1.1   Appraisal stage
The risks examined at this stage were those typically associated with construction of large dams and tunnels, it being
assumed that once the implementing unit had been set up and organized there would be no further difficulties. This proved to be
far from the case. Due consideration was not accorded to other contingencies such as political and legal risks (levying of new
taxes, new customns laws, adverse changes in legislation, pivotal importance of the project for the region's infrastructure), market
and sales risks for the product, and potetial events of force majeure (an understanding of the socioeconomic culture of the region,
strikes, public protests).
6.1.2   Construction stage
The project ran into serious difficulties from the start.
-     Land acquisition problems triggered delays and adjustments in the design of accesses to work fronts, river diversion work,
and the access tunnel and other work sites fur the underground powerhous.



- 32 -
-     A cave-in near the intake caused the death of 105 workers as they left the job site and occasioned further delays and
changes in accesses and in work on the river diversion and dam footings.
-     There were delays as well in installing and firn-unig the crushing and mixing plant supplied by the contractor to prepare
materials for the dam.
-     During construction of the pressure shaft the contactor ran into problems in locating the pilot weUl. When this was
followed by cave-ins, it was decided to abandon the well and resituate it 300 neters upstream. This alone added a year to the
project.
-     Serious geological complications arose when an 80-meter stretch was found during tailrace excavation to contain friable
formation sands under pressure of as much as 20 bars. It took 39 nonths to consolidate this area, but the technical and
construction problerns ulimatly were surmouted. The project was not delayed on tis account, since this was a standalone work
front, outside the project's critical path.
-     Contract awards for elecrmnical devices were held up by delays in securing approval of supplier credits and
changes in inport rules. This added two years to the original procurement timetable.
6.1.3   Acquisition of land
Imnmxdrate demands on the part of the low-incone residerts that comprise the population of the project area were
manifested in a series of demonstrations and labor strikes, which held up construction.
Since the original appraisal had looked only at the purchase of property that would be directly affected by construction for
the project, it had esimated that about 200 dwellings and some 1,500 area residernts would be affected. In the end, a total of 1,774
families were displaced, and detailed programs had to be devised to resettle and otherwise assist project-area residents.
As a result, the total cost of the necessary land plus the replacernent of area infrastructure and compensation of residents is
about four times higher than budgeted.
In sum: initial estimates of the fimilies that stood to be affected by the project were too low, and due account was not
taken of prospective community problems compounded by the absence of an institutional presence and infrastructure in the area.
This can stand as a valuable lesson for socioeconomic and environmental program planning and management in future in the
region.
6.1.4  Finances
EEB was in financial difficulty before the project began, and the situation did not improve during the construction penod.
The company was forced to secure additional loans and hold off energy payments it had been making to ISA and payments to
construction contractors.
The company's revenues were lower than anticipated, because of low tariff levels and because it did not have energy
available to meet the demand. Its meager local revenues were not enough to fund its investment programs.
Other factors compounding EEB's weak financial performance during the construction stage were a rise in non-system
losses, the scant percentage of overdue accounts it managed to collect, and cash-flow problems of ISA shareholders who thus were
unable to honor their project commitments when the time came.
The Steering Conmittee set up by the ISA shareholders to take decisions was ineffectual because of continuing financial
constraints throughout the project implementation period.
6.1.5   Administration



- 33 -
The project's implementing unit started out weak. Its organization and functions were not clearly mapped out, and its
procedures were cwnbersome. Not until 1985, with support from the Bank, was the unit's organizatio strengthened, to give it the
needed professional and administrative capabilities. However, it did not manage the project autonomously: other EEB
deatents remained in charge of finances, accounting, legal affairs, and key decisions.
Responsibility likewise was diluted between the consulting firm (1) and the project supervision finns. Six firms
supervised the main works, and six companies were involved in the erection of the transmission system (four for design and
advisory support, two for supervision).
Further complicating the administration of the project was the lack of continuity at the helm of EEB and thus of executives
with experience in managing the project. In the iuterval from 1985 until 1993, the year of project completion, EEB had nine
general managers, and eight deputy managers were assigned to the project.
Though the project's middle management staffing was somewhat more stable, the unit did not have particularly effective or
efficient direction, in the face of ongoing financial constraints and the daunting project workload.
Finally, in 1987, the implementing unit appointed a scheduling and impleenutation team for the project and another team
to deal with social issues and community relations. However, neither was given the tools or resources it would have required.
7.   CONSULTANT PERFORMANCE
The Colombian consulting firm Ingetec S.A. was awarded the contract for basic and detailed design engineerirg,
preparation of bid documents for the main civil-works contracts and equipment supply and installation, examination of bids, and
construction advisory services.
The design concept and technical features were reviewed periodically by a Consultants' Committee of four international
experts: Guy S. Larocque, Roy E. Coxon, Leib Wolofsky, and James Sherard. Gabriel Fernandez and Bayardo Mater6n, two
local consultants representng EEB, worked with the Conmittee.
Three local consortia were engaged to supervise and monitor the construction and installation contracts, providing
technical, administrative, and accounting oversight. The consortium Compafiia de Estudios e Intcrvcntorias CEI - Estudios
Tecnicos - Gomez Cajiao e Integral Ltda. supervised construction of the dam and appurtenant structurcs  Hidroestudios-
Restrepo y Unbe Ltda. oversaw construction of the underground structures and installation of electromechanical dcvices.
The local consortium Consultores Regionales Asociados - Zuleta Holguin y Consultoria Colombiana w as hired to design
the transmission system and provide advisory support during its construction. Another Colombian consoruum. ACI - Sedic Ltda.,
supervised erection of the lines.
The consultants' performance was generally satisfactory, notwithstanding the dilution of rcsponsibilit stemming from the
large number of firms that oversaw the project. During the construction phase a number of complaits wexre filed by contractors
who alleged that consultants were at times taking too long to do their work. The consultants took an active rolc In settling these
disputes.
8.     PROJECT COSTS
The total cost of the power plant was US$2.545 billion: US$1.037 billion (63.4%) in financc charges ovcr 12 years of
construction (1981 to 1993), and US$1.508 billion (36.6%) in direct costs.
The US$1.037 billion in finance costs is 4.15 times more than the original SAR estimate of US$250 million The direct
costs of US$1.508 billion are 1 .43 times over the US$1.053 billion esimated in the SAR.



- 34 -
lhe dirc cost overnms in de Guavio projec (ficor of 1.43) can be viewd as nmiuL and compar fvomably with the
weighted avwrag ovanm obsurved m ahr projects with geoocal omplicatins auditd by the Bank, which revaled ovemm
fiaors of 1.33 and 1.63 (Geological Complications and Cost Overnms - Energy Dprbmt - IBRD - May 1995).
Taking into accon the completion of all construcbion work needed for di plans ultimate 1,600 MW capacity, the
proecs total dired cost of USS1.508 billion, and cost esttes of USS100 million for the acquision and assembly of three
additional units at a soond stage, the Guavio plants unit cost is on the order of USS1,000 per insalled kW. This comares
favrably with the unit costs rported for odher projects brougjt on stream recently n oter comis.
The chief rasons for the fmancial cost overm wre the drawn-ut consucon time (5.5 ymrs longer than antcpaed),
changes m  ht   onal financig tems, anges in urcy values against the dollar, f-E's financdal staits, bridging loans taken
out to case cash-flow problems, late paynts to coactrs and ISA, and too-ow estimates at the ouset of interest during
costuctin.
Direct-cost ovemuis can be attibuted layely to the pmrtacted consucto time (5.5 years over shdule), which drove
up the projects ngineering, admistatio and supervision costs; too-low inital estimates of the cot of inuuctu, land, and
elecromchaimcal devices; cotactr protest tgared by design and oher changes; geological complicaos, and oter
continaecies encountered in the course of construction.
Table 3 compares iniial cost estimates with Januazy 1996 updates. Table 4 shows the distribution of project Cost.
The project was financed for he most part by oans fmn the Inter-American Dvelqopmt Bank and fomn the IBRD,
bridging loans frmn co  Qecial banks, and supplier credit for te el hanical equipt. In Colombia financing was
supplied by Financiera EnerBgica Nacional; local conterpart funds were supplied by ISA and its seders and by EEB.
9.   FUTURE OPERATION OF THE PLANT
The Guavio hydroelectric plant has boen built for an ultimate capacity of 1,600 MW, but is curnty opeating at 1,000
MW (five 200-MW genratig unts). With its cunt capacity it can produce 5,200 GWh of firm power annually. The plant can
be expanded by installing three additional 200-MW units; the civil works needed for this incease in plant capability are compklte
at this writing.
As part of the natonal interconnected systen, the plant must adhere to the policies of the National Load-Dispatch Center.
The restictions this has entaied have kept the plats output below the design lvls. As of December 1995 it had produced
approximately 13,017 GWh (an annual average of 4,300 GWh), as follows:



- 35 -
YEAR            ENERGY            WATER STORAGE
1992            62 GWh          786 Mm3        100%
1993          4,111 GWh         771 Mm3         98%
1994          4,444 GWh         766 Mm3         97%
1995          4,400 GWh         735 Mmn'        94%
A technical and economic feasibility study is being conducted to determine how mnany units should be added to the plant,
and the best timing, in order to boost its geBneraig capacity particularly at times of peak demand.
EEB has been admmnisng, operatng, and maintaining the plant with its own funds. Seeing to these tasks for the Guavio
Project Managemnent Unit are its Operations and Installation Division and Construction Division, wiuch handle operations and
mnantenance on site with a team of temporary operators. These units are assisted by the Engineeing Division and Cortracts
Division and by the Socioeconomic Group, which handles issues affecting area commnunities.
This administrative, operational and maintenance arrangement has worked quite well to date, and will continue in place
until the best operating approach for the Empresa is determined.
10.    BANK'S PERFORMANCE
For the most part the Bank's performance was satisfactory; it kept abreast of project operations and organization at all
times. Nevertheless, more advisory support would have been needed at the preliminary stage of financial studies and risk
assessment, to identify potential risks and devise ways of protecting the project against contingencies on these fronts.



I






IMAGING
depoprt Nor 15 -41
Type: ICR



