Document of                  FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3060-CO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
EMPRESA DE ENERGIA ELECTRICA DE BOGOTA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR THE
GUAVIO HYDRO POWER PROJECT
May 6. 1981
This document hs  resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofiAcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorion.



CUPPENCY EOUIVALENTS
Average Calendar 1979          Average Calendar 1980
Currency llnit = Peso - ColS
IJS$1           =  Col$42.550              US$1   =  Col$47.280
Col$1           =  US$0.02350              Col$1  =  US$0.02115
Exchange Rate Effective April 1, 1981
TIJSS    =  Col$52.49
ColSl  =  TIS$0.01905
PF.IC-mn'S AND ?TASURES
1 meter (m)                 =  3.281 feet (ft)
1 square kilometer (km2)   =  0.386 square mile (mi2)
1 cubic meter (i3)          =  35.315 cubic feet (ft3)
''                    =  264.2 gallons (gal)
I kilogram (kg)             =  2.206 pounds (lb)
1 ton (t. metric;1,000 kg) =  1.100 short tons (sh. tons)
1 kilowatt (kF)             =  1 ,000 Watts (103 kW = 106 W)
1 kilowatt-hour (kVch)      =  830.3 kilocalories (kcal)
1 Megawatt (MW)             =  1,000 kW (103 kW = 106 VI)
1 Cigawatt (GW)             =  1,000 MW (106 kW = 109 W)
1 Gigawatt-hour (OWh)       =  1,000,000 kWh (106 ktAh)
1 kilovolt (kV)             =  1,000 Volts (V)
CLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CORELCA  =      Corporacion Flectrica de la Costa Atlantica
CVC      =      Corporacion Autonoma Regional del Valle del Rio Cauca
DNP      =      Departmento Nacional de Planeacion
FEEB     =      Empresa de Energia Flectrica de Bogota
FPM      =      Fmpresas Publicas de Medellin
ICFL     =      Instituto Colombiano de Energia Flectrica
IDB      =      Inter-American Development Bank
ISA      =     Interconexion Flectrica, S.A.
JNT      =      Junta Nacional de Tarifas de Servicios Publicos
PIN      =      Plan de Integracion NTacional
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
GUAVIO HYDRO POWER PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota (EEEB)
Guarantor:           Republic of Colombia
Amount:              US$359 million equivalent
Terms:               Repayment in seventeen years, including four years
of grace at 9.6% interest per annum.
Project
Description:       The Guavio hydro power plant will be the largest hydro-
electric facility yet constructed in Colombia (1,000 MW to
be installed under the project; ultimate aggregate capacity,
1,600 MW). In addition to increasing the supply of
renewable energy, the project would provide 15% of the
electricity needed in Colombia by 1988, a substantial
part of which would be for the city of Bogota, and its
environs. The project consists of: (a) river diversion,
dam and spillway tunnels; (b) intake and diversion of the
Chivor and Batatas Rivers into the Guavio reservoir;
(c) pressure tunnel, underground powerhouse and transformer
caverns, and tailrace tunnel; and (d) a 230 kV step-up
substation at the site, two double-circuit 230 kV trans-
mission lines to Bogota, and four 230 kV line bays at the
Bogota 230 kV ring. The project further includes construc-
tion of EEEB's load dispatch and telecommunications center,
which will function as a regional satellite of the national
dispatch center under construction by ISA. Also included
is a study to assist in adequately protecting the environ-
ment of the Guavio River, and a training program to
enhance the expertise of EEEB's technical staff. In
connection with the project, a substantial part of the
sector would be reorganized to improve its overall
viability and efficiency. The tariff measures provided
for under the project would continue to support the
Government's objective of sound sector financing. The
project is subject to the risks associated with large
underground civil works. However, all appropriate
safeguards have been provided for and the project is
expected to be carried out as scheduled.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost: 1/
Local   Foreign    Total
(US$ million equivalent)
Civil Works
Infrastructure and land                       12.7       9.1       21.8
River diversion, dam and spillway             92.8    172.2       265.0
Underground works and caverns                 80.0    120.0       200.0
Subtotal                                185.5    301.3      486.8
Equipment
Ancillary equipment                            2.0      16.5       18.5
Main mechanical equipment                      1.0      32.3       33.3
Main electrical equipment                      1.7      40.3       42.0
Subtotal                                  4.7     89.1       93.8
Transmission System
Equipment and materials                        1.5      16.4       17.9
Erection and installation                      6.0       2.8        8.8
Subtotal                                  7.5     19.2       26.7
Engineering and Administration                  51.6       6.4       58.0
EEEB's Load-dispatch center                      2.1      13.0       15.1
Studies and training                             0.5       0.8        1.3
Total Base Cost 2/                      251.9    429.8      681.7
Contingencies
Physical                                      40.0      60.5      100.5
Price                                         83.0    187.9       270.9
Total Project Cost                      374.9    678.2   1,053.1
Interest During Construction                      -      250.0      250.0
Total Investment Cost                   374.9    928.2   1,303.1
1/   Applicable taxes are included, but the amount is negligible.
2/   December 1980 prices.



- iii. 
Project Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign    Total    %
(USS million equivalent)
EEEB                                             225           -      225      17
ISA                                              150          -       150      12
Commercial Bank Co-financing                       -        340       340      26
Suppliers' Credits                                 -        129       129      10
IDB                                                -        100       100       8
World Bank                                          -        359      359      27
375        928    1,303    100
Financing Plan for EEEB's
1981-87 Investment Program:
(USS million equivalent)    %
Internal Cash Generation                                1,607                44
Existing Loans                                            254                 7
External Commercial Banks/Suppliers' Credits              752                20
Local Borrowings                                          328                 9
Proposed IBRD and IDB Loan for Guavio                     459                12
ISA                                                       292                 8
Total                                       3,692               100
Estimated Disbursements:            FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88
… ----------(US$ Million equivalent)-----------
Annual                         53.0   45.0   68.9   87.8   73.4   28.0    2.9
Cumulative                    53.0   98.0  166.9  254.7  328.1  356.1  359.0
Rate of Return:       15%
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 3408b-CO, dated May 6, 1981.






INTERNATIONAL BA'T FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPlMFNT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
EMPRFSA DE ENE'RCIA ELECTRICA DE BOGOTA WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA FOR THE
GUAVIO FYDRO POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Empresa de Energia Flectrica de Bogota, with the guarantee of the Republic
of Colombia, for the equivalent of US$359 million to help finance the Guavio
Hydro Power Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including four
years of grace, with interest at 9.6% per annum.
PART I - TFE ECONOMY I/
2.        An Fconomic Report on Colombia (2535-CO) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in March 1981. This section on the economy reflects the
major findings of this report.  Country data sheets are presented in Annex I.
Background
3.        The Colombian economy made considerable progress over the past
quarter century. From a largely rural and agricultural base in the 1950s,
it evolved to a more integrated urban-industrial and services orientation.
The productive structure of the economy was broadened appreciably and output
in both the agricultural and industrial sectors became more diversified.
Public sector investment and output came to play a greater role in the economy,
primarily as a result of increased activity on the part of decentralized
agencies and public enterprises. Also, greater reliance on foreign trade
allowed the external sector of the economy to grow, with non-coffee exports,
particularly exports of manufactured goods, expanding rapidly and the range of
products sold abroad widening considerably. The growing urban-industrial
coloration of economic activity and a rapid expansion of surplus labor in
rural areas gave rise to rapid rural-urban migration as rural labor sought to
take advantage of higher productivity and better paying jobs in the major
metropolitan areas. Financial and capital markets evolved pari-passu with the
growing financial needs of the industrial and services sectors of the economy,
and Colombia has become an active participant in international capital markets.
The foreign exchange shortage, from which the country suffered for many years
because of sharp fluctuations in coffee prices, has moderated and the economy
has grown more resilient to external shocks as a result of the structural
changes that have occurred.
4.        Real GDP per capita rose by 2.4% p.a. on average during the 1950-79
period, with each succeeding decade registering greater gains in per capita
income. This was the result of lower population growth, combined with more
rapid GDP growth. Population growth, which had remained in the 3.0% to
1/   Substantially unchanged from report for the Village Electrification Project
(No.P-3053 -CO, Mlay 5, 1981).



- 2 -
3.5% range during the 1950s and early 1960s, declined dramatically after
1965 as a consequence of a sharp fall in the fertility rate. Greater economic
and educational opportunities for women, rapid rural/urban migration, rising
per capita income and increased effectiveness of family planning programs
contributed to the decline in fertility. Colombia's population is currently
growing at an annual rate of 2.1%. As a result of the high proportion of
women now entering childbearing years, this rate of population growth is
expected to continue until the early 1990s.
5.        The combination of rising per capita income and expanded public
services over the past quarter century brought about a substantial improvement
in the welfare of the poorest income groups in Colombia, in both absolute and
relative terms. As a result of improved diets and better health care, the
crude death rate fell by about 50% and life expectancy rose from 50 years to
62 years. The child mortality rate declined from 17 per thousand in the early
1960s to 9 per thousand in the mid 1970s. Infant mortality, one of the best
indicators of welfare, fell to 98 per thousand in the mid-1970s, from about
124 per thousand in the early 1950s. School enrollment ratios have increased
substantially at all grade levels since 1960, and by the late 1970s, 91% of
urban children aged 7 to 14 were enrolled in school. The poorest income
groups, including those in rural areas, have experienced the greatest increases
in electricity and water services in recent years and have benefited more than
the average of the population from services of the national health system.
In spite of this progress, Colombia remains largely underdeveloped, with a
relatively small modern sector superimposed on a broad, traditional and
economically poor base. Development has been concentrated in relatively few
areas of the country, public services are not available to a large proportion
of the rural and urban populations, unemployment and underemployment are
relatively high, and income and wealth distributions are skewed. The coverage
of health care is still deficient and adequate housing is not available to a
substantial proportion of the population. Rapid migration to the three major
metropolitan areas has created urban development problems, with attendant
social difficulties. Moreover, in spite of the steady increase in per capita
income over the past quarter century, about one-third of the population enjoys
today only a minimum subsistance standard of living.
6.        In large part, the achievements of the past twenty five years
were the result of Government efforts to stimulate the productive sectors,
provide the required economic and social infrastructure and establish an
effective institutional base in the economy. In the 1950s and early 1960s
development policy favored import substitution supported by high tariff
protection and the provision of economic infrastructure by the public sector.
It was during this period that the country's major communication and trans-
portation networks were completed and the transformation to semi-industrial
economic structure began in earnest. By the mid-1960s the prospects for
further import substitution were substantially diminished and the country
was in the midst of a period of great economic uncertainty, with economic
activity and the balance of payments heavily influenced by developments
in the world coffee market. In 1967 the authorities adopted an outward-
looking development strategy. Export promotion policies, including periodic
exchange rate devaluations and export tax rebates, were introduced and the



authorities began lowering tariffs and freeing capital markets from controls
as means of raising efficiency and increasing the competitiveness of Colombian
goods in external markets. These measures were highly successful in relieving
the foreign exchange constraint and stimulating growth. However, by the
mid-1970s the economy was once again experiencing difficulties caused primarily
by the world recession and by excessive Central Bank financing of domestic
budget deficits.
Recent Economic Developments
7.        In late 1974, the Government introduced a wide range of fiscal and
monetary policies designed to correct the structural and policy weaknesses pre-
vailing in the economy at that time. Before these reforms were fully effective,
the economy was subjected to strong inflationary pressures arising from a sharp
increase in world coffee prices. The increased receipts from coffee exports,
together with some official surrender of foreign exchange from illegal exports,
caused a turnabout in the balance of payments. Incomes rose rapidly and stimu-
lated aggregated demand; inflation accelerated. Economic growth also accele-
rated and unemployment fell substantially, both in rural and urban areas.
Largely as a consequence of increased coffee tax revenues, the public finances
generated surpluses averaging about 5.8% of GDP during the 1976-79 period, and
by the end of 1979, net official international reserves had risen to about
US$4.1 billion, equivalent to nearly 12 months imports of goods and non-factor
services.
8.        While beneficial in many respects, the foreign exchange boom has had
a somewhat negative impact on the evolution of the Colombian economy, largely
as a consequence of the need for measures to stabilize the economy. Public
investment was curbed, thereby delaying some badly needed additions to economic
and social infrastructure. The rate of currency devaluation was lowered and
the conversion of export receipts into pesos was delayed to moderate the
growth of domestic demand, with some adverse effects on export expansion and
diversification. Also, the Government was compelled to maintain high reserve
requirements and expand controls over credit (including interest rate ceilings,
directed credit, portfolio requirements, etc.), thereby reducing the financing
available to the private sector via the official capital market. These
controls encouraged the development of a flourishing extrabank market in which
credit was available albeit at high interest rates and for short maturities.
9.        The stabilization measures were virtually unchanged from early 1977
through 1979 and were moderately successful in restraining aggregate demand
growth; thus relatively high inflation persisted. In 1979, consumer
prices rose by nearly 30%. Nevertheless, real GDP growth remained strong,
rising by about 5% for the year, led by a good performance in services, manu-
facturing and agriculture. However, construction and mining activities
declined. In response to the increasing stabilizing effects on aggregate
demand and the troublesome financial market distortions caused by inflation
and the extended period of monetary restraint, the authorities began in late
1979 to adjust the stabilization program. The rate of peso devaluation was
advanced to increase export incentives and reduce borrowing abroad, and in
early 1980, credit restraints were relaxed by lowering reserve requirements.
At the same time, interest rates on time deposits captured by commercial banks
and development finance companies - and on the lending therefrom - were



-4 -
freed from controls. To offset the inflationary effects of these measures
the authorities further liberalized import payments and adopted the policy,
supported by a new issue of short-term certificates, of not expanding the
subsidized selective credit operations of the Central Bank in excess of the
resources captured from private savings for their financing. The authorities
also increased the surveillance and control of the illegal export trade.
10.       The effects of the above measures were not immediately noticeable.
Industrial sector growth slowed during 1980, non-coffee exports weakened and
construction activity, which had fallen sharply in 1979, continued to slacken.
Agricultural output was affected by drought, high incidence of disease and
rising fertilizer costs. Real GDP growth declined to 4% in 1980 and unemploy-
ment started to creep up. wtith world coffee prices at relatively high levels
for most of the year, in addition to rising domestic gold production and
short-term capital inflows because of high domestic interest rates, Colombia's
balance of payments in 1980 is estimated to have registered an over-all
surplus in the US$1,100 million range. This would maintain net official
reserves at about 12 months imports of goods and non-factor services.
Inflation continued to be a problem in 1980, however, despite the slowdown in
economic activity, with consumer prices increasing by about 26% for the year.
The major challenge facing the Colombian authorities over the next few years
will be to bring about a reduction in the inflation rate, while at the same
time raising investment to the level required for private sector expansion.
Development Strategy
11.       Achievement in this decade of the Government's objectives of increased
productivity and maximum economic growth, increased employment, improved
distribution of income and greater welfare for all Colombians will require a
major effort to remove from the economy the constraints of inadequate economic
and social infrastructure and insufficient demand. Infrastructure needs are
most pressing in the energy and transportation sectors.
12.       The Government's strategy for accomplishing its development objec-
tives are set forth in the recently promulgated Plan de Integracion Nacional
(PIN). This strategy continues the previous emphasis on export promotion as
a means of supplementing domestic demand and assuring balance of payments
stability, and on policy measures, including further import liberalization,
designed to increase economic efficiency and raise institutional capacity.
It proposes a large increase in public investment, giving high priority to
energy projects and to the provision of transport infrastructure. Economic
decentralization, regional automomy and the uniting of regional growth centers
through improved transport, communication and financial links are directed
towards creating an integrated national market, a strategic goal of the
PIN. The Plan also places emphasis on the promotion of both small scale and
commercial agriculture as a means of diversifying and increasing exports,
assuring adequate domestic food supplies, holding down inflation and contribut-
ing to the Government's nutrition and welfare goals. Industrial policy



5
objectives are to provide an environment of certainty, along with adequate
credit and infrastructure, so that entrepreneurs are encouraged to invest and
expand output. Because of its benefits in opening foreign markets, creating
employment and bringing in new technology, private foreign investment is to be
encouraged. The Government's approach to helping the poor takes on a new
orientation in the PIN. Its efforts are focussed upon improving efficiency
in the use of resources and strengthening the social service institutions.
Programs in the health and education sectors are to be better focussed and
integrated, and selected low income and economically disadvantaged groups,
such as workers in the informal sector, children and unemployed youth, are
singled out for special attention. Combined with extensions of the Integrated
Rural Development (DRI) and National Nutrition (PAN) projects, the new direc-
tions given to social programs are expected to raise significantly the welfare
of low income groups in Colombia.
13.       While the PIN provides a good analysis of the development issues
facing the country and sets forth the general guidelines for policies and
programs to resolve these issues, there are two important aspects of bringing
off the development strategy that are expected to receive increasing attention
from the authorities in coming months. The first involves a required deepening
of the sector analyses in order to improve coordination in planning and executing
sector strategies, and the second has to do with matters related to financing
the PIN. Given the large investment required to carry out the PIN strategy,
inadequate planning and coordination among sectors or insufficient domestic
resource mobilization would be likely to result in substantial resource mis-
allocation and to delay execution of the strategy. It is essential that this
be avoided. The two most important sectors where additional work is urgently
required are energy and transportation.
14.       Colombia became a net oil importer in 1976 and by 1986 petroleum
imports are projected to absorb over 30% of total merchandise exports. In the
absence of rapid energy development, energy shortages will become a major
constraint on growth later in this decade. Resolution of the energy problem
depends on the country's success in developing its abundant domestic energy
resources -- hydroelectricity, coal and natural gas -- and also upon increasing
petroleum exploration and development. The strategy for doing this will
require energy pricing policies that rationalize consumption with energy
resource availabilities, a least cost program of investments, sufficient
domestic and external financing for these investments, strengthened sector
institutions, improved program execution capability and rapid carrying out of
investments. Although planning and policymaking have improved substantially
in many energy sector institutions in recent years, overall planning and
coordination in the sector are still weak. A study initiated in 1980 by the
National Planning Department is expected to provide the basis for improvements
in sector-wide planning and policy-making, and recent pricing decisions have
gone a considerable way towards providing the correct signals for regulating
consumption and encouraging production. The prices paid to producers (primarily
foreign companies) for "incremental" and "new" crude have been raised to
levels which should provide adequate production incentives, and the retail
prices of petroleum products, while still below international levels, have
been increased substantially in excess of world oil price rises. The Govern-
ment has committed itself to raise energy prices to equivalent international



-6-
levels as rapidly as politically and economically possible, and a least cost
energy investment program is being prepared. Between October 1978 and October
1980, the price of regular gasoline (less than 80 octane) was raised by 125%,
from US$0.40 to US$0.90 per gallon.
15.       Colombia's high transportation costs and inadequate service could
become a constraint on economic growth, particularly that resulting from
development of the country's vast coal reserves and from agriculture.
The State Railway is in poor condition and the road network needs maintenance,
rehabilitation. The authorities have begun to take steps to improve the
country's infrastructure and PIN assigns an important share of future invest-
ments to the sector. There is, however, a need for more efficient planning
to ensure that only least cost investments are carried out and that a sound
policy framework for the sector is established to deal effectively with the
problems of intermodal coordination and energy conservation in line with the
Government's energy objectives.
Investment and Its Financing
16.       A substantial increase and redirection of public sector investment
will be required in the next several years to carry out the development
strategy outlined in the PIN. Over the 1980-85 period, such investment is
expected to increase by about 12% p.a. in real terms. The energy, transpor-
tation and industrial (including mining) sectors are expected to account for
the bulk (60%) of this investment; however, sizeable real increases in invest-
ment are also expected in the nutrition and health, small scale agriculture
and industry, water and sewerage, and education sectors. Overall, public
fixed investment is projected to average 9.2% of GDP during the 1980-85
period, and is expected to total Col$1,716 billion (US$22,260 million).
Private investment will have to increase also during this period to provide
the goods and services required by the expanding economy.
17.       This increase in investment will demand a major resource mobilization
effort on the part of Colombia's public sector. The buoyancy of the tax system
(excluding coffee tax revenues and receipts from earnings on foreign exchange
holdings), which has declined in recent years, will have to be increased through
new taxes and better tax administration and the charges levied for public
services will have to be raised substantially in real terms. Since this effort
is expected to coincide with increased private sector demand for investment
resources, the importance of measures to expand domestic savings cannot be
over-stressed. The recent capital market liberalization should encourage
savings. A significant increase in voluntary private savings is not likely,
however, as long as inflation remains high. Consequently, stabilization
remains a sine qua non for the country's future growth and development.
Growth and Balance of Payments Prospects
18.       Given the country's strong resource base and sound economic manage-
ment, Colombia's growth prospects for this decade are good and significant
advances in economic welfare are anticipated. The urgent need to relieve the
pressure on aggregate demand arising from the recent growth of foreign exchar -
earnings and the necessity to increase rapidly imports to develop the country s
resource potential and restore higher economic growth requires a turnaround
in the balance of payments from a current account surplus of US$596 million



-7-
(2.2% of GDP) registered in 1979 to a current account deficit projected to
average USS1,170 million, over the 1980-85 period, equivalent to 2.8% of GDP.
By the end of this period, net official international reserves would have
fallen to a level of about five months of imports of goods and services (a
level which is adequate for Colombia) without prejudice to the country's
creditworthiness. This should be sufficient to support an average growth of
real C-DP of 5.5% during this period. Beyond 1985, the current account deficit
should improve as a result of increasing export proceeds (particularly coal)
and a levelling-off of imports. The current account deficit would fall to
2% of GDP in 1987 and to 1% by 1990. It is expected, therefore, that the
economy will be able to achieve real GDP growth averaging about 5.5% per annum
during the 1980-85 period. To reach this level of growth, gross domestic
investment will have to expand to about 24% of GDP, up from 18% in the early
1970s and 21% in recent years, and to avoid too large an increase in foreign
indebtedness, gross national savings would need to average about 21% of GDP.
This is about the same level of savings achieved in 1978-79, when the terms-of-
trade gains from the coffee boom raised the savings coefficient, but above the
level achieved in the early 1970s.
19.        Gross external capital requirements (net of reserve drawdown) are
projected to total IJS$10.0 billion in current prices for the 1980-85 period,
for an annual average requirement of US$1,670 million. About 31% of this
amount will be required annually for debt amortization and the rest to
cover current account deficits. Multilateral and bilateral agencies are
expected to provide 40% of these requirements, 48% is expected to come from
foreign suppliers and financial institutions and the balance should come from
private foreign investment. At the end of 1979, Colombia's public and publicly
guaranteed external debt disbursed and outstanding amounted to US$3.4 billion,
equivalent to 12% of CDP. The Bank/IDA share of this external debt was 25%.
Reflecting the recently increased lending by the Bank and the decline by
bilateral sources, this share is expected to increase to about 30% in 1983,
before falling to about 25% in 1987. The debt service ratio at end of 1979
was 12% and is expected to climb to 17% by 1985, peak at about 18% in the
early 1990s and then decline gradually. The Wxorld Bank's share in public debt
service is expected to rise to about 24% in 1985 from about 13% in 1979. With
continued sound economic and financial management, Colombia is expected to
maintain its creditworthiness through and beyond the 1980-1990 period.
PAPT II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
20.        The proposed loan, the 93rd to be made to Colombia, would bring the
total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$3,255.8 million (net of cancella-
tions). Of this amount the Bank held, as of December 31, 1980, US$2,184.4
million; IDA made one credit of UTS$19.5 million for highways in 1961. Dis-
bursements have been completed on 54 loans and the IDA credit. During 1972-77
disbursements averaged US$86 million equivalent per year, then declined
slightly to US$82 million in 1978 but increased sharply to UJS$138 million
in 1979 and to UJS$215 million in 1980. The improved performance of social



sector institutions in the execution of Bank-financed projects, the gradual
containment of inflationary pressures which should allow relaxation of fiscal
restraint and the recent Bank lending for infrastructure projects, all point
to higher levels of disbursements in the future. IFC has made investments and
underwriting commitments of US$63.1 million in 25 enterprises and, as of
December 31, 1980, it held US$17.6 million. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, the IDA credit and IFC investments as of December 31,
1980. The Annex also contains summaries on the execution of the 34 ongoing
projects.
21.       In response to the priority objectives established by successive
Covernments (self-sustained economic growth, increased employment and improved
income distribution), since 1966, Bank lending to Colombia has become increas-
ingly diversified and has been concentrated on production-oriented programs
and activities which emphasized social as well as economic benefits. All
three loans for education have been made during this period, and so have
twelve of the fourteen loans for industry, eleven of the thirteen agricultural
loans, one loan for a nutrition project, two loans for urban development
projects and all nine loans for water supply and sewerage. During the same
period, sixteen loans were made in the power and transport sectors, while
before 1966, twenty-two out of a total of twenty-five loans were made to
these sectors.
22.       Bank lending to Colombia in FY80 consisted of two loans for power
generation and distribution projects, and one each for a nickel project, tele-
communications, and credit to small-scale industry and to development finance
companies for medium- and large-scale industry, totalling US$518.0 million
equivalent. In addition to the loan proposed in this report, the FY81 program
includes already approved loans for hydro power development, rural and feeder
roads, irrigation rehabilitation and village electrification, and a proposed
loan for railways. Work is also under way on projects for petroleum development
and mining, land settlement, rural development, ports, highways, oil refining,
electric power, agro-industries, fertilizers, water supply and sewerage, urban
development, rural education and environmental improvement, for possible
consideration by the Fxecutive Directors during the next two years.
23.       The proposed Bank lending conforms closely with the Government's
development strategy as outlined in the PIN (paragraphs 12 through 15). To
help Colombia develop domestic sources of energy, a sizeable part of the
proposed lending would be for hydropower. The Bank intends to assist the
development of coal mines which hold potential in helping Colombia meet part
of its energy requirements and in diversifying exports. In support of the
Government's objective to increase the supply and the recovery of domestic
petroleum, the Bank proposes to finance further petroleum projects and, for
the first time, become involved in projects which promote the efficient
processing of hydrocarbons. Bank financing in the energy sector would also
assist in strengthening major institutions and in mobilizing external



- 9 -
finance as some of the projects would require co-financing. Other future
loans would finance agriculture and industry to support the Government in
its efforts to raise overall productivity, income and employment, and to
increase and diversify exports. Closely related to these objectives would be
the proposed Bank lending for transport infrastructure. In this context, the
Bank is assisting the Government in preparing a highway paving and rehabilita-
tion program in support of the increasing interregional flow of goods and
services. Other loans under preparation for ports and railroads are aimed at
helping Colombia handle larger volumes of non-traditional exports and the
imported inputs on which the modern sector of its economy relies for expansion.
Finally, several loans are being prepared in support of the Government's
efforts to help the lowest 50% of the Colombian population. Lending for urban
development and slum improvement, rural electrification, rural development,
land settlement, water supply and sewerage, irrigation, rural education and
environmental improvement projects is principally designed to improve the
standard of living of the poor.
24.       The operations of external lenders in Colombia are shown in Annex I.
While IBRD, IDB, and bilateral sources provided about 75% of total external
financing to Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share has decreased since
then to approximately 50% for the 1976-79 period and it is expected that
during the period 1980-85 will decline further to about 40% of external
capital requirements. Like the Bank, IDB has given increased emphasis to
social projects and has financed projects in low cost housing, urban and
rural development, agrarian reform, university education, water supply, rural
electrification and land erosion control. In the future, it proposes to
assist Colombia to develop sources of domestic energy and to expand the
activity of the productive sectors to help generate increased employment.
USAID has supported programs in education, urban development and small farm
development, but is phasing out its aid program in Colombia. The Governments
of Canada, the Federal Republic of Germany and the Netherlands have also
provided concessional financing for social and regional integration projects.
PART III - POWER AND THE ENERGY SECTOR
Power Sector Characteristics and Development
25.       The complex organization of the power sector has its roots in the
country's historical tradition. An uneasy federation of virtually independent
republics, formed in 1830 as the Republic of Colombia, coexisted for roughly
100 years before experiencing centralist pressures from national authorities.
Through the 1950s, a large number of power companies were set up by local
governmental authorities and, lacking interconnection with each other, were
operated independently in response to regional and departmental needs. Some
14 years ago, the country's total electricity capacity stood at only 1,681 MW
(equivalent to about 88 watts per inhabitant) and reached only about 35% of
the population. Although large hydro power sites held the potential of
increasing substantially the supply of electricity at lower cost than otherwise
possible, they were too big to be tapped by any one company. With encouragement
from the Bank, the Government persuaded the regional power companies to break



- 10 -
with tradition and pool their resources in a shared effort to develop the
country's large hydroelectric potential. To accomplish this, Interconexion
Electrica, S.A. (ISA) was created as an independent, national generation and
interconnection company, of which the shareholders now include all the largest
municipal power utilities and the Government-owned power companies. 1/ At the
same time, the Government took measures to improve the sector's prospects for
efficient growth; it established the Junta Nacional de Tarifas (JNT) in its
Departamento Nacional de Planeacion (DNP) to approve requests from the power
companies for tariff increases, and it fostered the consolidation of numerous
small utilities, particularly in the North Atlantic Region. The Bank partici-
pated actively in the creation of both ISA and JNT.
26.       By the end of 1980, Colombia's installed generating capacity had
been increased to about 4,300 MW (about 150% over 1967 capacity), including
captive plant (about 243 MW), with hydro stations accounting for 68% of total
power generated. About 20% of this additional capacity was constructed by
ISA, which has a further 1910 MW underway and is completing the task of
interconnecting the remaining isolated region, the North Atlantic, with
the national system. As a result of the new plants, together with expansion
of distribution networks to the final consumer, about 54% of the country's
population had electricity services in 1980. According to the most recent
estimates 90% of households in large cities (population of 50,000 or more) had
electrical service in 1980, while in rural towns (population between 500-2,500)
the corresponding figure was 36%; in other rural areas, 13%. Power sales have
been growing rapidly (9.3% p.a. since 1972), but annual per capita electricity
generation in 1979 (735 KWh) was lower than the average for Latin America.
Forty percent of electricity output supplies households, 31% serves industry
and 12% is used in commercial activity. A substantial part of the sector's
expansion since the mid-1960s has been financed with internal cash generation,
with national budgetary outlays covering ICEL and CORELCA's capital expendi-
tures. In recent years, the Bank and IDB's participation in foreign financing
has diminished considerably, as well over half of external borrowings are
provided by suppliers' credits and external commercial banks,
A Ministry of Mines and Energy was established in the mid-1970s and
given responsibility for setting national energy policy, including power. The
definition of power investment priorities, previously carried out on a local
basis with substantial political orientation, is now a responsibility shared
by the Ministry with DNP and, since 1978, with ISA. ISA prepares a generation
and transmission expansion program for the interconnected system and, after
DNP approval, this becomes the National Power Expansion Program.
1/   Empresas Publicas de Medellin (EPM), Empresa de Energia Electrica de
Bogota (EEEB), Corporacion Electrica de la Costa Atlantica (CORELCA),
Corporacion Autonoma Regional del Valle del Rio Cauca (CVC), and
Instituto Colombiano de Energia Electrica (ICEL). ICEL has, under
its aegis, thirteen departmental power companies (electrificadoras)
which participate in ISA indirectly through ICEL. Likewise, CORELCA
has eight subsidiary electrificadoras.



- 11 -
27.       As is obvious from the preceding paragraphs, the power companies
and ISA have made remarkable progress in serving national as well as local
interests. Nevertheless, this has been, and is likely to remain for some
time, a somewhat fragile alliance which has several times come close to
collapse, particularly during a five-year period in the 1970s when, together
with sector financial difficulties, it prevented needed expansion of generation
facilities. In 1980 the Government and the power companies formally adopted a
framework whereby ISA would achieve and maintain ownership of at least 33% of
total sector generating capacity and all trunk transmission lines, which would
give ISA sufficient influence to discharge efficiently its responsibilities as
the main planning, coordinating and future dispatch agency. This development
enabled the Bank to complete the appraisal of the proposed project, which had
been pending for one year. For continued efficient power development, it is
considered essential to maintain a strong and capable ISA despite the contin-
uing pressures that likely lie ahead. As detailed in paragraphs 30-31, the
power sector is being called upon to play a critical role in reducing Colombia's
rapidly growing reliance on energy imports. The heavy demands that this
represents can be illustrated by the fact that the sector has not kept pace
with normal growth of electricity requirements.
28.       Because of insufficient investments during the 1970s, electricity
is being rationed an average of 4 hours per day in the Central System (EEEB,
CVC, ICEL and EPM). The 1,200 GWh shortfall expected for 1981 is projected
to persist until the San Carlos (1582-CO ) and Mesitas hydro plants (1628-CO)
begin to generate in 1983. The cost of this shortage (in terms of productivity,
income foregone and social welfare) has been estimated at US$3 billion for
1981 alone. To catch up with rising power requirements, including substitution
of electricity for more costly forms of energy, generating capacity is to be
increased by 175%, to about 10,500 MW, by 1988. Of this total 3,700 MW are
under construction. Investments in generation, transmission and distribution
through 1990 are expected to amount to US$15.4 billion in current prices, of
which some 54% would be foreign exchange. External financing on the order of
about US$900 million equivalent on average per annum, in nominal terms, would
be required, the major share of which is expected to come from foreign capital
markets. To provide the internal resources needed for this program, in
accordance with Government policy (paragraph 33), tariff increases on the
order of 40-45% (approximately 20% in real terms) are being enacted this year
throughout most of the sector. Because tariffs alone cannot overcome the
financial bottleneck and because the domestic capital market is limited, the
Government has decided to establish, by the end of this year, a suitable
domestic power development financing facility that would provide the balance
of local funds needed for planned sector investments (Section 3.04 of the
draft Guarantee Agreement). Moreover, in anticipation of the immense task
ahead, ISA and its shareholders have completed a Master Plan for generation
and transmission facilities through the year 2000, which is being supplemented
by a Master Plan for distribution covering the same period. This combined
effort will not only contribute to improved investment planning but also to
efficient system design, operation and maintenance in light of modern techniques,
with a view toward enhancing the quality and reliability of service to consumers
at a reasonable cost.



- 12 -
The Power Sector Institutional Outlook and Bank Strategy
29.       Looking toward the future, there are several key aspects that will
affect the sector's ability to function efficiently and fulfill the important
role it has to play in the development of the country's energy resources.
First, tariffs will have to be maintained at levels sufficient to permit
the financing of an important portion of the heavy program of planned invest-
ments, as well as of the growing debt service. Adequate internal cash gener-
ation, together with continued Bank involvement, will be a central factor in
attracting the unprecedentedly large amounts of external financing anticipated
(paragraphs 46 and 51), particularly since it is the Government's policy not
to guarantee commercial borrowing by decentralized public entities (in order
to force sound financial performance in the entities), and at the same time to
phase out gradually contributions from the national budget to ICEL and CORELCA.
The Government and Bank strategy in the sector therefore places strong emphasis
upon cost-based tariff levels, as well as upon provision of sufficient access
to domestic financing to complement internally-generated funds. Second, insti-
tutional strengthening will need to be continued and intensified because
in an integrated, and therefore inter-dependent, system, weakness in any
partner inevitably hinders the joint effort. Events over the past two years
have demonstrated the need to overcome serious institutional and financial
shortcomings in the ICEL group. To accomplish this, the Government has agreed
to prepare and carry out a program to restructure ICEL's companies into viable
utilities, based upon a preliminary study by DNP (Section 3.07 of the draft
Guarantee Agreement). It is anticipated that this would also result in
a better integration, and more direct participation of these companies (which
in total represent 20% of electricity users) in the national-level deliberations
of ISA. However, the restructuring of ICEL is a complex task that will take
several years to achieve as it will involve various mergers as well as acquisi-
tions by major power utilities of some mostly rural - based companies in
geographic proximity and would require a strong commitment to the objective
by ISA and its shareholders. Although they have confirmed their intent to
take needed action (Section 5.06 of the draft Sponsors' Agreement), it is
clear that the trade-offs involved imply difficult readjustments for the
regionally based authorities as well as the sector. To assist in this process,
Bank involvement in appropriate programs is envisaged. Third, it will be
necessary to ensure that ISA continues to have the institutional, managerial
and technical capability to fulfill the central role assigned to it. Through
the proposed project, in which ISA has retained rights to the energy generated
(paragraph 40), and through further lending to the entity, the Bank proposes
to assist ISA to strengthen its regulatory responsibilities. Of major impor-
tance in the near future is to encourage the establishment of an efficient
national power dispatch mechanism. The shareholders of ISA have endorsed the
principle of economic operation of the country's power system although a study
to identify the means of attaining this is not expected to be completed before
the end of the year. The detailed agreements are anticipated to require
substantial effort to achieve and put into practice because they will entail
further trade-offs between national and regional interests. A related matter
of concern has been the recent loss of some of ISA's most capable managers
and technicians, mainly because of the company's eroding salary levels.
This problem is also being felt increasingly in most of the sector, and is



- 13 -
complicated by the fact that the companies are subject to diverse jurisdictions
and salary regulations. To avoid serious future problems, the Government has
decided, as a first step, to carry out a study on the adequacy of remuneration
in the sector (Section 3.08 of the draft Guarantee Agreement and Section 5.07
of the draft Sponsors' Agreement). Fourth, siltation and erosion are beginning
to have adverse effects upon reservoir storage capacity and the Bank has thus
begun to assist the Colombian authorities in addressing the subject of water-
shed management. A start was made under the recently approved Playas Hydro
Power Project of EPM in the form of watershed management studies for the
Guadalupe River, and similar environmental aspects are provided for under the
proposed project (paragraph 43). Lastly, far-reaching decisions will have to
be taken over the next years on the installation of large, coal-fired thermal
plants in order to take advantage of the projected increased supply of coal to
mitigate the system's dependence upon hydrological conditions. The Bank
proposes to continue working closely with the Government and the sector, in
evaluating these matters, seeking solutions and supporting the adoption of
appropriate measures.
Energy Resources, Requirements and Planned Objectives
30.       Colombia is so endowed with proven energy resources that they
would cover fully the country's aggregate energy demand for the next 150
years at the 1980 consumption level. Total reserves amount to 2.2 billion
tons of oil equivalent, of which hydropower represents 55%. Most of the
93 GW of usable hydro potential is in the highlands and valleys of the
Andean Mountains where about 84% of the country's population resides, with
a considerable part of it in the Cauca and Magdalena River basins nearby
to Bogota, Medellin and Cali (the hub of the country's industrial activity).
In addition to the favorable coincidence of geography and demography, the
long distances that separate some of the country's six watersheds make it
unlikely that drought would affect them all simultaneously. Representing
almost 40% of the resource base (and close to 90% of proven fossil fuels),
coal reserves are estimated by the Government to total some 11 billion metric
tons. Exploration to date has been insufficient relative to Colombia's
apparent potential; even so, known deposits would permit extraction of 20
million tons annually during 550 years. Most known coal fields are within
200 miles of Bogota, the capital city, and within 60 miles of the Caribbean
coast which would facilitate both domestic use and export. Coal basins in the
Bogota region are primarily bituminous, excellent for steaming; also included
there are coal varieties suitable for production of metallurgical coke, which
could fuel the country's iron and steel industry. The El Cerrejon deposits
near the Caribbean are a superior grade of steam coal characterized by high
caloric, and low ash and sulfur content. Proven and probable petroleum and
natural gas reserves make up the remaining 5% of reserves, consisting of an
estimated 904 million barrels of oil and about 4 trillion cubic feet of
natural gas. At present extraction rates (125,000 barrels of oil and 437,000
cubic feet of natural gas per day), these resources would be exhausted in
about 20 years.
31.       In contrast to the fifty year period (1926-1975) during which
Colombia sold abroad the excess energy it produced, in 1980 the country's net
energy import bill reached US$489 million (24,900 barrels per day of crude and
derivatives). By 1986, petroleum imports are projected to absorb a large



- 14 -
share of merchandise export proceeds (paragraph 14). Two factors explain this
development. First, total domestic energy production has lagged behind rising
demand since 1975 and, in addition, the pattern of production and consumption
has diverged markedly from the relative proportion of resources in the reserve
base. Despite the predominance of hydro power and coal resources, they have
accounted for only about 7% and 22%, respectively, of production and consump-
tion, whereas petroleum and natural gas have made up more than 70%. In view
of the heavy, foreseeable constraint on balance of payments, economic growth
and employment of a continuance of these trends, the Government has assigned
high national priority to arresting the declining self-sufficiency in energy
supply and to making optimum use of the country's abundant energy resources
through increasing total production and through diversifying their supply and
use.
32.       Consistent with the Government's goal, the PIN allocates 38% of the
1979-1982 public investment program to development of domestic energy resources
and sets policies designed to shift consumption away from liquid hydrocarbons
and towards hydroelectricity and coal. Reflecting the scope of substitution
of hydro energy for non-renewable fuels, as well as the need to keep better
pace with normal growth of demand for electricity, 33% of total public invest-
ment is earmarked for hydroelectricity. Substantial coal development, to be
carried out through CARBOCOL (the state agency in coal matters) in association
with private investors, is to play a key role in Colombia's energy balance.
Exploitation of deposits at El Cerrejon and in the Departments of Cundinamarca
and Boyaca, in conjunction with railways and port construction, would enable
increasing exports of high grade coal to an estimated 25 million tons per
annum by 1990 (compared to 100,000 tons exported in 1980). In addition, there
is to be a changeover from hydrocarbon fuels to coal in thermal power gener-
ation, and in cement, metallurgical and other heavy industries, with a targeted
increase in domestic use by 1990 of about 140% over 1978 use of about 5 million
tons. Further, the PIN gives a green light to proceeding with investigations
into possibilities for processing coal for gasification, synthetic crude and
carbonchemical industries. Since few of the country's 13 sedimentary basins
have been systematically explored, priority is also assigned to intensifying
petroleum exploration and development. With most exploratory activities to be
carried out by foreign firms (in association with ECOPETROL, the nationally-
owned oil company) ECOPETROL would concentrate its activities upon attracting
private investment (in complement to the favorable incentives provided by the
Government) through, inter alia, seismic surveys, and upon secondary oil
recovery from existing fields. Finally, projects to enable more productive
use of natural gas (the discovery of which is generally an offshoot of petroleum
exploration) are singled out: the manufacture of methanol (to be mixed with
gasoline or used to produce synthetic gasoline) and fertilizer, in addition to
improvements in refineries and oil transport.
33.       With financing from commercial banks, suppliers, private inveb.  s,
the Bank and IDB, various of the abovementioned undertakings are being, or are
about to be carried out. They are being complemented by appropriate energy
pricing to encourage rational energy consumption, substitution and conservation.
Since 1975, petroleum product prices have been moving steadily towards interna-
tional levels (paragraph 14) and continuation of this policy will, within a



- 15 -
few years, require adjustments only to keep pace with external price movements.
In the power sector, for several years now, national policy has been to charge
consumers the full price of electricity. Although there has been some delay
in the application of this policy, the power companies have started increasing
their rates and, in 1981, the increase is, on average, approximately 20% in
real terms. The Government has also been striving to attain a better planning
and policy-making coordination among the various energy subsectors as a means
of maximizing the benefits to be derived from investments, based upon least-
cost solutions. The already-mentioned study to evaluate the country's long
term energy options (paragraph 14), an endeavor in which the Bank is collabor-
ating, forms part of this effort.
The Power Market of Bogota and of the Surrounding Area
34.       Bogota, Colombia's capital city, is also the country's principal
commercial, financial and industrial center, and accounts for over 20% of
GDP. Industrialization and expanded economic activity have given rise to
steadily-growing employment opportunities (Bogota's unemployment rate is
40% below the national average), which have attracted considerable migration
to the city, mainly from rural areas. In addition to its attractive employment
possibilities, Bogota's cool, even climate, ample space for physical expansion,
and substantial hydrological resources are indicative of the city's long-term
development potential. Although historically, Bogota developed in a south-to-
north direction along the side of the mountains, its recent and largest
expansion has been toward the west across the savannah, where most of its
modern industrial concerns and a large portion of new residential facilities
have been constructed. With its population increasing at 5.8% since 1970,
Bogota's inhabitants numbered about 5 million in 1980. Despite Government
programs to foster the development of secondary cities, Bogota is expected to
continue to grow rapidly, with its population reaching more than 7 million by
1990.
35.       Charged with supplying electricity to this expanding market, as
well as to some 55 municipalities in the nearby Departments of Cundinamarca
and Meta, in 1980 EEEB served 580,000 customers, who in that same year
consumed 4,000 GWh, with a peak demand of 970 MW. Households (42% of the
total), and commercial (17%) and industrial establishments (31%) are EEEB's
major customers. The company's sales have been growing rapidly, and demand is
projected to rise at an average annual rate of 10.7% during 1981-1990. This
projection takes account of past trends, the country's favorable economic
outlook and Bogota's growing urbanization. (Not included, however, is the
artificial repression of demand represented by current and anticipated rationing.)
By 1988, EEEB's system is expected to serve an estimated 1.0 million customers,
with peak requirements of 2,090 MW, and a total energy demand of 11,267 GWh
per annum. The 1984-88 National Power Expansion Program, which includes
EEEB's Mesitas hydro power facility (1628-CO) and the proposed Guavio Plant
(60% of its output would serve EEEB's market, with the rest going to the
national system, paragraph 40) would ensure the required power supply in
combination with electricity purchases from ISA's Chivor (681-CO) and San
Carlos (1582-CO, 1725-CO) facilities. Forecast purchases from ISA during



- 16 -
1981-1988 (an estimated 19,460 GWh) represent almost 30% of EEEB's demand over
the period, with an estimated 32% of its supply to come from the national
company during 1989-90. This reflects a decrease in generation from EEEB's
coal-fired facilities and hydro plant in line with minimum cost operation of
the national power system as projected by ISA. To deliver this power to the
final consumer, the company's 1981-87 investment program provides for necessary
additions to transmission and distribution facilities, as well as rehabilitation
and modernization of older parts of the system, and rural subtransmission and
distribution expansion.
Past Bank Participation in the Power Sector
36.       Since 1950, the Bank has supported Colombia's power sector with
loans totalling US$894 million which have assisted the expansion of generating
capacity, and transmission and distribution facilities in the systems serving
Bogota, Medellin, Cali, Cartagena, Bucaramanga and Manizales, including
expansion of electricity distribution to low income areas (874-Co, 1973;
1807-CO, 1980; and 1868-CO, 1980). The Bogota Distribution Project (1807-CO;
US$87 million) has been the first Bank loan to Colombia to support exclusively
distribution expansion and, in addition to other beneficiaries, would directly
benefit about 340,000 lower income consumers. In addition, the Bank has
supported rural electrification under 246-CO (1960) and 313-CO (1962), the
ongoing Integrated Rural Development Project (1352-CO, 1977), and the Village
Electrification Project, which was approved earlier this week by the Bank's
Executive Directors. Recent loans included the 500-kV Interconnection Line
(1583-Co, 1978), and for hydro power generation, the San Carlos I and II
(Loans 1582-CO, 1978; 1725-CO, 1979), Mesitas (1628-CO, 1979), Guadalupe IV
(1868-CO, 1980) and Playas Projects (1953-CO, 1981) which would, respectively,
complete the task of interconnecting the country's regional power systems
begun under 575-CO (1968), and add a total of 2,253 MW of capacity to the
national interconnected system. Taken together, the abovementioned projects
reflect the Bank's participation in overall power development in Colombia,
from the planning stage through financing and construction of generation and
transmission facilities, to delivery of service to the final consumer.
37.       Past Bank lending to Colombia's power sector has been found generally
successful in several OED reports. For instance, the most recent report,
"Power Interconnection (Loan 575-CO) and Chivor Hydroelectric Projects (Loan
681-CO)" (Report No. 2720, October 29, 1979), commented upon the Bank's
participation in Colombia's effort to evolve a stronger and more efficient
power sector organization. Through the creation of ISA in conjunction with
these projects, and the steps taken to overcome financial and institutional
difficulties, real progress was made toward more coordinated sector development.
Despite implementation delays and increased costs, both projects were success-
fully implemented. Also, the report entitled "Bank Operations in Colombia, an
Evaluation" (Report No. Z-18) of May 25, 1972, concluded that Bank financing
was successful in assisting the power companies to develop hydroelectric
plants at lower unit cost than they otherwise would have been able to do.
In turn, this permitted greater urban coverage as well as cheaper and more
reliable electricity supply to industry. The report commended Bank efforts
in the establishment of JNT and the central interconnected system, which



- 17 -
facilitated further power sector development. Among other things, the report
recommended that in the future the Bank pay increased attention to the companies,
financial planning, tariff structures, distribution programs and energy losses.
These points have been addressed under the aforementioned recent loans, which
have been the first Bank operations since late 1972 (paragraph 27). Complemen-
tary measures are also provided for under the proposed project.
38.       EEEB has received five Bank loans, totalling US$256.6 million
equivalent. The first two (246-CO, 1960; and 313-CO, 1962) assisted in
financing the addition of 305 MW to hydro and thermal plant capacity, trans-
mission lines and distribution system expansion. The works financed included
the rebuilding of distribution networks in several, mostly rural, towns near
Bogota, as well as expansion of rural sub-transmission. The third loan
(537-CO, 1968) supported a 200 MW increase in EEEB's hydro plant capacity,
and expansion of transmission and distribution facilities. Despite delays,
all works under the three projects were successfully carried out. A Project
Performance Audit Report (SecM77-536, June 1977) of Loan 537-CO observed that
project objectives had been met, both in terms of project execution and
institutional performance. With respect to financial performance of the
utility, EEEB had exceeded the 9% covenanted annual return on partially-
revalued assets. Moreover, despite the fact that the cost of total invest-
ments for the Third Expansion Program (1968-74) were substantially higher
than anticipated at the outset, EEEB was able to generate from revenues a
satisfactory 45% of total investment costs. Under the fourth (1628-CO, 1978)
and fifth (1807-CO, 1980) loans, EEEB is constructing the 600 MW Mesitas hydro
plant and expanding and modernizing Bogota's electricity distribution network.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background and Objectives
39.       The project was prepared by EEEB, with the assistance of consultants
(INGETEC, Colombia), and was appraised by a joint Bank/IDB mission which visited
Colombia in December 1980 and by a further Bank mission in January/February
1981. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. during the week of April 20,
1981 with a Colombian delegation led by Dr. Armando Olarte, Chief of External
Debt Division, Ministry of Finance, and Dr. Roberto Caceres, General Manager
of EEEB. A Staff Appraisal Report is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors.
40.       To provide the electricity supply needed to support growth and
employment, and to allow substitution for more costly fuels, Colombia's
energy balance indicates that 6,604 MW would have to be added to national
power capacity by 1988. Guavio is the least-cost investment in the National
Power Expansion Program, and its primary objective is to contribute 15% of
these requirements through development of renewable energy resources. In
exchange for providing 40% of the local investment cost, the sale of 40% of
the annual Guavio output will be guaranteed to ISA for the benefit of its



- 18 -
shareholders (Section 3.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 3.01 of
the draft Sponsors' Agreement). The remaining 60% of the plant's output will
be retained by EEEB (paragraph 35). The project would also promote measures
to strengthen weaker institutions in the sector and EEEB's own financial
planning, management and maintenance capabilities. Finally, a program would
be prepared and carried out to ensure environmental protection of the Guavio
River and reservoir.
Project Description
41.       Guavio Hydro Power Plant.  The Guavio hydro plant, which will form an
integral part of the interconnected system, will be constructed on the Guavio
River some 70 km east of Bogota and of ISA's Chivor plant. It will have a
950 million m3 useful capacity reservoir (with a final capacity of 8-200 MW
units). Average annual generation would be about 7,500 GWh under normal
hydrological conditions and about 5,350 GWh in dry years. Project works
include:
(a) Dam and Spillway - rockfill dam on the Guavio River (with impervious
core) and spillways tunnels;
(b) Intake and Diversion Tunnels - tunnels to conduct the waters
of the Chivor and Batatas rivers into the Guavio Reservoir;
(c) Underground Works - a pressure tunnel, an underground power house
(with 5 units of 200 MW each) tailrace tunnel and transformer
cavern;
(d) Substation - a 230 kV step-up substation at Guavio and four 230 kV
line bays at the Bogota 230 kV ring; and
(e) Transmission Lines - two double circuit 230 kV transmission
lines to Bogota.
42.       Construction of a Load-dispatch and Telecommunication Center - to
function as a regional satellite of the national dispatch center under construc-
tion by ISA.
43.       Consulting Services.  They would comprise:
(a) Board of Consultants - for general assistance and technical advise.
(b) Engineering Services - for detailed engineering design, procurement
and supervision of the works.
(c) Studies - (i) preparation and implementation of a
program, based upon an existing preliminary study, to
assist EEEB in taking adequate environmental protection
measures and to safeguard the Guavio reservoir against
siltation and pollution; and (ii) carrying out of a
study to enable EEEB to improve its maintenance practices
for generating facilities.



- 19 -
(d) Training - a training program to enhance the operational
and maintenance capabilities of EEEB's staff responsible
for generating plant and the future load-dispatch center.
Cost and Financing
44.       Total financing requirements, including interest during construction
(US$250 million equivalent), are estimated at US$1,303 million equivalent, of
which US$928 million equivalent, or 71%, correspond to the foreign exchange
component. Project costs are based upon end-1980 estimates prepared by
INGETEC (consultants, Colombia) and include physical contingencies amounting
to approximately 15%. Price contingencies, equivalent to about 35% of base
costs, are based upon estimates of local inflation (ranging from 25% in 1981
to 14% in 1990) and projected exchange rate adjustments. Foreign inflation
is assumed to vary from 9% in 1981 to 6% in 1990. The cost of consultant
services for design and engineering supervision includes 32,050 man-months at
an average of US$1,700 per man-month in 1980 prices (including personnel at
various levels of expertise, overheads, and fee). All such services would
be provided by consultants whose qualifications, experience, and terms and
conditions of employment would be satisfactory to EEEB and the Bank (Section
3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
45.       Local costs would be covered by EEEB (US$225 million, or 60% of
local requirements) and ISA (US$150 million, or 40%). All aspects of ISA's
participation, on behalf of, and in conjunction with its shareholders
would be detailed in a Guavio Participation Agreement to be finalized between
EEEB, ISA and the ISA shareholders prior to effectiveness of the proposed
loan (Section 8.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 3.01 of the
draft Sponsors' Agreement). Foreign costs would be financed by commercial
banks (US$340 million, or 37% of foreign exchange requirements), suppliers'
credits (US$129 million, or 14%), IDB (US$100 million, or 11%) 1/ and the Bank
(US$359 million, or 38%).  Given the 7-year construction period, it would
not be possible for EEEB to obtain firm commitments at an early stage for all,
or even most of the co-financing required for the project. Thus, the Bank
envisages a long period of co-financing assistance to EEEB (Section 7.01(d)
of the draft Loan Agreement), particularly through regular meetings of the
Consultative Group for Colombia, in ensuring timely securing of funds.
Additionally, EEEB is seeking financial advisory services to assist in this
effort. If the availability of financing to EEEB should nonetheless fall
short of project requirements, the Government would arrange for EEEB to be
provided with needed funds in a timely manner (Section 2.02 of the draft
Guarantee Agreement).
46.       During the project period (1981-87), EEEB will carry out other
investments (paragraph 51), for which it will need about US$400 million from
external commercial sources. Together with the Guavio requirements, such
borrowings would amount to US$870 million for the period. In contrast,
EEEB first ventured into the capital market only in 1975, securing a
1/   IDB Board presentation is anticipated in June/July 1981.



- 20 -
US$7.5 million loan from the First National City Bank. Since then, it has
contracted four additional external loans totalling US$93.3 million. Based
upon extensive discussions with sources in the capital market, it is judged
that the financing to be sought by EEEB represents the outer limit of its
commercial borrowing capacity. However, EEEB's maintaining tariff levels
sufficient to ensure sound finances (paragraphs 29, 52 and 53) and the Bank's
financing an important portion of the investment program were judged by
these sources to be vital prerequisites for the mobilization of the needed
financing.
The Borrower, EEEB
47.       EEEB is an autonomous company owned by the Municipality of the
Special District of Bogota. It was established by private Colombian interests
and has operated the city's electric service for the past 80 years, since 1951
under municipal ownership. It has an installed capacity of 719 MW, 81% of
which is hydro and the balance coal-fired.
48.       EEEB is administered by a seven-member Board of Directors and
a General Manager appointed by the Board. The General Manager is responsible
for day-to-day operations with the support of four Assistant Managers heading,
respectively, the administrative, finance and commercial, technical and
operations branches of the organization. The Board of Directors is chaired
by the Major of Bogota, and consists of two members elected by the Municipal
Council, three members chosen by the Council from lists submitted by associa-
tions representative of banks, commerce, and industry in Bogota, and one
member chosen by the President of Colombia. This composition was worked
out in connection with the Bank's initial loan to EEEB (246-CO) and has
generally proven satisfactory. EEEB has a history of stable and competent
management. Recently its financial staff has been further strengthened, as a
result of the appointment of a new financial manager and the hiring of manage-
ment consultants to advise on managerial, budgetary and accounting systems,
and financial planning. The skills of the company's staff in charge of
maintaining generating facilities would be enhanced under the project (para-
graph 43).
49.       EEEB had 2,662 employees at the beginning of 1981, including a
technical staff of 721, and 1,622 operations personnel. The history of the
company's staff growth over *the past ten years, in relation to number of
customers served and energy sold, shows an improving trend: 218 customers and
1,506 MWh per employee in 1980, compared with 174 customers and 1,021 MWh per
employee in 1968. These figures compare favorably with those of electric
utilities serving similar markets.
EEEB's Finances
50.       Over its 20-year relationship with the Bank, EEEB has maintained
a satisfactory financial position. During the past ten years its internal
cash generation has provided on average more than 50% of annual investments,
including substantial contributions to ISA. The balance of the company's
investment funds have been obtained through borrowings; no Government funding
has been required. However, EEEB's 1980 financial situation has been



- 21 -
unusually difficult, principally because anticipated local borrowings, to
complement internal cash generation were not available on time (as a result
of the Government's contractionary policies to dampen inflationary pressures),
and there were delays in obtaining authorization for tariff increases (because
of local authorities' concern with considerable increments recently effected
in other public services, and inflation). In recent months, however, the
Government has enabled EEEB to acquire needed complementary financing
and its Board of Directors/JNT have just approved a substantial tariff adjust-
ment program for 1981-83, which should assure the entity the availability of
the required local funds during this period (paragraph 52).
51.       As a result of the measures taken by EEEB in conjunction with Bank
financed projects (including full revaluation of assets for monitoring of
financial performance), the company's financial structure has been strengthened.
At the end of 1979, EEEB's debt to equity ratio was 34/66 and its debt service
coverage was 1.7. EEEB's 1981-87 investment program amounts to US$3,692 mil-
lion equivalent including interest during construction, of which US$1,303
million, or 35%, correspond to the proposed project. To finance this program,
EEEB would have to generate internally approximately 44% of the funds required,
taking into account that no more than US$328 million equivalent is likely to
be available from domestic sources (paragraph 28). The balance would be
obtained through existing and future external borrowings. The favorable
structure of EEEB's debt, its program of tariff increases (see below), and
the participation of the Bank place it in a reasonable position to obtain the
additional external financing needed. As a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed loan, satisfactory arrangements would be made for the balance of
financing required during the next two years of the investment program (1982-83)
(Section 8.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). As stated, the Bank proposes
to assist EEEB in obtaining part of this financing through co-financing arrange-
ments with foreign commercial banks.
52.       The projected cash generation in EEEB's financing plan is based
upon the company's planned three-year program of tariff increases; a one-time
increase of about 16% in 1981 and subsequent monthly increments of 2.3%, which
would increase the average 1981 tariff by 45% over the 1980 rates (an estimated
20% in real terms), and EEEB plans similar increases in 1982 and 1983. In
this way, by end-1983, EEEB's rates would have increased 64% over 1979 rates
in real terms. (During 1976-80, EEEB's tariffs were raised by 44% in real terms,
or 256% in nominal terms.) Such increases, although high, are consistent with
the Government's policy of charging the full cost of energy to the final user
in order to promote rational power use and self-generate an important share of
the resources needed for investment (paragraph 33). They are also consistent
with national social welfare policies, as low income groups will be charged
considerably lower rates than more affluent consumers.
53.       Based on the above, EEEB would generate annually from its operations,
35% of its total investment needs in 1982-84 and 55% during 1985-87 (Section
5.07 of the draft Loan Agreement). EEEB's projected net operating income
would produce annual rates of return on fully revalued assets of no less than
14% in 1981 and annually thereafter (Section 5.06 of the draft Loan Agreement),



- 22 -
as was agreed upon under the Bogota Distribution loan. (Although EEEB achieved
returns of about 8% in 1979 and 9% in 1980, rather than the 12% envisaged
under the Mesitas and Bogota Distribution loans, the company's financial
performance is considered acceptable.)
54.       EEEB's debt service coverage ratio during 1980-82 would be 1.9 as a
result of the substantial revenue increase and the grace period of foreign
borrowings. In subsequent years, the ratio is expected to fall no lower
than 1.5, which would still be satisfactory. EEEB has confirmed that, unless
the Bank should otherwise agree, it would not incur debt in any fiscal year
which would reduce the coverage of its maximum future debt service by internal
cash generation below 1.5 (Section 5.09 of the draft Loan Agreement). It is
expected that the company's debt/equity ratio will decrease from the current
proportion of approximately 40/60 during the next three years, and rise to
51/49 by the end of 1985. Lastly, to ensure adherence to the financing plan
as well as to the national least-cost power expansion program, until project
completion, EEEB has agreed not to undertake, without prior concurrence of the
Bank, investments in any year in excess of 1% of the value of its net fixed
assets in service other than for (a) the proposed project, (b) generation
expansion included in the national expansion program, provided that adequate
financing would be available, (c) its obligations to ISA, (d) the balance of
its 1981-87 investment program, and (e) possible acquisition of, and investments
in ICEL-group companies (paragraph 29) (Section 5.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Sector Financial Outlook
55.       Because of the importance of the contributions of the ISA share-
holders to the proposed project, measures have been taken to ensure that
required funds would be forthcoming. For the first time in Colombia, a
consolidated sector financial projection has been prepared by the companies
in close collaboration with the Bank. The projection shows that the tariff
increase program already in effect (paragraph 28), together with proposed
borrowings and Government contributions to ICEL and CORELCA (Section 3.05 of
the draft Guarantee Agreement) will enable the companies to fulfill their
financial obligations, including the proposed project. A draft Sponsors'
Agreement provides suitable financial performance parameters in line with
the above.
Procurement, Implementation and Disbursements
56.       All the items to be financed by the proposed loan (except consult-
ing services) would be procured by international competitive bidding (ICB)
under Bank guidelines. Colombian manufacturers would receive a margin of
preference of 15% or the applicable import duties, whichever is the lower, for
purposes of bid evaluation. The cost estimate assumes that local manufacturers
would be able to supply some items required for the project, the cost of which
is estimated not to exceed US$6 million equivalent. Project works would begin
in May 1981 and be completed by November 1987. To take account of the
different procurement arrangements of the Bank and IDB, the proposed financing
of each institution would be associated with separate bid documents, with the
Bank funds pertaining to contracts for the river diversion, dam and spillway



- 23 -
tunnels, ancillary electro-mechanical equipment, tunnels, access roads,
load-dispatch center, consultant services for studies, the training program,
engineering and supervision and IDB, underground waterways, underground
caverns and access tunnel.
57.       Disbursements would be made against:  (a) 66% of total expenditures
for civil works; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures and 100% of the ex-factory
cost of locally procured ancillary electro-mechanical equipment for the
powerhouse (which is not suitable for suppliers' credits); (c) 100% of foreign
expenditures for consultant services for studies and the training program;
(d) 50% of total expenditures for consultant services for engineering and
supervision. Retroactive financing up to US$36 million is included to cover
downpayments and initial expenditures on the main civil works contracts, which
were awarded in April 1981, expenditures after January 1, 1981 would be
eligible for this. It would have been very costly for EEEB to delay these
works because of the 7-year construction period and because of the otherwise
certain shortage of electricity in the national system if the project would be
delayed.
Benefits and Risks
58.       Construction of Guavio will, together with other ongoing and planned
works, assist Colombia in developing the supply of electric energy needed to
facilitate growth of those industrial and commercial activities which currently
use it, and permit changeover to this fuel from hydrocarbons in other industrial
and manufacturing processes which are beginning to weigh heavily on the country's
total imports. It will also help provide electricity service to a larger segment
of Colombia's population, only 54% of which now have access to it. If the
project were not to go forward, or would be significantly delayed, there would
be a substantial shortfall in electricity supply, beginning in 1988, amounting
in that year to 3,015 GWh or two and-a-half times the severity of the estimated
1981 shortage.
59.       Because there is no means of quantifying the factors mentioned
above, a return on investment was calculated by relating the capital and
incremental operating/maintenance costs of EEEB's 1981-90 development program
to estimated incremental revenues at the tariff levels that would prevail over
the period. On this basis, the return on investment would be about 15%, i.e.,
well above the estimated opportunity cost of capital in Colombia. The incre-
mental revenues, however, are based on tariffs rather than on the--
unmeasurable--consumers' willingness to pay and thus can be presumed to
underestimate the true economic benefits considerably.
60.       The execution of the project does not involve any major risks other
than those normally associated with the construction of large dams and under-
ground works. INGETEC, the firm responsible for project design is one of the
most experienced and capable Colombian consulting firms. The fact that super-
visyon during construction would be carried out by a different consulting firm,
does not involve any risks because such procedure has given good results in
previous projects. Moreover, EEEB has experience in managing and coordinating
execution of large projects. Appropriate measures are being taken to ensure
timely land acquisition and suitable staffing of the Project Management Unit
(Sections 3.06 and 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 24 -
Ecology
61.       EEEB has carried out previous projects with due regard to environ-
mental protection and safety considerations. Under the proposed project, the
works will be carried out in a like manner. Moreover, the study provided for
under the project (paragraph 43) is expected to provide a basis for taking
suitable environmental protection measures in the project area (Section 3.07
of the draft Loan Agreement).
PART V: LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between EEEB and the Bank, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Colombia and the Bank, the draft
Sponsors' Agreement between ISA, EPM, CVC, ICEL, CORELCA and EEEB and the
Bank, and the report of the Committee provided for the Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
63.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex III.
Additional conditions of effectiveness would be that the Guavio Participation
Agreement would be finalized (paragraph 45) and that satisfactory arrangements
would be made to secure financing required for EEEB's scheduled 1983-83 invest-
ments (paragraph 51).
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI: RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 6, 1981



-25-                                           ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
COLOMBIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
COLOMBIA                    REFERENCE CROPSP (WEIGHTED AVE4ACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SN. EM.)                                                     - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)'_
TOTAL           1138.9
AGRICULTURAL     230.6                               MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb   1970 /b ESTIMATE lb   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN          EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                250.0       400.0   1010.0                   1562.9                   2749.5
ENERGY CONPSUMPTION PER CAPIIA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    491.0       606.0    700.0                   1055.9                   1641.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)    15.8        21.3      25.6
UROAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 48.2       59.8      68.3                    63.4                     53.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     39.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       57.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                      14.0        19.0      22.0                    28.1                     77.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    71.0        93.0    111.0                     81.7                    129.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        47.0        46.8      40.7                    41.4                     30.6
15-64 YRS.                        50.0        50.5      56.3                    54. 7                    61.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.0         2.7       3.0                     3.9                      8.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             3 1         1.0       2.3                     2.7                      1. 6
UgRAN                             6. 0/c      5.2       3.9                     4.1                      3. 3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    46.0        37.0      31. 0                   34. 8                    22.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THODSAND)    14.0        10.0       8.0                     8.9                      8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.2         3.2       1.8                     2.5                      1. 5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..       115.4    142.0
USERS (PERCENT OP MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..      35.9
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        100.0        99.0    120.0                    106.9                    113.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREM4ENTS)                 97.0        88.0    102.0                    107.4                    125.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         54.0        48.0      52.0                    65.6                     91.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      28.0        24.0      26.0                    33.7                     39.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    17.0        13.0       9.0                     8.4                      4. 3
HEALTH
LIFEF EXPECTANCY AT NIRTH (YEARS)   53.0       58. 5     62. 0                   63. 1                    67. 8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            *         98. OLd     ..                    66. 5                    55. 9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        63.0      64.0                    65.9
URBAN                              ..          ..      73. 0                   80.4
RURAL                              ..          ..      46.0                    44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TONAL                              ..        47.0      48.0                    62.3
URBAN                              ..        75.0      73.0                    79.4
RURAL                              ..         8.0      13.0                    29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         2400.0      2170.0    1970.0                  1849.2                   1030.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    3740.0      2040.0    1250.0                  1227.5                   929.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           363.0       449.0     620.0                   480.3                    289.7
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        23.0      25.0                     ..                      17.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SITE OF NOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..         5.7/d
URBAN                              ..         5.5Ld
RURAL                              ..         5.9/d      .
AVERAGE N1MBER OF PERSONS PER ROON
TOTAL                              ..            8       ...
URBAN                              ..         1.67d      .
RURAL                              ..         2. 4,.
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWZELLINGS)
TOTAL                            47. 0/e     58.1         .      
URBAN                            83. /e      87./ d
RUBAL                             8. 01e     13. 274d



-26-                                            ANNEX I
COLOMBIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                Page  2  of  5
COLOMBIA                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAqES
- MOST RECEtlT ESTIMATE)  ai8
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN            EUROPF
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRDIARY:     TOTAL                 77. 0       103.0     103.0                      99.7                     105.9
MALE                  77.0       101.0      100.0                    101.0                     109.3
FE14ALE               77.0       105.0      105.0                     99.4                     103.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 12.0         24.0      39.0                      34.4                      64.0
M4ALE                 13.0        24.0       39.0                     33.5                      71.1
FEMALE                11.0        24.0       40.0                     34.7                      56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY) 31.0/f         21.0       17.0                     38.2                      28.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            38.0         38.0      30.0                     30.5                       29.4
SECONDARY                          11.0         17.0      19.0                      14.5                      26.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        63.0         73.0      81.0                      76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          7.0         11.0      18.4                     43.0                       84.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        124.0        100.0     107.0                    245.3                      192. 2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          9.0         37.0      64.0                     84.2                      118. 5
N34SPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  56.0           ..      69.0                      63.3                      93.0
CINEt4A ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           ..       4. 1                       ..                       5. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      4726.5       6353.3    8174.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   18.9         24.6      25.0                     22.2                       30.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              51.4         37.9      30.0                      37. 1                     37.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 19.2         21.0      23.0                     23.5                       29.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                30.6         29.7      29.7                      31.5                      40.9
MALE                                 49.8         44.9      44.7                      48.9                      55.9
FEMALE                               11.6         14.6      14.6                      14.0                      26.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.6         1. 7       1.4                      1.4                       1. 0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OP PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
NIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   41.2]je       31.9/R
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  67. 7jeZ,    60. 1        ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    2. lejj       3. 5L
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.8LEA      10.1                                  **
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     214.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     197.0                     190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     267.0                     474.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     122.0                    332.5                      385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      34.0
RURAL                                ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
L    The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and ia not uaniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1951-64;  /d 1973;  /e 1964;  /f Including teacher training at the third level;  .A  Economically active
population.
14ost recent estimste of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



-27-
ANNE I
Page 3 of 
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL INDICATORS
Motes;  Although the jars ar  diner  trot .sources generallydjudgd Ohs  -es  unthonittiVe and reliable, it should also ha nted thet th.y tap non bejuiy
n .ttn11Yoos.purable  becus        holrkoleana dteddfinitio-  and ronrpt. rend by differenrt o.u.rrias It roerin   ehe dat.-   The def.I,  nn
the1le..t,. usful t sctibs ord.re Of aentd,tdraeted,ad oha....nenisa terai  al   diffsrnesbtoeroeria
tIthsujc -      o-rfontyintosyt for  Capi.ta  ir pu dll ttpofrter   grup  here "Diddle I-os  torah AfriraI stdM iddla lest' It ch.... ba-au   Of  tnone
leas  half of the   .  ruire   loagrou.p hoe daafor thattdrnn.tr   h   teaso   onre ahIong th   rlorrdpyaotTeaoiailt'o
of one irdiontor at---o timeiswoog the                                              -unn h7.and -ref erenrai greups.
'r--  -P1i-1-9 1-d .,:...:Id iPsnistind  ter -osina  End -4 toal urban.  -ad  ura   - Po...d  (tional
197,  fand  1919 detu.                                                                         babilt      .-. &T.tinoe.r.tHsptlsa   esrallaantPpeIae tlyesla
PtERI CAtSOPITAIlN     GPP,c.i.-_P.. .i.                                                                     H l   Pby   1Ar10 - ho ulroenrlnt rIerIal energy, (rol- rae"reno  lrld . Sot-el.hnspita d boer, n1ed  hs-ls  sadtadt oa
tetetioond  StOe prisip -fgta  and ePorislsed bnspttals, admoe
ToNalY PCONUMuTION. Hid-yeArPITAl       )-h   tJuy1   90               0  and197tAd                 Ission  m Hopta Hld-PTetel-  nehro  sdtlssilh us no_op dit.frg
data.                                                                                     f rohhospital  dioldd byhhe                                          thbet o-beds
OrbIast'  . Pulion prrn of rural) - Otst_lo of urheuh toitotalh popiariot;
etunrutr        f;90   -191  and1970- dare.   Atv-arege,,.d1                                   . :-- Plee tof     tuabo    ff(resos  Ie pesho-idi-   totalb,  urban1. and t_eal
doplaionPr_ecios                                                                                   hoseodifnssn  o  a group. off  indptytfol  ehushore liin   quater
aetrrs for0fec1970y care alo8hice the.s eo.laa...e_tgdarll1p it                            unroupl"d psots
feriirurodigto Itb.e Iee   n   at  tatsflb y t  plnIg   efrsne                            AostoEr1nlt poperc_nt4   TOf donlhitOfosi   yyhi..st Ordi.hrgl -
andferilty  rede  ryproerIto pupoe.t  -PrbltOfd,                            ROtUoSINrG,an   ualdaluprseoin
the birt_     aeI   qs  orodahrt,edas   h   g   thtr  re-    OSIATIIOhSd
pains cyutunt.  tis is soleved oly atneyternilltrares doline to AdloenedlorulleenIOutir
th   elrmptiolrtui   p  rpoutusId ha  ahgoraIn                                  Piar   col-  oa,sleaditlo-io"toe,slRadfal
ofnonoreice  iert  noty.Th  eaioay   ppuaio   stswa. etrimo   fulagsu   h    riaylolueprotge  franna
ssittd   n  h  hs    f h  pustsdrmroerstr o-         he. populaion             pI      Idr arhool-ag   poplanons  ioell   ulue           idsoaed6l
loteya   00,adtoraeo   aln   o   etlt   rt   orpas-yeehtpdordfrdifrn   egheo   rnr  euain   o
sits m hue heso rYeecdbed.tilioudaroshn      uil   atadthle-iotputYsd                                                                            . asbeo;srnd
Pyltio   est                                                                                  edrnitreuisai  eat  ouhyar  o  aprne  pferylatrrtiw
Per so.' he.P-Mdya  populatio    e  sqasra k-i-o e Of11-1h0h. hereelofpyle  georal toraieti_1  erP t..s.                                    riin    ntuton   o   u
toalars                                                                               usualy ot12io 1  ym.a.ofage;roretpodeno...orsy  areges.sll
Pn   o  an   gtuluo   an       opue   ssbr   r  agrioultursi _ landp- pnuoluded..                                                                         AV.
ony.Oraien   nrltatloren   t  erPsrA-..at...tsttttn
PoultorM   Sf.trurt ...ore                                                                                         P..rre.r II   Ch1:tidren . 1-1  ytee)  anringsHe115  includep..h..cal  Indsre,o  other proram   hiob .p..... tOOd
year   lyP  ..                                                                             - ptplatl-abfr 190-f0,r110-1, adt190-7  roresprd.g teele
thnd    birt  -Peetnthuad   - a-ya lirebirts pe thorsnd -   ath aid-ya
ppl tio;190  1970  and197  dalta.    tCONStO00Tt-I..O..
mud  Dat  ets(re  touoo)     Icea  denaprtouedo   i-yefasrerCr ;                                           hosn   ouatol-Psene   aeitr  e   oo
pouaion; 1960. 1970  sod 197   data.                      i,                                 ONreaslgls   hr   ih   o o;crue   tuars   ers   n
,rh.sruuro   ar-ong -utb-r of dagtr  ano                         tnol    ea in              nilsycotla
he -otl  ardrto1     eid-    fah  spreoe   oso bfssp-itl ,hadio.t lErs 11te                            t yen Ihosn.   ouelr.         l   ypeo   seyr   o   a
Ofin  rates; u..   ly  lo-sa   oeaesadI0in160p90,ad  97.hdaoetio  eerlpulope   hoeudotpplaio;solds  ni
ralyPat %n-orrta.  oeIf  u-1 (Tho.stde  -I Atnu L.nee   faoros                      cue   seoy   nrutis   o   nyaste   aitaino   ai 
allaerle  toatin he . age           I..O   .riiy  .. roup._                          general pub .lc per-111-~. thnisdpplton    nleu lhead-  0d r6reona
r-                                                   ....~~~~~~~~~~~~~iasae frioclatiohn... (pe  obuad- noti ato  -Ythen .. db soaat  tl-rul.
Petlutu koeaH M ridicer prp.Ice        -- qeelhts   khl-tS 17,  n (1070dan.                 no  mul  Ce ___-d_b___
reronols  orlo  f olorss(rrrea  ofraulcsena)    lsprad_co
e'roryeucl    of  et  ten   suple  a'ulbls fr coun.try                . ppycait               ...b . cyc..it                                     -9  O
pe  dy.   Avihl supiscprsdoatopocto,Iorsat                                             Ttl Labo         12co  tn.cusotdoi     -9- tcootcll   ebop P roo,ndud-
etot,adcags  nsok                   e   upie Otd   nslted   ed,                           endfccsalurroo  httollt   osaP e,auet.ec
quattttlo   ne   o  rdprtsAl.              n   atsItdsrIuio.teur-                            n iiicoI  orou-cotlt  r   otdspcbi;102d97   o
meotypretttand  I  PA      Cheod dr- phy 14oYogto   oe -kdr gfor rota 1ut-       1'E174    1tdccc
codso  Ittchu  bu  o  ppolotr,andIloond -yeceotfou          pncpt         uroudoc  Ietccc   -Labr  ccr  to . caroig) oety,boo    r
hoshl1       orl.tlh5   90   nd17   us                                                      dluhlo  anO rn.g   fttllbr   fote   loO                  h17ind1)0due
Pr   ect   uol   f  ytlolrco_dec      rooo  optio   srr  it                               tuor   rertl            ..olrtrr nt     iog  rcrucroIdofocru
OftJ!  supyl. of foo..d pp   a.Ntnpl   ffo   tdeie   saoe    e                               o   lcrllyInp   t   ae    Prrap   fotllhcfoeH91
qu..cOsnooc.. toy  oIl     ...otrlo  tutuhcoe  hy. 0000 proutde  fomomu141td96 Ita.                                    ...dVd.   ,O .                  ..  ..i   h
allnyeo  t   rm   ftt19rtl   n  lrnd2"            cneo   relad                aoroce  Nt   rrec  -ctlSoe  alfml      aciiaioo
Perraotn  ycrirnucIc ro   et       i-a aol uo h - 'rthto supply of fod-,e-.        en tn arePfot1tiroa  doucooY
coe   yo   tsl duProtsL oonec  s;1910,190al  )7lte                                rusi   ppupc   ooo-tul   fpOfatoudn15cdt  adoo
loIl  leat 1O-4)...  Oot_l .. dnor 1000 1 dhousa hd 1-  th-oa    d lOuf' p0d  o...r  it     NUMToIb ONallhyfr
ugrP group; 19-0 y1a70, 00f1 chldt On tb....age group;Pfocehnt Isc..op.t rout-
oftn  nt  drutdtrn  10  tt de;lOI      h107 -ol17  dora     b.ocoto oIth-ligTOpl.tIytcad
fiV:1   h,  ,p,,i                                                                                             It              ..d~~~ofhouahods
noSlth  190   97  ad  97 = c.-g..d-                       70    d   7.             Rd      -i'
layout PloaiZ.iy rsry -,-  thouan)                                                                                                           Allul  ealeofto atnorerof yar Puytt  AOSTIO,
Of nob   rytoeudilpbrts;etmte    bslt fosr  oooLrl  O)00rctl-  rtIu   oe 
Iroato  uoOtrIeco   fppltol-ttl urban, an 0 rurul -pt.r                                    Ibsolu..te  onr   rro   en t.ia char %O pocwe lea   .eo....            an
Nwlyo uf. ya -l (hotol  urbpr, end  _utit_ resrbe-yrstoef                                    utdlmlyneuo   de   ln  nota  orfo.rq..eneI   o
tatrr      _iycl   _lotudo   retd  uftsonoo (P.Praned buni. eu -oreloated                     afforh-idaOflpi
rne   sr  c   hn   co   roteord h_eols,gpira,an  saitr  oella                        atsedtiro   osncfrs   en   50   e   old    ooa   u   oa
prcica=o,iars  f    gh gc ranpcoi 4 rouaYn.      fsuhocaphlrtrleelepcr lrs   Y"c" to co-toird ofaecg  prcapt
fouctlo   ctod        otootdocreo  h.n210  siotehs -rOtsoueed                  b             pcana...rctbotrty                     rh.oetlnhrialeothcu
coerecos   hlgnchccenoblscoP                  oIhtouTVItuR.rss                         eolnttd-       anrr   orfhaoorolbl-birs                     -ces
tofreos btco.Od   ii              1969t f 71o 100uo-lodal ufrP_o_ant
OsIr. II                             1:1~~~~~~~~rthe   1900                d.-
cfl~unntoccrtcenoenne.anpc hr raer-toocryarowa  otheusabo
rtr Clutefu-d taYlr boaallerco-



-28-
Annex I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population:  26,670,000    (mid-1980)
GNP Per Capita: US$1010 a/
AnOunt           Average Annual Increase (%)         Share of GDP at Market Prices (S)
Indicator                              (million US$          (at constant 1970 prices)                 (at current prices)
at current prices)
1980 b/          1960-70   1970-75   1975-80         1960       1970       1975       1980
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product c/                   32,686               5.3        6.1        5.8         100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0
Agriculture                                8,197               3.5        5.2        4.0          34.1       28.6       29.3        25,2
Industry                                  8,799                6.2        6.1        4.4          25.7       26.6       28.3       29.2
Services                                  12,559               5.9        7.3        6.4          40.2       44.8       42.4       45.6
Consumption                                 24,435               5.9        6.6        5.6          79.4       79.6       81.6       74.7
Gross Investment                             7,994               5.1        0.6        8.5          20.5       22.0       17.8       24.4
Exports of goods and NFS                     5,648               3.1        5.9       10.0          15.6       14.2       15.1       17.4
Imports of goods and NPS                     5,391               4.3        1.1       12.7          15.5       15.8       14.5       16.5
Grcss national savings                       8,103               5.2        5.3       10.8          19.4       18.0       16.8       24.8
Composition of Merchandise Trade (S)
(at current prices)
1960     1970       1975       1980
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise Exports (FOB)                     4,428              3.3        1.4       10.8          100.0    100.0       100.0      100.0
Major primary                              2,871               2.8       -4.6       12.8           72.5      69.4       51.2       64.8
Major manufactures                            686               -        23.8        6.5            -         9.0       24.5       15.5
Other merchandise imports (CIF)               871               -         3.8        5.4            -        21.6       24.3       19.7
Merchandise                                   4.533              3.5       -2.3        9.1          100.0    100.0       100.0      100.0
Food                                         364              10.0       -0.1       13.4            2.4       4.5        4.8        8.0
Petroleum                                     750            -21.4       70.6       43.5            2.0       -          2.0       16.5
Machinery and equipment                    1,750               5.2       -8.5       11.0           42.7      50.6       36.4       38.6
Other                                      1,669               1.8        2.4        5.4           52.9      44.9       56.8       36.9
1974      1975       1976       1977       1978       1979       1980 bI
PRICES AND TERMS OF TRADE
GDP deflator                                       27.6       20.8       23.6       28.3       17.1       23.9      24.5
Exchange rate                                      27.1       31.2       35.0       36.9       39.3      42.6       47.3
Export price index                                155.4      159.7      214.5      303.6      260.2      262.2     294.9
Import price index                                210.3      217.3      233.5      254.3      202.0      220.6     252.2
Terms of trade index                               73.9       73.5       91.9      119.4      128.8      118.8     117.0
As % GDP
(at current prices)
1970           1975         1980 f/
PUBLIC FINANCE d/
Current revenue                                                        10.6           11.3         12.2
Current expenditure                                                     5.7            5.3          8.9
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                              4.9            6.0          3.3
Capital expenditure                                                     1.8            1.1          4.6
Foreign financing e/                                                    3.3            2.9          4.0
1960-70        1970-75      1975-80
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (%)                                                     5.10           6.30         6.00
GNP per capita growth rate (0)                                          2.00           3.90         3.70
Energy consumption growth rate (0)                                      5.00           4.00         4.00
ICOR (/                                                                 3.54           3.43         4.00
Marginal savings rate hI                                                0.13           0.13         0.16
Import elasticity                                                       1.17           0.16         2.20
a/  World Bank Atlas Method.
b/ Estimated.
c/ At marker prices: Components are expressed at factor cost and will not add because of exclusion of net indirect taxes
and subsidies.
d/  Central Government.
e/  Gross disbursements of external loans to the entire public sector.
T/  Includes Social Security and Fondo Vial.
S/  Lagged one year.
h/  Increment to gross domestic savings/increment to gross domestic product.
April 24, 1981



-29-
Annex I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENT., EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Population      : 26,670,000 (mid-1980)
GNP Per Capita: US01010 at (1979)                                                             (million US$ at current prices)
Actual                                                    Projected
1974       1975        1976       1977      1978        1979          1980 bl   1991         1982       1983        1984       1985
BALANCE OF PAYIEBTSI
Etpocto of goods acd acn-factor orcoicro                  1000         2165       2782         3404      4059        4910          5327       5502        5912       6410        746b7      8649
Inporto of goods and ron-factor cornices                  1149         2030       2302         2730      3722        4191          5376       6255        6997       7644        8618       9894
Resource balace                                              -149        -135         480          674       337         719          -49        -753      -1085       -1234      -1151       -1235
Net factcr payments                                       -180         -263        -279        -235      .247        -127          -172       -105        -166        264        -375       -487
Net onxtqoited transfere                                     27          48          21           16         7          4            26           4          S           6          6           6
Correct Account Balance                                      -302          -80        222         405         97        596          -195         854      -1246       1492       -1520        1716
Net direct fcorign investment                                  39           32         14           43        56        124           234         125        150         250        250         350
Medico and long tern loans (not)                              202          308        131          192        72        703           838         529        996         942        970        1166
to public rcscor                                          (160)        (254)      (109)        (195)      (92)       (603)         (781)      (550)       (911)      (846)       (860)    (1018)
tc private sectcr                                           (42)        (54)        (22)        (-3)    (-20)        (100)          (57)      (-01)        (85)       (96)       (110)      (148)
Other capital                                                  55        -121         195         162        391       -lSB           264          -          -           -
Capital Account Balance                                       296         219         340         397        519        669          1336        654        1146       1192        1220       1516
Change in Reosroes (-=increase)                                 6        -139        -562        -852       -616      -1265        -1141         200         100        300         500        200
Inttrnationgl Roserves (official)                             152         547        1166        1830       2482       4106          5247       5047       4947        4647       4347        4147
Reserves a- nonths of imports                                 1.6         3.2         6.1         8.0        8.0       11.8          11.7        9.7         8.5        7.3         6.0        5.0
G0ROSS DISBURE7MENTS C/
Official grantos                                                                                                                                              
Gross disburcements of MLT Ioos                            235          390        262          371        319       1036
Coces-i. na -                                              102           39          47          27        60          36
3ilatorcl                                                (100)         (37)       (44)         (21)      (53)        (28)
IDA                                                                    (-)        (-)          (-)       (-)         (-5
Other Mlotilateral                                         (2)          (2)         (3)         (6)        (7)        (8)
Ncn-once sioal                                            133          351        215          345       260        1000
Official exp-rL crdits                                    (26)         (14)       (0)          (14)      (19)        (47)
IBRD                                                      (58)        (106)       (76)         (85)      (82)       (138)
Othbr -ultilateral                                        (14)         (19)       (27)         (31)      (33)        (31)
Priate                                                    (35)        (212)      (112)        (214)     (125)       (783)
tXTERNAL DEBT (end cf period) cl
Debt outstanding cod disbursod                           1249         2348       2453         2670      2803        3426
Official                                                1074        1716        1785         1862      1999       2151
IBRD                                                 (354)        (634)       (672)       (716)    (751)        (838)
IDA                                                    (20)        (22)        (22)        (22)       (22)       (22)
Other                                                 (700)      (1060)      (1019)      (1124)   (1225)    (1291)
Prioate                                                174         632         668         808       804        1275
Undisbursed Debt                                          602          663        908         1040      1516        1993
DE3T SERVICE c/
Tctal debt service paynents of uhtch                     119          249        278          313       398        664
Interest                                                44         114         125         137        171        231
Paynents as 7. exp-rts of goods and
al  Iervioes                                          11.6        11.1         9.5         8.8        9.9       12.5
Payments as 7. GIP                                       1.7          1.9        1.9          1.6       1.8         2.4
A.verage interst rate  on cow Ioans (%)                   5.8          7.4        6.5          7.4       7.9        10.3
00ficial                                                (5.1)        (6.1)      (5.8)        (7.3)     (7.6)       (7.8)
Prioate                                                 (6.9)        (8.2)      (7.5)        (7.6)     (8.6)     (12.0)
Average mat-rity of new loans (years)                    22.4         15.1       14.8         16.0      14.1        12.6
Official                                               (30.1)       (26.1)    (20.0)        (17.9)   (16.2)      (16,8)
Private                                                 (9.7)        (8.2)      (7.4)        (7.6)     (9.1)    (10.0)
BANK GROUP EXPOSU8E (E.) of
IBRD DOD/total DOD                                       28.4         27.0       27.4         26.8      26.8       24.5
IBRD disbursenents/total gross diaboraenentc             24.6         27.1       28.9         22.9      25.7        13.3
IRDd debt s-ic)total  sob ero vice                       34.4         28.9       13.7         14.3       8.8       13.1
IDA DOD/total DOD                                         1.6          1.0        0.9          0.8       0.8         0,6
IDA dinb-rce,ont/tcota1 gross diaburaements
IDA debt servcei/total debt  ervie                         -           0.1         .1          0.1       0.1         0.3
As /. of Debt Outstandirg
at End of 1979
TERM STRUCTURE
Maturity atr-cture of debt outstandiag (7.)
1atraitios due within 5 years                                                                                      32.3
.tu-rities doe sithin 10 years                                                                                     68.6
lntercststructret of debo outsctading  (G)
Interest dfe  0ithin firat ye00                                                                                    5.4
a/ World Bonk Atlas Method
b/ Prelininary
cI Public and publicly goarantead debt
April 2., 1981
Colonbia Division



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of December 31, 1980)
(US$ million)
Loan                                                              Amount (less Cancellation)
Number  Year  Borrower                           Purpose            Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
54 fully disbursed loans and one IDA credit                        918.4      23.5 /1   --
741     1971  Fmpresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota       Water Supply       88.0                 .6
849     1972  Instituto Colombiano de
la Reforma Agraria              Irrigation         2.2                 .6
860     1972  Instituto de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply        9.1                1.9
874     1973  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                  56.0                 .3
920     1973  Colombia                           Education          21.2               9.0
1072    1975  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply       27.0                9.0
1118    1975  Colombia                           Rural Settlement 19.5                 6.7
1163    1975  Colombia                           Agriculture        21.0              12.8
1223    1976  Banco de la Republica              Industrial Cr.   80.0                 3.0
1352    1977  Colombia                           Rural Dev.         52.0              26.9
1357    1977  Banco de la Republica              Agricultural Cr. 64.0                21.5
1450    1977  Fmpresa Nacional de                Communications   58.3                50.7
Telecomunicaciones
1451    1977  Banco de la Republica              Industrial Cr.   15.0                 1.5
1471    1977  Colombia                           Highways           90.0              65.1
1487    1978  Colombia                           Nutrition          25.0              20.4
1523    1978  Empresas Municipales de Cali   Water Supply           13.8              12.6
1558    1978  Colombia                           Urban Develop-
ment            24.8               23.5
1582    1978  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power                 126.0             101.1
1583    1978  Colombia                           Power             50.0               20.0
1593    1978  Zona Franca Industrial             Industrial
y Comercial de Cartagena          Export          15.0               12.4
1598    1978  Banco de la Republica              Industrial Cr.  100.0                32.9
1624    1979  Colombia                           Airports           61.0              50.4
1628    1979  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                       Power             84.0               60.5
1694    1979  Colombia                           Urban Develop-
ment            13.5               13.5
1697    1979  Fmpresa de Acueducto
y Alcantarillado
de Bogota                      Water Supply       30.0               29.1
/1   Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of December 31, 1980) (Continued)
Number  Year  Borrower                          Purpose             Bank   IDA  Undisbursec
1725 /1 1979  Interconexion
Electrica, S.A.                Power              72.0              72.0
1726    1979  Instituto Nacional de
F mento Itunicipal             Water Supply        31.0             31.0
1737    1979  Instituto Colombiano
de la Reforma Agraria          Agriculture Cr.   20.0               20.0
1762    1979  Cerro Matoso, S.A.                Yining-Nickel       80.0             74.3
1807 /1 1980  Fmpresa de Energia Electrica   Power                  87.0             87.0
de Bogota
1825 /1 1980  Empresas Publicas de              Communications    44.0               44.0
Medellin
1834 /1 1980  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.    32.0               32.0
1857 T1 1980  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   150.0              150.0
1868 /1 1980  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                 125.0            125.0
TOTAL                                           2,705.8      23.5
Of which has been repaid                          508.4       2.2
Total now outstanding                           2,197.4      21.3
Amount sold                         50.9
Of which has been repaid            37.9            13.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA                  2,184.4      21.3
Total undisbursed                                                  1,206.9
/1   Not yet effective.



ANNEA II
-32 -                              Page 3 of 12
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of December 31, 1980)
Type of          Amount in US$ million
Year               Obligor                    Business         Loan   Equity   Total
1959       Laminas del Caribe, S.A.           Fiber-board       .50       -       .50
1960-1965  Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                      Food products   1.99    .08        2.07
1961       Envases Colombianos, S.A.          Metal cans        .70       -       .70
1961-1968  Morfeo-Productos para el
-ogar, S.A.                     Home furniture   .08    .09          .17
1961       Electromanufacturas, S.A.          Electrical
equipment       .50      -        .50
1962       Corporacion Financiera             Development
Colombiana                        financing         -   2.02       2.02
1962-1963  Corporacion Financiera             Development         -   2.04       2.04
Nacional                          financing
1963-1967  Compania Colombiana de             Textiles         1.98    .15       2.13
1968-1969 Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970  Corporacion Financiera de          Development
Caldas                            financing         -    .81        .81
1964-1968  Forjas de Colombia, S.A.           Steel forging       -   1.27       1.27
1966       Almacenes Generales de             Warehousing      1.00       -      1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966       Industria Ganadera                 Livestock        1.00    .58       1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74 ENFA de Colombia, S.A.             Textiles         5.00   2.60       7.60
1969       Compania de Desarrollo de          Tourism             -    .01        .01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISMO)
1969-1973  Corporacion Financiera del         Development         -    .45        .45
Norte                             financing
1969       Corporacion Financiera del         Development         -    .43        .43
Valle                             financing
1970       Promotora de Hoteles de            Tourism           .23    .11        .34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977  Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                  Tourism           .80    .25       1.05
1973-1975  Corporacion Colombiana de          Housing             -    .46        .46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974       Cementos Boyaca, S.A.              Cement           1.50       -      1.50
1975       Cementos del Caribe, S.A.          Cement           3.60       -      3.60
1976       Las Brisas                         Mining           6.00       -      6.00
1977       Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.            Utilities       13.00   2.00      15.00
1977       Coripania Colombiana de Clinker, Cement and
S.A.                                Construction
Material       2.43    .30       2.73
1980       Leasing Bolivar                    Leasing          9.00    .19       9.19
Total Gross Commitments                           49.31  13.84       63.15
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                            36.63   8.88      45.51
Total commitments now held by IFC                 12.68   4.96       17.64
Total undisbursed                                  3.00    .19        3.19



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
C. PROJECTS IN EYF.CUTIOF 1/
1.        Ln. No. 741 Water Supply (Bogota II); UTS$88 million, May 28, 1971.
Effective date: August 16, 1971
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1978
current - December 31, 1980
Completion of the Chuza-Ventana tunnel section, which was delayed by
two methane explosion, is expected by mid-1982; all other project elements
will be completed by the end of 1981. Borrower's financial performance had
deteriorated; recently, however, large tariff increases were put into effect
and additional ones are being contemplated which should help to improve
overall finances and bring Borrower's performance closer in line with targets.
Disbursements up to December 31, 1980, amounted to about 99% of the loan
amount.
2.        Ln. No. 849 Second Atlantico Development; IJS$5 million, June 30, 1972.
Effective date: November 14, 1972
Closing Date:    original - March 31, 1978
current - September 30, 1981
The project is the second phase of a scheme to develop about 17,000
ha of seasonally inundated land for agricultural production. At the request
of the G-overnment, US$2.8 million of the loan of US$5.0 million was cancelled
in February 1977. Settlement of farmers within the project areas is behind
schedule and the provision of technical assistance/farm credit needs improve-
i,ent. Because heavy seasonal rainfall in 1979 resulted in severe flooding in
the project area, civil works construction has been halted and a study is being
carried out to reassess the flood protection and drainage requirements of the
area.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
3.        Ln. No. 860 Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$9.1
million, October 10, 1972.
Effective date: March 7, 1973
Closing Date:    original - September 30, 1976
current - May 31, 1981
As of December 31, 1980, about 75% of the loan amount was disbursed.
Management problems affected the initiation of the project, but execution
has since improved. Delay in receiving budgetary funds as a result of the
Government's economic stabilization measures also slowed down project execution;
however during 1980, execution improved. INSFOPAL prepared a new implemen-
tation program for each city and works are now contracted and under construc-
tion, with no further delays foreseen. All works are expected to be completed
by May 1981.
4.        Ln. No. 874 Guatape II Hydroelectric Power Project; US$56 million,
January 12, 1973.
Effective date: March 13, 1973
Closing Date:    original - December 31, 1978
current - June 30, 1980
The project is virtually completed. After considerable delay in
resettling the people of El Penol and Guatape, filling of the Santa Rita
reservoir was carried out in May 1978, three years behind schedule. The
revised project cost is substantially above appraisal estimate, mainly occa-
sioned by higher cost of the civil works and resettlement. As of December 31,
1980, loan funds were fully committed and US$55.7 million or 99% of the loan
amount had been disbursed.
5.        Ln. No. 920 Education III; IJS$21.2 million, July 19, 1973.
Effective date: January 9, 1974
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1977
current - December 31, 1981
Project execution had been suspended in mid-1975 pending redefinition
of sector priorities by the Government. It resumed in 1977 but suffered
continuous delays. In June 1978, the Government submitted a proposal to
reduce the scope of the project and to cancel a large portion of the loan.
However, the new administration, which came to office in August 1978, retracted
the proposal and decided to proceed with the project as originally conceived.
Since reactivating the project, the Borrower has made progress in planning,
construction, educational programming and personnel training, and project
execution is proceeding normally. Nevertheless, because of the delay and
higher costs the scope of the project may have to be reduced.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
6.        Ln. No. 1072 Second Multi-City Water Supply and Sewerage Project;
US$27 million, January 16, 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    December 31, 1981
In spite of the fiscal restraint imposed by the Government's economic
stabilization measures, project implementation is progressing satisfactorily
in most cities. With the exception of the ground water component and Barranquilla
water treatment plant which would be completed by December 1981, all works are
expected to be completed by June 1981. Sub-borrowers have not been implement-
ing tariff adjustments as agreed, therefore, INSFOPAL is proceeding to take
corrective measures. As of December 31, 1980, US$18.0 million or 67% of the
loan had been disbursed.
7.        Ln. No. 1118 Caqueta Rural Settlement Project; US$19.5 million,
June 2, 1975.
Effective date: April 1, 1976
Closing Date:    Original - October 31, 1979
Current - December 31, 1981
The loan became effective on April 1, 1976, after a six-month delay.
Project execution has proceeded rapidly and some of the lost time regained.
Road and bridge construction is well ahead of schedule (168 km have been
completed). School construction and the provision of sufficient credit are
lagging because of slow transfer of funds by the Treasury; the Government is
attempting to correct the situation. As of December 31, 1980, US$6.7 million
or 34% of the loan remained undisbursed.
8.        Ln. No. 1163 Cordoba 2 Agricultural Development Project; US$21 mil-
lion, September 12, 1975.
Effective Date:   March 30, 1976
Closing Date:      June 30, 1981
A few months after effectiveness, the Government decided to give
responsibility for project civil works to another agency. This decision
delayed the initiation of the project and implementation is still behind
schedule. One of the project's main problems continues to be inadequate
budget allocations to carry out project works and to provide sub-loans to
farmers. Maintenance of roads and drains constructed under the loan,
technical assistance to farmers and rate of land transfer to beneficiaries
are inadequate; the executing agencies have now agreed to take corrective
measures. As of December 31, 1980, US$8.2 million of the loan amount had
been disbursed.



-36 -                              ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
9.        Ln. No. 1223 Sixth Development Finance Companies Project; US$80.0 mil-
lion, March 31, 1976.
Effective Date:   September 1, 1976
Closing Date:      June 30, 1981
The project is proceeding satisfactorily and virtually all loan
funds are committed. As of December 31, 1980, about 96% of the loan had been
disbursed.
10.       Ln. No, 1352 Integrated Rural Development Project; US$52.0 million,
January 7, 1977.
Effective Date: August 26, 1977
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The project is now in its fourth year of implementation and proceed-
ing satisfactorily in spite of its complexity. The project's components of
credit, technical assistance and training are proceeding satisfactorily, while
institutional coordination continues to be effective. The forestry and water
supply components have suffered some delays. Administrative procedures, such
as procurement and disbursement, continue to present some difficulties, but
they are much less serious than initially. Control and monitoring of project
execution is comprehensive, and first stage evaluation is currently underway.
As of December 31, 1980, US$25.1 million, or 48% of the loan had been disbursed.
11.       Ln. No. 1357 Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$64.0 million,
February 4, 1977.
Effective Date:   September 6, 1977
Closing Date:      December 31, 1981.
The funds originally assigned to medium and large farmers were fully
committed and disbursed and the $2.0 million reallocated to this component will
be fully committed soon. However, only 28% of subloans allocated to small
farmers have been disbursed, but commitments have increased recently. Concern
over possible diversion and substitution of subloan funds led the Borrower
to increase substantially its end-use supervision. About 51% of loan funds
for credit to agroindustries have been committed for 116 subprojects. As of
December 31, 1980, US$42.6 million, or 67% of the loan had been disbursed.
12.       Ln. No. 1450 Telecommunications IV; US$58.3 million, July 7, 1977.
Effective Date: October 3, 1977.
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982.
The project has been delayed as a result of several personnel
changes in the Borrower. Current activities are concentrated on the procure-
ment of project goods, the planning of cable networks, trunk exchange expan-
sion, and design of buildings to house equipment. Good progress is being made
in the acquisition program of smaller local telephone companies. As of
December 31, 1980, US$50.7 million, or 87% of the loan, remained undisbursed.



-37 -                              ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
13.       Ln. No. 1451 Second Small-Scale Industry Project; US$15 million,
September 27, 1977.
Effective Date: February 14, 1978.
Closing Date:    March 31, 1981
After initial delays in loan effectiveness mainly due to management
changeover, project implementation is proceeding well and loan funds are
fully committed. As of December 31, 1980, US$13.5 million had been disbursed.
14.       Ln. No. 1471 Highways VII; US$90 million, July 5, 1977.
Effective Date: November 28, 1977.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The Project comprises three main programs: rehabilitation, main-
tenance, and vehicle weight control. After initial delays, the project is now
developing satisfactorily. All rehabilitation works have been contracted and
25% of the roads completed. The maintenance program began in March 1980;
consultants to assist MOPT in carrying out the program have been retained and
the bulk of the maintenance equipment has been purchased. The vehicle weight
control program is about to begin after a 28-month delay. As of December 31,
1980, about US$25.0 million had been disbursed.
15.       Ln. No. 1487 Integrated Nutrition Improvement Project; US$25 million,
November 10, 1977.
Effective Date: March 9, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Significant progress has been achieved in the major components of
health, nutrition education and water supply but execution is running about a
year behind schedule. Initial delays occurred in two subsidiary components--
home food production and food quality control--but activities are now underway.
Project management and coordination have been sound, flexible and effective.
Project monitoring and evaluation systems are operating effectively.
16.       Ln. No. 1523 Second Cali Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$13.8
million, June 20, 1978.
Effective Date: January 31, 1979
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Because of EMCALT's failure to comply with some of its obligations
under the Loan Agreement dealing with the finances of its Water and Sewerage
Division, on January 29, 1981, the Bank suspended disbursements under this
loan. Disbursements will be resumed once ENCALI has taken corrective measures.
As of December 31, 1980, US$12.6 million or 91% of the loan remained undisbursed.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
17.       Ln. No. 1558 Urban Development Project; US$24.8 million, July 21, 1978.
Effective Date: December 1, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
While project execution and coordination has recently improved,
overall progress is still running behind schedule. Project implementation
plans in 16 of the 23 cities have been approved by the Bank. The new Directora
General of SIP intends to accelerate project implementation and has established
a working unit to monitor progress and evaluate the project.
18.       Ln. No. 1582 San Carlos I Hydro Power Project; US$126 million,
July 14, 1978.
Effective Date: April 5, 1979
C  si g Date:    June 30, 1984
Project works are proceeding on schedule and main contracts for
equipment have been signed. As of December 31, 1980, US$24.9 million or
20% of the loan had been disbursed.
19.       Ln. No. 1583 500 kV Interconnection Project; US$50 million, July 14,
1978.
Effective Date: October 17, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Project works have recently been initiated. The Bank-financed
component (transmission line) is proceeding on schedule, at lower-than-
anticipated cost. However, project completion is likely to be delayed by
about two years as a result of KfW's objection to the contract award
for substations (KfW was originally to finance this component). The
Government is now exploring other sources of finance.
20.       Ln. No. 1593 Cartagena Industrial Export Processing Zone; US$15
million, August 1, 1978.
Effective Date: January 30, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1983
After an initial delay due to procurement problems, project implemen-
tation is now running smoothly. Construction and the promotional campaign are
both well under way, but there have been delays in contracting the water supply
works and in construction of a portion of the access road. Difficult soil
conditions encountered at the site will require substantial soil investigations.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
21.       Ln. No. 1598 Seventh Development Finance Companies Project;
TISSO0 million, July 27, 1978.
Effective Date: November 28, 1978
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The project is proceeding satisfactorily and by the end of December
31, 1980, 99% of the loan funds, or about US$99.1 million had been committed.
22.       Ln. No. 1624 Airports Project; US$61 million, December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: July 24, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1984
Project works are well under way. Because of poor soils, there is a
construction delay at the future Rio Negro airport and a solution to this
problem is currently being investigated.
23.       Ln. No. 1628 Mesitas Fydroelectric Power Project; US$84 million,
April 9, 1979.
Effective Date: August 21, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
Project works are well under way, although with a 3-6 month delay.
1T,igher-tban-anticipated costs (estimated at US$62 million) are expected as a
result of higher bids than forecast at appraisal. Performance by the Borrower
continues to be satisfactory.
24.       Ln. No. 1694 Second (Cartagena) Urban Development; US$13.5 million,
August 31, 1979.
Fffective Date: June 20, 1980
Closing Date:    December 31, 1984
Physical works are about one year behind schedule, but the implemen-
tation programs for 1980 and 1981 have been accelerated in an endeavor to make
up the time lost and complete the project in 1983.
25.       Ln. No. 1697 Third Bogota Water Supply; US$30 million, November 30, 1979.
Fffective Date: April 22, 1980
Closing Date:    June 30, 1983
Project implementation is proceeding slowly. As mentioned in
paragraph I, the borrower is taking additional tariff measures to improve its
finances.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
26.        Ln. No. 1725 San Carlos II Fydro Power; US$72 million, November 30, 1979.
Awaiting resolution of the problem of heavy arrears in payments to
ISA from ICFL, a shareholder, the Bank has not yet agreed to the effectiveness
of this loan.
27.        Ln. Nlo. 1726 Third Water and Sewerage; US$31 million, November 30, 1979.
Fffective Date: February 28, 1980
Closing Date:    June 30, 1984
Project implementation is under way with the final designs for 16 of
the 23 subprojects approved and with designs for the remaining subprojects in
final stages of preparation.
28.        Ln. No. 1737 Third Agricultural Credit; US$20 million, November 30, 1979.
Fffective Date: October 1, 1980
Closing Date:    June 30, 1985
This loan became effective on October 1, 1980 and project implementa-
tion is underway.
29.        Ln. No. 1762-CO Cerro Matoso Nickel; UJS$80 million, December 20, 1979.
Fffective Date: July 3, 1Q80
Closing Date:    June 30, 1983
While some awards of construction contracts are lagging behind
schedule, procurement of equipment and materials is progressing well and
the Borrower is confident that the project will be completed by April 1982.
30. 1/    In. No. 1807-CO Bogota Power Distribution; US$87 million,
February 6, 1981.
This loan is not yet effective.
31. 1/    Ln. No. 1825-CO Fifth Telecommunications; US$44 million,
December 19, 1980.
This loan is not yet effective.
32. 1/    Ln. No. 1834-CO Third Small-Scale Industry; US$32 million,
December 10, 1980.
This loan is not yet effective.
1/   Loan signature took longer than expected because of a delay in obtain-
ing Congressional approval for an increase in the external debt ceiling.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
33.       Ln. No. 1857-CO Eighth DFC; UJS$150 million, December 10, 1980.
This loan is not yet effective.
34.       Ln. No. 1868-CO Guadalupe IV Hydro Power; US$125 million.
December 19, 1980.
This loan is not yet effective.
March 12, 1981



- 42 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
COLOMBIA
GUAVIO HYDRO POWER PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 24 months
(b) Agency which prepared project: EEEB/INGETEC
(c) First presentation to Bank: June 1978
(d) First mission to review project: February 1979
(e) Departure of Appraisal Mission: December 1, 1980
(f) Completion of negotiations:
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: August 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
During negotiations, the following assurances were obtained;
(a) the Government would, by January 1, 1982, establish a domestic
financing facility for power sector investments (paragraph 28);
(b) the Government would, by June 30, 1983, put into effect a program
to restructure the ICEL electrificadoras (paragraph 29);
(c) EEEB would retain all consultants for project execution under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (paragraph 44);
(d) EEEB would achieve a rate of return on fully revalued assets
of not less than 14% in the year 1981 and thereafter; also
EEEB would generate annually from its operations 35% of its
investment requirements in 1982-84 and 55% in 1986-87
(paragraph 53);
(e) EEEB would not, without the concurrence of the Bank,
incur long-term debt that would reduce its coverage
by internal cash to less than 1.5 of maximum future debt
service requirements (paragraph 54);



- 43 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(f) EEEB would not undertake generation plant expansion in
excess of 100 MW unless it would be justified as part of
the National Power Expansion Program and suitable financing
would be available. Further, except for some specifically
exempted expenditures, EEEB would not, without Bank agree-
ment, incur capital expenditures in any year which, in total,
would exceed 1% of the value of its fixed assets in
operation (paragraph 54);
(g) the Government would ensure that ICEL and CORELCA would be
provided with funds needed to cover their share of project
costs (paragraph 55); and
(h) EEEB would take adequate environmental protection
measures (paragraph 61).
Section IV: Special Conditions of Effectiveness
Special conditions of effectiveness are that the Guavio Participation
Agreement would be finalized (paragraph 45) and that arrangements satisfactory
to the Bankwouldbe made to secure financing required for EEEB's scheduled
1982-83 investment program (paragraph 56).






IBRD-3638R I
78°                             7E--74-                                              72°                        70°              '      (       OCTOBER 1976i
A         I   A  N  T  I  coc  E  A  IV                                            T/                                                 SOUTH AMERICA 
-127 ,'-5> ,1
ATLANJICO)V_    W:yE
!e MGDALENA                            
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 JItX               S 
X   9<*t iE sE W  p}  RDOBA ¢ x2i    ;)  .- D.   l                       ~~~~~~~~~~~V  E N  E  Z  UE  L A
_S°   f,$,\,>   / r ds C    t   t o  \    f°  X    < u~SANsTANDER/'S4
2  $           ~~~~A NTi I O GU I A           irrr0ns_        \                  A°C      .
<    } oMriddIh        ^g~S A N T A N D ER S         \    A  R A U C A            \.t
t                      . ~~~~~~~~~R1:54RALDj~~ 'CMALDAS_      \BYC            rolCASANR 
t          ~      ~~~~~CUNDINAMARCA),   .                                                     d Oo 
r -o              BOGOTA                          .-4 .s*                   V I C H A D A 
zLr>-<--  )    ArmerTr=<  lb.g..,)                                                                                                 4t
'V A L L E       T O L I M A   /bPoIrdl 
Sj               .>                                                  M     E    T      A               |     /Ii-e 
n>r'<   C A U C A       e ~~~H U I L rA                                                                      ~ GU A I N I A           .
N A  R I N8 0                                                                                          P E  S 5>E
< \ >            o    S  MoOxt  \                                              X                      <      .4l) i, M-
),¢> > ~~~~ >-. ~C A O U E T A '  i
<  <    ~  PU T UM A Y o                                                                                                - .
J§S    4      ~~~~A   M    A  Z O N  A  5                  |                               2e
-2-        COLOMBIA                                                        !                           
,   Elevr/lions rxbove 1400 metewrs                                                                        >
-Department, ineferdenCi a  iCPrmisario bouindariespERU
-   :mairt rers 
--  We-faional Cour,dares                                                                                          /     O ,f         .s
-41                                                                               j4f,
o     5C,   oo  15 - 
L7   lLW71t 6Ea,



