LOAN NUMBER 2008 CO
Guarantee Agreement
(Guavio Hydro Power Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2008 CO
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated Aa4rACAJ                    1982, between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA (her e4-after called the Guarantor) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Empresa de Energia Elctrica de Bogoth (herein-
after called the Borrower), the Bank has agreed to make to the
Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to three hundred
fifty-nine million dollars ($359,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the
Borrower in respect of such loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions
Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements, as so modified, being
hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the


﻿-2-
Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor
and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the
premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual
performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as
set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
shall, whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that the
funds available to the Borrower will be inadequate to meet the
estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of the
Project- make or cause to be made arrangements, satisfactory to
the Bank, to enable the Borrower promptly to be provided with such
funds as are needed to meet such expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal cirr.amstances, special security from the member con-
cerned, but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, which will or might
result in a priority for the benefit of the creditor of such
external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange, the Guarantor shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other assets,
satisfactory to the Bank, of the Guarantor or of any entity owned


﻿- 3 -
or controlled by, or operating for the account or benefit of, the
Guarantor, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Guarantor.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central bank
or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall, promptly as required, take
all action necessary on its part to enable the Borrower to set and
maintain its electric tariffs and charges at levels sufficient at
all times to fulfill the Borrower's obligations under Sections
5.06 and 5.07 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall take all action, including
the granting of all necessary authorizations, import licenses,
foreign exchange permits and all other approvals, required under
the laws of thc.Guarantor, to ensure the timely procurement of the
goods and services required for the Project.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall establish a Permanent
Electricity Financing Facility and make or cause to be made
adequate arrangements to enable such Permanent Electricity
Financing Facility to be provided, by July 31, 1982, with such
funds as are necessary for the timely financing of the National
Power Expansion Program.
Section 3.05. The Guarantor shall, promptly as required, take
all action necessary or advisable on its part, including the
provision of funds, to enable the Sponsors punctually to perform
all their obligations (including their financial obligations)


﻿-4-
with respect to the Borrower and the Project under the Sponsors'
Agreement.
Section 3.06. The Guarantor shall: (a) make available to
the Borrower access to sources of financing for local costs
required for the Investment Program; and
(b) take all measures necessary to ensure access by the
Borrower to external financing as required for the timely carrying
out of the Investment Program and as required to meet the balance
of the foreign exchange costs of the Project.
Section 3.07. The Guarantor, based upon recommendations
of the National Planning Department of the Guarantor in respect
of the structure and operations of ICEL and its electrificadoras,
agrees that: (a) as the Guarantor already decided, it will pre-
pare a program for carrying out such recommendations; and (b) not
later than June 30, 1983, it will begin to take all necessary
measures to put such recommendations into effect in a timely
manner.
Section 3.08. The Guarantor shall, not later than June 30,
1983, carry out a study on the adequacy of the structure and
levels of remuneration at all levels of employment in the power
sector of the Guarantor and promptly thereafter furnish to the
Bank a copy of such study.
Section 3.09. The Guarantor covenants that the Sponsors'
Agreement shall be free from any taxes levied by, or in the
territory of, the Guarantor on or in connection with the
execution, delivery or registration thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Ministro de Hacienda y Cr&dito PGblico
of the Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-5-
For the Guarantor:
Republic of C,lombia
Ministerio de Hacienda y Cr6dito Pfiblico
Palacio de los Ministerios
Plaza San Agustin
Bogota
Colombia
Cable address:
MINHACIENDA
Bogota
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W. .
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the city
of Bogotf, Republic of Colombia, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By /9.&
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
President


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this        - day of       , 198 k/.
FOR SECRETARY


