OFFI CIAL
-D    TS      LOAN NUMBER 2008 CO
Sponsors' Agreement
(Guavio Hydro Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
INTERCONEXION ELECTRICA S.A.
EMPRESAS PUBLICAS DE MEDELLIN
CORPORACION AUTONOMA REGIONAL DEL CAUCA
INSTITUTO COLOMBIANO DE ENERGIA ELECTRICA
CORPORACION ELECTRICA DE LA COSTA ATLANTICA
EMPRESA DE ENERGIA ELECTRICA DE BGOTA
Dated                                 , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2008 CO
SPONSORS' AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated jP            , 1982, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION      DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and INTERCONEXION ELECTRICA S.A. (hereinafter called ISA),
EMPRESAS PUBLICAS DE MEDELLIN (hereinafter called EPM),
CORPORACION AUTONOMA REGIONAL DEL CAUCA (hereinafter called CVC),
INSTITUTO COLOMBIANO DE ENERGIA ELECTRICA (hereinafter called
ICEL), CORPORACION ELECTRICA DE LA COSTA ATLANTICA (hereinafter
called CORELCA) and EMPRESA DE ENERGIA ELECTRICA DE BOGOTA (here-
inafter called EEEB) (acting in its capacity as shareholder of
ISA and not as Borrower under the Loan Agreement), (ISA, EPM, CVC,
ICEL, CORELCA and EEEB hereinafter sometimes collectively called
the Sponsors).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Empresa de Energia E16ctrica de Bogotf (here-
inafter called the Borrower), the Bank has agreed to make to the
Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to three hundred
fifty-nine million dollars ($359,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that the Sponsors agree to extend to the Borrower additional
financing as hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS by the Guarantee Agreement of even date herewith
the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of the
Borrower in the Loan Agreement contained, on the terms and
conditions therein set forth, and only to the extent set forth in
the Guarantee Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Sponsors, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed
to undertake the obligations in this Agreement contained, but only
to the extent set forth therein;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, as modified by Section 1.01 of


﻿-2-
the Loan Agreement, and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Section 2.01. Each Sponsor shall exercise its rights and
powers as a Sponsor and every other right, power or remedy avail-
able to it to cause the Borrower punctually to carry out Part A
of the Project, and shall not take any action which would prevent
or interfere with such performance by the Borrower.
ARTICLE III
Section 3.01. The Sponsors shall enter into the Guavio
Participation Agreement, the terms and conditions of which shall
be satisfactory to the Bank, such terms and conditions to include,
inter alia:
(a) the issuance and delivery by the Borrower of partici-
pations to ISA, on behalf of the other Sponsors, in an amount
equivalent to forty per cent (40%) of the estimated local
expenditures for the Project;
(b) the purchase of such participations of the Borrower by
ISA, on behalf of the other Sponsors, and the purchase by the
other Sponsors from ISA of such participations in such proportion
as set forth in the Guavio Participation Agreement;
(c) the right of ISA, on behalf of the other Sponsors, to
purchase forty per cent (40%) of the power capacity and generation
of electricity of the Guavio hydroelectric plant; and
(d) the participation by ISA, on behalf of the other
Sponsors, in the financial return on the operation of the
Guavio hydroelectric plant.
ARTICLE IV
Section 4.01. (a) The Bank and each Sponsor shall cooperate
fully to ensure that the purposes of Part A of the Project will be
accomplished. To that end, the Bank and each Sponsor shall from
time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views


﻿with regard to the performance by the Borrower in regard to Part A
of the Project, the administration, operations and financial
condition of such Sponsor and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Loan.
(b) Each Sponsor shall furnish or cause to be furnished
to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the matters specified in paragraph (a) of this
Section.
(c) Each Sponsor shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with,
the accomplishment of Part A of the Project or the performance by
such Sponsor of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Section 5.01. Until the Project shall have been completed,
each Sponsor shall: (1) inform the Bank on any proposal of the
Sponsor to make any capital expenditure- for increasing its
power generating capacity by more than one hundred megawatts in
the case of EPM, CVC, ICEL and CORELCA, and two hundred megawatts
in the case of ISA; (ii) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity
to comment. on any such proposal; and (iii) not commit itself to
any such capital expenditure unless the proposed expenditure is
economically justified as part of the National Power Expansion
Program and the Sponsor has obtained financing under terms and
conditions which will not materially and adversely affect its
financial condition and the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement or any other agreement between the Bank and any
Sponsor.
Section 5.02. Except as the Guarantor, the Bank and the
pertinent Sponsor shall otherwise agree:
(a) EPM, CVC, CORELCA and ISA shall establish and maintain
tariffs and charges for the supply and sale of electricity which
will generate for each of them annual returns at the following
rates, on the average net current value of their respective assets
in operation, calculated in accordance with the method outlined in
the Schedule to this Agreement:
(i) EPM, at least ten percent (10%) in the 1982
fiscal year, fourteen percent (14%) in the 1983


﻿-4-
and 1984 fiscal years, and twelve percent (12%)
in the 1985 fiscal year and thereafter;
(ii) CVC, at least nine percent (9%) in the 1982 fiscal
year and thereafter;
(iii) CORELCA, at least seven and one-half percent (7.5%)
in the 1982 fiscal year and eleven percent (11%) in
the 1983 fiscal year and thereafter; and
(iv) ISA, at least nine ,percent (9%) in the 1982
fiscal year and thereafter.
(b) The Sponsors referred to in paragraph (a) above shall,
within the first two months of each quarter of the fiscal year,
review the adequacy of their respective tariffs and charges to
produce the annual returns required under such paragraph (a) and
shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review.
(c) If any such review shall show that any of the Sponsors
referred to in paragraph (a) above would not earn the annual
return required under such paragraph (a) in the course of the
twelve-month period commencing with such calendar quarter, such
Sponsor shall adjust its tariffs and charges in such a manner
as to achieve the respective target specified in such paragraph
(a), and the adjusted tariffs and charges shall be brought into
effect not later than the end of the following quarter.
Section 5.03. Each Sponsor shall punctually perform, jointly
with the Borrower and the other Sponsors, the obligations set
forth in the Guavio Participation Agreement.
Section 5.04. Each Sponsor shall furnish the Borrower,
promptly as needed, the information for the preparation by the
Borrower of the quarterly reports referred to in paragraph (c)
of Section 3.05 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 5.05. Each Sponsor shall not take any action which
would prevent or interfere with the performance by any Sponsor of
its obligations under this Agreement.


﻿-5-
Section 5.06. Each of the Sponsors shall take all reasonable
and appropriate action required on its part for the achievement of
the objectives of Section 3.07 of the Guarantee Agreement.
Section 5.07. The Sponsors shall give all necessary assis-
tance to the Guarantor for the carrying out of the study referred
to in Section 3.08 of the Guarantee Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the Effective Date referred to in Section 8.03 of the Loan
Agreement.
Section 6.02. This Agreement and the obligations of the
parties hereunder shall terminate when the Loan Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. Notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension
pursuant to Article VI of the General Conditions, all the provi-
sions of the Sponsors' Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect.
Section 6.04. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall have been delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified, or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request.
Section 6.05. The obligations of each Sponsor under this
Agreement shall not be discharged except by performance and then
only to the extent of such performance. Such obligations shall not
be subject to any prior notice to, demand upon or action against
the Borrower or the Guarantor or to any prior notice or demand
upon any Sponsor, and shall not be impaired by any of the follow-
ing: any extension of time, forbearance or concession given to
the Borrower or the Guarantor or any other Sponsor; any assertion
of, or failure to assert, or delay in asserting any right, power
or remedy against the Borrower or the Guarantor or any other
Sponsor or in respect of any security for the Loan; any modifica-
tion or amplification of the provisions of the Loan Agreement or
the Guarantee Agreement contemplated by the terms thereof; any


﻿-6-
failure of the Borrower to comply with any requirement of any
law, regulation or order of the Guarantor or of any political
subdivision or agency of the Guarantor.
Section 6.06. Each Sponsor shall furnish to the Bank suffi-
cient evidence of the authority of the person or persons who
will, on behalf of such Sponsor, take any action or execute
any documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by
such Sponsor under this Agreement and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.07. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 6.04 of this Agreement:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Sponsors:
(i) Interconexi6n El6ctrica S.A.
Calle 50 - No. 50-21 (Piso 13)
Medellin
Colombia
Cable address:             Telex:
ISA                       06559
Medellfn
(ii) Empresas PGhlicas de Medellin.
Calle 53 - No. 5216
Medellfn
Colombia


﻿-7-
Cable.address:              Telex:
EMPRESAS                   06649
Medellin
(iii) Corporaci6n Aut6noma Regional del Cauca
Apartado Aéreo 1545
Cali
Colombia
Cable address:              Telex:
PLAN                       055708
Cali
(iv) Instituto Colombiano de
Energía Eléctrica
Carrera 13 - No. 27-00
Bogotá
Colombia
Cable address:              Telex:
ICEL                       043319
Bogotá
(v) Corporación Eléctrica de la
Costa Atlántica
Apartado Aéreo 2741
Barranquilla
Colombia
Cable address:              Telex:
CORELCA                    033309
Barranquilla
(vi) Empresa de Energía Eléctrica
de Bogotá
Calle 13 - No. 37-35
Apartado Aéreo 4453
Bogotá
Colombia
Cable address:              Telex:
ENERGIA                    041242
Bogotá


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the city of
Bogot&, Republic of Colombia, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
INTERCONEXION ELECTRICA S.A.
By
uthorized Representative
EMPRESAS PUBLICAS DE MEDELLIN
Authorized Representative
CORPORACION AUTONOMA REGIONAL DEL CAUCA
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
INSTITUTO COLOMBIANO DE ENERGIA ELECTRICA
By
Authorized Representative
CORPORACION ELECTRICA DE LA COSTA ATLANTICA
By
Authorized Representative
EMPRESA DE ENERGIA ELECTRICA DE BOGOTA
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE
Method for Calculating Rate
of Return of Sponsors
1.   The annual returns specified in Section 5.02 of the Sponsors'
Agreement will be calculated, in each calendar quarter in respect
of the twelve-month period beginning with such quarter and the
twelve-month period immediately preceding, by using as the
denominator the average between the net current values of the
respective fixed assets in operation at the beginning and at the
end of each such period and as numerator the operating income of
the Sponsor for the same period.
2.   Any shortfall or overrun in the required annual return for
the twelve-month period immediately preceding the quarter in which
the calculation is to be made will be carried forward and sub-
tracted or added, as the case may be, to the numerator used for
the forthcoming twelve-month period.
3.   "Operating income" will be the difference between all
revenues from the sale of electricity, and all administrative
and operating costs relating thereto, including maintenance and
adequate provision for straight-line depreciation on the average
gross value of revalued fixed assets in operation, but excluding
interest and other charges.
4.   The net current value of fixed assets in operation will be at
any given date their gross value less accumulated depreciation to
such date, as revalued and depreciated in accordance with para-
graphs 5 and 6 below.
5.   Until another method, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
maintenance of value of assets of public utilities shall have
been made applicable to the Sponsor, the gross value of the
fixed assets in operation and works in progress of ISA, EPM,
CVC (including its subsidiary Central Hidroelfctrica del Rio
Anchicayf Ltda.), ICEL, and CORELCA will be revalued quarterly
in accordance with the corresponding variations in the Indice
nacional de precios al consumidor - Obreros, published by the
Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estadistica of the
Guarantor, or a similar index approved by the Bank, to the last
month preceding the quarter in which the calculation is to be
made. For the purposes of this calculation, as of December 31,
1976:


﻿- 11 -
(a)   the aggregate gross value of each Sponsor's fixed assets
in operation will be fixed in pesos as follows:
(i) ISA, one thousand eight hundred thirty-three
million pesos (Col.$1,833,000,000);
(ii) EPM, eight thousand forty-four million pesos
(Col.$8,044,000,000);
(iii) CVC (including its subsidiary Central Hidroel6c-
trica del Rio Anchicay& Ltda.), nine thousand
four hundred fifty-nine million pesos
(Col.$9,459,000,000); and
(iv) CORELCA, two thousand nine hundred forty-five
million pesos (Col.$2,945,000,000).
(b) the aggregate gross value of each Sponsor's fixed assets
in construction will be fixed in pesos as follows:
(i) ISA, ten thousand four hundred sixty-four million
pesos (Col.$10,464,000,000);
(ii) EPM, three thousand one hundred forty-eight million
pesos (Col.$3,148,000,000);
(iii) CVC (including its subsidiary Central Hidroel6c-
trica del Rio Anchicayl Ltda.), one hundred
sixty-three million pesos (Col.$163,000,000); and
(iv) CORELCA, one thousand three hundred seventy-three
million pesos (Col.$1,373,000,000);
(c) the accumulated depreciation on the assets in (a) hereof
will be fixed in pesos as follows:
(i) ISA, two     hundred    eleven million      pesos
(Col.$211,000,000);
(ii) EPM, one thousand seven hundred seventy-nine
million pesos (Col.$1,779,000,000);
(iii) CVC (including its subsidiary Central Hidroelfc-
trica del Rio Anchicaya Ltda.), one thousand


﻿- 12 -
three hundred eighty-seven million pesos
(Col.$1,387,000,000); and
(iv) CORELCA, three hundred fifty million pesos
(Col. $350, 000, 000).
6.   ISA, EPM, CVC (including its subsidiary Central Hidroel6c-
trica del Rio Anchicayl Ltda.) and CORELCA will each furnish
to the Bank during the first quarter of each fiscal year a report
on the revaluation of its assets through the end of the preceding
fiscal year.
7.   Depreciation will be charged on a straight-line basis over
the estimated useful life of the Sponsor's fixed assets.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this e   L    day of U   4, 198 A.
FORSECRETARY


