RETURN TO
Document of                      REPORTS D'S
IL E COPuY                             The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2224-MOR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR THE
RABAT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 15, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
US$1.00          DH 4.4
DH 1.00          US$0.222
Fiscal Year      Calendar Year
ABBREVIATIONS
BCP    Banque Centrale Populaire (Commercial Bank)
BNDE Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Economique (Development Bank)
BRP Banque Populaire Regionale (Regional Branch of BCP)
CIH   Credit Immobilier et Hotelier (Housing and Tourism Bank)
RED   Regie autonome intercommunale de distribution d'eau et d'electricite
de Rabat-Sale (Rabat Water Company)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
RABAT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Kingdom of Morocco.
Loan Amount:         US$18.0 million.
Terms:               20 years including five years of gracc at 7.45 percent
per annum.
Prolect
Description:         This first Bank-financed urban project in Morocco is aimed
at improving the living conditions of urban poor in Rabat.
It would introduce solutions to some of the most difficult
problems facing the Moroccan urban sector: inadequate
urban planning, financing and management. The project
consists of five interrelated components: (i) compre-
hensive squatter upgrading in the three quarters of
Douars Doum, Maadid and Haija. This upgrading will
include rehabilitation and extension of infrastructure,
improvement and expansion of commercial installations and
hoae improvements through self-help; (ii) an experimental
Sites and Services/Housing scheme; (iii) an employment
generation program to create about 2,500 new jobs in
the project area; (iv) community services equipment to
improve garbage collection, fire fighting and emergency
services; and (v) technical assistance to strengthen the
institutional arrangements and technical capabilities of
the executing agencies. The main risks faced by the
project would be: (i) poor cooordination among different
agencies involved in project implementation and inade-
quate staffing provisions; (ii) delay in land acquisition
to permit project implementation in the proposed time
frame; and (iii) the risk of the population in the project
area not accepting proposed project details, especially
cost recovery. However, the probability of these risks
is considered minimal.
Estimated Cost:                            Local         Foreign         Total
---------- US$ million -----------
1.  Squatter Upgrading                    8.97           5.31          14.28
2. Experimental Sites and
Services/Housing Scheme              3.36           2.00           5.36
3.  Employment Generation Program         5.68           3.68           9.36
4.  Community Services Equipment          0.16           0.75           0.91
5.  Technical Assistance                  0.11           0.42           0.53
6.  Contingencies                         3.79           3.39           7.18
TOTAL EXPECTED PROJECT COSTS         22.07          15.55          37.62
This document ha a resiricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Einaa~cing Plan:                                             Equity       Estimated
Bank    Govt.   Financing        Costs
…------- US$ Thousands -----------
1.  Squatter Upgrading                     8,383   9,699                    18,087
2.  Experimental Sites and
Services/Housing Scheme               3,255   3,408                      6,663
3.  Employment Generation Program          4,860   3,329      2,943         11,132
4.  Community Services Equipment             865     167                     1,032
5.  Technical Assistance                     632      71                       703
Total                                18,000  16,674       2,943         37,617
Estimated
Disbursements:                --------------- US$ thousands --------------
FY78      FY79       FY80       FY81       FY82
Annual                   810      4,790       7,850      4,450        100
Cumulative               810      5,600      13,450    17,900    18,000
Rate of Return:
1.  Squatter Upgrading:                 21%
2. Experimental Sites and
Services/Housing Scheme:            19%
3.  Employment Generation Program:    21%
4. Overall Economic Rate
of Return:                          20%
Appraisal Report:   No. 1800a-MOR dated February 3, 1978.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR THE RABAT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Kingdom of Morocco for the equivalent of US$18 million, to finance the
proposed Rabat Urban Development Project. The loan would have a term of 20
years including 5 years of grace with interest at 7.45 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
Recent Economic Performance
2.        Morocco's economy exhibited markedly increased dynamism during the
first three years of the 1973-77 Plan. Fixed investment rose very sharply,
amounting to 24 percent of GDP in 1975, twice the 1972 share. This increase
reflected the strong growth of public investment, made possible by expectedly
large increases in revenues from the phosphate sector in 1974 and 1975. The
Government's newly manifested will to accelerate economic development and
the training of skilled Moroccan staff led to distinct improvements in the
capacity to prepare and implement projects, although not equally in all
sectors. There was also an upsurge of private investment activity, induced
partly by rising public sector demand (e.g. for construction in 1973). Be-
tween 1972 and 1975, Government investment rose by 275 percent in current
prices, and other investment by 220 percent. Government investment accounted
for a rising share of total investment, moving from 42 percent in 1973 to
58 percent in 1975. The real growth of industry, excluding mining, averaged
11.5 percent yearly in 1973-75, with an especially strong response of the
construction sector to investment.
3.        The dynamism imparted to investment was accompanied however by some
less favorable developments. Even with sharp increases in investments, real
GDP growth averaged only about 5 percent yearly in 1973-75. This relatively
slow growth was in part due to the effect of adverse weather conditions on
agriculture during the 1974/75 crop season, and in part because of the marked
decline in world demand for Morocco's major exports, particularly of phosphates.
Exports of the latter fell from a record 18.7 million tons in 1974 to 13.1
million tons in 1975. At the same time, Morocco's import bill more than
doubled, especially as a result of rising investments, increased food require-
ments and sharp import price rises. The economy's resource deficit widened
to more than 12 percent of GDP in 1975, and the balance of payments, which
had shown a current account surplus in 1973 and 1974, registered a deficit of
$546 million in 1975. This deficit was almost entirely covered by increased
external borrowings. Domestically, price subsidies, most of which were to
restrain food prices, soared to 7 percent of GDP in 1974 and more than 6 per-
cent in 1975, putting downward pressure on budgetary saving. Moreover, despite
these subsidies, domestic price inflation accelerated markedly mainly due to
pressures that shifted from external to internal origin over the years 1974-75.
1/   This is an updated version of Part 1 of the President's Report dated
July 20, 1977 for the Sewerage Engineering Project.



Finally, skilled manpower shortages became a constraint on absorptive capacity,
particularly in the newly emphasized sectors (rainfed agriculture, regional
development, low-cost housing and urban public services) where desnite the
Government's efforts, the capacity to prepare and implement economically
justified projects remained well below expectations.
4.        GDP growth recovered sharply (10 percent) in 1976, thanks to an
excellent cereal harvest, a small recovery of phosphate sales abroad, and
continued growth momentum in manufacturing, construction and services. The
expansionary investment policies of 1973-75 continued, and fixed investment
rose by a further 38 percent in current prices. Several measures were however
taken to curb the growth of consumption demand, althought they were insuffi-
cient to prevent a reduction in domestic savings, which fell from 15 percent
of GDP in 1975 to 8.3 percent in 1976. These measures included a reduction of
price subsidies and some restraint in other current budgetary spending, the
successful placement of a DH 1.1 billion ($230 million) bond issue among the
Moroccan public, and the implementation of credit restraint on the Government.
Nevertheless, the overall budget deficit increased to an estimated 21 percent
of GDP, and so did the current account deficit of the balance of payments, to
about $1.4 billion. To cover both deficits, Morocco successfully mobilized
increased amounts of external grants and loans, particularly from Arab and
commercial sources. It also drew on IMF facilities for a total amount of SDR
115 million. The country's net foreign assets, which stood at $454 million at
the end of 1975, declined to $410 million (1.4 months of 1976 imports) at the
end of 1976. Since early 1976, when Spain relinquished its control over the
Spanish Sahara, Morocco and Mauritania have extended their administration to
this territory, the northern part being administered by Morocco. Available
information is not detailed enough to trace the impact of military spending
undertaken by Morocco in this connection, but it shows that the substantial
increments in Government expenditures and imports were offset by grant inflows
from external sources. This pattern has continued in 1977.
5.        Based on preliminary estimates, GDP rose little in 1977, since
weather conditions were much less favorable to agriculture than they were in
1976, and exports continued to show sluggishness. Under the circumstances,
domestic demand management became increasingly restrictive. The Government
has tried to restrict investment spending, and has reduced price subsidies
further. The Government however has allowed increases in Government salaries
and minimum wages, catching up partly with rises in the cost of living, and
military spending has continued to increase. The overall budget deficit was
therefore somewhat greater than in 1976 and there was increased reliance on
external grants and loans to finance it. Similarly, external payments showed
a somewhat larger current account deficit than in 1976 and capital inflows
increased again to cover it, particularly from Arab and commercial sources.
Country Objectives
6.        Morocco's 1973-77 Plan set out two main objectives.  First, it
called for an export-led growth of 7.5 percent per year in real GDP, supported
by a sharp increase in private and public investment. Export growth outside



the publicly owned phosphate sector was to come mainly from the private
sector, operating in the framework of new investment and export incentives
which were introduced in 1973. The second objective of the Plan was to
improve distribution of the growth benefits among income classes and regions,
generally through accelerated employment generation, and specifically through
the measures and programs indicated in paragraphs 9 and 10.
7.        The substantially increased capacity to save and to import, which
Morocco derived from high phosphate prices in 1974 and 1975, led the Government
to increase Plan allocations for public and semi-public investments. One
aim of the Plan revisions was to maintain or enlarge the investment programs
included in the original 1973-77 Plan. Another was to accelerate industrial-
ization through introduction of large new investment programs to be implemented
over the next decade. These programs are a one-million ton steel mill and
related infrastructure at Nador, a series of sugar mills and required irriga-
tion development, and a complex of chemical plants for export partly based on
phosphate. The Plan revisions will have an important spill-over effect on
the next 1978-82 Plan.
8.        The general thrust of the Plan revisions was justified, and the
achievement of initial (especially social) Plan objectives was eminently
desirable. Morocco's economy has developed to a stage where development of
some basic industries is justified. The country possesses a comparative
advantage in the processing of phosphates, which should tend to stabilize
export earnings. Although international prices are volatile, it seems that
Morocco can produce at competitive cost the sugar which it would otherwise
import. However, the move into capital intensive industries may have impor-
tant implications for Morocco's economic and financial prospects.
Socially-Oriented Policies
9.        The effects of Morocco's development policies on the distribution
of economic gains among the population received insufficient analysis and
attention until the beginning of the 1970's. As in many other developing
countries at the time, official attention was primarily focused on accelerat-
ing the rate of economic growth. In the context of comparatively slow eco-
nomic growth and employment creation during the 1960's, the distribution of
the benefits of growth was uneven. The 1973-77 Plan document took note of the
significant increase in income differences between rural and urban dwellers,
traditional and modern farmers, and rich and poor. Consumption surveys during
1959/60 and 1970/71 showed a small but perceptible decline in real consumption
for some 40 percent of the rural population and 20 percent of the urban popu-
lation, between these two dates.
10.       The Government undertook a fresh appraisal of its policies in the
early 1970's, partly with a view to reversing these unfavorable trends. The
Third Plan, presented in 1973, gave equal importance to faster economic growth
and more equitable distribution of growth benefits. It stressed the critical
importance of accelerating employment creation, to be achieved mainly through



-4-
an amhitious target rate of GDP growth of 7.5 percent.  It also proposed gen-
eral measures aimed, among other things, at reducing income disparities such
-- ta-le ch^.-ges in tax, price and wage policies, and "Moroccanization"
of businesses. Finally, the Plan provided for specific programs, strongly
tar-.eted on the least favored population groups.  Included were investments
in land distribution to poor farmers, rainfed agricultural development, low-
cost housing, urban public services, health, education and regional develop-
ment.
11.       As the 1973-77 Plan period nears its end, it appears that progress
has been made towards attaining these objectives. Unemployment rates seem to
have stabilized or slightly declined. Through the Moroccanization program,
increased employment opportunities were provided to Moroccan nationals in
large, and especially in small, businesses. Adjustments were made to price,
wage and tax policies, designed in large part to maintain the purchasing power
of lower income earners in the face of rising prices. Specific measures aimed
at improving the economic situation of disfavored population groups were
implemented. Under the Agrarian Reform programs, some 270,000 hectares of
land recovered from expatriates were distributed to 18,000 small holders and
landless laborers during the first three years of the Plan period, several
hundred beneficiary cooperatives were established, and the development of
rainfed agriculture moved definitely from the experimental to the imple-
mentation stage, with substantial increases in project spending and small
farm credit. The public housing program has greatly accelerated, and it is
expected that some 60,000 units will have been built by end 1977; however
because of costly construction standards, the urban poor were not able to
benefit from most of this program. Government spending on the purely social
sectors, especially education, has risen rapidly, from DH 1.2 billion in 1973
to DH 2.3 billion in 1976. The newly established Regional Development Fund
provided considerable financial support -- an estimated DH 1.7 billion in
1973-77 -- for complementary projects of local governments which are aimed
mainly at meeting needs of the low-income communities.
12.       Despite genuine progress in the social sectors under the 1973-1977
Plan, much remains to be done. Large segments of the Moroccan population
remain unable to satisfy their basic social and economic needs, a fact brought
out by Morocco's unfavorable ranking with respect to critical social indicators
as compared with other developing countries with similar levels of per capita
GNP. The large industrial investments -- sugar and chemicals -- initiated in
1975 will have relatively few direct beneficiaries.  As an offset, the socially
oriented strategy inaugurated during the Third Plan needs to be strengthened
in three principal ways. First, rapid growth based on the expansion of
activities generating substantial employment should remain the cornerstone of
the strategy. Second, general income-redistribution measures require further
improvements. In particular, the tax system needs to be made more equitable.
Third, and most important, there is a need to increase investments directly
aimed towards improving the productive capacity of disfavored population
groups, in the following sectors: small-scale rainfed agriculture; low-cost
housing and urban services; social services (education, health and family
planning); small-scale enterprises in industry and services; and regional
development.



-5-
Economic and Financial Prospects
13.       The investment level is now close to the country's absorptive capac-
ity. Although training efforts have been stepped up, shortages of skilled and
experienced manpower are developing. Traditional sectors, such as industry,
physical infrastructure and irrigation, can utilize foreign services to over-
come this constraint on project preparation and implementation, although this
is costly. This solution is not applicable to meeting the needs of the numer-
ous smaller investments in newly emphasized, more socially oriented sectors.
14.       Morocco currently operates under strict external and domestic
constraints. With respect to external finances, Morocco's foreign exchange
position has become much less favorable than it was in 1975. Since that
date, heavy borrowings of foreign exchange have been necessary to finance
Morocco's investment program, whose impetus has been sustained since the
1973-75 period, (when it was given a boost by a quintupling of phosphate
export earnings) despite the sharp drop in phosphate exports since 1975.
Anxious not to thwart excessively its investment effort and the momentum in
the growth of output, the Government has been prepared to accept the sizeable
but manageable current account deficits which are associated with this policy.
We support this overall policy course. In order, however, to minimize the
balance of payments effects of maintaining its present policies with respect
to investments, the Government has introduced series of increasingly restric-
tive measures designed to curb domestic demand, and it intends to continue
on this course as long as circumstances require. With respect to domestic
financial constraints, the performance of state-controlled exports since
mid-1975, besides affecting the external payments situation, has adversely
affected public savings. (Largely as a result of the substantial drop in
budgetary revenues from phosphates exports, gross domestic savings fell, as
noted above, from 15 percent of GDP in 1975 to less than 9 percent in 1976).
Here, too, the Government is aware that a major effort is required to improve
domestic saving performance, and as a first step towards a major tax reform
the Government proposed new taxes on the occasion of the 1978 Budget Law.
Any such tax reform may be expected to take some time to introduce and imple-
ment because of its complexity and inherent social implications. Despite the
fact that private savings rates are low, these are not easily susceptible of
being raised in the short run. The Government cannot therefore be expected to
have substantial scope for borrowing on the local market. To all this must be
added the fact that continuing policies to improve consumption levels of the
low-income groups will imply additional claims on domestic resources, and thus
substantial constraints on domestic savings, despite Morocco's ongoing efforts
to increase budgetary savings and improve the functioning of the national
capital market.
15.       For the 1978-82 Plan period, the critical factors to be watched for
the economic development will be absorptive capacity and especially resource
availability. Bank projections which are tentative since the Government has
not yet fixed the 1978-82 Plan's objectives and strategy, indicate that gross
fixed investment could only grow slowly in view of these constraints. Assuming
real investment growth of about 3 percent per year, and export growth of about



8 percent in constant 1975 prices, a GDP growth rate averaging about 6 percent
yearly is likely to be achieved during the 1978-82 period. Despite likely im-
port substitution and policies to restrain consumer goods im:-rts, the economy
would experience sizable external deficits. Relatively large inflows of ex-
ternal capital would be needed to cover the deficit, meet debt repayment
obligations, and keep reserves at an appropriate level for confidence and
liquidity. On a commitment basis, external borrowing requirements are ten-
tatively estimated to average $900 million per year in 1978-82, assuming
grants continue to finance most offshore military purchases. About 60 percent
of these requirements may be available from official sources (governments and
international organizations), some 25 percent from suppliers' credit sources
and 15 percent from commercial banks. Morocco has successfully increased
external borrowings in recent years, from $590 million in 1974 to $710 million
in 1975 and an estimated $825 million in 1976, on a commitment basis. Morocco
should therefore be able to mobilize the projected amounts in 1978-82. Commer-
cial sources would however see their exposure rise in Morocco, and the Govern-
ment will need to implement appropriate economic and financial policies in
order to maintain their confidence.
External Debt and Debt Service
16.       External debt and debt service may be expected to increase as a
result of projected borrowings. Debt outstanding and disbursed only, which
was $1.6 billion (20 percent of GDP) at the end of 1975, and an estimated
$2.4 billion at the end of 1976, is projected to rise to $4.5 billion (24
percent of GDP) by the end of 1982. Debt service payments have risen in
1976 from the low 7 percent of exports in 1975, and may reach a peak somewhat
above 21 percent of exports in 1980 (but only about 17 percent if workers'
remittances are added to exports). The projected levels of debt and debt
service are high, but still within Morocco's debt carrying capacity, espe-
cially when considering the country's improved economic and social policies
and its long-term export prospects, not only in phosphate and related
products, but also in agricultural and industrial commodities for the European
market. Indeed, the relative burden of debt and debt service will probably
tend to decline gradually during the 1980's, in particular because Morocco
is expected to benefit from the anticipated suppliers' market for phosphates,
and its resource gap will probably tend to diminish. Morocco is therefore
considered creditworthy for further Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO
17.       Bank and IDA lending to Morocco has supported 35 projects, financ-
ing a total of $835.9 million (net of cancellations), of which $622 million
has been lent since the beginning of FY73. IDA credits, totalling $50 mil-
lion, have been made available for five projects. A Third Window loan for
$25 million for the third education project was approved in March 1976. IFC
investments have amounted to $12.6 million ($10.9 million after cancellation,
terminations, repayment and sales). Annex II contains a summary statement



of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of December 31, 1977, and
notes on the execution of ongoing IBRD/IDA projects. In some cases, delays
in project implementation have been caused by management or procurement
difficulties, and in 1974 cost overruns increased due to the upsurge in
investment activity in Morocco and the acceleration of inflation. However,
overall performance in project execution has considerably improved during
the last three years.
18.       Past Bank Group lending has been concentrated in the agricultural and
industrial sectors, which have accounted for 32 and 35 percent, respectively,
of total net commitments; the balance is represented by utilities (18 percent),
tourism (8 percent), roads (5 percent), and education (4 percent). Apart
from the transfer of resources to Morocco (Bank Group gross disbursements
amounted to 5.5 percent of total fixed investment in 1970-74), the main
objectives of lending were to foster and strengthen development institutions,
provide technical assistance especially for project preparation, and increase
productive capacity, particularly in order to improve the balance of payments.
19.       While these objectives remain, greater emphasis is being given to
supporting the Government's effort to4oster social development and improve
income distribution. An increasing share of Bank Group lending will be
devoted to projects directly or indirectly developing the productive capacity
of the lowest urban and rural income groups.
20.       Past lending for agriculture has supported irrigation development,
credit and, through a first operation in FY75, the improvement of the produc-
tivity of rainfed farming. While continued lending for irrigation is envi-
saged, greater emphasis will be given to support the development of rainfed
farming, and lending will in general be focused on support to small farmers.
Integrated rural development projects, including livestock/forestry develop-
ment are under preparation in the rainfed zones in northern Morocco, as
are projects aiming at developing production, marketing and processing of
fruits and vegetables on small holdings. A Government program for promoting
integrated regional development is also under discussion.
21..      Projects in industry and tourism have as key objectives increased
foreign exchange earnings or savings and the improvement of sectoral policies.
An eighth loan to BNDE including a pilot small-scale industry component was
recently approved and is expected to lead to follow-up projects to promote
labor intensive investments. Continued lending for industry and tourism
through two DFC's (Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Economique - BNDE -
and Credit Immobilier et Hotelier - CIH) will be proposed. A project is also
under consideration to assist the Government's efforts to develop the general
cargo handling capacity of the new Jorf Lasfar port.
22.       Previous lending for utilities has consisted of one loan for water
supply, two loans for power and one engineering loan for the preparation
of a sewerage project for Casablanca. A follow up project for water supply
and distribution in urban centers is under preparation, as is a sewerage
project in Agadir.



-8-
23.       Education is a critical bottleneck in Morocco's development.  Two
credits and a loan have been made to develop secondary education and teacher
training, to improve technical and vocational training, and to expand facili-
ties in rural areas. A fourth project with emphasis on technical education
is under preparation.
24.       In the urban sector, the proposed project would be the first Bank-
financed project. Follow up projects are under consideration to support the
Government's program for slum upgrading and urban development through the
provision of basic infrastructure, housing and social services and the
creation of employment opportunities.
25.       Loan commitments from multilateral and bilateral official sources
to Morocco rose from $102 million in 1973 to $226 million in 1975 and $318
million in 1976. Morocco also received grants totalling $40 million in 1973
and $42 million in 1974. The major sources of aid were France, Saudi Arabia,
the UAE, the U.S., Germany and the Bank Group. At the end of 1976, the Bank
Group's share in Morocco's outstanding and disbursed external public debt was
15 percent. The share of the Bank Group in debt service which was 20 percent
in 1975 declined to 13 percent in 1976. By 1982 the Bank Group's shares in
debt outstanding and in debt service are expected to be about 17 percent and
11 percent respectively, on the basis of the assumptions made for total
external borrowings for the 1978-82 period (paragraph 15).
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
26.       Morocco which has about 40 percent of its population living in urban
areas is one of Africa's most urbanized nations. The urban population is
presently growing at 5.6 percent per annum and it is expected that it will, by
the end of the century, represent about 60 percent of Morocco's total popula-
tion. The most serious problems facing the country's cities are housing
shortage and unemployment, deteriorating utility networks and inadequate
community services. With limited financial resources and insufficient imple-
mentation capacity, many municipalities have ceased to exercise effective
control over urban development.
27.       Government policies and programs in urban development were not
always effective in dealing with urban problems. From the mid-1920's until
the end of the Second World War central government intervention in urban
affairs was minimal. Rapid growth and development after World War II induced
the administration to reform the administrative structure of local urban
government, designed to enable it to cope with expanding responsibilities.
But these efforts, especially in the area of low-income housing, had limited
success.
28.       After independence in 1956 the Government gave priority to stimu-
lating growth of the agricultural sector. Limited funds were allocated for
urban planning, public housing and the development of urban services; yet the
urban population continued to grow at a rapid pace. In the late 1960s, aware



of the urgency of urban problems, the Government reassessed its policies
toward urban development. The 1973-1977 Development Plan provided for a
substantial public low-income housing program based on concepts which had
been tested but only on a limited scale. This plan fell substantially
short of achieving its targets, especially in urban land development and
housing, primarily because of inadequate staffing and organization and
insufficient government budgets.
29.       Since the early 1970s the Government has tried to improve the
institutional set-up for urban planning and administration, leading to the
creation of a Ministry of Urban Development and Housing in 1973. Yet, this
ministry which had also to assume responsibility for tourism has been plagued
by a shortage in qualified personnel and budgetary constraints. In the
Cabinet reshuffle of October 1977, the Ministry of Urban Development, Housing,
Tourism and Environment was divided into two ministries, one for Housing and
Regional Development and the other for Tourism. The new Government realizes
that urgent actions are required in order to tackle mounting urban problems.
The proposed project is intended to assist the Government in initiating these
actions.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
30.       The Prefecture of Rabat-Sale is situated on the Atlantic coast (see
Map IBRD 13050). Its population is presently estimated at 495,000 for Rabat
and 230,000 for Sale. Migration into the Prefecture is considerably higher
than the national average. As a result, Rabat-Sale's population is expected
to reach 1.2 million by 1985. The economy of both cities is based on second-
ary and tertiary sector activities. Migration has considerably outgrown
opportunities for new jobs. In mid 1977 the number of unemployed in Rabat was
estimated at 12.4 percent of the potentially economically active population
for the city as a whole, and at 25 percent of the labor force in Rabat's
squatter settlements. Figures for Sale are similar. Both cities have old
centers, the Medinas, which are densely populated, with deteriorating housing,
narrow streets and archaic service facilities. The capacity of these centers
to absorb more inhabitants was exhausted long ago, as a result of which
squatter settlements sprang up outside the medinas in the outskirts of Rabat
and Sale. Presently, almost 30 percent of Rabat-Sale's population lives in
squatter settlements. Public housing programs for low income families have
been inadequate.  Present housing demand is of the order of 50,000 of which an
estimated 42,000 represents demand for low-income housing; it is expected that
this demand will increase by about 8,000 units per year. During the 1973-1977
Development Plan period about 13,000 units were built, of which 4,300 were for
low income families. But the costs of these units are too high to be afford-
able by more than fifty percent of Rabat-Sale's households. Because of limited



- 10 -
financial resources, qualified staff, and increasing demand for services, both
cities have encountered increasing difficulties in maintaining an efficient
administration and in providing services.
Project Objectives and Scope
31.       The project, which would be the first Bank-financed urban develop-
ment project in Morocco, would pioneer solutions to some of the most difficult
problems facing the Moroccan urban sector: inadequate urban planning, finan-
cing and management. It would also initiate measures and reforms to improve
the administrative and financing arrangements for urban development. The
project is innovative in that it provides for squatter upgrading, rehabilita-
tion and extension measures based on concents so far not applied in Morocco
on a more than limited scale. The project is expected to demonstrate the
feasibility of providing essential urban services to low income groups at
affordable costs, thereby making such schemes replicable on a larger scale
and with minimum Government subsidies. Financial arrangements would be estab-
lished to provide for improved recovery of capital and recurrent costs of
urban development measures. Special consideration would be given to urban
unemployment, and specific measures would be initiated to improve skills,
develop employment oppportunities, and increase income of the urban poor.
32.       Project preparation was started in August 1976 at which time the
Government decided that Rabat should be selected as the site for the first
urban project to facilitate the direct involvement of the Ministry of Urban
Development's central staff in project preparation and subsequent monitoring
of project implementation. This decision proved well-inspired although it
encountered considerable opposition during project preparation from some
quarters which felt that squatter settlements, at least in the capital city,
should not be upgraded, but eradicated. The Government, in overhauling the
basic concepts underlying its urban development policies, finally decided
that more emphasis should be given to improving existing housing stock and
urban facilities, and to establishing adequate standards for urban develop-
ment schemes benefitting the poor. This new approach was eventually embodied
in the sectoral program for urban development of the new Development Plan
(1978-82). Project appraisal took place in June 1977, and negotiations were
held in Washington in January 1978. The Moroccan delegation was headed by Mr.
Ali Idrissi, Secretary General of the Ministry of Housing and Regional Devel-
opment. A Staff Appraisal Report No. 1800a-MOR dated February 3, 1978 is
being distributed separately.
Project Description
33.       The Seventh Municipal Ward of Rabat (see Map IBRD 13051) contains
the highest concentration of squatter settlements in the city. Out of its
total population estimated at 100,000, 60,000 live in 11,900 dwelling units in
the three squatter settlements in the quarters of Douar Doum, Douar Maadid and
Douar Hajja. These three douars represent different stages of spontaneous



- 11 -
urban settlements and provide a suitable basis for applying innovative urban
upgrading concepts. Community services, such as education and health care
facilities are inadequate in the project area. School enrollment rates are 25
percent below the city's average and incidence of diseases is high. Other
community services, such as garbage collection and fire fighting, are inade-
quate. Unemployment is estimated at 4,500 and represents 24 percent of the
potentially economically active population in the project area. The unemploy-
ment rate is highest in Douar Doum with 31 percent of the labor force, followed
by Douar Hajja with 22 percent, and Douar Maadid with 20 percent. Median
household incomes in the project area are below the absolute poverty level in
Morocco.
34.       The project, which has been designed by taking account of the
administration's implementation capacity, would include five inter-related
components: (i) comprehensive squatter upgrading in the three douars;
(ii) an experimental sites and services/housing scheme; (iii) an employment
generation program for the jobless in the project area; (iv) improvement
of community services; and (v) technical assistance in project implementation.
35. (a) Squatter Upgrading. The squatter settlements of Douar Doum, Hajja
and Maadid would be improved through provision of infrastructure, including
water, electricity, sewerage and roads. About 900 households would have to
be relocated in order to make room for infrastructure facilities and would be
compensated for lost property and resettled in a planned experimental sites
and services scheme. Plotholders in each squatter settlement would obtain
title to their plots once they have paid the allocated costs in full; until
then they would be given secure tenure through leasehold contracts with the
Government. Model forms of these lease contracts will be submitted to the
Bank for its approval (Section 3.08, Loan Agreement). Financing arrangements
would be established to ensure that these costs would be affordable by more
than 90 percent of all households involved. All households would be given
access to construction materials for self-help home improvement. Existing
commercial installations and market facilities would be improved and expanded.
Each squatter settlement would be provided with preventive medicine services
through new dispensaries. Three new elementary and 26 new pre-elementary
schools would ensure that the enrollment rate in primary education in the
squatter settlements would raise to the average level for Rabat.
(b) Experimental Sites and Services/Housing Scheme. The 12 ha site of
La Butte in the project area would be developed and subdivided into about
900 plots of sizes between 60 and 80 m2 to accommodate the households to
be relocated from the squatter settlements. The site layout provides for
optimal land utilization, and includes, in addition to residential plots,
community facilities, such as pre-elementary and elementary schools, health
and youth care installations, a market and accommodation for shops, business
and community services, such as grain mills and bakeries. Roads and footpaths
would insure accessibility. Each plot would be connected to water, electri-
city and sewerage. Residential plots would be provided with contractor-built
core units of 17.5 m2 covered space on average. Construction materials for
self-help construction would be available to all relocated households.



- 12 -
(c) Employment Generation Program. The project would generate 2,500 new
jobs to bring by 1980 the unemployment rate in the project area (presently 24
percent) in line with the unemployment rate for Rabat as a whole (12.4 per-
cent). This goal would be achieved through promotion of labor intensive
business and through vocational training. An industrial site of 11 ha
would accommodate some thirty enterprises which have expressed interest in
moving to the area. These firms would be provided with developed land, and
credit facilities for construction, equipment purchase, and working capital.
A small-scale business promotion unit to be established under the project
would provide technical assistance in marketing, production and management.
A vocational training center would train the jobless and underemployed in the
project area to provide basic employment skills. Special installations and
training programs would address the training needs of female household heads
who represent 75 percent of the unemployed.
(d) Community Services Improvement. The project would also provide
equipment for garbage collection, fire fighting and emergency services.
(e) Technical Assistance. 110 man-months of expert time would assist
in small scale business development, vocational training, urban upgrading
planning, housing finance and improvement of municipal equipment utilization.
Cost of the Project and Financing Plan
36.       The project is estimated to cost US$37.6 million including physical
and price contingencies. The foreign costs component is estimated at US$15.6
million and local costs at US$22.1 million, including an amount of US$5.3
million in taxes and duties. Cost estimates of the main project items are as
follows:



- 13 -
Item                          Local Cost         Foreign Cost       Total Cost
---------------- US$ (million) ----------------
Squatter Upgrading                 8.97               5.31              14.28
Experimental Sites and             3.36               2.00               5.36
Services/Housing Scheme
Employment Generation              5.68               3.68               9.36
Program (land acquisition
and credit)
Community Services                 0.16               0.75               0.91
Equipment
Technical Assistance               0.11               0.42               0.53
BASE COST ESTIMATE                18.28              12.16              30.44
Contingencies                      3.79               3.39               7.18
TOTAL PROJECT COST                22.07              15.55              37.62
37.       The proposed Bank loan of US$18.0 million would be made to the
Kingdom of Morocco to finance the direct and indirect foreign exchange costs
(US$15.6 million), excluding interest during construction, and 11 percent of
the local cost (US$2.4 million) of the project. Local cost financing is
recommended in light of the fact that this would be the first Bank-sponsored
urban project in Morocco aimed at improving living conditions and productivity
of beneficiaries that are clearly among the poorest in urban Morocco, and
perhaps more importantly, aimed at demonstrating the feasibility of low-cost
housing that is affordable for its beneficiaries. Local cost financing would
help the Government undertake the project in a period of expected financial
stringency. The Bank loan, which would cover 56 percent of the total cost
(net of taxes), would bear 7.45 percent interest and would be amortized over
20 years, including a grace period of five years. Private entrepreneurs would
provide a total of US$2.9 million in equity financing. The balance, US$16.7
million, would be financed by the Government. This would include an amount
of US$3.8 million representing the costs of community services equipment,
off-site infrastructure and technical assistance which the Municipality of
Rabat would reimburse to the Government. Due to the Municipality's finan-
cial problems, the Government has agreed to prefinance this amount which
the Municipality would repay at 9 percent interest over 15 years, including
a grace period of four years (Section 3.07(a) of Loan Agreement). The Gov-
ernment would ensure that adequate budget allocations, supplemented by loan
proceeds, be made to the different ministries and government agencies under
whose jurisdiction the individual project items would fall. During negotia-
tions, the proposed terms and conditions of a convention between the Gov-
ernment and the Muncipality were agreed upon. The signing of this convention
would be a condition for effectiveness (Section 6.01 of Loan Agreement).



- 14 -
Project Implementation and Management
38.       Project implementation would start in April 1978 and is expected
to be completed by March 1981. A Project Directorate has been established
to coordinate and supervise project implementation. Several ministries, the
Municipality of Rabat and the Banque Centrale Populaire (BCP) would be
involved in project implementation and would be represented in a steering
committee already set up under the chairmanship of the Governor of the Pre-
fecture of Rabat-Sale. The Steering Committee's permanent secretary would
also be the project director. The Committee would meet periodically
to set the criteria and supervise project implementation. Problems which
cannot be resolved by the Steering Committee would be referred to the inter-
ministerial project coordination committee which was established to coordinate
project preparation. The Project Directorate would be composed of profes-
sional and support staff seconded by the Ministry of Housing. The Project
Directorate will tender, award and supervise contracts for construction
material and equipment supplies, and civil works with the exception of
those for social infrastructure for which the relevant ministries would be
responsible. Under the supervision of the Project Directorate, Rabat's
Corporation for Electricity and Water Supply (RED) will be responsible for
installing the water and electricity networks at prime costs as set forth
in a convention between the Government and RED. The signing of this conven-
tion would be a condition for effectiveness (Section 6.01, Loan Agreement).
Two construction material and equipment depots would be established and
administered by the Project Directorate which would also provide technical
assistance to households in self-help home improvements. Each of the agen-
cies involved in project implementation would have its own budget and estab-
lish an account for the project item falling into its jurisdiction. The
Project Directorate would maintain a central project accounting system to
monitor the financial status of the project. During loan negotiations, the
proposed organizational and procedural arrangements for the Project Imple-
mentation Organization were reviewed and agreed upon (Section 3.01(b), Loan
Agreement). The project director has already been appointed and is accept-
able to the Bank. The appointment of other key personnel of the Project
Directorate would be a condition for effectiveness (Section 6.01, Loan Agree-
ment).
39.       A special unit would be established for small-scale business
promotion in the project area. With the help of internationally experienced
specialists to be retained under the project, the unit would provide technical
assistance to small-scale businesses in marketing, production and management.
Establishment of this unit would be a condition of disbursement for sub-loans
to enterprises (Schedule 1, paragraph 3, Loan Agreement). Vocational training
would be provided by the Ministry of Labor and Vocational Training.
40.       The Ministry of Housing would establish a new unit for urban up-
grading which would prepare projects directed at improving the living condi-
tions of urban low-income groups. Under the project, technical assistance
would be provided to the new unit which would also be responsible for moni-
toring and evaluating the effects of project measures on the improvement
of living standards and productivity of the beneficiaries (see para 47 below).



- 15 -
41.       The Ministry of Finance would establish a small unit to study the
housing finance sector in Morocco and to determine how resource mobilization
for housing finance could be improved. This would be the basis for a reform
which would effectively respond to the financial assistance requirements
of different urban income groups. Technical assistance would be provided
under the project to advise in these efforts.
42.       The Banque Centrale Populaire (BCP), a well-established, fully
government-owned commercial bank, would administer the line of credit avail-
able to businesses in the project area, and to collect monthly charges from
project beneficiaries to recover the pro-rated costs of upgrading, land
development, housing, and construction materials. BCP's headquarters are in
Casablanca with regional branch offices (the Banques Populaires Regionales)
throughout the country. As the major banking institution in Morocco which
promotes small-scale business development, BCP is administering the SSI
component of the eighth loan which the Bank made to the Banque Nationale pour
le Developpement Economique in June 1977. BCP was appraised at that time and
its performance found satisfactory. During loan negotiations, the proposed
terms and conditions of the convention between the Government and BCP were
reviewed and agreed upon (Section 3.07(a) and Schedule 6, Loan Agreement).
The signing of this convention would be a condition for effectiveness (Sec-
tion 6.01, Loan Agreement).
43.       Project facilities would be located according to a zoning plan, a
draft of which was discussed during negotiations and found satisfactory.
Enactment of this plan would be a condition for effectiveness (Section 6.01,
Loan Agreement). The Government is in the process of acquiring all sites to
be developed under the proposed project. Government possession of the sites
under provisional terms and conditions as provided for under Moroccan legisla-
tion would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01, Loan Agreement).
These two conditions are expected to be fulfilled by mid-April 1978.
Cost Recovery
44.       The project would estabish the basis for substantial improvements
in existing urban investment cost recovery practices. Presently, the costs
of land development and housing construction are only partially recovered as
beneficiaries repay their loans at 4 percent interest over 15 years while the
interest on funds to be mobilized for land development and housing construc-
tion is 8.5 percent. The Government subsidizes the difference. Under the
project, the costs of land development, squatter upgrading and core unit
construction would be recovered at 7 percent over twenty years. For commer-
cial and industrial plots the pro-rated land acquisition and development costs
would be recovered at 8.5 percent over 10 years; the same would apply to the
costs of constructing commercial installations. The costs of construction
materials would be recovered at 7 percent interest over 10 years. Credits to
businesses in the project area would be recovered at 8.5 percent interest over
10 years for plot development and construction, over 5 years for equipment



- 16 -
purchase, and over 3 years for working capital. The costs of off-site infra-
structure and community services equipment would be recovered through city-
wic- applied taxes. The costs of community facilities would be borne by the
Government budget. Altogether, 65 percent of the total project costs, net of
taxes and equity financing, would be recovered directly from project benefi-
ciaries. The combined effect of all these subsidy reductions would represent
a major achievement in the Government's long-range objective to establish full
replicability of urban upgrading and development programs. During loan nego-
tiations, the proposed cost recovery mechanisms and their terms were reviewed
and agreed upon. (Schedules 5 and 6, Loan Agreement).
Procurement
45.       Given the relatively small size and cost of individual project
items, it is expected that most project items would not attract the interest
of international contractors. Procurement of civil works would be on the
basis of local competitive bidding. Supply of all materials and equipment
would be on the basis of ICB, in accordance with Bank guidelines; local manu-
facturers/suppliers would be given preferential treatment in bid evaluation.
Water and electricity supply networks would be installed in force account
by Rabat's autonomous corporation for water and electricity distribution.
Cadastral surveys would be carried out by local consultants on the basis of
proposals from qualified firms registered with the Government. To avoid
delay in project implementation, the Government has contracted with a locally
established consulting firm, whose qualifications are satisfactory to the
Bank, for the preparation of detailed engineering. Retroactive financing
up to US$250,000 of these consultant services is recommended under the proj-
ect. Technical assistance in small-scale business promotion, preparation of
future urban upgrading projects, vocational training, housing finance reform
and improvement of municipal equipment utilization would be provided by
experienced consultants.
Disbursement
46.       The proposed Bank loan of US$18.0 million would be fully disbursed
by September 30, 1981 and would finance (i) 57 percent of the costs of civil
works, buildings and contruction materials; (ii) 60 percent of the costs of
consultant services; (Iii) 83 percent of financial assistance to businesses
in the project area; and (iv) 90 percent of the costs of equipment and tech-
nical assistance.
Monitoring and Evaluation
47.       Given the project's experimental character, the effectiveness of
different project components in achieving the project's goals and objectives
will be continuously monitored. Also the practicability of proposed organiza-
tional and operational arrangements for project execution would have to be
closely monitored in order to permit necessary adjustments for project
implementation (Section 3.04(c) and (d), Loan Agreement).



- 17 -
Project Justification
48.       The project would be the first large-scale attempt to upgrade
squatter settlements in Morocco at a cost which would be affordable by the
urban poor. With its demonstrative character, the project would not only
improve the living conditions and productive capacities of 11,000 urban
low-income households, but would also introduce institutional, procedural
and policy changes in urban development planning, financing and project
execution which would have long-ranging impacts on urban development in
Morocco. The low-cost housing solutions initiated under the project would
permit the Government to replicate them in other urban areas in the country.
49.       The immediate project benefits would largely accrue to 60,000
people in the project area through improved access to basic utilities, better
sanitation, provision of social infrastructure, such as schools and health
care facilities, improved housing, skills upgrading and provision of job
opportunities. Quantifiable benefits include increases in land values through
upgrading measures and provision of urban services and increased household
incomes as a result of vocational training and small-scale business promotion.
On this basis, for each of the three squatter settlements and the Experimental
Sites and Services/Housing Scheme, the economic rates of return of squatter
upgrading would be 20 percent for Douar Doum, 21 percent for Douar Hajja, and
21 percent for Douar Maadid, and 19 percent for the Experimental Sites and
Services/Housing Scheme. The economic rate of return of the employment
generation program would be 21 percent, resulting in an overall rate of return
of the project of 20 percent.
Project Risks
50.       There are several risks associated with the proposed project.
Firstly, poor coordination among different agencies involved in project
implementation, and inadequate staffing would impede project progress. How-
ever, in designing the project, consideration was given to the absorptive
capacity of the Moroccan administration, and the proposed implementation
arrangements were devised so that coordination problems would be minimized.
Secondly, while the administration could change technical project concepts
which allow low cost solutions, in favor of more ambitious and costly con-
cepts of urban development, we consider this risk minimal in light of the
firm commitment to urban development needs of Morocco's new Government and
agreement on construction standards during negotiations (Schedule 7, Loan
Agreement). Thirdly, should land not be acquired in time to permit sale of
plots to project beneficiaries in the proposed time frame, the Government
would be in default under the Loan Agreement (Section 3.06, Loan Agreement).
Fourthly, the project beneficiaries may be reluctant to pay for the cost of
developed land on which they lived for many years for free. However, during
project preparation, the detailed project features were discussed with repre-
sentatives of the population who expressed strong support to the project
approach. In addition, the involvement of the municipal council of Rabat in
project implementation is expected to smooth any difficulty which may arise.



- 18 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
51.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Morocco and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
52.       Features of the Agreement of special interest are summarized in
Section III of Annex III of this report. Special conditions of effectiveness
would be (i) the enactment of a zoning plan for the project area; (ii) the
Government possession, under provisional terms and conditions, as provided
for in the Moroccan legislation, of all land in the project area; (iii) the
appointment of key personnel to the Project Directorate (Section 6.01 of the
Loan Agreement); and (iv) the signing of conventions between the Government
on the one hand and the Municipality of Rabat, the RED and BCP on the other
hand.
53.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
54.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
February 15, 1978



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 4 pages
TABLE 3A
MOROCCO             - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LANO AREA (THOU KM2)…-                                                            …
_______________                                  MOROCCO                              REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      446.6                                     - MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     201.3                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE           PHILIPPINES   TURKEY          GREECE ***
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     190.0*    300.0*    540.0*/a            230.0*      500.0*    1360.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
…______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)           11.6       14.8       17.2/a             36.9        35.6         8.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       26.0       33.0      39.0/a             123.0        46.0        67.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        61.0       74.0      85.07a             375.0        65.0        96.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE U/THOU, AV)         50.4       49.2      46.2                44.2        40.6        18.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          24.2       18.5       15.7               13.2        14.4         8.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       149.0/a       *-     117.0                81.0       153.0/a      29.6
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       45.4       50.4      53.0                55.6        54.4        70.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.4/a      3.4        3.4                3.3         2.6/b,c    1.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                 2.6        2.4**     2.4**               3.0         2.5
URBAN                                 6.4        4.0        5.6                4.0         4.9/d       1.5
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)          2'.3       32.2      40.1/a              27.6        38.7        62.6
AGE STRUCljRE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       44.3       46.4      46.4                45.6        41.7        24.9
IS TO 64 YEARS                       51.7       51.1      51.1                51.6        54.0       64.0
65 YEARS AND OVER                     4.0        2.5        2.5                2.8         4.3        11.1
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.9        1.0        1.0                0.9         0.9         0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               2.0                   1.9/d              1.5         1.1 /e
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           ..       68.1     216.4               320.0
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..        3.0       6.7                 2.0         8.2
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         3300.0 /b      ..    3980.0/b d         12400.0    14500.0 /f
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (}          56.0                 50.0b ,d            55.0 /a    67.0
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)           9.0 t       :.        9.   e             7.6         4.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC O BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS            18.0 /c   20.0 /a                          ..        32.8 /h
HIGHMET 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            43.0 7    49.0 7        ..                 ..        60.6 7        .j
LOWES,  20% OF HOUSEII)LDS            7.0 7C    4.0o        ..                  ..         2.9 7.
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS            18.0 /C   12.07/a                ..947h
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              ..        ..       49.0/e                ..       53.0
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           ..         ..        1.07e                ..        o.9
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             9700.0/a 1650.0   13320.0                     .      2250.0       620.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        7350. 01 ,d   ..                             ..      1770.0/i   1140.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITML BED           620.O/a,e660.0/b   680:0/f               850.0       500.0       160.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         70.0      102.0     108.0                93.0       110.0       116.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              43.0       64.0      70.5                45.0        78.0        99.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           ..       t4.0      15.6                22.0        22.011      52.0/a
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4               ..        ..         ..                6.6        14.7/k
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       47.0       52.0       59.0              113.0       109.0       110.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      5.0       13.0       15.0               49.0        28.0        70.0
YEARS OF _HOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             12.0       12.0       12.0               10.0        11.0        12.0
VOCAT IONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                       ..        2.0         ..                6.0/b      14.0        20.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                17.0/f    21.0        24.0                  ..       55.0/1      82.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URPAN)                2.1         ..        2.1/d                *-        1.9
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (X)                         ..        ..       35.0/d             76.0        64.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                 76.0         ..       82.0/d_&           23.0        41.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TI ELECTRICITY (X)                   31.0         ..         ..                7.0        18.0
CONSUMPT ION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)         46.0       60.0       77.0               72.0        89.0       111.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           11.0      15.0       19.0                8.0         4.0        26.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           87.0      128.0     170.0               235.0       247.0      1072.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               0.2        0.2        0.2                2.0         0.7         1.6
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



Page 2 of 6 pages
Unites otherwise noted, data for 196 refer to any year between 1939 md 1961, for 1970 between M96 sad 1970, and for Most Ratent REteaste between
1973 end 1975.
* IMP per caPita data are based - the World Beank Atla s etbodalogy (1974-76 basis).
-D.. c- emcgcetton, population eroycb rota is lames, than rate of natural ino-ree.
000 Although Greece's GNP per capita is esch hishar than that of moroccO. Gr"ece has been selected as an objective country since both countries are
vothe gediterranea. their mec-onee rely - the mrtkst-sechenin. and they are eimilar in productive ettivity. aepecielly to agriculture.
teJROCCO        1990    /.  1962;    ab  Excluda unreported female helpers in aSriculture;    if  Consumsption  apenditurs of bouesholds;    Ld  Including
sidwivee and assistant  urdesa;    /a  Gorereent hospital establishmsents;    if  Person ower five years  of age who can read
end wits.
1970     LIt  Coemnption expenditure of households;    Lbk  Government hospital esteblishtmente only;    if  1964-66.
HOOT glCNNT zoraTn:    /.  1976;    .k  gaclodes, sareported f ale helpere in agriculture;                    c if  xludes unenpioed;    /d  19711,
/O  Excludes collective and suich lends;    if  Government hospital establishments only;    /E  Urban only.
PHILIPPINES   1970    _.  Au percentage of employment;    lb  Public ~adetie  omly.
TUKY   170    I   1967;    ab  Excludes 17 e"astrn provinces;    La  1965-67;    LI  1965-70;    /j  Rftio of population under 13 and 63 and
ovr to labor force 15 years and over;    if  15 years aend  -ovr excludes unsaployad;    /l  Registered only;    /b  Dispe-
able income;    if  Including assistant nurses ad midwives;    Li  1964-66;    fk  1967-68;    LI  Poreons sit years ad
over who tell the cimeu, tcakar that they can read end wits.,
GINEFcc         0970    if1967.
Oi3, Fcbrocry 9, 1978
DflflINTflU OP SOCIAL DKDIrATOIRS
Lun.d  ros (thou-                                                                             %-) onlatio  tr tosinrers   - Population divded hy nnbor of pr-ccicit0
Totsi   Total s-rface ....  conprisiog land sos. sod inland osturs.                                        _J.odfl  grduate nures 'cIs,inod' or  o-rtifisd" torsos,. ad
Asric. .-pfst roc..ot _ositeac  of soric-ltur1 srs  used teeporstily or preo-                 auriliary personnl weith traitoig oreprtcs
tencly focrorpo, pss-r-, ustket & kitchen ourdats or to lie ration.                       P.Putatio  ner bossitet bed - ftpuisicoa divided by nueber of hospital beds
eveilable it public sod privaco genors1 sod specislisod hospital sod
kIsPtar csica           GNP)   iPepr taPirs stimates at current enrkt prices,                  rebbilitsttoo centers; ..ecludes nursing bones end sstablihmaleat   for
osiccistd by sen  ---srioca txhod as World Oath Atlas (1973-75 basin);                      custodial end pr-sativs care.
196f; 1970 sod 1975 date.                                                                 Per caoita supply of taloriea  fT of r-ecirgeotta  - Cesputed fres enrgy
equivalent of -ts fond aupplits  -valabla to cotry Per ..pits per day;
1'orulstion and uftul ststistii                                                                -svilabls supplies conpriss dousetic production, imports leesse.porte, end
Pocoatbs  md-rstIillio")   IA of July first:  if nor  -vilabla,  vrage                   changes to stoch; not sopplits orciuda stied  toad, sssds, quentitissosa.d
of  -u  end-yoer  smao;1'60, 1970 end 1975 data,                                             it food procossing and losses in distribution; r-urtawre tetisatod
by FAO base.d on physiologitel needa for nor-I stti,-try end health conid-
PPootiston dooir   cotP.  q.00c  Ion - Mid-pee  population per squts hilamet-r                 sting etirsentl tenparaurt, body  sights, egs tod son distributions of
l0D0 bat rarn   froe   ra                                                                   pops.isco, end a11-in  10  for caste st household leva.
Papulstion denitvy-ser aparo lot of sario. Laod - Coputad so abov  for                       Per c.pit. supely of protsin (cramss tr day) - Proctir contant of per capita
agiutrliatd only.                                                                    net eupply of food per day; net supply of ftod is defined as oho,t. nquire-
esots for all coontriss .orabliahad by PlOd ftconoi  hessarob S.Isev-
Vital statistics                                                                               provide for a simin  hbna    of 61 goes of tctu1 poctait per I-, cod
Crude hirtb rata cer thonasd.  -ra.vro  - Annual lIfe births per thouand of                    20 gr-n  of etinal and pulse protele, of uhich 11 ore-o hboud hc  -cv-
nid-psar population; ten-year aroitlstic overagas -ding in 1960 end 1970,                    pr.tain; thus  trsdarde are 1ert thor those  f 73 gra-c oco-  pro-,it
sed fiv-yer aesoeeditg it 1975 for anst reet estieats.                                      and 23 groea of sebta  proreic soenovrta for the u-Ad, fLfOt   y F-
Crud  death rate psr"thoueaod. aras-Annual deaths per thousand of old-year                     it tha Third World Pond Su-vy.
population; to-yos  urithwottic avergag  ending in 1960 and 1970 sod ftos-                 Per ..at.r protoin suptly fron aeieI sod cuts. - Protoic supply oi -d
year aversgsoodtng  to 1975 for uset recant .teMtiet.                                        derived fin  animals end puloas in grams Per day.
Intant usrislity rote f/thol-)  Anco-  d.ath  of itfants ondor ens year of ego              Death rate C/thou) uses 1-4 - Antoal de-ths p-r thcou-od1 to. c g--
per thouad live birth,.                                                                      yesra, to hbildrtc in this aoe g-oo; -ggoto  at. d      t11:ocrS
Lif tsoranc  at birth (yr.)  A-Avrage teber of yesrs of life reams,iing at                     malnutrition.
birth; usually fivo-oa  evraossding in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for dovelop-
fng coontries.                                                                            Education
Gross fsproductiot into - overage teber of lire daughters a weans  All bear                  adjusted e'urollstt retlo - primary school - Eorol1mert of slI ages us per-
it her" Icoa  roprductio p.riod if she onporistrs preootsge-uPetific                         catag  of priasry school-ege populetion; itcludrs thildrso sgcd h-1l yasre
fertility reros; usually fir -yos  a-rtg- endiag in 1960, 1970 and 1971                      but sdjusted for different length. of primary oduca.tton; for coutries   ith
for dstopn   ccoria.oi-ers1 education, enol                                                                                yc   a   -ocod 1(10% sioo .os  pupils are bol
Poylaron  rosth  eto(I)- total - Cempoond  -ous  growth rates of mid-year               or shov  ths official school es..
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                               Adiusted anrollment ratio - secondary school - Cceupcteda-abovs;ss--oor
P.uolutton gtroeth rate (1) - urban - Ceputd libe grmoth rate of tote1                         education requires st leas.t four peers of approved prinsey iastoctitoc;
popula.tion; diffe rset deftotions, of urban arsa  tsp affect cparabiltty of                 provides gears1, vootional or te..rher tratoteg icat-utione  Cot yu1tl.
data oaong cotnrio.                                                                          o   2t   7yaso   g;  oraodescussar   eeal   aoldd
Urbt copulationfl o"f roal  - Rtaic of urbsn ts total population; different                  Tears f   sthoo'li'oarovided  (first an  otcod  ess)-gTotal yesiu of
doititions of orha  arose nay effect conprsbillty of date samng countries,                   schooling; st secondary level, v-tiansl instrution say ho prcially o
cwmltetty secleded.
Ame structure foorcetr  - Childre  (0-1h pse),-ekise-ege (15464 year),                       Ponationa1 enrolleasft o%  f 00eacedryl - Vorationnl iteritctin   lot-lde
end retired (65 paurs sod over) se percetages of edd-ysest popelariem.                       terheinel  industrial or oter presre   eich operste itdpecdnttly or a
Aa. deceode..cy ratIc - istic of population veder S  od65 ed ove  to those                     depramoecs of ooond-ny i.tot-rttc.
of egos 15 throu0b 64.                                                                     Adult literacy rate (7.1 -Ltreedulte (chit to rod so,d write) -o Po-
,coaneic decoodetr  ratio - Retto of population under 15 sod 65 and ove  to                     . cencge of toc1 adult populattion aged 1) years andru.
the lsbcr force ii age groop ef 15-64 pee rs.
faiy 'bni"o -ac..fotrios(ouaie  thool - C-alatic n,ber of ....pters                     Hous,ing
ofbhirh--co o  doI... uder.. uupt-o. of  fsbalrilY PLanning program                       Persona pr ro   (urhat)  A-Aurugc tonhr of pert co- p-u soni   --fe.d
etece icception.                                                     jenvan~~~~~~~~~~~~~" tioesl d-Iteligs iorbsoaras  duelliogs  -ocLod tJ po oc
P oily planning -"soeCTo  nried woman) - Percentages of esrisd soet. of                        strucure  and unoncpied parts.
child-b-irlr  see  13-44 yers  oho us  birth-ronmrI device to all esroisd                  Ocped    denawtotcpod -ae  _Cl) ~- rPird  --orticr;dr-                        l
cae   tnn   ge grop.                                                                 in urban end  -1rs  areas  irhut  inside or-taide ptp   . catertcltt
a   ecnaaof all  -ccpied dwellings.
RapioymoetiAo    to ectricit  CT of all dwollinsal   C-nsci-,o  *owellffco o~lt
Totsl lsor forte (thousand) - iconeic-lly acive person, inclding ared                           I-etrioicy it living quarters as percet of total duet ifto  fit c0-  -rd
forces end unnipdhtecuigbuawirse, srudenta, etc. ; deinitions                                 -1e  ces
to various co=tries ste .r       naai.                                                     tuamrbl,Reld1 delings coneected to .1-trirgct   Mf  - Cempcttd as shov  fur  ou
Labor force it  ariculture  1)-ARfri-altos1 labor force- (is faeing, forestry,                 dwelilege oly.
hunting end feing)a   eretg  o   oa  labor fer"a.
llaplayed  Cl of labor fre-           pied seuanslly defined,sa persona eho                  Conseomtior,
cr0 able and 'Mingi t:o ceIr a Jb, out ofa job on s give  day, reasmeod out                Radio receivers Cent thou to) All typto of r-areler  for redtc hr... ec
ofajob, and  askaing erk for s seified sitfa  period not exceeding on                        to general public per thousad of pupltisco; ..cciude  onli-reedrecor
-ke; any no  he ceparable betwee  coutries due to different definitions,                      itcunre   and it rear   h..rettrto  of radio sacs we It effect
of unpilayd sodsorce of data, e.g., -PI.y,et office  tetstitcs, s-pla                        dare fu r re.et years tsp tot he reparable e(ccr scat  -toucrOe  oboilt.h.
suves,cpuleory unemploymmnt insurance.                                                  licema la.8
Peaams  te  (s  thou copl - Ps....nger car  rprise  mnocr  ...auog
.Ieon distribution - Percentage of prfosts incoes  (both in ta.h sod hind)                      lee  tansigh ~t prona; secludns ebulsncso, bearce  sod  ilitury-
received by richest 5%, rtcheet 201, poorest 201, and poavea  401 of honae-                  vehicla..
ho1do.                                                                                     Electricity fbeh/vr Psr cat) - Ano-Il r-sption of idsra,tril
public sod private electricity it kiictst honn p-r r-pin, genora11y
Distrihution  of lsed oweerehip  P-.Protage  of land outd by wesithbest t01                     bated on prdodction dets,  itbout sliestre for losses to Brnds but a1lto
sod pooret 101 of land ases.tg for leort aend aspets of eetiiy
Neeseriar (he/yr tsr tee) - Per capita annua consoaption in hilogres
Health sod Ntutrition                                                                           etimated frem dea ic produrtlet pius nt ioprta  of novapr,nt.
Popuil.tion per phyalnise - poplstion divided by ocmer of practicing
phytician  qealofied Ore a medtcu1 school at oni-reirsy lewe.



ANNEX I
ECONOM1C D3VEIOREPrT DiTA                                                Page 3 of 4 Pages
(Amounts in millions  of  U.S. dolla7s)
Actual                       Pro)ected              1968-   1973 -   1973 -   1978 -              1        1
1967     1972      1975       1976      1977    1982       1972    1975       1977     1982      1967      972     975
NAI'IONAL ACCOUNI_S
At 1975 Prices &    hane Rates                      A, rage Annual Growth Rates         As Percent of GDY
Gross Lbmestoc Product           5,380    6,989    7,953        8,764    9,417  12,670         5.4     4.5       6.2       6.1    106.5   109.7   100.0
Gains from Terms of Trade (+)    -326       -616       -          -546     -786    -978          -       -         -         -      -6.5    -9.7       -
Gross Domestic  'ncome            5,054    6,373    7,953        8,218    8,630  11,692        4.7    7.6         6.3       6.2    10.0 0100.0   100.0
Irport (inl. NFS)                 1,501    1,850    2,996        3,789    3,126   3,860        4.3    17.4       11.1      4.3      29.7    29.0    37.7
Exports   "  (import capacity) -336   -1.786   -2,019           -1,847   -2 ,097  -3 260        6.0     4.2       3.3       9.2     26.4    28.0    25.4
Resource Gap                        165        64      977       1,939    1,029      600         -       -         -         -       3.3      1.0    12.3
Consumption Expenditures          4,480    5,733    7,054        7,724    7,610   9,945         5.1     7.2       5.8       5.5     88.6    90.0    88.7
Investment   "  (incl. stocks)    735        791    1,875        2,374    2,050   2,347        2.5    32.3       19.2       2.9     14.5    12.4    23.6
Domestic Savings                    574       797      899         494      252      431        6.8     4.1       5.1      11.3     11.4    12.5    11.3
Natioral Savings                    567       947    1,329         973       364     555       10.8    12.0       9.3       8.8     11.2    14.9    16.7
MERCHANDISE TRADE                           Annual Data at Current Prices                                                           As Percent of Total
Imports
Foodstuff                         143      136       640        447       605      897                                            23.1    13.9    21.4
Petroleum                          25       56       277        295       354      695                                             4.0      5.7      9.2
lntermediate Goods                166      307       757         793      935   1,700                                             26.8    31.4    25.3
Capital Goods                     105      154       615         779      713   1,172                                             16.9    15.8    20.5
Consumption Goods                  79      124       286         308      313      494                                            12.7    12.7       9.5
Non-Factor Services               192      199       422         898      308      589                                            31.0    20.4    14.1
Total                           620      977    2,997       3,520    3,228   5,547                                             100.0       100.0   100.0
Exports
Phosphate Rock                    108      146       846        496       566   1,269                                             19.5    15.5    41.9
Agricultural Products             238      357       433         471      482      842                                            43.0    37.9    21.5
Other Minerals                     41       44        63          66       76      164                                             7.4      4.7     3.1
Manufactured Goods                 37       93       187         214      476   1,280                                              6.7      9.9      9.3
Non-Factor Services               129      302       490         471      566   1,130                                             23.3    32.0    24.3
Total                           553      943    2,019       1,717    2,166   4,685                                             100.0   100.0   100.0
Trade Indices                                         1975 = 1.000
Export Price Index             0.412    0.445    1.000        0.783    0.835   1.342
Import Price Index             0.519    0.599    1.000        1.014    1.148   1.594
Terms of Trade Index           0.794    0.743    1.000        0.772    0.727   0.842
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR              Annual Data at 1975 Prices and Exchange Rates                Average Annual Growth Rates         As Percent of Total
Agriculture                     1,317    1,754    1,569       1,775    1,753   2,052         5.9    -3.3      -0.0       3.2      24.5    25.1    19.7
Mining                            707      927       891         939    1,474   2,218        5.6    -1.3        9.7      8.5      13.1    13.3    11.2
Other Industry                    983    1,298    1,799       2,042    2,021   2,769         5.7    11.5       9.3       6.5      18.3    18.6    22.6
Services                       2,373    3,010    3,694        4,008    4,168   5,630         4.9      7.1      6.7       6.2      44.1    43.1    46.5
PUBLIC FINANCE                         (Percent of GDP at Current Prices)
(Central Government)               1972      1973      1974       1975      1976
Current Receipts                17.1      20.0     23.9        26.3      22.8
Current Fxpenditures            17.0      17.5     21.8        22.8      22.0
Budgetary Savings                0.1       2.5      2.1         3.6       0.8
Investment Expenditures           6.1      5.8       7.5        13.8     22.0
US $ million
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                                                 Est.             DETAIL ON PUBLIC              (At Current Price. & Exchange Rates)
As % Total Current Expend.)    1972        1973     1974        1975      1976             SECTOR INVESTMENT                 1973-75               Percent
Education                        23.2      29.9     21.1        21.7      22.1             Agriculture                          314                  16.5
Other Social Services             6.9       8.6      6.1         5.4       6.6             Ii:dustry & Mining                   131                   6.9
Agriculture                       5.3       6.6      4.9         4.3       4.6             Economic Infrastructure              622                  32.7
Other Economic Services           3.6       4.4      3.2         3.0       3.0             Education & Training                 106                   5.6
Administration and Defense       23.3      30.9     26.4        22.2      23.6             Other Social Sectors                  46                   2.4
Other                            12.4      19.5     38.4        43.4     41.3              Administrative & Defense             516                  27.1
Total Current Expenditures    100.0    10.0 0      100.0       100.0 o   105.              Regional Development                  58                   3.0
Other Unclassified                   113                   5.9
SELECTED INDICATORS                                1968-      1973-   1978.                    Total                            1,905                 100.0
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)             19 72     19 77     1982                 FINANCING
Average ICOR                                        2.4        3.0       3.1                 Public Sector Savings              1,186                  62.2
Import Elasticity/GDP                               0.5        1.8      0.7                 Domestic Borrowings                   344                  18.1
Average National Savings Rate                      12.8       14.9     16.9                 External Borrowings                   376                  19.7
Marginal National Savings Rate                     32.5       23.4     25.3                    Total                            1,905                 100.0
LANOR FORCE AND                                 Total Labor Force                                 Value Added Per Worker (1975 Prices & Exchange Rates)
OUTPUT PER WORKER                In                   % of Total          1968 -72           In U.S.Dollars      Percent of Aver,ge         1968 -72
1967e 1/  1972ej1/1967        1972      Growth Rate         1967       1972        1967       1972       Growth Rate
Agriculture                    1,926       2,000    60.3       56.4           0.7             684        877       40.6       44.5             5.1
Industry                         498         620    15.6       17.5           4.4           3,394     3,589       203.0      181.9             1.1
Service                          793.        923    24.1       26.1           3.1           2,992     3.261       179.0      165.3             1.7
Total                          3,217       3,543   100.0      100.0           2.1           1,672      1,973      100.0      100.0             3.4
not applicable        - nil or negligible
not available        -- less than half the
smallest unit shown                                                                                24 October 1977
1/  Estimated by intra- and extrapolating the 1960 and 1971 census data.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 page
BAIANCE OF PAYMENTTS EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DOBM
__   m`unta in milliona of U.S. doLars at current prices)
Actual                                                  Pr.iect.d
1972         1973         1974    al   1975            976           TX77         1978 17i2A7
SUMHARY bALINCE OF PAYMENTS
Eports (incl. NFS)                           943        1,301        2,115        2,019          1,718          2,166        2,565        3,494        4,685
Imorts (inel. NFS)                         -977       -1. 380       -2,163       -2.996         -3.521        -3, 228       -3.523       -4 396       -5 546
Resource Balance (X-M)                       .34          -79          -48         -977         -1,803         -1,062         -958         -902         -861
Interest (net)                               -29          -29          -20          -30             -63          -101         -121         -196         -235
Direct Investment Income                     -28          -38          -31          -36             -36           -43          -46          -53           -61
Workers' Remsittsnce                         139          249          356           533            548           653          726          886         1,076
Other Factor Services (Net)                  -44          -44          -39          -43             -48           -43          -43          -43           -43
Current Transfers                             43           46           19            8              45             9           10            12           13
Balance of Current Account                    47          105          237         -546         -1,358          -587           432         -9            -111
Private Direct Investment (Net)               24           15            5          -                38            28           32           43            56
Public MUM LToans
Disbursements                             ill            82          148          538            851            514          862          852          859
Disbursem s-79                                          -79         -82          -135            -77           -173         -337         -506         -684
Net      D      ib                                rents  32  3          66          404             774           341          525         346            175
Short-Term  Capital (Net)                    -35          -75         -158          125              30           -48          -40          -17           -20
Capital, it.e.l.                               7          -13          -27            13            470           315          -35           -            -
Change in Reserves                            75           35          123           -17            -45            49           49            76.         100
Level of Reserves                                                                                                                                                ActU 1
-Amount                                     286          339          477          454             410-                                         1, _       19.Z 73      .h       I
-Months of Imports                          3.5          3.1          2.5          1.8             1.4         DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
Public Debt Out. & Disbursed    921           997      1,145      1,593
ORANT' ANDT LOAN! 00MM1TIENTS
official Grants & Grant-like                  17           40           42          -               500           Ioters-t on Public Debt           34         42         43         49  I/
Repayments on Public Debt         67         88         95         91 1
Public M&IT Loans                                                                                                 Total Public Debt Service        101        130        137        140 
PubRi                                      87           49           141           19             150          Other Debt Service (net)         ..
IDA                                        10          -             -             14            -             Total Debt Service (net)          101        130        137        140
Other Multilateral                         -4                         14          -                23
Governments                                 63           53          274          190             142        Burden on Export HErninp, (%)
Suppliers                                   16           64           34          125               2
Financial Inatitutions                       3           12          128          359             505           Public Debt Service             10.7       10.0        6.5        6.9
Bond.                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Total Debt Service  10.7  10.0    6.5        6.9
'uboni  Los  nTDScDirect Invet. Inc.                                                                                                            13.7       12.9        7.9        8.7
Public Leans. n.e.i.
Total Public M&LT Loans                      180          182          591           710            825        Average Terms of Pblic Debt
Aetual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31. 1975                         Int. as % Prior Year D137D       3.9        4.5        4.3        4.3
ITEAI DEM                                           isbursed Onl                  Pereent                           Amort. as % Prior Year DODD   7.6           9.6        9.5        8.0
World Bank                                           244.2 
IDA                                                     30.8                       1.9                         I85D Debt Out. & Disbursed
Other Mltilateral                                        9.8                       0.6                           "  as % Public Debt OD           9.2       10.5       13.3       15.3
Governments                                            810.6                      50.9                           "  as % Public Debt Service  10.4           13.9       18.9       Z2.9
Slmnll ers                                              69.6                       4.4
Financial Institutions                                 401.7                      25.2                         IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed
Bonds                                                   26.7                       1.7                          11as % Puiblic Debt 06D            2.0        2.6        2.3        1.9
Total Public M&LT Debt                               1,593.4                     100.0                          '  as % Public Debt Service    0.1            0.1        0.2        0.2
not applicable                                                       e  staff estirmte
not available                                                        -  nil or negligible
not available separately                                            --  less than half the
but included in total                                                   smallest unit shown
1/  These estimates are based on external public debt data, and there are some discrepancies from  the balance of payments data
which cannot be reconciled.                                                                                                                                     24 Qct9bez 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of December 31, 1977)
Loan or                                                             US$  Million
Credit                                                        Amount (less cancellations)
Number     Year   Borrower               Purpose;              Bank      IDAI/    Undisbursed
Eleven    Loans   Fully diabursed                              174.9
Three     Credits Fully disbursed                                        27.5
643       1969    Kingdom of Morocco   Irrigation               46.0                 4 53
266       1971    Kingdom of Morocco   Education                          8.5        0.0-L
848       1972    CIH                    DFC (Tourism)          15.0                 1.8
850       1972    ONEP                   Water Supply           48.0                 8.1
936       1973    ONE                    Power                  25.0                 4.7
955       1974    Kingdom of Morocco   Highway                  29.0                 9.8
1017       1974    Maroc-Phosphore        Industry               50.0                 4.4
1018       1974    Kingdom of Morocco   Agriculture              32.0                15.4
1061       1974    BNDE                   DFC                    30.0                 6.8
555       1975    Kingdom of Morocco   Agriculture                       14.0       14.0
1123       1975    Kingdom of Morocco   Agriculture              18.5                13.2
1201       1976    Kingdom of Morocco   Agriculture              30.0                27.6
1202       1976    Kingdom of Morocco   Tourism                  21.0                20.9
1220-T     1976    Kingdom of Morocco   Education                25.0                25.0
1279       1976    CI1                    DFC (Tourism)          25.0                19.8
1299       1976    Kingdom of Morocco   Power                    49.0                44.0
1361       1977    Kingdom of Morocco   Agriculture              35.0                31.3
1383       1977    CIOR                   Industry               45.0                22.4
1416       1977    Kingdom of Morocco   Agriculture              41.0                41.0
14282      1977    BNDE                   DFC                    45.0                45.0
3-7 -      1977    Kingdom of Morocco   Engineering               1.5                 1.5
Total                                                      785.9      50.0      361.2
of which has been repaid                                 97.4        0.3
Total now outstanding                                      688.5      49.7
Amoant sold                           17.7                              -
of which has been repaid             1.3                  16.4       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                             672.1      49.7
Total undisbursed                                          346.9      14.3      361.2
NOTES
/ Prior to exchange adjustment
2/Signed but not yet effective
3/ US$ 46,883.23 undisbursed
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of December 31, 1977)
Amount in US$ Million
Year          Obligor           Type of Business         Loan    Equity         Total
1962         BNDE               Development Bank         --         2.7          2.7
1966         CIL                Canning Factory          0.9        0.5          1.4
1976         Marrakech Cement Cement Factory             --         1.3          1.3
1977         Temara Cement    Cement Factory             4.8        2.4          7.2
Total gross commitments                           5. 7       0.9         12. 6
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                              0.9                    1-7
Total commitments now held by- IFC                4.8        6.1         10.9
Total undisbursed                                2v          2.7         5 n



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 643 Rharb-Sebou Irrigation Project: US$46 million Loan of November
13. 1969; Date of Effectiveness: June 8. 1970; Closing Date:
November 30. 1978.
Progress in implementing the project was delayed by problems ini-
tially experienced with management and procurement of canalettes and severe
flooding in February 1977 which caused damage to crops and irrigation works.
The major project structure, Idriss 1er Dam, is completed and 29,400 ha out
of a total of 35,200 ha are already equipped. Project completion is now
scheduled for the end of 1978 which would require a postponement of the
closing date by six months. Additional infrastructure for the project area,
including a sugar cane processing factory and flood protection-works, are
being provided by Loan No. 1018-MOR.
Cr. No. 266 Second Education Project: US$8.5 million Credit of August 18,
1971; Date of Effectiveness: December 10, 1971;
Closing Date: January 31, 1979.
The project included the expansion and improvement of specific
sections of the secondary, vocational and higher educational systems, and
technical assistance for project administration and school maintenance.
Subsequently, the Association agreed not to finance two Vocational Training
Centers and the Department of Veterinary Medicine. Accordingly, an amount
of about US$0.9 million has been transferred to the unallocated category for
future reallocation and/or cancellation. Initial delays occurred in the
appointment of consultant architects, in the recruitment of local personnel
and technical assistance experts for the Project Unit and in procurement.
However, execution has since proceeded satisfactorily and physical execution
of the project is now complete. The government has been granted postponement
of the Closing Date to January 31, 1979 to allow completion of disbursements
under all aspects of the project.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 848 Second Hotel Development Project; US$15 million of June 30, 1972;
Date of Effectiveness: November 1, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
Commitments and disbursements initially lagged behind expectations,
due to sluggish investment activity in 1973, but the loan is now fully com-
mitted, as against the appraisal estimate of March 1974. The loan is now
expected to be fully disbursed by mid-1978.
Ln. No. 850 Water Supply Project; US$48 million Loan of July 19, 1972;
Date of Effectiveness: May 2, 1973; Closing Date: December 31.
1978.
The dam which was the major component of the project was inaugurated
in August 1974. All project elements are completed except for the training
school, which is under construction. The financial position of the Borrower,
Office National de l'Eau Potable (ONEP), is improving following implementation
of tariff increases in October 1977 and other measures the Government has
under consideration.
Ln. No. 936 Power Project; US$25 million of October 5, 1973; Date of
Effectiveness: January 23, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1978.
Physical implementation of the project is complete. Savings amount-
ing to about US$3.5 million are being applied to consultant services for feas-
ibility studies, preliminary design and preparation of bid documents for 5
hydro stations required to alleviate Morocco's dependency on imported oil.
A one year postponement of the closing date was granted to allow payments
under these contracts. Electricity rates were increased on average by 22%
on January 1, 1977, which may be sufficient to enable ONE to meet the tariff
covenants in 1977.
Ln. No. 955 Second Highway Project; US$29 million of January 11, 1974; Date
of Effectiveness: May 21, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
Construction of the Rabat-Casablanca expressway which began in early
1975 - about 8 months behind schedule - is now almost complete and the mainte-
nance equipment and highway improvement programs are complete. Work on the
contract for technical assistance for the establishment of a Transport Plan-
ning Office in the Ministry of Public Works is proceeding satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 1017  Phosphoric Acid Project; US$50.0 million of J-.c 27, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: February 27,*1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978.
The project was mechanically completed in October 1976 and the plant
is now in commercial operation. Test runs have been successfully carried
out for all units, except the MAP fertilizer Unit where some minor technical
problems are being corrected.
Ln. No. 1018 Sebou II Development Project; US$32.0 million of June 27, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: February 28, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The sugar cane processing factory was essentially completed on
schedule in 1975. Construction of the project area roads is on schedule
but work on the flood protection dykes is about 18 months behind schedule,
mainly on account of uncertainties regarding the next Five-Year (1978-1982)
Plan contents, and particularly the M'Jara Dam which would make questionable
the construction of the dykes. Decision from Government in this respect is
expected by May 1978. The study on pollution control now proceeding satis-
factorily; however the study on the incidence of bilharzia on the Rharb plain
has yet to be started.
Ln. No. 1061  Seventh BNDE Project; US$30 million of December 30, 1974; Date
of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1978.
The loan is fully committed. Disbursements are roughly in line
with appraisal estimates.
Ln. No. 1123 Souss Groundwater Project; US$18.5 million of June 11, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness:  September 26, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The project unit has been created, its staff appointed, and the
project co-ordinating committee has been established. The 59 wells required
for new irrigated area (6,300 ha) are now completed and tested, one year ahead
of appraisal schedule. Land clearing has been completed. Land distribution
to Agrarian Reform beneficiaries has been completed in about 50 percent of
the project area. Works related to the social components of the project are
suffering a substantial delay.
Cr. No. 555 Meknes Agricultural Development Project; US$14.0 million of
June 11, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 14, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
Government has faced major administrative difficulties in under-
taking the necessary studies and taking the decision required for land con-
solidation and redistribution. This has resulted in substantial delays in
project implementation. The studies are now underway, and commitments of
funds under the project have been initiated. However project management and



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7 pages
the coordination of project activities between the project authority and the
central offices of the Ministry of Agriculture require close monitoring for
satisfactory enactment of land distribution criteria.
Ln. No. 1201 Doukkala Irrigation Project; US$30.0 million of February 27,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 20, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
The project includes sprinkler irrigation for 15,400 ha and infra-
structure and equipment. Progress of construction is satisfactory after
initial delays in laying and testing of large diameter concrete pipes because
of heavy rainfalls. Completion of the primary network is expected to be on
schedule.
Ln. No. 1202 Bay of Agadir Tourism Project; US$21.0 million of February 27,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 29, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project intended to develop Agadir into a major tourism area
consists of infrastructure works and public facilities for the development of
a new tourism section on 260 ha on which 7,000 hotel beds and 2,600 housing
units are expected to be constructed. The project includes also regional
infrastructure and facilities for the development of Agadir's tourism assets.
Project implementation is proceeding with six months behind schedule, but con-
tracts have now been awarded for all infrastructure works which are expected
to start in Janaury/February 1978.
Ln. No. 1220 Third Education Project; US$25.0 million of March 18, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: October 1, 1976; Closing Date:
May 1, 1981.
The project is designed to expand and improve primary and secondary
education in rural areas and specialized training to meet urgent manpower
needs in education, agriculture, health and tourism. Project implementation
is progressing satisfactorily. All sites have been selected and design
development is at an advanced stage.
Ln. No. 1279 Third Hotel Development Project; US$25.0 million of July 2,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 18, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Implementation of the project is proceeding well. The Loan is ex-
pected to be disbursed somewhat ahead of schedule. Commitments at January 30,
1978 amounted to $13.8 million. CIH has been successful in mobilizing foreign
exchange resources other than the Bank's and in reducing outstanding arrears
in accordance with understandings reached during negotiations.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 1299 Sidi Cheho - Al Massira Hydro Project; US$49.0 million of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project, comprises the construction of the Al-Massira concrete
dam on the Oum er Rbia river, a 120-MW power station including a 225-KV sub-
station, construction of about 200 Km of 225 Kv transmission lines, and prepa-
ration of preliminary designs and bid documents for the Merija compensating
dam and power station. Procurement of the main project items is underway
and physical progress of the project is satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1361  Third Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million Loan to
Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA) of February 7, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The project aims at increasing Morocco's agricultural production
and at expanding the capability of CNCA as a sound agricultural institution.
The project will cover most of CNCA's program for medium- and long-term
lending through August 1979 and will include related technical assistance.
Disbursements of IBRD funds aim at financing on-farm investments of small
farmers, cooperatives and farmers' association. Disbursements are proceeding
on schedule.
Ln. No. 1383 CIOR Cement Project; US$45.0 million of April 29, 1977; Date
of Effectiveness:  July 7, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1980.
The project comprises construction of a 1.2 million tons per year
cement plant near Oujda in the Eastern Region of Morocco, and related distri-
bution facilities.
Ln. No. 1416  Doukkala II Irrigation Project; US$41.0 million of June 16,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The project aims at extending irrigation and related agricultural
development in the Doukkala perimeter by 16,600 hectares; it also calls for
provision of extension and credit services, and village infrastructure.
Ln. No. 1428 Eighth BNDE Project; US$45.0 million of June 16, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness:  December 21, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981.
The project is designed to meet part of BNDE's requirements for
financing of the import component of specific industrial enterprises, and
of a small-scale industry pilot project for which up to $5 million of Bank
financing is included. The loan became effective on December 21, 1977 and
commitments now amount to US$3.3 million.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7 pages
Ln. No. S-7 Sewerage Engineering Project; US$1.5 million of August 30,
1977; Limit Date for Effectiveness: April 30, 1978; Closing Date:
April 30, 1981.
The project includes the preparation of a sewerage Master Plan for
the Casablanca-Mohammedia region and a priority first stage project.  It would
assist Morocco in developing the design and planning criteria for urban sever
systems and strengthening the institutional and financial bases for the
*        development of this sector.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events:
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:                     9 months
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:                     Government
(c)  Project first presented to Bank:                       May 1976
(d)  First Bank mission to review project:                  November 1976 1/
(e)  Departure Appraisal Mission:                           June 1977
(f)  Completion of negotiations:                            January 15, 1978
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:                         June 1, 1978
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
1.        The Bank has obtained assurances that:
(a) the Government would establish and maintain the Project
Implementation Organization to ensure the efficient imple-
mentation of the project and effective coordination of all
participating agencies (paras. 38 to 42).
(b) the Government would prepare and submit to the Bank for its
approval model forms of the lease contracts between Project
beneficiaries and the Government. These forms would not be
modified without the Bank's prior consent (para. 35).
(c) under a special convention between the Government and the
Municipality of Rabat, the Government would undertake to
prefinance an amount of US$3.8 million to cover the costs
of community services equipment, off-site infrastructure
and technical assistance. The Municipality would repay
the prefinanced costs at 9 percent interest over 15 years
including a grace period of four years (para. 37).
1/   Apart from discussions with the Government on urban development
policies going back to 1972.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(d) under a special convention the Government would entrust the
Banque Centrale Populaire (BCP) with the administration of the
line of credit for small-scale enterprises and of construction
material loans and with the collection of all charges from
different project beneficiaries (para. 42).
2.        Special conditions of effectiveness:
The enactment of a zoning plan for the project area and issuance of
judicial ordinances regarding Government possession of the land yet to be
acquired in the project area (para. 43); the appointment of key personnel to
the Project Directorate (para. 38); and the signing of conventions between the
Government on the one hand and the Municipality of Rabat (para. 37), the RED
(para. 38) and BCP (para. 42) on the other hand.






S;  ;  0   f          : MofeccaS              X       0\- -                                                                                          C
Robot Urban Development Project
RABAT-SALE LAND USE
Residentiao areOs
Business ard cocmmercisl districts
Mediros
Industrial and factory sites
m         - htnstitutional and government areas
I AM          Parks ond vrban open spaces
-         J   I  | Open lond
Primary roads / bridges
--- -e.*Railway/tuonnets
0      500       lpO    15s0    2000                                           MEIN
YAR SF                                                                                 drtull see    m op    I ERD  3051
-5 ~ ~ ~ ~ 0
o/ /-   ',    dd m& m X                                                                                                                           
f/                                                                                                                                                                   ., F-'' '.,, , . l   _, :E 
RAWR  i   ;R,:, E .:  . : f
/eacl                          -                                           u                                                                         O J~~~~~~~~EDNA
O                                                                                       3ofl vPdm lth _ntRobotl  2               27 
tac,1l                                                                              \\ 3             rl v   SViZ4met md h hil/l sto/ ri V  tvvV    vr av vvmv.o. .  






IBRD 13051.
MOROCCO                    OCTOBER 107
Rabat Urban Development Project
Rabat Sud
~~~itY~~~~~~~ ~PROJECT AREAS, COMMUNITY SERVICES AND
to                   7                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
PROJECT AREAS:
Mskt                                                                               II~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R     Eoperme-tol sOe.s an,d seruines/
r                                                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Roads /footpaths
COMAMUNITY SERVICES:
DCC  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~DOUM ~  ~      ~       ~      ~       ~      ~     ~      ~     ~           PJ ~~~~~~' --- Primary school
TCwTrineglt centerfr oe
Q] 0 F-   Day care carte,
N,                                                                                                !~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vocational cf.
51 \1   e n ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  Macket so be upgraded
or  oll                                                                                         t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>Sports fields
'Sn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ds It~ 350,
p-od -de,r       eoo.   to be rehable,itated
*  f   (octmoloded        -         to be upgrodeo
u             '~~~~~~~            Foi~~~~~.stingt tr.nk se-es to be exteded
- 'Nee trunk seie, coestr-tion
- Eet. coxtouss ix me.tess
a     100  290   300  u00  i00  600
Sc       590       1000      1pa0      co
30  in   xnnnnd c0 wud~k,n. .nncnFnEmET



