CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1528 MOR
Loan Agreement
(Rabat Urban Development Project)
between
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 31, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1528 MOR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 31, 1978, between KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
(hereinafter sometimes called the Borrower or Morocco) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Municipality" means the municipality of Rabat.
(b) "Borrower-Municipality Convention" means the convention
to be entered into between the Borrower and the Municipality as
set out in Section 3.07 (a) (i) of this Agreement.
(c) "BCP" means the Borrower's Banque Centrale Populaire.
(d) "Borrower-BCP Convention" means the convention to be
entered into between the Borrower and BCP as set out in Section
3.07 (a) (iii) of this Agreement.
(e) "MEN" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for
education (fducation nationale).
(f) "MOF" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for
finances (finances).
(g) "MSP" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for
public health (sant& publique).


﻿-2-
(h) "MTFP" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for
labor and professional training (travail et formation profession-
nelle).
(i) "MHAT" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for
housing and regional planning (habitat et am&nagement du
territoire).
(j) "MASA" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for
social affairs and handicraft (affaires sociales et artisanat).
(k) "MJS" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for
youth and sports (jeunesse et sports).
(1) "MEPN" mans the Borrower's ministry responsible for
publics works (6guipement et promotion nationale).
(m) "MDI" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for the
interior (int6rieur).
(n) "RED" means the Rigie Autonome Intercommunale de
distribution d'Eau et d'Electricite de Rabat-Salf.
(o) "Borrower-RED Convention" means the convention to be
entered into between the Borrower and RED pursuant to Section
3.07 (b) (ii) of this Agreement.
(p) "Project Directorate" means the directorate referred to
in Section 3.01 (b) (i) (C) of this Agreement.
(q) "Project Director" means the permanent secretary of the
Project Steering Committee.
(r) "Project Steering Committee" means the committee refer-
red to in Section 3.01 (b) (i) (A) of this Agreement.
(s) "Interministerial Project Coordination Committee" means
the committee referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (i) (B) of this
Agreement.
(t) "Economic Activities Unit" means the unit to be estab-
lished pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement.
(u) "Sous-Habitat Upgrading Unit" means the unit to be
established within MHAT pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) (i) of
this Agreement.


﻿-3-
(v) "Project area" means the whole area which, at the date
hereof, corresponds to the jurisdiction of the Municipality's
seventh ward.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighteen million
dollars ($18,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1982 or
such later date as the Bank shall otherwise establish. The Bank
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
seven and forty-five hundredths per cent (7.45%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.


﻿-4-
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through MHAT, MOF, MSP, MTFP, MEN, MASA, MJS, and the Prffecture
of Rabat-Salf and with the assistance of BCP, RED, and the Muni-
cipality, with due diligence and efficiency, in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and urban
development practices and with the construction standards set out
in Schedule 7 hereto and in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 hereto and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose. With respect to the provision of funds and other
resources required for the Project the respective responsibilities
of the Borrower's ministries shall be as follows:
(i) MHAT shall be responsible for financing the con-
sultants' services required under Section 3.02
(a) hereof and Part E (a) of the Project, Project
management, land acquisition, the infrastructure
required for squatter upgrading, the experimental
sites and services housing scheme and the land to
be developed under Part C (a) (i) of the Project,
the construction of all housing, commercial and
industrial installations and all pre-school instal-
lations (M'sid), the purchase of equipment and the
supply of construction materials required for the
Project, Part E (c) of the Project and the Economic
Activities Unit.
(ii) MEN shall be responsible for financing the con-
struction and equipping of primary schools required
for the Project.
(iii) MSP shall be responsible for financing the con-
struction and equipping of dispensaries required
for the Project.
(iv) MOF shall be responsible for financing Parts D and
E (b) and (e) of the Project and for providing,


﻿-5-
through BCP, credit facilities under Part C (a) (i)
of the Project; it being understood that such
credit facilities shall be repaid into a revolving
fund to be established within the framework of the
Borrower's Finance Law (Loi de finances) for 1979,
or within the framework of such other Borrower's
Finance Law as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon, and, thereafter, to be maintained in opera-
tion, under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank.
(v) MTFP shall be responsible for financing the con-
struction and equipping of the vocational training
center included in Part C (b) (i) of the Project
and the program included in Part E (d) of the
Project.
(vi) MASA shall be responsible for financing the con-
struction and equipping of the young women's center
for education and work and the day care nursery
included in Part C (b) (ii) of the Project.
(vii) MJS shall be responsible for financing the con-
struction and equipping of the youth centers
required for the Project.
(b) (i) The Borrower shall maintain in operation at all
times an implementation organization for the
Project which shall consist of the following:
(A) a Project Steering Committee, under the chair-
manship of the governor of the Pr6fecture of
Rabat-Sal&, which shall meet periodically and
review and set the criteria for the implemen-
tation of the Project; such Committee shall
consist of representatives of MHAT, MOF, MSP,
MTFP, MEN, MASA, MJS, MEPN and BCP, respec-
tively, the general manager of RED, the Rabat
City Municipal Engineer and municipal council
members from the Project area, and shall have
a permanent secretary who shall be the Project
Director.
(B) an Interministerial Project Coordination
Committee which shall meet as and when the


﻿-6-
solution of a problem related to the Project
requires the direct intervention of the
Borrower's central departments; such Committee
shall consist inter alia of representatives of
MOF, MHAT, MSP, MTFP, MEN, MASA, MDI and MJS,
respectively.
(C) a Project Directorate under the authority of
the Project Director which shall be responsi-
ble for preparing, on or before May 15, 1978,
(or such other date as the Bank may agree) a
detailed implementation timetable for, and
thereasfter, managing the implementation of,
all Project components (except for economic
activities promotion, vocational training,
urban upgrading planning and housing finance
reforms); it being understood that MEN, MSP,
MTFP, MASA and MJS will continue to manage,
with their own staff, the construction and
equipping of the Project facilities which come
under their respective jurisdictions, such
construction and equipping to be subject to
the supervision of the Project Directorate;
said Directorate shall comprise, as and when
it shall become necessary, two civil engi-
neers, two architects, two surveyors, eight
technical inspectors, four materials clerks
and two accountants.
(ii) The foregoing Committees and Directorate shall
continue to operate under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank; it being
understood that such terms and conditions and the
composition of such Committees and Directorate may
be modified from time to time by agreement between
the Bank and the Borrower.
(c) The Borrower shall establish under the authority of the
Project Steering Committee, and thereafter maintain in operation,
an Economic Activities Unit for the purpose of carrying out Part C
(a) (ii) of the Project, assisting BCP in carrying out Part C (a)
(i) of the Project and ensuring that vocational training under
Part C (b) of the Project be responsive to market demand; such
Unit shall operate under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank.


﻿-7-
(d) (i) On or before September 30, 1978 (or such other date
as the Bank may agree) the Borrower shall establish
within MHAT, and thereafter maintain in operation,
an Sous-Habitat Upgrading Unit for the purpose
of providing technical guidance and monitoring
capability for the Project; such Unit shall operate
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank.
(ii) On or before November 30, 1978 (or such other date
as the Bank may agree) the Borrower shall prepare
an initial work program outline for the Sous-
Habitat Upgrading Unit.
(e) On or before September 30, 1978 (or such other date as
the Bank may agree) che Borrower shall establish within MOF, and
thereafter maintain in operation, a special group for the purpose
of preparing an institutional and procedural basis for a savings
and loan system in Morocco; such group shall operate pursuant to a
work-program satisfactory to the bank and the Borrower.
(f) On or before November 30, 1978 (or such other date
as the Bank may agree) the Borrower shall, through MTFP, prepare
the training curricula, program outlines and related procedural
arrangements and timetables necessary for the operation of the
vocational center included in Part C (b) (i) of the Project.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower (a) in pre-
paring detailed engineering and carrying !ut cadastral surveys
required for the Project and (b) in carrying out the technical
assistance services included in Part E of the Project, the
Borrower shall employ or continue to employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds


﻿-8-
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project; it being
further specified that the equipment included in Part D of the
Project shall be used exclusively in the Project area.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
quarterly progress reports, contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain such records, pro-
cedures and separate accounts in each of MHAT, MOF, MSP, MTFP,
MEN, MASA and MJS, as shall be adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to
be derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in
the Project; (ii) shall have such accounts for each fiscal year
audited by MOF in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied; (iii) shall furnish to the Bank as soon as
available, but in any case not later than four months after the
end of such year, the report of such audit by MOF of such scope
and such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; (iv)
shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, such
accounts and any relevant records and documents; and (v) shall
furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning such accounts, the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the bes,'fits to be derived from it, the expen-
diture of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall through the Sous-Habitat Upgrading
Unit and with the assistance of the Economic Activities Unit,
devise on or before December 31, 1978 (or such other date as the
Bank may agree) measures of effectiveness and procedures for
monitoring and evaluating the benefits and effects of the Project
with respect to the development of economic activities, the
changes in housing patterns and conditions, school enrollment and
literacy rates, skills and employment, nutritional intake and
rates of incidence of selected diseases and all pertinent changes
in other socio-economic factors in the Project area, as shall have
been reasonably requested by the Bank for such monitoring and
evaluation of the Project; the Economic Activities Unit shall be


﻿-9 -
responsible for monitoring and evaluating the development of the
economic activities in the Project area whereas the Sous-Habitat
Upgrading Unit shall be entrusted with all the other aspects of
the monitoring and the evaluation of the Project.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall through the Sous-Habitat Upgrad-
ing Unit and with the assistance of the Economic Activities Unit,
prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution
and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower
and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall issue, pursuant to
Article 9 of the Borrower's Dahir of July 30, 1952 (as amended
thereafter), a plan de zonage for the seventh ward of the Munici-
pality, such plan to be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) Upon expiration of the initial plan de zonage, the Bor-
rower shall take all action to ensure that the measures included
in such plan be, at all times, in full force and effect vis-a-vis
all parties concerned, such action to be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all
such action as shall be necessary to acquire, as and when needed,
all such rights in respect of land as shall be required for
carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that
such rights in respect of land are available for such purposes.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall enter into separate
Conventions with the Municipality, BCP and RED under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank which shall include inter alia
that:
(i) under    the  Borrower-Municipality    Convention,
$3,800,000 equivalent shall be lent to the Muni-
cipality by the Borrower for a period of 15 years
(including a grace period of 4 years) at an
interest rate of 9% per annum;


﻿- 10 -
(ii) under the Borrower-RED Convention, RED shall (A)
procure materials for the water and electricity
supply network extensions in compliance with the
provisions of paragraphs A, C and E of Schedule
4 hereto and (B) install such extensions, at
prime costs, under the supervision of the Project
Directorate in compliance with the provisions of
paragraph D of said Schedule; and
(iii) under the Borrower-BCP Convention, (A) on or
before March 31, 1979 (or such other date as the
Bank may agree), BCP shall establish and, there-
after, maintain in operation, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, a branch
office in the Prcject area; and (B) compensation,
pricing and cost recovery principles and related
charges to Projecc beneficiaries, satisfactory to
the Bank (as set out in Schedule 5 to this Agree-
ment) as well as financial and technical assistance
eligibility criteria for commercial and industrial
enterprises in the Project area and appraisal
guidelines for credit applications by such enter-
prises (as set out in Schedule 6 to this Agreement)
shall be provided.
(b) The Borrower shall duly perform all its obliga6ions
under the Borrower-BCP, the Borrower-RED and the Borrower-
Municipality Conventions; except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or
waiving any of those Conventions or any provision thereof.
Section 3.08. On or before September 30, 1978 (or such other
date as the Bank may agree) the Borrower shall prepare and submit
to the Bank, for its approval, model forms of the lease contracts
to be entered into between beneficiaries of the Project and the
Borrower and the arrangements required for the administration of
such contracts. Thereafter the Borrower shall not modify the forms
of such contracts or arrangements without the Bank's prior consent.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in


﻿- 11 -
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit
of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on
any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means as%ets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) operate, or cause to
be operated, the public facilities, infrastructure and equipment
included in the Project in accordance with appropriate adminis-
trative, health and educational policies and public utility
practices and with due regard to economy; (ii) make, or cause to
be made, arrangements satisfactory to the Bank to provide at all
times such facilities with experienced and qualified personnel, in
such numbers as shall be necessary for their efficient operation,


﻿- 12 -
and the funds necessary for the efficient operation, maintenance
and repair of said facilities and for providing an adequate
remuneration to said personnel; and (iii) make, or cause to be
made, from time to time, all necessary renewals and repairs of
such facilities, equipment and infrastructure, all in accordance
with appropriate engineering, construction and public utility
practices.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that:
(a) The Borrower-Municipality Convention, Borrower-BCP
Convention or Borrower-RED Convention shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to
materially and adversely affect the ability of the Municipality,
BCP or RED, as the case may be, to carry out its respective
covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in its Conven-
tion.
(b) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that the Borrower, the Municipality, BCP
or RED, as the case may be, shall be able to perform its respec-
tive obligations under the Borrower-Municipality Convention,
Borrower-BCP Convention or Borrower-RED Convention, as the case
may be.
(c) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of the Municipality, BCP or RED, or for the suspension
of the respective operations of any such entity.
(d) The Borrower, the Municipality, BCP or RED, as the case
may be, shall have failed to perform any of its respective cove-
nants, agreements or obligations under the Borrower-Municipality
Convention, Borrower-BCP Convention or Borrower-RED Convention,
as the case may be.
(e) The pertinent provisions of the Borrower's Dahir of
July 30, 1952 (as amended thereafter) or the legislation and
administrative regulations pertaining to envoi en possession


﻿- 13 -
provisoire in Morocco shall have been amended, suspended, abro-
gated, rescinded, repealed or waived in such a way as to mate-
rially and adversely affect the ability of the Borrower to
fulfill its obligations under this Agreement or to prevent the
Borrower from enjoying all the benefits and privileges arising
from the judicial ordinance or ordinances of envoi en possession
provisoire to be issued pursuant to Section 6.01 (a) hereof.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) or (e)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that:
(a) a judicial ordinance or ordinances of envoi en posses-
sion provisoire concerning the rights in respect of land, as
shall be required for carrying out Parts A, B and C (a) (i) of the
Project shall have been issued; it being understood that such
ordinance or ordinances shall be in full force and effect until
the Borrower shall acquire such land and rights in respect of land
and shall furnish to the Bank evidence of such acquisition satis-
factory to the Bank; and
(b) the Borrower shall have furnished to the Bank all
evidence satisfactory to the Bank showing that (i) the deputy to
the Project Director, one civil engineer, one surveyor, two
technical inspectors and one accountant have been designated for
the purpose of assuming their respective functions within the
Project Directorate, (ii) the plan de zonage referred to in


﻿- 14 -
Section 3.05 (a) has been issued pursuant to the provisions of
said Section, and (iii) the Borrower-Municipality, Borrower-RED
and Borrower-BCP Conventions have been entered into by all parties
concerned pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.07 (a) hereof.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Bank, namely, that (i) the ordinance or ordinances
referred to in Section 6.01 (a) hereof has or have been duly
issued under the applicable laws of Morocco and pursuant to the
provisions of such Section, (ii) the plan de zonage referred to in
Section 6.01 (b) (ii) hereof has been duly issued under the appli-
cable laws of Morocco and is in full force and effect vis-a-vis
all parties concerned, and (iii) the Conventions referred to in
Section 6.01 (b) (iii) hereof have been duly entered into by, and
are legally binding upon, in accordance with their respective
terms, all parties concerned.
Section 6.03. The date June 30, 1978, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower;
Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for Finance is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist&re des Finances
Rabat, Morocco
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINISTERE FINANCES                 31936M
Rabat


﻿- 15 -
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
By Is/ Ali Benjelloun
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Maurice P. Bart
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works,            9,250,000         57%
buildings and
construction
materials
(2) Consultant services       350,000         60%
(3) Credits for Part C      2,450,000         83% of amounts
(a) (i) of the                           disbursed
Project
(4) Equipment               1,500,000         90%
(5) Technical assis-          450,000         90%
tance
(6) Unallocated             4,000,000
TOTAL   18,000,000
2.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,


﻿- 17 -
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above:
(a) no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments
made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equiva-
lent of $250,000, may be made in respect of Category (2) on
account of payments made for such expenditures before that date
but after January 1, 1977; and
(b) withdrawals in respect of Category (3) shall be made
only as and when the Borrower shall have furnished to the Bank
evidence satisfactory to the Bank showing that the Economic
Activities Unit has been established pursuant to the provisions
of Section 3.01 (c) hereof, it being specified that the appli-
cations for such withdrawals shall be consolidated on a quarterly
basis and, then, submitted to the Bank.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents


﻿- 18 -
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.
6.    If the Borrower does not fulfill the condition referred to
in subparagraph 3 (b) of this Schedule on or before December 31,
1978, or such other date as the Bank may agree, the Bank may by
notice to the Borrower terminate the right of the Borrower to make
withdrawals with respect to said Category. Upon the giving of such
notice, the amount of the Loan corresponding to the Category
concerned, as determined by the Bank, shall be cancelled.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, which represents an integrated appproach to
deal simultaneously with the upgrading of housing, infrastructure
and community services and the improvement of the employment level
in a whole urban district, will be carried out in the whole area
which, at the date hereof, corresponds to the jurisdiction of the
Municipality of Rabat's seventh ward.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
A.   Squatter Upgrading
(a) Integrated upgrading in Douars Doum, Maadid and Hajja
which will require about 900 households, in the aggregate, to be
relocated under Part B of the Project.
(b) This upgrading will include rehabilitation and exten-
sion of infrastructure, improvement and expansion of commercial
installations, home improvements through self-help with construc-
tion materials and equipment to be provided under the Project.
B.   Experimental Sites and Services Housing Scheme
Plots will be developed on a terrain within 15% slopes (about
12 hectares), called La Butte, and provided with contractor-built
core units.
C.   Employment Generation Program
In order to create about 2,500 jobs in the Project area the
following actions will be carried out:
(a) (i) Provision of about 11 hectares of land to be
developed, and of credit facilities for construc-
tion of buildings, equipment purchase and working
capital;
(ii) Provision of technical assistance in market-
ing, production and management by the Economic
Activities Unit.


﻿- 20 -
(b) Arrangements for vocational training and skills upgrad-
ing will be provided as follows:
(i) A vocational center will be established to serve
needs of men and women alike for upgrading skills;
this center will have sufficient capacity to train
about 360 trainees annually; and
(ii) A separate center for education and work will
be established to provide functional literacy
programs and skills to young women with inadequate
educational background; this center will accom-
modate about 250 trainees; combined with this
center, there will be a day-care nursery with a
capacity of about 400 children to enable mothers
who are household neads to leave their children
during the day while at work; the nursery will
include a facility for advising mothers on child
care with special services to monitor child
development.
D.   Community Services Equipment
Special vehicles, including ancillary equipment, will be
provided to supplement the existing Municipality vehicle fleet to
better meet basic service requirements pertaining to garbage
disposal, fire fighting and ambulance services.
E.   Technical Assistance
(a) Program to assist MHAT, and more specifically the
Sous-Habitat Upgrading Unit, in analytical work and in training
local counterparts of such ministry and unit in the financial and
technical analysis of urban upgrading projects, through the
provision of 32 man-months of technical assistance.
(b) Guidance to the personnel of MOF in sector reviews
and technical know-how in preparing recommendations for housing
finance reforms, through the provision of 8 man-months of tech-
nical assistance.
(c) General guidance to the Economic Activities Unit,
through the provision of 30 man-months of technical assistance.


﻿- 21 -
(d) Program for developing vocational training capabilities
in MTFP, through the provision of 20 man-months of technical
assistance.
(e) Guidance to the personnel of the Municipality in using
and maintaining the municipal. equipment, through the provision of
20 man-months of technical assistance.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1981.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
beginning October 1, 1983
through   April 1, 1998                       600,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 23 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                   Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                   1.10%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                                   2.25%
More than six years but
not more than eleven years
before maturity                                   4.10%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen years
before maturity                                   5.95%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen years
before maturity                                   6.70%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                   7.45%


﻿-24-
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts B and D hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods shall be procured in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.    For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding under the Project, the Borrower
shall prepare and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and
in any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of avail-
ability to the public of the first tender or prequalification
documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a general pro-
curement notice, in such form and detail and containing such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods and works in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.    All contracts for civil works will be awarded on the basis
of local procurement procedures (including local advertising)
acceptable to the Bank.
2.    Individual purchases of goods not exceeding the equivalent
of $75,000 per contract and $1,000,000 in the aggregate may be
awarded on the basis of local procurement procedures (including
local advertising) acceptable to the Bank.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods, except for those to be procured on the basis


﻿- 25 -
of local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and
sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be
excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and
other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Morocco may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that
will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Morocco if the bidder shall have established
to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Morocco equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Morocco.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids


﻿- 26 -
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Installation Without Contracting
As and when the water and electricity supply network exten-
sions shall have been procured, as provided in this Schedule, they
will be installed through force account work by RED at prime
costs.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
finl contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in
Section 3.02 hereof, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, together with the recommendations for award of said


﻿- 27 -
consultants, and such other information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding para-
graph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of
the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 5
Compensation, Pricing and
Recovery Principles
A.   Compensation
1.   Owners of buildings to be torn down for infrastructure work
purpose will be compensated. The value of the compensation will
be appraised on the basis of the current value of the building
materials of which the building to be torn down is made up; 20%
will be added to the value arrived at to account for labor cost.
2.   Compensation will not be in cash but considered as down
payment on the value of the plot on which the owner of the torn-
down building would like to be relocated.
B.   Pricing
1.   Residential plots in Douar Hajia and Douar Maadid. The price
of lots will be calculated on the basis of actually incurred land
development costs. Costs of the following elements will be
included:
(a) Total developed land area, at purchase price, excluding
the land area reserved for infrastructure and open
space,
(b) Cadastral survey,
(c) Compensation,
(d) Resettlement costs incurred to relocate displaced
households,
(e) On-site infrastructure,
(f) Pre-elementary schools including equipment,
(g) Detailed engineering costs incurred for the design of
the on-site infrastructure,
(h) Management costs incurred for the upgrading of each
settlement, and


﻿- 29 -
(i) Pro-rated share of interest during construction on the
proceeds of the Loan for the above costs.
The total aggregated cost will be divided by the total number
of plots (residential and commercial) in each settlement. The
figure arrived at will be the standard price for a plot in both
settlements.
2.   Residential plots in Douar Doum. The selling price of resi-
dential plots in Douar Doum will be based on about 45% of the
actually incurred land development costs (as calculated in
paragraph B.1).
3.   Commercial plots in Douar Doum, Hajja and Maadid. The   price
of commercial plots will be calculated as follows:
Land development cost for Douar Doum will be computed as
in B (a). This cost will be reduced by the value arrived at in
multiplying the total number of plots in Douar Doum by the selling
price resulting from the calculation in B.2 above. This reduced
development cost will then be divided by the total number of
commercial plots in the three settlements. The figure arrived at
will be the standard price increase for commercial plots. The
price of commercial plots in each settlement will then be computed
by adding the standard price increase for commercial plots to the
price of residential plots in the sites where these commercial
plots are located.
4.   Residential plots in La Butte
(a) The price of plots will be calculated on the basis of
actually incurred land development costs (D), as set out in
paragraph B.1, and including the costs of site preparation.
(b) On the basis of the site layout the total net usable
land will be calculated by totalling the net area assigned to
the following uses:
Use                   Area in square meters
Residential                           R
Community facilities                  C
Commercial area                       M


﻿- 30 -
(c) The development cost per square meter (p) for residen-
tial plots will be arrived at by applying the following formula:
p        D
K + xC + yM
To the cost p will be added the cost of land per square meter (L)
- The price of plots will then be calculated as follows:
For prime located plots their price per square meter (v) will
be:
v = z (p + L)
For non-prime located plots their price per square meter (w)
will be:
(R - 1.3U)
w = (p + L) x   R-U
R - U
where U is the total area used by prime located plots.
Then the price of each plot will be determined by multiplying the
surface of the plot by the price per square meter arrived at as
indicated above.
5.   Commercial plots in La Butte
The price of commercial plots (pC) in La Butte will be
set as follows:
pC - (5p + L) Z
where Z is the plot size in square meters.
6.   Industrial plots
The price of industrial plots will be calculated on the basis
of actually incurred land development cost. Costs of elements as
in B.4 (a) above including land price will be included. The total
development costs including land price will be divided by the
total net area of the industrial site to arrive at a price per
square meter. Price of industrial plots will thus be computed by
multiplying the price per square meter by their size.


﻿- 31 -
C.   Cost Recovery
1.   Residential Elots
Price of residential plots arrived at in B.1, B.2, B.4
will be recovered over 20 years at a rate of 7% per annum.
Compensation given to relocated plot allottees (as determined in
A) will be deducted from the plot price to be recovered.
2.   Commercial plots
Price of commercial plots arrived at in B.3, B.5 will be
recovered over 10 years at a rate of 8% per annum.
3.   Industrial plots
Price of industrial plots arrived at in B.6 will be recov-
ered over 10 years at a rate of at least 8.5% per annum.
4.   Core units
Price of contractor built core units will be recovered in
full over 20 years at a rate of 7% per annum.
5.   Commercial installation
Price of commercial installation will be recovered in full
over 10 years at a rate of 8% per annum.
6.   Building material
Price of building material will be recovered in full, over a
10-year period, at a rate of 7% per annum.


﻿- 32 -
SCHEDULE 6
Financial and Technical Assistance
to Enterprises
Eligibility Criteria and Appraisal Guidelines
1.   The Borrower shall implement a scheme of financial and
technical assistance to economic activities in the Project area.
Technical assistance will be available to any enterprise
already established or which intends to establish itself in the
Prujec area.
Financial assistance will be limited to enterprises with an
estimated investmeut cost per new or maintained job of no more
than 25,000 Dirhams; the maximum total amount of credit granted
to any enterprise shall not exceed 1,000,000 Dirhams and, the
terms and conditions of said credit shall include, inter alia, the
following:
(a) Equity financing of the proposed investment by the
enterprise concerned: no less than 20% of such invest-
ment for new enterprises and no less than 15% for the
expansion of enterprises already established in the
Project area.
(b) Interest rate: 8.5% per annum.
(c) Amortization periods to be no more than 10 years for
the purchase of land and construction of buildings,
5 years for equipment purchase, and 3 years for working
capital; it being understood that the amortization
period for a credit, which is used to finance several
or all of the foregoing items eligible for financing,
will be computed on the basis, inter alia, of the
weighted average of the respective amortization periods
applicable to said items.
2.   The Borrower shall take full responsibility for promoting and
financing economic activities in the Project area in accordance
with the following:
(a) The Borrower shall receive applications for financial
assistance from enterprises, through BCP, within the
framework of the Borrower-BCP Convention.


﻿- 33 -
(b) The Borrower shall cause such credit applications to
be appraised by BCP, with the assistance of the Economic
Activities Unit, under a simplified procedure acceptable
to BCP, the Bank and the Borrower; it being understood
that such procedure shall enable BCP to appraise the
technical, financial, economic and management viability
of the enterprise concerned.
(c) Credits to enterprises in the Project area exceeding
100,000 Dirhams shall be approved by the Project
Steering Committee.
(d) Disbursements of all credits and collection of credit
repayments shall be made by the Borrower, through BCP,
within the framework of the Borrower-BCP Convention.


﻿-34 -
SCREDULE 7
Construction Standards
1.   Roads and Pedestrian Zones:
1.1 Douar Doum
Carriageway     Sidewalks    Pavement
(compacted
sub-grade)
Access Road        6m             2x2m     20 cm subbase
15 cm base
5 cm premix
Ringroad           4m             lx2m     20 cm subbase
15 cm base
5 cm premix
Market Road        5m             2x2m     20 cm subbase
15 cm base
5 cm premix
Goundafa Road      7m             2x2m     repaving
5 cm premix
New Footpaths      4m             n.a.     15 cm base
(except those                              double bi-
sections where                             tuminous sur-
steps are neces-                           face treatment
sary)
1.2 La Butte
Ringroad           6-7m            -       repaving
5 cm premix
Internal Roads     4-7m           2x2m     20 cm subbase
or      15 cm base
2x2.5m    double bitum-
inous surface
treatment


﻿- 35 -
Carriageway     Sidewalks    Pavement
(compacted
sub-grade)
Footpaths          4m             n.a.     20 cm base
single bitum-
inous surface
treatment
1.3 Douar Hajja
Ringroad           4m             lx2m     20 cm subbase
15 cm base
5 cm premix
Access Road        6m             2x2m     repaving
5 cm premix
1.4 Douar Maadid
Fetouski Road      6m             2x2m     repaving
5 cm premix
Internal Roads    4-6m            2x2m     20 cm subbase
15 cm base
5 cm premix
Through route      7m              -       25 cm subbase
in Wadi Valley                             20 cm base
5 cm premix
1.5  Industrial Zone
Ringroad          6-7m             -       repaving
5 cm premix
Internal Roads    6-7m            2x2m     25 cm subbase
20 cm base
5 cm premix
2.   Community Facilities
2.1 Maximum covered areas:
Pre-elementary schools                   100 r2


﻿- 36 -
Elementary schools                     2,350 m2
Dispensaries                             250 m2
Youth centers                            900 m2
Women training center                  2,400 m2
Vocational center                      4,500 m2
2.2 Distribution of community facilities:
Douar           Douar Douar    Indus-
Doum  La Butte Hajja Maadid    trial
Zone
Pre-elementary
Schools
- Rehabilitation     4      -        7      5       -
- Construction      10      8        7      9       -
Elementary schools   1      1        1      1       -
Dispensaries         1      1        1      1       -
Youth activities     1      1        -      -
Women training       -      -        1      -       -
center
Vocational center    -      -        -      -       1
3.   Housing and Commercial Installations
3.1 Housing core units:
820 units of 16.8 m2 and 80 units with 17.5 m2 covered
area.
3.2 Commercial installations:
520 units with 15 m2 covered area (on average).


﻿- 37 -
4.   Site Layouts
4.1 Douar Dou
24-hectare built-u area with maximum 10 community
squares of 350-400 m each.
4.2 La Butte
12-hectares developed area, of which about: 50% residen-
tial land (520 plots of 60m2, 300 plots of 70m2, and
80 plots of 80m ), 14% land for community facilities,
5% land for commercial and industrial use, 21% land for
road-pedestrian areas, and 10% open space.
4.3 Douar Hajja
19-hectare built-up area; no land use change.
4.4 Douar Maadid
20-hectare built-up area; no land use change.
4.5 Industrial zone
11-hectare developed area, of which: 8 hectares for
industrial plots and the vocational center and 3 hect-
ares for roads and footpaths.
5.   Water Supply, Sewerage and Electricity Supply
5.1 Water Supply
Douar Doum:    primary and secondary network fully
installed; individual connections upon request; 1
standpipe per population of 450.
La Butte, Douar Hajja and Douar Maadid:       primary
and secondary network and individual connections
installed.
Industrial Zone:     primary and secondary systems
installed.


﻿- 38 -
5.2 Sewerage
All residential areas: combined system.
Industrial zone: separate system.
5.3 Electricity Supply
All zones: primary and secondary system fully installed.


