Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21922-NIR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 37.3 MILLION
(S$ 48 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOR A
WATER SECTOR PROJECT
April 9, 2001
AFTU2
Country Department 13
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 31, 2001)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
CFAF I million = US$ 1.538
US$ 1.0 = CFAF 650
FISCAL YEAR
January I December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AEP                  Alimentation en Eaiu Potable
(Water Supply)
AFD                  Agence FranVaise de Developpement
(French Development Agency)
ARM                  Auitorite de Regulation Muiltisectorielle
(Multisectoral Regulatory Authority)
BEEEI                Bitreau des Evalu ations Environnementales et des Etudes d'Impact
(Environmental Appraisal Office)
BOAD                 Banquie OtQest Africaine de Developpement
(West African Development Bank)
CBO                  Community-based Organization
CPAR                 Country Procurement Assessment Review
DDRE                 Direction Departementale des Ressoutrces en Eaut
(Regional Directorate of Water Resources)
DIGOH                Direction de l'Inventaire et de la Gestion des Ouvrages d7Hydratulique
(Directorate of Inventory and Management of Water Works)
DTNAEP               Direction des Travaux NeZufs d'Alimentation en Eatu Potable
(Directorate of Construction of New Water Works)
EA                   Environmental Analysis
EMP                  Environmental Management Plan
ERR                  Economic Rate of Retum
FinMI                Financial Management Initiative
FRR                  Financial Rate of Retum
GON                  Govemment of Niger
GPN                  General Procurement Notice
ICB                  Intemational Competitive Bidding
MRE                  MinZistere des Ressozurces en EaZ
(Ministry of Water Resources)
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
Country Director:    Antoinette M. Sayeh
Sector Manager:    Letitia A. Obeng
Task Team Leader:    Matar Fall



NCB                 National Competitive Bidding
NGO                  Non Governmental Organization
NPV                 Net Present Value
PCU                 Project Coordination Unit
PIM                  Project Implementation Manual
PRIU                 Projet de Rehabilitation des Infrastructures Urbaines
(Urban Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project)
RWS                 Rural Water Supply
SEEN                Societe d'Exploitation des Eaux du Niger
(Urban Water Supply Operating Company) (Private)
SOE                 Statement of Expenditures
SPEN                Socijte de Patrimoine des Eaux du Niger
(Water Assets Holding Company of Niger)
SYSCOA              Systeme de Cornptabilite Ouest Africain
(West African Accounting System)
TOR                 Term of Reference
UFW                 Unaccounted-for-Water
UNDB                United Nations Development Business
WSS                 Water Supply and Sanitation
WTP                 Willingness to pay
WUA                 Water Users Association






NIGER
WATER SECTOR PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       3
2. Key performance indicators                                                          3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  9
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 11
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      12
3. Benefits and target population                                                     13
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      13
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          16
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         16
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                            17
4. Indications of borrower comnmitment and ownership                                  18
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        18
E. Summary Project Analysis
I. Economic                                                                           18
2. Financial                                                                           19
3. Technical                                                                          20
4. Institutional                                                                      20
5. Environmental                                                                      21
6. Social                                                                             24
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 26
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     26
2. Critical risks                                                                     26
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     29



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             29
2. Other                                                                               29
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           30
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          31
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           32
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     38
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          50
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                    51
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                                63
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        70
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      83
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    85
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   87
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             89
Annex 11: Environmental Management Plan                                                   91
Annex 12: Letters of Sector Policy for the Urban Water and Rural Water Sub-Sectors       101
MAP(S)
IBRD 31315



NIGER
WATER SECTOR PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTU2
Date: April 9, 2001                                Team Leader: Matar Fall
Country Director: Antoinette M. Sayeh              Sector Manager: Letitia A. Obeng
Project ID: P061558                                Sector(s): WY - Other Water Supply & Sanitation
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Water
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[ 1 Loan     [X] Credit    [1 Grant     [] Guarantee      [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 48.0
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                                Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5                                     Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan:    Source                                     Local         Foreign        ,Total -
BORROWER                                                         9.95            0.00          9.95
IDA                                                             15.40          32.60          48.00
AGENCE FRANCAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT                                1.00            6.00          7.00
OTHER SOURCES (UNIDENTIFIED)                                     0.30            0.60          0.90
WEST AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK                                    0.86            9.29         10.15
OTHER PRIVATE COMMERCIAL SOURCES                                 1.10            2.30          3.40
(UNIDENTIFIED)
Total:                                                          28.61           50.79         79.40
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF NIGER
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF WATER RESOURCES
Ministry of Water Resources
Contact Person: Zibo Zakara, Project Coordinator
Tel: (227) 72 47 31                Fax: (227) 72 47 31               Email: pseniger@intnet.ne
Other Agency(ies):
Societe de Patrimoine de l'Eau du Niger (SPEN)
Contact Person: Seni Salou, Directeur Gen6ral
Tel: (227) 75 45 43              Fax: (227) 73 28 01               Email: sg-sne@intnet.ne
Direction de lInventaire et de la Gestion des Ouvrages Hydrauliques (DIGOH)
Direction des Travaux Neufs d'Alimentation en Eau Potable (DTNAEP)
Contact Person: Mamane Cheibou, Director
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
FY         2002       2003        2004       2005       2006       2007
Annual    6.20         8.60      15.30       9.10       5.80       3.00_
Cumulative    6.20       14.80      30.10       39.20     45.00      48.00



Project implementation period: 2002-2006
| Expected effectiveness date: 09/30/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2006
OCS PAD F- P- FR.=h. 200D
- 2 -



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the project is to increase sustainable and efficient access to improved potable water supply
and sanitation services in urban and rural areas through (a) improving water production and distribution
efficiency and providing affordable sanitation services; (b) strengthening the institutional capacity in the
areas of oversight, policy formulation, monitoring and regulation; and (c) rehabillitating rural water
facilities, developing on-site sanitation services and implementing community-based rnanagement of rural
water facilities involving private sector participation.
The project will also strengthen the institutional capacities to manage water resources through urgent action
steps, as identified in the recent Water Resource Management Sector Review.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
*   Additional number of people with access to safe water.
*   Reduction of unaccounted-for-water in urban areas.
*   Gradual improvement in the financial situation of the urban water sub-sector to reach financial
equilibrium by 2006.
*   Effective implementation of the urban water sub-sector reform.
*   Increased availability and use of water supply facilities in rural areas.
*   Additional number of people with access to adequate sanitation services.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA/R97-127               Date of latest CAS discussion: 11/11/97
The project is fully consistent with the CAS, which emphasized the critical importance of water supply and
water management. Following extensive national consultations during the CAS preparation process,
improved water management was identified as one of the three core areas of the country's development
strategy. Increasing access to safe water was identified as one of the three major objectives of Bank's
assistance. In addition, the proposed project will support and facilitate private sector participation in urban
water supply which was initiated under a separate Privatization and Regulatory Reform Technical
Assistance Project (Cr. 3130-NE), in line with another central objective of the CAS, i.e. to promote open
economic policies.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main sector issues
Urban Water Supply
Institutional and Managerial Issues. The Societe Nationale de I 'Eau (SNE - National Water Corporation)
was created in 1987 as an autonomous and self-supporting corporation, responsible for developing the
urban water sub-sector, improving water service coverage and ensuring resource manaigement. The Cahier
des Clauses et Conditions Gernrales (CCCG, - general terms and conditions of contract) governed the
relationship between the Government and SNE. A Contrat Programme (program contract) was expected
to set out the performance objectives for SNE, as well as Government's obligations.
- 3 -



After thirteen years of operation, none of SNE's objectives has been attained and none of its commitments
fulfilled. The Contrat Programme was never officially adopted. The Government interfered with the daily
management of SNE at nearly all levels of activity. Management instability was a major constraint in the
continuity of policies and strategies within the corporation and has had a very negative impact on the
corporation's performance. Between 1989 and 1998, the Government changed the management structure of
SNE nine times. The Government has not honored its commitments with respect to (a) implementing an
appropriate tariff policy aimed at full cost recovery; (b) paying its water bills regularly; and (c) fostering
SNE's decision-making and financial autonomy. Since 1987, only two tariff adjustments have been
approved; the last one followed the devaluation of the FCFA in 1994. The tariff is far from achieving
CCCG's target of covering all SNE costs related to operations, depreciation and renewal, as well as new
investments.
Service Coverage and Service Levels. SNE produces and distributes water in 51 urban centers. The
breakdown of water sold by consumption category is as follows: industry 7 percent, standpipes 20 percent,
Government 27 percent, private connections 46 percent. About 45 percent of the urban population of 1.7
million are served through 45,600 service connections and 1,850 standposts. Forty-four percent of
Niamey's population (650,000 people) have private water connections. About 295,000 purchase most of
their water either from 500 standposts managed by concessionaires (serving 15 percent of the population)
or from about 1,500 vendors (serving 31 percent, generally the poorest households). Another 5 percent buy
water from neighbors, and the remaining 5 percent rely on wells and other natural sources. In secondary
urban centers, the proportion of households using public standposts is higher than in Niamey (from 26 to
87 percent) and less people rely on water vendors (3 percent).
SNE charges high connection fees for new customers (between 50,000 and 200,000 FCFA). The
combination of high fees, lengthy procedures for obtaining a service connection and the poor coverage of
the network, limits development of new connections and forces households to use other sources of water
and pay very high prices.
Technical Performance and Condition of Facilities. The annual water production amounts to about 32
Mm3, while water sales amount to 26 Mm3 This suggests that unaccounted-for-water (u-f-w) is about 20
percent, which compares favorably with other countries in the sub-region (Senegal, 27 percent, Gambia, 27
percent, C6te d'Ivoire, 17 percent). However, since the exact current 'baseline' level of u-f-w is not known
with certitude, and since it is an important reference for measuring project performance, this baseline level
will be re-assessed at the start-up of the lease contract.
Urban water investments practically came to a standstill in 1996, as the Government and donors recognized
that SNE was no longer a credible recipient of external funding and that sector reform was urgently needed.
A substantial backlog of investments resulted, since SNE was not in a position to finance significant
renewal and system expansion.
Niamey is supplied by two water production facilities located on the banks of the Niger River with a total
capacity of 80,000 m3/day. Only 63 percent of this total capacity has been utilized. The other urban
centers use groundwater supplied by 124 boreholes with a total capacity estimated at 92,000 m3/day. Only
42 percent of this capacity is actually used. Excess capacity does not exist in all centers; however, some of
them face serious water shortages. This is the case in Zinder, Agadez, Torodi, Kollo, Tera and Tillabery.
In other secondary centers, water production facilities need to be made more reliable, for example, by
rehabilitating sand-clogged boreholes and power generators and installing back-up generators.
- 4 -



Water distribution systems in large cities, such as Niamey, Maradi and Tahoua, were built in the 1950s
and need to be rehabilitated. They also need to be expanded, especially in Niamey, in order to utilize
current nominal production capacity and expand water service to unserved areas.
Financial Performance, Cost Recovery and Collection Performance. SNE's finzncial management is
weak. Auditors placed a disclaimer on SNE's financial statements for 1996 a,nd 1997 because of
incomplete information on investments and material inconsistencies. Total sales of 5.4 billion FCFA do not
cover operating costs largely due to an inadequate tariff, which is compounded by overstaffing and
inefficient control of operating costs. SNE currently employs 514 people; the number of connections per
employee is 80 in Niger, compared to 116 and 207 for Senegal and C6te d'Ivoire, respectively. While
water sales increased by 11 percent from 1995 to 1997, operating costs grew by 30 percent. The average
water tariff of 200 FCFA (US$0.31/m3) is much lower than in other countries in the sub-region that
established financially self-sufficient water utilities. Average tariffs in Cote d'Ivoire and Senegal are
US$0.65/m3 and US$0.80/m3, respectively. The tariff structure also needs to be reviewed in line with
consumption patterns and the willingness and ability to pay of various categories of customers.
About 60 percent of billed amounts are actually collected (41 percent in Niamey and 80 percent in
secondary centers). Outstanding arrears exceed 18 months of sales. Government's delinquency is the most
important factor as Government arrears for water consumption reached 7.5 billion FCFA, or 70 percent of
total arrears. Regular payment of the Government's water bills is an essential condition for recovery and
sustainable development of the sector.
Rural Water Supply
Coverage and Availability. A sustained investment effort, mainly undertaken under the Decennie
Internationale de L'Eau Potable et de l'Assainissement (DIEPA), led to the constriction of a number of
safe water supply facilities (about 10,400 open wells, 6,300 boreholes equipped with hand pumps and 250
small piped systems or motorized boreholes), which served about 52 percent of the rural population at the
end of 1997. The latter figure is a rough estimate, based on the assumption that one water point serves
about 250 people. There is neither systematic follow-up on actual coverage and use of water points once
they have been built, nor periodic surveys of the availability of these facilities. ]t is estimated that 35
percent of these facilities are not operating; this rate may vary depending on the pace of episodic
rehabilitation programs, which are carried out in lieu of adequate maintenance.
Shortcomings of Sector Strategy. Rural Water Supply (RWS) projects in Niger are not based on a
comprehensive sector strategy.  National guidelines provide design criteria and a framework for
establishing water committees. Rural communities are expected to manage facilities and finance recurrent
costs. There are no guidelines on requirements for financial contribution to investlnents and no linkage
between the level of service provided and communities' contribution. Generally, technical options are
imposed on communities.  Several recent projects sought to increase communities participation by
decentralizing the planning and design process. The approach was successfully tested on a limited scale,
but there are concems on its consistency with the decentralization law, which transferred finctions of the
central govemment to various levels of the local govemment (region, department and commune) without
providing a clear delineation of responsibilities.
Community Management Issues. Community management has not resulted in the expected improvement in
availability of rural water facilities. Most open wells are adequately maintained, but maintenance of hand
pumps and operation of small piped systems face a number of problems.  The transparency and
representative character of water committees has been questioned in the absence of genuine water user
- 5 -



associations. Funds collected cannot be safeguarded and financial management by water committees is
inadequately monitored. These issues are even more critical for the number of small piped systems, which
are quickly expanding.
Lack of Integrated Approach. The health impact of rural water facilities is also limited by the absence of
an integrated approach that combines water supply with sanitation and hygiene education. Only two small
projects have initiated such an approach.
Water Resource Management
Water resource management in Niger, as in most of sub-Saharan Africa, is bipolar in its development.
There are local-level institutions, which manage water fairly efficiently and equitably for domestic or
agricultural consumption. However, most national-level water resource management agenda are not clearly
defined, are underfunded, and are usually driven by extemal donor priorities. The ministerial department in
charge of water resource management has thus focused on planning and securing funding of larger-scale
infrastructure for urban and rural water supply. Thus, agriculture and livestock have not been well
represented in water resource management strategies, even though these uses command most of Niger's
water.
Water resource management lags in terms of its approach to adopting "soft skills" necessary to managing
water across competing uses, such as adequate management decision-support systems and human capacity
to operate and profit from such systems. There also needs to be a political debate on prioritizing and
promoting critical water resource management investments. There is considerable evidence that Niger is
willing to revise its water resource management strategy; this is driven by a push for decentralization, as
well as insistence from donors to develop a more structured water investment program.
Urban sanitation
A recent survey shows that in Niamey, only one-third of the population is satisfied with their sanitation
systems. About 90 percent rely on traditional latrines and 8 percent on pour-flush latrines. About 25
public sanitary facilities are available in high density neighborhoods and commercial areas. School
sanitation is highly unsatisfactory and a recent survey on 178 schools in Niamey indicated that only 8
percent of schools had adequate sanitation facilities. The vulnerable groups are women and children. Until
now, sanitation has not been a priority for authorities in urban areas and very few pilot projects have been
executed by NGOs. Niamey, Zinder and Maradi have prepared urban and sanitation master plans, but
these plans cannot be economically justified solely on the basis of the construction of conventional sewer
networks, as proposed, and no investments have been made up to now.
Ground and surface water pollution, mainly from lack of adequate sanitation facilities, is of increasing
concern. This condition might have further deteriorated due to: surface runoff, inadequate waste disposal
systems and poor hygiene practices.
-6 -



Government strategy
Urban Water Supply
Institutional Reform. The Government has initiated a reform of the urban water sector, which is part of a
global private sector participation (PSP) program that covers twelve state enterprises. The Ministry in
charge of privatization has established a special Task Force (Cellule de Coordination du Programme de
Privatisation, CCPP) to implement this program, which is supported by the Privatization Project (Cr.
3130-NE). A Multi-sectoral Regulatory Agency was created in October 1999 to oversee regulatory issues
in the water, electricity and telecommunication sectors. The objective of the reform is to make the sector
financially independent, viable and capable of producing sufficient quantities of potable water at least cost.
Specifically, the reform seeks to: (a) improve the technical and financial performance of the sector, with a
view to reducing operating costs; (b) introduce private sector commercial management; (c) increase water
coverage through development of production and distribution systems and quality improvements; and (d)
attain financial autonomy in the medium term to support implementation of investment programs without
resorting to Government subsidies.
A  lease contract was selected as the appropriate PSP option  The institutional and contractual
arrangements involve four participants: (a) the Government, responsible for defining sectoral policy,
managing water resources, and developing tariff policy (taking into account socio-economic constraints and
the need for financial equilibrium in the sector); (b) the Multi-sectoral Regulatory Agency, responsible for
developing a regulatory framework, monitoring water service and contractual arrangements among
stakeholders; (c) a public asset holding company, Societe de Patrimoine des Eaux du Niger (SPEN); and
(d) a private operator, Societe d 'Exploitation des Eaux du Niger (SEEN).
SPEN was created in August 2000 to take over functions related to ownership of facilities, debt service,
planning and control/supervision of rehabilitation, renewal, and extension of infrastructure. It is also
responsible for controlling the quality of water services and developing public awareness. SPEN is a
public enterprise whose relationship with the Government is governed by a concession contract under
which: (a) the management of ongoing projects is transferred from the Government to SPEN; (b) new
works are concessioned to SPEN; and (c) arrangements are specified for replacing S,PEN with the private
operator, if the former fails to achieve its objectives. In addition to the concession contract, contractual
relations between the State and SPEN are determined by a contrat-programme. SPEN is committed to a
capital works investment program required for achieving the performance objectives established for the
sub-sector.
The private operator is responsible for (a) production, transmission and distribution of potable water in
urban areas; (b) funding and implementation of an infrastructure rehabilitation and renewal program under
a specific contract (on an annual basis); and (c) implementation of some rehabilitation and extension works
funded by the asset holding company. The lease contract gives the private operator exclusive rights to
produce and distribute potable water in all urban centers of the leased area for a 10-year period. A
professional international partner must hold at least 51 percent of the shares of SEEN. The remaining
shares are held by local private investors, company staff, and the State, which holds a symbolic stake in
order to be represented on the Board of Directors. The professional international partner was selected in
December 2000. The lease contract was signed on March 20, 2001.
Payment for Government water consumption. The Government's accumulated arrears to the water utility
is a major constraint in the sustainable development of the sector. This important issue is being addressed
- 7 -



by the Government, with the support of the Bank, under the Public Finance Reform Credit. The
Government has now adopted an action plan, including a series of measures to ensure timely and regular
payment of water bills. These include measures to lessen Government consumption by reducing internal
leakage/wastage, eliminating illegal connections, and budgetary procedures changes.  SNE's private
operator will be authorized to disconnect Government customers if bills are not paid (with a few strategic
exceptions).
Tariff Policy and Financial Viability. Restoration of the sub-sector's financial equilibrium in the medium
term is a key objective of the reform, as well as a condition of successful privatization. The Government
has accordingly accepted the principle of gradually adjusting water tariffs over the next five years so that
the sub-sector can achieve financial balance by the year 2006. The first tariff increase (5 percent) occurred
in February 2000 (before the private operator's appointment) so as to avoid the perception that the reform
was the cause for the tariff increase. The Government has also committed to revising the urban water tariff
structure, taking into account demand, new social and economic realities, and the population's willingness
and capacity to pay.
Rural Water Supply
The Ministry of Hydraulics is aware of the mixed results of past investments and is willing to revise its
rural water supply and sanitation strategy. During the preparation of the Master Plan for the Development
and Management of Water Resources (financed by UNDP), the regional offices of the MRE (DDREs)
unanimously agreed on the priority to be given to the effective use of existing facilities. The Master Plan
also emphasized the need for shifting from the top-down approach to developing rural facilities by adopting
the following principles: (a) water facilities should be owned and developed by water users; (b) private
sector and NGOs should assist communities in designing and operating facilities; and (c) DDREs should
focus on implementing and monitoring national water policy.
Recent initiatives tested in the sub-sector with respect to the actual decentralization of decision making (as
opposed to a mere administrative transfer of responsibilities to the DDREs), the participation of
beneficiaries in project design and programming, as well as systematic use of national companies and
consultants, are quite innovative. Several donors contributed to this change. However, there was still a
significant gap between the innovative nature of recent projects and the traditional orientation of sectoral
guideklines, which favored technical aspects and coverage objectives, irrespective of the actual impact of
rural water facilities on beneficiaries.
Following a series of national seminars and workshops focused on generic maintenance issues and the most
innovative experiences, the Government eventually formulated and adopted in March 2001 a Policy Letter
for the rural water sub-sector (see Annex 12), which reiterates the basic principles of the Master Plan and
provides the guidelines for implementing them.
Sanitation
A strategy for Urban Environment Management is being prepared under the ongoing Bank-supported
Urban Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2957-NE). This strategy should be completed by the end
of 2001. In an effort to effectively deal with existing sanitary conditions, the strategy will include a menu
of technical options to be used in appropriate locations. The Govermnent's strategy will emphasize hygiene
education and provide adequate scope for operation and maintenance of these systems, and ways in which
payment for installation, operation and maintenance costs could be made by beneficiaries. The new
sanitation strategy will take into account coordination and allocation of responsibilities within the
- 8 -



Government and municipalities, the integration of sectoral responsibilities, and possible identification of a
lead agency.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Urban Water Supply
Appointing a private operator does not in itself guarantee the resumption of investments nor the
sustainability of the reform. The Water Sector Project aims to address this issue by establishing a
comprehensive and coherent intervention framework to (a) facilitate the execution of new institutional
arrangements; (b) ensure sub-sector viability; and (c) assist in programming and executing priority
investments that would allow a more equitable access to services.
Facilitating Contractual Arrangements. The smooth execution of contractual arrangements in the context
of a lease depends on: (a) providing a level playing field for all public parties facing an experienced private
operator; (b) ensuring adequate monitoring of execution of obligations of all parties; (c) providing
expeditious conflict resolution; and (d) executing the rehabilitation program to remove constraints to
improving operating performance. The project will assist SPEN and the Multi-sectoral regulatory agency
to build capacity in the areas of regulation, investment planning,, financial management and monitoring of
the private operator. The project will finance a rehabilitation program covering Niamey and other urban
centers. The private operator will also finance part of this program.
Restoring Financial Viability. The water sector will reach financial equilibrium when the accumulated
cash deficit (after accounting for all cash outflows of the sector, including service on old and new sector
debt, counterpart funds and self-financed investments) is reduced to zero. A financial model of the sector
was developed during project preparation. SPEN and the regulatory agency will use this model to monitor
the fnancial situation on a continuing basis and determine annual tariff adjustments necessary to bring the
sector to financial equilibrium by the target date (2006).
The financial model allows several scenarios to be analyzed using relevant factors, such as investment
amounts, debt service and amortization, technical and commercial ratios, and the applicable tariff level.
For a chosen tariff level, the tariff structure will be optimized, taking account of the ability to pay by
various categories of water users, as well as possible social and economic impacts. Amendment of the
current tariff structure will be based on results of a tariff study to be financed under the proposed project.
The project will also include practical measures to assist the GON in implementing its action plan for
reducing water consumption by public administrations.
Ensuring Equitable Development. The resumption of investments in water services should be based on a
program approach, rather than the conventional project approach (followed before the recent freeze of
capital investments). The financial model provides an upper limit for investments that are consistent with
the return to financial equilibrium, and shows the effects of socially acceptable tariff increases. Investment
priorities have been identified in relation to cost-effectiveness and their impact on coverage and quality of
service, particularly in low-income and non-served urban areas.
Specific measures to improve access to the poor include: (a) implementing a program of social water
connections; (b) increasing the number of standposts and introducing more competition in order to reduce
the price charged by standpost concessionaires; and (c) reforming the contracting system between the water
utility and concessionaires and regulating water re-sale by concessionaires to their customers.
-9-



Rural Water and Sanitation
The main issues addressed by the project are related to: (a) management of small piped systems; (b)
community participation; and (c) the lack of an integrated approach. The project will focus on (i)
promoting private operators for small piped systems; (ii) reforming the institutional and financial
framework for community participation, including water user associations; (iii) supporting demand-driven
rehabilitation and improving water services to meet actual demand; (iv) promoting marketing of on-site
sanitation; and (v) developing awareness campaigns through hygiene education in targeted rural areas. The
project will also help to establish a sustainable decentralized system to monitor the impact and use of rural
facilities.
The Government is presently preparing a policy paper on health and sanitation in rural areas, which should
be finalized and adopted by the end of 2001. The current project will help in implementing this policy in
rural areas.
Water Resource Management
The water resources elements of this project will focus on supporting institutional capacity building,
including: (a) dissemination of legislative texts as well as other important water resource management
goals, as outlined in the GON's Master Plan; and (b) capacity building in groundwater pollution
management and a "business plan approach" to project planning. These issues arose from discussions
during project preparation and have recently been confirmed by the Niger Water Resource Management
Sector Review.
Urban Sanitation
The project will address issues related to poor sanitation in periurban areas and will include households,
public and school sanitation facilities. A pilot program will provide an opportunity for verifying and
supplementing hypotheses of the new sanitation strategy regarding: (a) financial and economic aspects of
installing self-contained sanitation systems; (b) social and cultural aspects of installing community
organization and district development; (c) modalities for contracting with communities for facilities
maintenance; (d) appropriate technological options; (e) the capacity of NGOs and public and private
partners; (f) modalities for replicating and implementing the program on a wider scale; and (g)
private-sector interest. The success of the program is based on three key conditions: (i) active involvement
and participation of the communities and individual beneficiaries; (ii) a clear vision of roles among
ministerial departments, the municipality, the NGOs and beneficiaries; and (iii) simple and expeditious
procurement and disbursement procedures, with decision-making delegated to the most effective level. This
will be clarified in a specific manual of procedures for the urban sanitation pilot component.
Sanitation cannot be improved unless a global, large-scale approach is taken and unless the various sectors
of society are addressed. Children are key factors in the development of a community. Hence, the project
will also focus on developing school sanitation, including: (a) construction or rehabilitation of blocks of
toilets; (b) a health education program for children and school teachers, accompanied by recreational
activities to promote sanitation; and (c) capacity building in monitoring and evaluation.
Environmental Management
Environmental and social impacts identified under the proposed project pertain to water withdrawals and
their impacts on the surrounding environment; construction sites and activities; waste water and waste
- 10 -



disposal; temporary income loss from market gardening activities by the digging of trenches for pipes in
Niamey, and potential effects on Niamey's "ceinture verte" as more people will be attracted to new water
supplies in this area. To prevent over-exploitation of the aquifer in Gogo-Machaya, located south of
Zinder, the investment component for Zinder was redesigned during appraisal to develop water sources
north of this city.
Initial analyses of current legal and institutional frameworks and the capacity of relevant agencies indicate
that some level of support is required to ensure effective implementation of the project and the mitigation
measures. Thus, the proposed project will provide support to the Office of Environmental Assessments (
Bureau des Evaluations Environnementales et des Etudes d'impact, BEEEI) of the Ministry of
Environment (ME) to enable this agency to monitor implementation of the proposed mitigation measures
outlined in the Environmental Management Plan (EMP).
The EMP, Annex 11, (a) lists the institutions responsible for the implementation of mitigation measures
designed to address the above environmental and social impacts; (b) stipulates the costs of executing and
monitoring the EMP; and (c) indicates the timeframe for the implementation of each mitigation measure.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project comprises five components:
*  Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building: This component will be implemented by the
Ministry of Water Resources (MRE) and the Project Coordination Unit (PCU). It is mainly designed
to support and strengthen the urban water sub-sector reform and ensure successful implementation of
project components. It includes three sub-components: (a) institutional strengthening; (b) capacity
building and technical support; and (c) water resource management capacity building.
*  Urban Water Supply: This component will be implemented by SPEN and will help to increase
coverage and reliability of water supply in Niger's urban centers. The urban water component
comprises two sub-components: (a) physical works (rehabilitation and extension of water supply
networks); and (b) studies and supervision.
*  Rural Water and Sanitation: This component will be implemented by the Directorate of Inventory and
Management of Water Works (DIGOH) of the MRE. It will help increase access to water supply and
sanitation services in rural areas. It includes four sub-components: (a) rehabilitation/extension of 50
existing mini-AEPs; (b) promotion of the private sector; (c) build and implement an improved moni
toring system; and (d) sanitation, hygiene and health education.
*  Urban Sanitation (pilot program):  This component will be implemented by the Directorate of
Construction of New Water Works (DTNAEP) of the MRE and will help develop, test and implement
appropriate tools to increase sanitation coverage and improve sanitary conditions in periurban areas. It
comprises three sub-components: (a) rehabilitation and construction of individual and public latrines;
(b) school sanitation; and (c) strengthening the capacity of main stakeholders.
* Environmental Management Plan: This component will be implemented by BEEEI. It will support (a)
local environmental development program in Zinder; (b) provision for design of appropriate wastewater
disposal facilities for self-contained sanitation systems in Niamey; (c) compensation for temporary lost
- 11 -



income from market gardening activities due to the construction of pipes in Niamey; and (d) support to
BEEEI for equipment, dissemination of EA texts and monitoring the implementation of the EMP.
Componont           Sec~$*tor     Css        % o      iacn         ak
_________X_' X1' XI          Total            in
1. Institutional Capacity Building  Institutional     3.60        4.5      3.55       7.4
Development
2. Urban Water Supply             Urban Water         63.40      79.8     32.75      68.2
Supply
3. Rural water & rural sanitation  Rural Water         5.70       7.2      5.10       10.6
Supply &
Sanitation
4. Urban Sanitation                Other Water         2.10       2.6      2.00       4.2
Supply &
Sanitation
Environrnental Management Plan     Environmental       0.30       0.4      0.30       0.6
Institutions
PPF Refinancing                                        1.10       1.4      1.10       2.3
Unallocated                                            3.20       4.0      3.20       6.7
Total Project Costs                  79.40     100.0     48.00     100.0
Total Financing Required                   79.40      100.0     48.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Strengthening the Institutional and Regulatory Framework. The project will support PSP in the
delivery of urban water services and the various regulatory and institutional changes associated with this,
including:
*  the establishment and effective operation of SPEN,
*   the effective operation of the Regulatory Agency,
*   the effective implementation of the new tariff policy to restore financial equilibrium for the urban
water sub-sector by 2006,
*  the implementation of the action plan to reduce Government agencies water consumption and
ensure regular payment of water bills, and
*  the regulation of water re-sale by standpipes concessionaires in periurban areas.
Facilitating Access to Urban Water Services. The project will also support the Government policy of
facilitating access to water for disadvantaged population groups in periurban areas by providing funds to
cover part of the cost of the connection after a reasonable down payment (about 10 percent of costs) has
been made by households. This arrangement would made connections affordable to those not yet hooked up
and close to the water distribution network.
Improving Sustainability of Rural Water Services. For the rural water sector, the project will support the
Government's policy of: (a) promoting private operators' participation for small piped systems; (b)
reforming the institutional and financial framework for community participation, including water user
associations; (c) supporting demand-driven rehabilitation and improvement of water services to meet actual
demand.
- 12 -



Facilitating Access to Urban Sanitation Services. The project will also support the Government's policy
of extending sanitation services to the less affluent sections of the urban areas by promoting demand-based
sanitation services while expanding the range of on-site or community sanitation facilities.
3. Benefits and target population:
Reduced Cost of Basic Water Services. The proposed project is geared to improving access to safe
drinking water and sanitation in poor fringe areas of Niamey and other urban centers where high prices are
currently paid to alternative water service providers. For example, in Niamey, water vendors charge over
three times the official price which demonstrates people's capacity to pay for regular., safe water. Getting
water services closer to households through the social connections program to be financed by the project,
will limit reliance to water vendors. As a consequence, the financial burden of water expenses on family
budgets will be reduced or households will be able to consume more water without increasing their water
expenses.
Increased Coverage of Water Services. The project will primarily improve access to potable water by
urban residents (particularly in Niamey, Tillabery, Agadez, Zinder, and Maradi) and the availability of
water facilities in rural areas. It is estimated that the project will provide access to safe water to about
230,000 people in urban areas and will help to restore sustainable services to 125,000 people in rural
areas. The volume of available drinking water will be increased by more than 40 percent. The number of
private connections and public standpipes will be increased by 25 percent and 30 percent, respectively. By
securing the production capacity and the main distribution networks, the investment program will lay the
ground work for operations focusing on increasing service coverage through increased private connections
and public standpipes during subsequent years.
Increased Sanitation Coverage. The urban sanitation pilot program will target about 100,000 person with
35,000 direct beneficiaries. The rural sanitation sub-component will directly benefit about 40,000 people,
mostly children. The hygiene education and awareness campaign will target about 50,000 people, mostly
children and women.
Increased Capacity for Artisans, Small-scale Enterprises, Local Consulting Firms, NGOs and
Communities. The sanitation component will benefit about 100 craftsmen, artisans and small construction
businesses and 20 local consultants in urban areas, while 100 craftsmen and artisans will be trained in rural
areas. The project will also promote the emergence of NGOs and small private operators of urban
sanitation services and of rural water supply services. Women and children who are the principal users and
carriers of water, will act as change agents for improving health and living conditions. Rural community
members, including users' associations, will benefit in the long-term from an enhanced network of formal
and informal institutions that would help plan, install and provide maintenance of infrastructure facilities.
- 13 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Overview and Coordination. An inter-ministerial committee, including all ministries concemed with the
project, was created to coordinate project preparation. The project will be implemented under the auspices
of the MIRE and a detailed Manual of Procedures will be adopted for project management before credit
effectiveness. The PCU has been set up to oversee, coordinate and monitor project execution. It will report
to the MRE and coordinate project activities with other implementation agencies (SPEN, DIGOH,
DTNAEP and BEEEI). The PCU will provide regular quarterly reports covering the implementation status
of the various components, disbursement level, status of performance indicators, status of technical and
financial audits, problems that arise and solutions proposed. The PCU will also coordinate the
implementation of the Capacity-building component of the project. The main staff of the PCU comprises:
(a) a Coordinator; (b) an Accounting Officer; and (c) an Operation Officer/Procurement Specialist.
SPEN will be in charge of the implementation of the urban water component. The execution of some
investments related to tertiary densification works (private connections, standpipes and related small
extensions) will be delegated to SEEN. This will be accomplished under a specific works contract, based
on a predetermined unit price schedule awarded with the lease contract. The description of works to be
executed by the private operator, the unit prices schedule and draft contract was an integral part of bidding
documents for the SNE's privatization (see Annex 6).
DIGOH will handle the overall coordination of the rural water supply and sanitation component.
Implementation will be decentralized at the departmental level through the DDREs, which will be in charge
of: (a) contract management, including assistance to cornmunities in procurement of services, goods and
works, and supervision of contracts; (b) financial management by approving and ordering disbursements;
and (c), private-sector promotion and monitoring. Communities will serve as contracting authorities and
will contribute for 10 percent (in cash or in kind) in investments costs and co-sign rehabilitation works
contracts with contracting firms. Communities will receive technical advisory services from NGOs and
consultant firms for: (i) needs assessments; (ii) community organization (creation of water users
associations - WUAs); (iii) participatory appraisal; and (iv) community-based contracting techniques.
DIGOH will develop a general monitoring system using data and information provided by communities,
private operators of mini-AEPs, NGOs, consultant firms and DDREs.
DTNAEP will implement the urban sanitation component, in collaboration with the Office of Public
Hygiene and Health Education of the Ministry of Health (DHP/EPS). DTNAEP will select an NGO to
develop social intermediation activities, sanitary education and support services to artisans and small
businesses. Niamey's urban municipality, and especially the councils of the communes, will be involved in
project implementation and population mobilization. They will have the responsibility of developing
appropriate ways of managing communal and semi-collective facilities by private operators. A sanitation
working group (within the technical committee on water and sanitation) will be set up to promote the pilot
project among institutions, advise on objectives, approaches and activities, verify conformity with sectoral
strategies and evaluate participants' performance. The roles of DTNAEP, DHP/ESP, the municipality, the
NGOs and beneficiaries, will be detailed in a specific manual of procedures for the urban sanitation pilot
component.
BEEEI will implement the Environmental Management Plan component.
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements
Financial Management Assessment. The financial management capacity of the relevant agencies was
- 14 -



assessed during appraisal to deternine whether it was adequate to fulfill the project's needs and Bank's
requirements (as described in OP/BP 10.02). As the PCU and SPEN are newly created entities, the
assessment consisted in identifying needs to be fulfilled and defining an action plan to develop appropriate
capacity and install an adequate financial management system prior to project effectiveness.
Prior to negotiations, the following measures were taken to ensure that the PCU would be able to carry its
overall financial responsibilities and that SPEN opening financial situation would be reliable and viable: (a)
recruitment of a project accountant for the PCU; (b) preparation of a manual of administrative and
financial procedures for the project; (c) preparation of a manual of procedures for SPEN; and (d)
establishment of the opening balance sheets of SPEN. Those measures have to be complemented by
effectiveness to ensure that the PCU and SPEN have set up an adequate financial management system,
particularly by the finalization of the manuals of procedures and the installation of a computerized
management system for SPEN. The detailed action plan is provided as an appendix to Annex 6.
Financial Management Arrangements. The PCU will have overall responsibility for project financial
management. It will manage the Special Account and counterpart funds, keep the project's accounts and
report on the financial situation. SPEN will carry out the financial management of the urban water supply
component. The project's manual of administrative and financial procedures will be complemented by
manuals specific to the rural water supply and to the urban sanitation components.
Financial Reporting. The project's financial statements will comprise a statement of Source and
Application of Funds for the first financial year and cumulatively from the start of the project, and a
balance sheet. These two financial statements will be prepared annually and in accordance with
international accounting standards. In addition, agreement has been reached during negotiations to submit a
quarterly report, using the Financial Management Initiative (FinMI) model, including financial statements,
procurement/contracts schedule and output monitoring, one month after the end of each quarter. The
objective is to familiarize the project unit with periodic reporting, as required under the FinMI, so that by
the end of an 18-month interim period, reliable project management reports (PMRs) can be prepared and
eventually be used as the basis for disbursement in place of the traditional disbursement method through
SOEs. (Any decision on the eligibility to PMR-based disbursement must also be certified by a designated
procurement specialist.) To facilitate the preparation of these quarterly reports, the computerized financial
management system will be customized automatically to generate them from the reporting module.
As a public enterprise, SPEN will have to follow the West African Accounting System, commonly called
SYSCOA, under which a set of financial statements must be prepared annually, including a balance sheet
and income cash flow statements, which will provide necessary infornation on SPEN's financial situation.
SPEN will be required to submit these annual financial statements to the Bank within three months of the
end of each calendar year.
Auditing. Annual financial statements for the project (as well as for SPEN) will be audited each fiscal year
by an independent auditor and in accordance with auditing standards, acceptable to IDA. Audit reports of
reasonable scope and detail would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of the audited period.
The auditor will provide an opinion on (a) project financial statements (statement of Source and
Application of Funds, Balance Sheet); (b) statement of expenditures (SOEs); and (c) special account. A
separate audit report will be issued for SPEN's financial statements. Terms of reference and bidding
documents for selecting auditors have been approved by IDA. Selection of auditors is a condition of credit
effectiveness.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements
- 15 -



Continuous monitoring, annual reviews and a mid-term evaluation will be based on predetermined
indicators, which will measure inputs, processes, outputs and outcomes. Performance and monitoring
indicators are defined in Annex 1. The overall project monitoring and evaluation system will be guided by
the Project Design Summary and the PIM. Monitoring of project activities in a systematic fashion will be
reinforced. This effort will be complemented by the use of local consulting firms. Quarterly reports on the
progress of each project component and on the evolution of monitoring indicators would provide timely and
updated information on project implementation, highlight problem areas, recommend actions to be taken
and comment on progress in resolving issues and adopting previous recommendations. The Government
agreed to take all reasonable, remedial action (after discussion with IDA) needed for the proper execution
of the project, efficient management of the institutions, or the meeting of set performance targets. An
in-depth, mid-term review will be carried out by June 30, 2004. The review would be organized by the
PCU in collaboration with all stakeholders.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
A complete set of altematives regarding PSP options and the scope of the project was explored during
project preparation. Those alternatives are as follows:
(a) It has been decided that private sector participation in water operations is necessary to improving
efficiency and effectiveness. A lease contract, rather than a concession contract, was chosen as the means
of privatizing SNE, due to the insufficient information on current water systems, the poor state of physical
assets (large investment needs) and consequently, the high level of perceived risk in a full concession.
(b) Under the lease contract, SPEN will be responsible for capital investment. But the option of SPEN
implementing the entire investment program was examined and rejected.  Given the limited local
institutional capacity, it has been decided that part of the investment program will be implemented by the
private operator as part of its management lease contract. Works to be financed and implemented by the
private operator concerns rehabilitation of water distribution networks. Making the private operator
entirely responsible for these works will ensure that they are implemented rapidly, since they have a direct
bearing on the technical performance of the sector and consequently, on the remuneration of the private
operator. Another advantage of making the private operator responsible for rehabilitation works is to avoid
disputes which may arise between the private operator and the holding company in case of delays.
(c) The possibility of limiting this project to activities in the urban water sector was considered. However,
in Niger, more than 75 percent of the population live outside the urban areas, and in line with the Country
Assistance Strategy, a project element concerned with rural water has been included.
(d) For the rural water sector, consideration was given to only investing in the development of new
facilities. However, the Government and other donors, in the course of many ongoing investment projects,
identified problems in institutional arrangements for rural water supplies, and lack of sustainability under
the existing system. As a result, the project will focus on institutional reforms for these aspects and
rehabilitation of rural water facilities.
(e) The possibility of including in the project an urban sanitation component larger than a pilot program
was not retained for two reasons: (a) drainage investment will be considered in other programs supported
by IDA (PRIU/NIGETIP); and (b) in this same urban project, the Bank is helping the Government to
develop a new Urban Environment Development Strategy, focusing on the treatment of wastewater and
excreta. Pending finalization of this strategy, the Water Sector Project will provide funding for pilot
- 16-



actions in on-site areas, individual household sanitation, implementation and institutional issues.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
l  .    _  Latest Supervisioni
Sector Issue                        Project                   (PSR) Ratings
.________________ _  .__ ( fBank-financed proects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                       Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Need for the development of an Urban  Urban Infrastructure              U              S
Sanitation Strategy                 Rehabilitation
Private sector participation in urban    Privatization and Regulatory   S              S
water supply                        Reforrn Technical Assistance
project
Government arrears on water bills   Public Finance Reforn Credit        S              S
UlJse of water resources            Pilot Private Irrigation            S              S
Other development agencies
Decentralized approach, use of NGOs  Nigerien-Swiss Rural Water
Project
Decentralized programming and       French Cooperation Rural
selection of community-based projects; Water Project
delegation of execution responsibilities.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons learned from water sector operations with private sector participation (PSP) in West Africa and
other Bank-financed projects in Niger, have been reflected in the design of the proposed project.
Cost Recovery: The use of a detailed financial model to assess the feasibility of an investment program
and the range of appropriate annual tariff increases has been successfully tested in Senegal since 1996.
Experience also points out to the need to ensure that the tariff policy is developed, socially acceptable, and
progressively introduced as improvements are made in the quality of service (Guinea and Senegal projects).
Payment of Government Water Bills. The accumulation of Government arrears does not disappear with
the involvement of a private operator. On the contrary, lease contracts provide ample opportunities for
automatic deduction of arrears against lease payments owed to the asset holding company (Guinea, Cote
d'Ivoire). The most effective way of improving payment performance is to: (i) reduce water consumption
of public administrations; and (ii) strictly enforce coercive measures against delinquent public customers
(Senegal).
Incentives for the Private Operator. The effectiveness of a lease contract can improve significantly when
the private operator has strong financial incentives. In some cases (Guinea), the internal cost structure for
water can potentially lead to a lack of incentive for the operator to improve services (for example, to reduce
unaccounted-for-water). These lessons have been incorporated into the method of remuneration of the
private operator for technical and commercial performance in the lease contract. The lease fee will be
based on quantities of water produced multiplied by predetermined contractual target performance ratios of
- 17 -



U-F-W and bill collection (as in Senegal).
Avoiding Conflicts in the Execution of PSP Arrangements. Timely provision of planned investments in
infrastructure rehabilitation and expansion will be necessary to achieve planned operational improvements.
Where this investment is outside the control of the private operator, and where there are delays, then there
will be conflict, and performance objectives will not be met (Senegal). To reduce this risk, key areas of
rehabilitation of existing works will be the responsibility of the private operator, and funded by him. The
private operator will also manage part of the new capital investment program related to small extensions on
behalf of SPEN.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
*   The project was requested by the Government and an Inter-ministerial Committee for project
preparation was set up at an early stage of project preparation;
*   The GON is committed to a financially viable water supply sector and to revising urban water
tariffs on a regular basis. The first tariff increase occurred in February 2000;
*   The privatization of SNE was completed. The lease contract has been signed on March 20, 2001
and the Private Operator should take over before the end of May 2001;
*   The PCU has been set up and completely staffed.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
*   Comprehensive experience of the Bank in preparing similar projects in the sub-region (Guinea,
Senegal, Cape Verde, Guinea-Bissau); lessons learned from these projects have been incorporated
in the proposed project for Niger.
*   The privatization of SNE has been successfully completed with the support of the Bank; continued
Bank involvement in the sector would contribute to ensuring sustainability of institutional reform
and mitigate risk perception vis a vis the private operator.
*   The Bank's support to the Government in strengthening the legal and regulatory framework,
improving institution and capacity building, augurs well for sustainability of the management of
rural water facilities.
o   The Bank has an extensive capacity to coordinate many donors in the preparation and
implementation of sector investment programs, including reforms. Three other donors joined the
Bank during project preparation: the French Development Agency (AFD), the West African
Development Bank (BOAD) and the Chinese Cooperation.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV--US$6.2 million; ERR = 15 % (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The economic analysis of the project measures incremental improvements in the water sector by examining
the costs and benefits required to generate them. The economic analysis, provided in detail in Annex 4,
demonstrates that the overall objectives of the project, improving water distribution efficiency and
increasing access to clean water supply and sanitation services, will be achieved through the investment
program executed simultaneously to the privatization of SNE.
The analysis of the urban water supply component simulates a with and without scenario in which both
- 18-



cases are compared. The detailed calculations take into account the value of water produced, including the
stemming benefits they provide through incremental quantities and efficiency gains. More particularly, the
urban water supply component will implement 550 public standpipes and 11,200 private connections,
increase water production and distribution capacity by 11 Mm3 per year (around 43 percent of the current
production) and cleanse and rehabilitate the distribution networks. The population of the urban centers
covered by the project amounts to 1.74 million people. The ERR is estimated at 15 percent. The NPV of
the net benefits are estimated at US$6.2 million.
The economic analysis of the rural water supply and the urban sanitation components within the project,
was treated separately (see Annex 4).
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ -1.9 million; FRR = 8.1 % (see Annex 4)
Urban Water Tariff Policy: A major objective of the project is to achieve and maintain financial
equilibrium within an agreed timeframe The sector should have the capacity to meet all of its financial
obligations, including debt service payments, counterpart funds on investments, investments financed out of
its own resources, payment of all duties, taxes and suppliers. The target year for sustainable financial
equilibrium is 2006. Based on the simulations from the financial model of the urban water sub-sector, the
GON agreed to apply the following average tariff adjustments: 10 percent in 2002, 5 percent in 2004, 8.5
percent in 2005 and 8.5 percent in 2006. According to the WTP study conducted during project
preparation, these tariff increases are socially acceptable for the various categories of consumers.
Nevertheless, they will not apply to water consumed at standpipes, the users of which represent the poorest
segment of the population.
The project will support the preparation and implementation of a new tariff structure for urban water. The
overall objective of the tariff restructuring study is to propose an effective plan that would reorganize the
tariff structure, reclassify some of the customers and reevaluate the threshold and the eligibility of the
special tariff offered as a lifeline category (tranche sociale) to low-income customLers. The study is
expected to enable the GON to take a decision regarding the formulation of a new and more equitable tariff
structure, including cross-subsidy mechanisms. The tariff changes proposed by the study will be linked to
the financial model and the population willingness and capacity to pay. This linkage will enable to
determine the distribution of annual average tariff increases, among different consumers categonres.
Onlending arrangements: Funding requirements of the sector are relatively large. At the same time,
efficiency gains, such as improvement in quality of service and increase in available water would not have
yet been realized, or only partially so. In this context, particular attention needs to be given to onlending
terms and conditions to avoid placing an undue burden on customers. In order to soften the impact of
sector reform on water tariffs, IDA funds for urban water investments (US$33 million) will be passed on to
the sector (through SPEN), in the following form: (a) 60 percent as equity capital (not as grant), and (b) 40
percent as a loan on terms: 20 years including 10 years of grace, at an annual interest rate of 5.4 percent.
IDA funds financing the rural water and sanitation components would be made available to the sector in the
form of a grant.
- 19-



Counterpart Funds for the Urban Water Sub-Sector: The urban water sub-sector will no longer rely on
Government budget to provide required counterpart funds. Counterpart funding will accordingly be
provided by the sector, represented by SPEN and SEEN. The private operator will finance part of the
rehabilitation works out of his own resources in an amount at least equivalent to 10 percent of the total
IDA participation in the urban water supply investments. This amount (US$3.4 million) is considered as
meeting the IDA requirement for counterpart funding.
Cost Recovery in Rural Areas. The basic cost recovery principles are as follows:
*   Rural communities will contribute 10 percent of investments for rehabilitation works of
mini-AEPs.
*   Govemment subsidies should be subject to a ceiling, defined in terms of investment per capita.
*   Renewal and Operating costs will be fully financed by water users.
*   Communities, or operators contracted by communities, should manage funds raised at the
grassroots (community) level.
Cost recovery in Periurban Areas for Households Sanitation. The basic cost recovery principles are as
follows:
-   Communities will participate in investments in line with the level of service provided. For
individual facilities, they will be requested to contribute to at least 10 percent of costs, based on
technology options and type of works.
*   Government subsidies should be subject to a ceiling defined in terms of investment per capita.
*   Operating and maintenance costs of facilities will be financed by users.
*   The Government will finance 90 percent of investments for school sanitation facilities and public
facilities.
*   School latrines operating and maintenance costs will be supported by parents' associations and a
provision equal to 3 months will be requested before starting investments.
Fiscal Impact:
Direct Budget subsidies have been eliminated in the urban water supply subsector. Investments within the
project will be subject to taxes and duties. Urban water sales are subject to the value-added tax (VAT). A
reform of the VAT rate structure is currently being implemented in UEMOA countries (specifically
regarding the possibility to exempt certain products or services, or certain categories of consumers from
any VAT). The opportunity of use of such exemption clause for the benefit of the poor, and to the
exclusion of any other category of consumers, will be reviewed in the tariff study to be financed under the
Project.
3. Technical:
Construction methods and equipment employed in rehabilitation of rural water facilities will be appropriate
to the capacity of the local market, and suitable for long-term operation, maintenance and renewal under
the management of local communities. Sanitation technology will be appropriate for its location, and will
take into account social and cultural factors and attitudes, the need for awareness raising on related issues,
environmental constraints, cost recovery issues, and experience from within the region.
- 20 -



4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
Oversight: Ministry of Water Resources (MRE). Day-to-day Coordination: Project Coordination Unit
(PCU). Execution of Components/Activities: Rural water component: DIGOH  - MRE; Sanitation
component: DTNAEP - MRE; Urban water supply: SPEN; Environmental management plan: BEEEI - ME
4.2 Project management:
Common to the general experience in the region, and particularly in the case of Niger, specific efforts are
needed to strengthen implementation capacity of institutions involved in project management. Under the
proposed project, institutional strengthening will take place for the PCU, MRE, SPEN and BEEEI
including: (a) training of staff; (b) purchase of office equipment; and (c) studies and technical assistance of
various types such as procurement and contract management, financial management and monitoring and
regulating sector activities.
In rural areas, the main issues are related to (a) the management capacity of rural ccnmmittees and local
institutions; (b) the institutional framework of community management; and (c) the regulatory framework
for private operators. This will be addressed in an institutional strengthening program including capacity
building for communities and local institutions, and a reform of regulatory framework to promote private
sector operators and water user associations. For the urban sanitation pilot project, mains issues concern:
(a) the capacity of the implementation agency to manage and allocate funds in a diligent manner; and (b)
the capacity of the NGO to mobilize communities and organize physical works with artisans. This
component includes a capacity building program and a specific manual of procedures will be developed for
this component as part of the Project Implementation Manual (PIM).
4.3 Procurement issues:
A Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) for Niger was carried out in 1998 and found that
National procurement regulations are reasonably elaborated, satisfactory to the Bank and subject to the
following reservations: (a) the adjudication procurement method, where a maximum price is fixed, may
result in unnecessary rebidding in cases where such limits are not justified; (b) there is no requirement for
specifying the minimum qualification criteria in the bidding documents; (c) the appel d'offres avec
concours method currently used for the procurement of goods, works and services is normally relevant only
for services such as the hiring of architects; and (d) the current eligibility requirements (registration) may
preclude foreign bidders. The Niger procurement reform underway with Bank support will address the
above shortcomings identified during the CPAR.
In the meantime, to mitigate the risks for the proposed project, proper pre-requisites for the use of National
Competitive Bidding procedures (NCB) have been discussed during negotiations and reflected in the Credit
Agreement. Also based on the capacity assessment carried out during project appraisal., an action plan was
agreed to address areas where the implementing agencies need to be strengthened tc, meet performance
criteria for PMR-based disbursement. The action plan - see annex 6 - includes: (a) the hiring of a project
Officer/procurement specialist (completed); (b) procurement training sessions and technical assistance in
procurement and contract management as necessary; (c) a procurement planning and contract management
system integrated in the computerized Financial management system to be installed at the PCU; (d)
inclusion of a detailed procurement section in the PIM to be finalized before effectiveness; and (e) the
reorganization of the filing of procurement-related documents.
4.4 Financial management issues:
- 21 -



There is no Country Financial Accountability Assessment available for Niger. As mentioned above a
financial management capacity assessment was conducted during appraisal for the PCU and other
implementation agencies (SPEN, DIGOH and DTNAEP). Weaknesses have been well identified and an
action plan was agreed to address them prior to credit effectiveness (see details in annex 6).
Regarding the rural water and sanitation components, poor financial management capacity at the
community level is a risk. This risk will be mitigated through the selection of NGOs to develop social
intermediation activities, sanitary education and support services to artisans and small businesses. Specific
procedures are being developed for these components (as part of the PIM) as well as specific criteria for the
selection of local private operators who will obtain assistance under the project to enhance their
management skills.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
A consultant visited Niger twice (January/February and March 2000) to assess potential environmental and
social impacts of the proposed project. The environmental analysis (EA) is based on (a) a review of
policies and strategies of the water and sanitation sectors; (b) discussions with government representatives,
project beneficiaries, NGOs, and sector operators; and (c) field work, including land surveys, and field
visits to project areas in Niamey, Zinder, Maradi, Tibiri, and Tillabery. In April 2000, ten copies of the
draft EA report, were sent to the Government for internal discussions, and in June 2000, the content of this
report was discussed at a workshop. Comments by the Government have been included in the final EA
report dated August 2000, which has been sent to the Bank's Infoshop.
The main result of the EA was the acceptance of the recommendation to redesign the project component for
Zinder. Additional recommendations and their costs are outlined in points (ii) - (vi) below.
* Redesign of the project component for Zinder. The EA identified the potential for over exploitation
of the aquifer, which supplies Zinder from the Gogo-Machaya area, located about 20-30 km south of
the city. It has been established that demand for potable water in Zinder is about 9,000-10,000 m3/day
during the dry season, and annual average production is about 6,000 m3/day. The aquifer in
Gogo-Machaya can only supply 5,000 m3/day sustainably (7,000 m3/day maximum production). To
prevent over exploitation of the Gogo-Machaya aquifer, the investment component for Zinder was
redesigned. This component now includes the Chinese cooperation project, which will develop at the
Tegama aquifer located in Arougousa, 25 km north of Zinder. Studies have shown that, with natural
recharge, the Tegama aquifer can sustain withdrawals of 5,000 m3/day. The Gogo-Machaya well
fields will continue to supply 5,000 m3/day. Combined, these two aquifers can meet the demand for
potable water in a sustainable manner. In light of the development of water resources north of Zinder,
no rehabilitation and/or extension of production facilities are planned south of Zinder. There are plans
to improve Zinder's secondary and tertiary distribution systems.
* Local environmental development program in Zinder (US$155,000): The EA report highlighted the
extensive desertification in the area of Gogo-Machaya-Droum due to the operation of the current water
supply system built in the early 1980s. As a result, the population experienced a permanent drop in the
water level, a reduction in agricultural areas, a loss of vegetation, and desertification of the valley. To
improve the living conditions of the population in this area, the EA recommended the inclusion of a
local environmental development program, with the objective of providing new wells to restore market
gardening activities; developing agricultural activities; restoring the vegetation cover; regenerating the
biology; and reversing desertification in the area. About 10,100 inhabitants, including 640 gardeners,
- 22 -



living in eleven villages could be affected. They will be assisted by a Nigerien NGO.
*  Design of appropriate wastewater disposal facilities from self-contained sanitation systems in
Niamey (US$50,000): The EA report recommended assistance in the design of an adequate site (site de
r&eption des matieres de vidange) for excreta disposal from self-contained and semi-collective
wastewater treatment systems. The site will be chosen with the agreement and support of the
communaute urbaine of Niamey. The provision of an adequate waste disposal site for excreta is
intended to protect groundwater resources from further contamination and contribute to health
improvement. A study of the chemical and bacteriological quality of groundwater in Niamey
(conducted by the Ministere des Ressources en Eau in 1997) has shown variations in nitrate
concentration, ranging from 1.3 mg/l to 528 mg/I, and 14 out of 23 samples have s'hown nitrate values
above 50 mg/I, the limit for human consumption.
*   Compensation for temporary lost income from market gardening activities in Niamey (US$30,000):
The EA report recommended compensation for temporary income loss due to (a) the laying of the
connecting pipe between Yantala and Goudel, which will affect 10 small farmers (CFAF 300,000 per
small farmer, totaling CFAF 3,000,000); and (b) the construction of the pre-decantation basin and
laying of a new treatment line (involving 1 hectare of land, at a rate of CFAF 1,500,1m2, totaling CFAF
15,000,000). The total amount of CFAF 18,000,000 has been converted and rounded to US$30,000.
*  Support for the Bureau des Evaluations Environnementales et des Etudes d'Impact (BEEEI;
US$40,000): BEEEI will be responsible for the implementation of the Environmental Management
Plan (EMP). BEEEI was established in 1998, and the legal framework defining its organizational and
operational structures as well as administrative procedures for environmental impact assessment have
been approved by the Ministry of Environment. To fulfill its mandate, BEEEI will require sufficient
human and financial resources. To ensure effective monitoring of the EMP, the EMP includes
US$40,000 for BEEEI.
*   The EA report further recommended:
o    Periodic ground water monitoring of aquifers included in the project, and provision of
piezometric networks monitoring in the case of Zinder and Agadez;
o    Inclusion of environrmental guidelines and information on social and sanitary precautions,
including AIDS, in bidding documents for private construction contractors to address potential
negative impacts due to construction activities;
o    Requirement that contractors simultaneously address sanitation needs and public health issues in
the rural water component;
o    Periodic monitoring of the green area (ceinture verte) of Niamey to prevent further loss of
vegetation and use of the area for waste and excreta disposal, and
o    Inclusion of sludge treatment processes in detailed technical studies and in bidding documents to
avoid possible sedimentation at the intakes of Goudel, and to reduce sludge disposal in the Niger
River.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The main features of the EMP consist of (a) capacity development; (b) a monitoring plan; and (c) a
mitigation plan. The EMP addresses the issues discussed above and provides resources as appropriate.
The various measures of the EMP will be implemented by UCP, SPEN, DIGOH, DTNAEP, a local NGO,
the Ministry of Environment, and the communaute urbaine de Niamey. BEEEI will be responsible for
strengthening its capacity to monitor the EMP. The measures proposed in the EMP are adequate.
-23 -



5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: August 2000
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The stakeholders listed below were consulted throughout the screening process, the preparation of the terms
of reference, and the preparation of the EA report. These consultations were conducted in the form of
meetings with national and local officials, other stakeholders, and field visits. Initially, a draft technical
report was prepared, which was used as a basis for discussions. Prior to issuing the draft EA report, a
summary of potential negative and positive impacts was given to local authorities for review and comment.
Subsequently, ten copies of the draft EA Report were sent to the govemment for review and conmments.
Their comnments have been incorporated into the final EA report.
In Niamey, the consultant (i) met with representatives of the Ministere de I'Hydraulique, Ministere de 1'
Environnement, Ministere du Plan, Ministere des Ressources en Eau, Ministere de la Sante Conseil
National de 1 'Environnement pour le Developpement Durable, Societe du Patrimoine des Eaux du Niger
(SPEN), Centre National de Prevision Hydraulique, Direction d'Infrastructure Hydraulique (DIII),
NIGETIP, water production facilities in Goudel and Yantala, Communaute urbaine de Niamey, NGO
RENO, Nigerien NGOs ANM (Alliance Niger Nature), OPTEN-YARA, SAPTA, and CDR, Agence
Francaise de Developpement the Intemational Conservation Union (IUCN), Service Hydraulique
Rural/DIH and Service Hydrologie/DRE; and (ii) surveyed future locations of reservoirs and pipelines.
In Zinder, the consultant visited the well fields in Gogo and Machaya and met with representatives of
SPEN, the Chef de la division technique de l'unite de production d'eau sur les champs captants de Gogo
et Machaya, local farmers, the Direction Departementale de 1'Hydraulique, and the Direction
Departementale de 1'Environnement.
In Maradi, the consultant visited water supply facilities and surveyed the area affected by the connecting
pipeline between Maradi and Tibiri. He then met with SPEN representatives in Maradi, as well as the
Direction Departementale de l'Hydraulique, and the Direction Departementale de l 'Environnement.
In Tillabery, the consultant visited the water production facility and a mini-water supply station in the
village of Sarouaka. He met with the prefet, local representatives of the administrations, and the president
of the comite de gestion of Sarouaka.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
BEEEI of the Ministry of Environment will be responsible for monitoring, evaluating and reporting on the
EMP implementation. To be able to fulfill this mandate, support for capacity building and equipment have
been included in the EMP, as well as the requirement to approve the legal framework. The EA report
includes monitoring indicators which, reflect the objectives of the EMP and correspond to monitoring
responsibilities of the implementing agencies.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The project will not have any significant social adverse impact. It will bring substantial improvements to
- 24 -



the living conditions of populations, particularly in periurban and rural areas which have been deprived
from basic water and sanitation services. The demand-driven approach followed by the project should
reinforce community-based organizations. The secondary beneficiary will be the smaLl private sector who
will construct and operate WSS infrastructure and facilities. They will have increased access to the WSS
market and will benefit from technical training. The project does not entail resettlement.
In Niger, women and girls play a dominant role in household water supply and sanitation. The project will
promote the active involvement of women in project activities. Particularly, the project will ensure that
there is adequate gender representation in neighborhood committees for standpipes management in
periurban areas and in water users associations in rural areas. Improving school sanitation is a recognized
way to catalyze improvements at the neighborhood and household levels. This may play a role in
increasing school attendance by girls, which is very low in the country.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
During the preparatory phase, consultations have been organized with local communities, local and
international NGOs, local goverrnents, staff of on-going projects, government agencies and the private
sector. A stakeholders workshop launching the process of defining a strategy for improved WSS services
in periurban areas took place during the pre-appraisal mission. Demand for improved water and sanitation
services was elicited from beneficiary assessments, which were also used to validate cost recovery policies,
particularly as regards the contribution of beneficiaries to the cost of sanitation facilities.
A participatory approach was used throughout the design process, from identification to appraisal,
involving stakeholder consultations in order to: (a) review information gathered, the methodological
framework, problems and constraints identified; (b) review and assess the intermediate study results and
proposals, discuss and validate options on organizational structure and investment choices, control, and
coordination patterns, and prioritize recommendations; (c) review and adopt detailed organizational
arrangements and agree on further steps and assigned responsibilities.
According to a Willingness/Capacity to Pay Study in urban areas (conducted b, GOPA in 1998),
improvements in water and sanitation services are considered to be high priorities for which beneficiaries
are willing to contribute if appropriate payment arrangements are set and adequate technical options are
offered. The project requires beneficiary communities to contribute to capital and O&M costs in rural and
urban areas for the services they choose.
During implementation phase, the project will actively involve beneficiaries of all components. To ensure
adequate public involvement, beneficiary assessments will be conducted throughout the project
implementation. A participatory M&E process will be used to ensure that all stakeholders are involved.
Their input will be used to guide the project, so that any social issues that may arise can be addressed
quickly, in terms of availability and efficiency of water and sanitation services, impact of hygiene education
activities, performance of NGO and capacity of private operators.
In urban and periurban areas, neighborhood groups will decide on the location of new water points
(standposts), select concessionaires and monitor user charges, select the sanitation options they want and
the operator of sanitation facilities. Pupils, teachers, and parents will be involved in the implementation
and management of the school sanitation facilities In rural areas, social cohesion will be improved to
support community-based institutions, (particularly in large communities) by (a) establishing representative
water user associations; (b) improving accountability of the committees; (c) providing mechanisms for
conflict resolution; and (d) involving women in the process.
- 25 -



6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
For projects expected to receive authorization to appraise/negotiate (in principle) prior to April 30, 2000,
this section may be left blank.
N.A.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
N.A.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
N.A.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                     Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)             0 Yes C No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                     0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                      O Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                         O Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                    0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                      OYes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                               O Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 437, BP 4.37)                                 0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)      0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)           0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
An environmental assessment was carried out by the Borrower and reviewed and cleared by the Bank, and
a costed EMP with clear institutional responsibilities for the implementation of mitigation measures has
been prepared. The EMP also includes a monitoring plan with financial and institutional arrangements for
its execution.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The overall sustainability of the project is enhanced by the demonstrated commitment of the Government to
the reform of the water sector. Factors critical to the sustainability of the project will be mainly: (a) the
capacity of SPEN and the Regulatory Agency to maintain autonomy and effectiveness; (b) the ability of the
private operator to achieve expected operational and commercial improvements; (c) the application of
annual tariff increases to restore financial equilibrium for the urban water sub-sector by 2006; (d) the
population's willingness and capacity to pay for improved water and sanitation services; and (e) the
willingness of conimunities to take responsibility for delegated management of rural water facilities to local
private operators.
- 26 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Operational and commercial                  M         Expected level of commercial and operational
improvements are not achieved by the                  improvement and financial incentives to reduce
private operator as planned.                          water losses are incorporated in the lease
contract. Rehabilitation works are the
responsibility of the private operator. Regular
monitoring and review of performance against
contract obligations will be made, and remedy
taken under the lease contract.
Population's willingness to pay for         M         According to the WTP study conducted during
improved water and sanitation services                project preparation, tariff adjustments would be
does not materialize.                                 socially acceptable for the various categories of
consumers. Water tariff increases will not apply
to standpipes users representing the poorest
segment of the population.
For sanitation services., social marketing tools
will be used along with hygiene education
activities to generate demand for a menu of
options. Regular monitoring and review will be
ensured.
SPEN and Regulatory agency are unable       S         (i) Contractual arrangements between the
to maintain autonomy and effectiveness.               Government and the respective parties to the
concession contract and the lease contract, cover
this issue. This will be monitored, and remedies
applied under these contracts; (ii) Capacity
building is provided in the areas of sector
management and regulation. Project monitoring
and review will allow for action to be taken as
necessary to strengthen this.
Local population does not continue to       M         Monitoring and review of status of participation
participate in delegated management and               included in project operational, financial
operation of rural water supplies to                  management reports. Social marketing tools
private operators.                                    will be used to remedy situation at risk.
- 27 -



Annual water tariff adjustments are         M         The Letter of Sector Policy (LSP) for urban
delayed or not applied and sector financial           water evidences the Government's commitment
equilibrium is put in jeopardy                       to implement the new tariff policy. The first
tariff increase occurred in February 2000.
Tariff adjustment policy is a contractual
obligation of the GON in the DCA. The
financing arrangements (debt & equity) have
been designed to ensure that tariff adjustments
are socially acceptable.
Payment of Governnent agencies water        M         Regular payment of Government agencies water
bills are delayed, or not done                        bills is a contractual obligation in the DCA. The
Project will support a rehabilitation program to
reduce water losses in Government owned
public agencies. The GON adopted an action
plan to reduce water consumption and to ensure
timely payment of water bills for a few priority
Government institutions, which has been listed.
The private operator is allowed (under the lease
contract) to apply a cut-off policy against other
Government agencies in case of non payment.
Implementation of this policy will be reviewed
and monitored by SPEN and SEEN, and
remedial action taken, if necessary.
From Components to Outputs
Counterpart funds are not available on a    N         Counterpart funds for the urban water
timely basis as planned.                              sub-sector are provided by the private operator
which finances rehabilitation works under the
lease contract. Regular monitoring and review
of performance against the planned investment
program will be made, and remedy taken under
the lease contract.
Possible delays occur in procurement and    M         Training programs and technical assistance are
disbursement decisions, due to lack of                included in the Capacity Building component of
local capacity.                                       the project. This will be regularly monitored
and reviewed and additional support given, as
appropriate.
Local private operators are not interested  M         Information and training will be provided to
in managing small piped systems and                   potential operators. This will be regularly
sanitation facilities.                                monitored and reviewed and additional support
given as appropriate.
- 28 -



Local population is not fully involved in  M         Participatory process is assessed regularly
the development of water and sanitation              through beneficiary assessments. The project is
facilities in rural and periurban areas.             based on demand of population. Social
marketing tools will be used to remedy situation
at risk.
NGO lacks capacity to generate demand      M         Continued supervision and support to the NGO
from users and implement activities with             by DIGOH and training of NGO. This will be
artisans and the population.                         monitored and reviewed on a regular basis.
Supplementary support may be given as
necessary, or, since arrangements are made with
the NGOs ("payment by results") contractual
measures may be appliLed, or ultimately
replacement of NGO. Back-up and technical
support will be provided by the Water and
Sanitation Program, specifically from the outset
of the program implementation.
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
NA
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
v   The Lease contract between the Government and SEEN has been executed and has become
effective;
*   The SPEN Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the SPEN Equity Financing Agreement, both in form
and substance acceptable to IDA, have been executed;
*   The Project Implementation Manual and the Procedures Manual for the periurban sanitation
component, satisfactory to IDA, have been adopted;
*   The manual for financial management and accounting procedures has been adopted, and a financial
management system, satisfactory to IDA, is operational in the Project Coordination Unit (PCU);
*   An independent auditing firm, acceptable to IDA, has been selected for auditing project accounts
and SPEN financial statements.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Accounts/audits
* Borrower to have the Project accounts, the Special Account and SOE expenditures audited
annually;
*   SPEN to have its accounts, financial statements audited annually;
*   Borrower to submit quarterly reports using the FinMI model including financial statements, and
procurement/contracts schedule;
*   Borrower and SPEN to prepare annual work programs, including a proposed budget and financing
plan for the forthcoming fiscal year.
- 29 -



Financial Performance/Revenue Generation
*   As of January I of each year, the Borrower to take necessary measures to adjust its urban water
tariff to restore the urban water sector's financial equilibrium by 2006;
*   No later than January 1, 2002, the Borrower to start implementation of the action plan for
reduction of water consumption of the public administrations, and timely payment of bonded public
customers water bills;
*  No later than June 30, 2003, the Borrower to prepare and implement a new tariff structure for the
urban water sector.
Monitoring, Review and Reporting:
*   Borrower to quarterly report on the status of monitoring indicators;
*   Borrower and SPEN to report semi-annually on the progress of the Project, including feedback
from beneficiaries of periurban sanitation subprojects;
*   Borrower and SPEN to review semi-annually with IDA the procurement activities;
*   Borrower to carry out, jointly with IDA, a mid-term review of the Project, by June 2004.
Environmental Covenants:
*   Borrower to take all necessary measures to implement the Environmental Management Plan;
* Borrower to establish semi-annually, reports monitoring of groundwater tables;
*   Borrower to compensate vegetable farmers temporarily affected by rehabilitation works of the
water treatment plant of Niamey.
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
[1 1. b) Not applicable.
C1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
El 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
El 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
The detailed engineering studies including procurement documents for civil works are under preparation for
the urban water component. These studies should be completed by October 2001. Most of the preparatory
studies for the rural water and sanitation component and the urban sanitation (pilot) component, have been
completed.
- 30 -



I. Compliance with Bank Policies
N 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
C 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
4L, 0 F i.&                      LehAkObng t 
Matar Fall                         Letitia A. Obeng                   AntoinetteM.Syeh
Team Leader                        Sector Manager                     Country Director
- 31 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
NIGER: WATER SECTOR PROJECT
Poy Prfs"ancew
____________#dtapr                                  oit;oing 2 0  &* Evauation      Critical Assumptons 
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:    Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Living conditions improved  1.1. 20% increase in  Country Assistance review  Continued political and
in project areas through  coverage of WSS services in                     social stability
effective use of safe water  target project areas  ESW reports            Government remains
supplies and improved                                                     committed to private sector
sanitation facilities                                                     participation in water sector
management.
Project Development     Outcome I Impact         Project reports:         (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:              Indicators:
1. Sustainable and efficient 1.1. 230,000 new people  Periodic monitoring and    Successful long term
access to improved water   served with improved  quarterly evaluation reports outcome of the SNE
services in urban and rural  supplies in the project areas, made by the water sector   privatization process
areas.                  by 2006                  entities (the private
operator, the holding   Assessment of baseline
company and the Ministry  levels of Unaccounted
1.2 Unaccounted-for-water  of Water Resources    -for-Water made and agreed
in urban areas reduced from                       as provided for, under the
actual baseline levels in  Mid-term and           lease contract.
2000, by at least a further  implementation completion
5% by the year 2006     reviews                  Good coordination between
donors
1.3. Financial equilibrium
(operating cash flow                              Government maintains an
positive) achieved in the                         effective tariff policy
urban water sub-sector by
2006                                             Public sector and state
controlled enterprises pay
their water bills on a regular
basis
Appropriate legal and
regulatory frameworks
maintained.
- 32 -



Key Perfwmance
Hiera!   of Objectives         Indicators        Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical AssumpUons
Output from each         Output Indicators:       Project reports:         ifrom Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Extended coverage of   1.1  11,200 additional  1.1 The PCU, SPEN and   The expected operational
urban water supply services household connections to the SEEN will monitor, on a    and commercial
particularly in non-served   water distribution systems  quarterly basis, project    improvements are achieved
and low-income areas.    by 2006.                 progress and improved    by SEEN.
access to safe water in
1.2 550 additional public  urban areas covered by the  The public's willingness to
standpipes built by 2006.   project. This will be  pay for improved water
reviewed by Bank         services is confrmed.
supervision missions.
Govt. accepts to apply an
1.2 Annual reports and   effective tariff policy taking
financial statements of  into account the needs of the
SEEN & SPEN.             water sector financial
equilibrium.
1.3 Yearly audit reports.
P'ublic sector and state
controlled enterprises pay
their water service
liabilities.
2. Institutional and capacity 2.1 Establishment and  2.1 The project coordination Legal & regulatory water
building program designed  implementation of      unit and the Ministry of    sector framework
and operational, for    institutional development   Water Resources will   satisfactory and well
operation, monitoring and   and training programs on   monitor, on a quarterly  enforced.
regulation of urban sector  technical and financial  basis, the progress on the
activities.              aspects for the regulatory   institutional and capacity
agency and the holding   building program in urban
company by 2002.         areas . This will be reviewed
by Bank supervision
missions.
3. Improved basic water   3.1 Availability of water   3.1 The project coordination Continued participation of
services in rural areas.  supply facilities in rural    unit and the Ministry of    communities and local
areas covered by the project Water Resources will  private operators in
increases from 52 % to 55% monitor, on a quarterly    nmanagement and operation
by 2006.                 basis, project progress and  of rural water supplies,
improved access to safe    through WUAs.
water in rural areas covered
by the project. This will be
reviewed by Bank
supervision missions.
- 33 -



4. Institutional and capacity 4.1 At least 25 WUAs   4.1 The project coordination Continued participation of
building program for rural  established by 2004.     unit and the Ministry of    local population in
water schemes designed and                           Water Resources will      management and operation
operational               4.2 At least 25 systems   monitor, on a quarterly    of rural water supplies,
managed and operated by   basis, the progress on the   through WUAs.
private sector by 2006.   institutional and capacity
building program in rural
areas. This will be reviewed
by Bank supervision
missions.
5. Improved sanitation    5.1 At least 4,000 sanitation 5.1 Beneficiary assessments Communities willing to
services in pilot areas;  facilities                at the end of pilot phase,    effectively participate and
design and implementation  constructed/rehabilitated by and a mid-term review.  manage the households'
arrangements tested and   2006.                                                facilities.
updated and capacity built
for up-scaling at the city    5.2 Guidelines prepared for
level,                    scaling up.
- 34 -



Key Performance
l4lerarchy of Objectives       Indicators        Monitoring & Evaluation    Critcal Assumptons
Project Components      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:      (from Components to
Sub-components:         component)                                        Outputs)
The project will include the
following components:
1. Institutional Capacity   US$3.6 Million
building s                   Training & TA        Supervision missions    Private operation of urban
1.1 Institutional pp      * Tariff Studies       Quarterly Progress reports  water facilities and
1.3 Water resources mgmt.   * Financial modeling    Disbursement ratios   investments in water
* communication                                 infrastructure occur as
programmed.
US$63.4 Million
2. Urban water
* Rehabilitation works
2.1 Rehabilitation and    * Extension works      Supervision missions
renewal of water supply   *  Low income social    Quarterly Progress reports  Procurement /disbursement
networks                     connections          Disbursement ratios      decisions are not delayed
* Public standpipes    Site surveys             through lack of institutional
2.1 Extension of water                                                    capacity.
supply networks.
Appropriate tariff policy
developed.
3. Rural Water          US$ 5.7 Million
3.1 Upgrading mini-AEPs    * Rehabilitation of rural Supervision missions and   Community adoption of new
3.2 Promotion of private     water supply systems  quarterly Progress reports  institutional model for
operators                    (infrastructure)                             provision of rural water
3.3 Monitoring system     * Establishment of     Quarterly NGO reports    services.
3.4 Rural sanitation         WUAs and promotion Quarterly DIGOH
of private operators   monitoring reports    Timely community
* Community                                     contribution as committed.
participation and
mobilization                                 Private sector interest and
* Information                                   willingness to participate.
management and
establishment of a                           Counterpart funds available
decentralized                                on a timely basis as
monitoring system                            budgeted.
* Support to WCAs and
private operator
- 35 -



4. Urban Sanitation        US$2.1 Million
4.1 Household and           *  Construction and       Supervision missions       Timely community
community sanitation            rehabilitation of     site Visits                contribution as committed.
4.2 School sanitation           on-site sanitation
facilities and        Quarterly progress reports  NGOs interest and
semi-collective       Beneficiary assessments at  willingness to participate.
systems (private      end of pilot project.
latrines, shared
systems) and public
latrines
*  construction/rehabilita
-tion of school latrines
and water points
*  studies, social
intermediation: social
mobilization,
promotion of
sanitation and hygiene
education, and
technical assistance,
IEC
* capacity building:
training of artisans and
local artisans, NGOs
and small operators
and institutional
stakeholders
*  monitoring, evaluation,
learning and building
on lessons leamed
during the pilot
program.
- 36 -



5. Environmental        US$030 Million
Management Plan
Local environmental     Monitoring plan          Good coordination of
development program in    Supervision missions   activities between BEEEI
Zinder to prevent fuirther   site visits         and other implementation
desertification of the valley                    agencies.
of Gogo-Machaya-Droum   Quarterly progress reports
&
Provision for design of  BEEEI assessments at
appropriate wastewater    mid-term review and at the
disposal facilities from  end of the project.
self-contained sanitation
systems in Niamey
Compensation for
temporary lost income from
market gardening activities
due to the construction of
pipes in Niamey
Support to BEEEI for
equipment, operating
expenses, dissemination of
EA texts to enable them to
monitor implementation of
the EMP and the reporting
- 37 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
NIGER: WATER SECTOR PROJECT
By Component:
Project Component I - US$3.60 million
Institutional strengthening and Capacity Building
This component is mainly designed to support and strengthen the urban water sub-sector reform. It would
also help to ensure successful implementation of project components, including capacity building in water
resource management.
Institutional strengthening: This sub-component would support the establishment of the SPEN (the
Holding Company) and the Regulatory Agency and provide capacity building for these newly created
entities, in the areas of regulation, investment planning and implementation, financial management, cost
accounting and monitoring of the lease contract with the private operator. The project would provide: (a)
technical, advisory assistance in these areas; (b) short-and-long term training programs for the benefit of
SPEN staff, participation in specialized conferences and technical visits to other water utilities; (c)
organization of workshops to ensure that institutional reform complexities are properly understood and
accepted by all parties involved; and (d) preparation of a new tariff structure, taking account of the
financial equilibrium of the sector and the ability to pay by various categories of water users, as well as
possible social and economic impacts. The component would also support: (i) public education and demand
management campaigns to insure proper use of clean and safe water and promote basic sanitary behaviors;
(ii) creation of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and provide funding for its equipment and operating
costs.
The Capacity building and technical support sub-component would: (a) finance specific measures to
improve access of water to the poor through implementation of the social connections program, reform of
the contracting system between SNE and standpipe concessionaires, and regulation of water sales by these
concessionaires to their customers; (b) assist the GON in designing and implementing an action plan for
reducing water consumption of public administrations; and (c) improve procurement and financial
management capacities for project implementation, through training and advisory services for establishing
appropriate procurement plans and accounting system.
Water resource management capacity building: Regarding water resource management, two studies have
been launched under the PPF of the project: (a) analysis of alternative strategies for funding water resource
management activities, including increased capacity for analyzing and prioritizing proposed future water
sector investments; and (b) integrated approaches to monitoring and mitigating groundwater pollution in
shallow aquifers in small towns. The capacity building component will help to implement the results of
these studies. This support would include: (i) dissemination of legislative texts as well as other important
water resource management goals, as outlined in the GON's Master Plan; (ii) institutional capacity building
in groundwater pollution management to improve data collection and analysis; (iii) assist the GON in
developing a "business plan approach" for projects prioritization, using qualitative and quantitative
economic techniques, such as cost-benefit analysis and development indicators; and (iv), strengthen the
Department of Water Resources within the MRE to be able to collect user fees from large-scale water
consumers, in order to finance recurrent costs associated with data collection and analysis for water
resource management planning at the national level.
Project Component 2 - US$63.40 million
- 38 -



Urban Water Supply
The urban water supply component seeks to increase coverage and reliability of water supply in Niger's
urban centers. The investment program is based on technical studies conducted by the Consortium Mazard
& Guerard during the first half of 1999 under the Privatization Project. These studies have identified
short-term (five years) and medium-term (10 years) investment needs in the urban water sub-sector. The
part to be financed under the Water Sector Project is mainly concemed with short-term (five years)
investment needs.
Because of the serious backlog in investments in the urban water sector during past decades, the investment
program has focused on securing the existing infrastructure (through an extensive rehabilitation program)
and systems extensions. Rehabilitation of the existing production capacity is for urban centers a first
priority, as it would be of no use to develop and extend the distribution systems and the number of
connections if the sector would not be capable of producing the required quantity of water. The urban
water component comprises two sub-components: (a) physical works; and (b) studies and supervision.
Physical works sub-component
This sub-component includes two main categories of works: (i) rehabilitation of the water production and
distribution infrastructure, in order to optimize existing systems' response to present demand and secure
service delivery for the future; (ii) extension of urban water networks in poorly served and newly urbanized
areas to respond to the growing demand; and (iii) increasing the number of private connections and
standpipes to facilitate access (of the poorest segment of the population) to drinking water. The results of
the program will be evaluated in terms of: (a) improved service delivery; (b) the additional number of
people having access to drinking water, through either private connections or public siandpipes; and (c) the
reduction of unaccounted-for-water.
As the investment program concerns all 51 urban centers to be incorporated in the lease contract of the
private operator, works have been grouped in the following nine physical sub-components (eight major
centers) Niamey, Diffa, Tillabery, Dosso, Zinder, Maradi, Tahoua and Agadez, and one sub-component,
including 43 sectors, secondary and tertiary centers of the country. For each works category, a distinction
has been made between: (i) infrastructure related to the production of drinking water (wells, river intakes,
treatment plants and pumping stations); (ii) conveyance and main distribution systems (mains, secondary
pipelines and reservoirs); and (iii) minor distribution networks (tertiary pipelines, public and private
connections). Physical works will also include a specific sub-component to rehabilitate internal installations
of public administrations. The estimated costs for each subcomponent mentioned below are calculated free
of taxes and duties.
1. Niamey (US$21.3M)
Water consumption in Niamey represents more than half of the total national urban water consumption.
Investments in Niamey will be aimed at securing the existing production capacity through rehabilitation of
the Goudel and Yantala treatment plants. To cope with urbanization at the periphery of the city, new zones
will have to be connected to the supply system. Since much of the population increase also takes place
within existing boundaries of the city, existing networks in the "old" supply zones will have to be
rehabilitated. In some of the existing supply zones, pressure problems occur, necessitating reinforcement of
the existing pipelines. Water losses in Niamey are generally low, the total u-f-w (as it appears from SNE's
production and consumption figures) amounts to only 20 percent. It is feared, however, that once operating
pressures of the system increase, as a result of the envisaged investments, this figure could increase.
Therefore, to keep to water losses at the same low level, simultaneous investments in the transport and
- 39 -



distribution network are a prerequisite. The proposed works, planned for the city of Niamey, consists of the
following actions:
(a)  Rehabilitation of the Goudel treatment plant: upgrading it to the design capacity of 40.000 m3/d;
pumping equipment to supply zone VII;
(b)  Rehabilitation of the Yantala treatment plant: upgrading Yantala 1 to the design capacity of
20.000 m3/d;
(c)  Rehabilitation of the existing distribution network: city center and zones I and II, replacement of
9 km steel pipes (DN 63- DN 200), plateau, replacement of the pipeline along Tomlibia road,
8,8 km, DN 300, cast iron, connections between supply zones;
(d)  Extension of the Yantala treatment plant: addition of a new treatment line with a capacity of
10.000 m3/d (03-05), construction of a pre-decantation basin, connecting pipeline from Goudel
to Yantala for treated water, 3km DN 500;
(e)   Supply Niamey Zone VII: main pipeline, 9,4 km. DN 600, gravity pipelines to Bani Fondou;
(f)  Supply Niamey Zone V: Reinforcement of the crossing under the Kennedy bridge, DN 500,
connection between the treatment plant of Yantala and the Kennedy bridge;
(g)  Supply Niamey Zone VI: construction of reservoir R13, supply of Taladje from reservoirs RI 3
and R9, gravity supply of Saga from ZI, construction of reservoir RI 1, feeding line from
Yantala to RI 1, connection of R1 1 to the existing supply system;
(h)  Extension and ramification of the supply network: zones north, east and south 4,5 km2 (DN 1 1O
PVC, DN 160 PVC and DN 250 cast iron); and
(i)   Tertiary distribution system and connections: tertiary distribution system 4,5 km2, 5000 private
connections, 170 public standpipes.
2. Diffa (US$0.3M)
Diffa has a population 18,000. Water supply is obtained from two wells (F4 and F5) each with a capacity
of 25 m3/h. From the wells, the water is pumped into a reservoir with a capacity of 500 m3 from where it
is distributed into the network. Since the pumps, under present conditions, are operated almost
continuously, no spare production capacity is available. Therefore, investments have to simultaneously
focus on securing the existing capacity, creating new capacity and increasing service coverage. The
proposed urgent investment plan for Diffa consists of the following actions:
(a)  Rehabilitation of production capacity: rehabilitation of electrical installation of wells F4 and F5,
replacement of the well F5 pump;
(b)  Rehabilitation and extension of distribution system: rehabilitation of 5 km existing pipeline,
extension of distribution system;
(c)  Extension of production capacity : drilling of a new well equipped with a pump of 25 m3/h; and
(d)  Extension of the Tertiary distribution system and connections: tertiary distribution system, 150
private connections, 7 public standpipes.
3. Tillabery (US$2.6 M)
Like Niamey, the source for drinking water in Tillabery is the river Niger. The population of Tillabery is
about 12500. The existing surface water treatment plant constitutes the major water supply problem in
Tillabery. The treatment plant is in such poor condition that rehabilitation is not considered feasible; the
only solution would be construction of a new plant. The feasibility study of CEH-Sidi envisaged a plant
with a capacity of 2.500 m3/d, based on water needs in 2015. However, in the urgent investment plan, the
construction of a new treatment plant has been included, and will be constructed in two stages. The initial
capacity of the plant has been adapted to the water needs in year 2005, being 1.300 m3/d. The capacity of
the structure should, however, suit requirements for the year 2015. The proposed urgent investment plan
-40 -



for Tillabery consists of the following components:
1 . Rehabilitation of production capacity: construction of a new treatment plant with a nominal
capacity of 1300 m3/d;
2. Extension of water supply system: laying of a new main supply line from the new treatment plant
DN 200, extension of the distribution system;
3. Rehabilitation of existing water supply system; and
4. Extension of the Tertiary distribution system and connections: tertiary distribution system, 90
private connections, 4 public standpipes.
4. Dosso (US$1.2 M)
The population of Dosso is 40,000. For its water supply, the town depends on three well fields equipped
with 6 wells, of which, 4 are operational, one is not functioning as a result of filter clogging and the other is
not fitted with a pump. The capacity of the wells is sufficient to cover actual water demand, but the
pumping equipment limits its exploitation. The raw water quality is poor, and requires treatment by
aeration and lime. The water is disinfected before it is pumped into the supply system. The main problem
of Dosso's water supply is the poor development of its distribution system, which limits service coverage.
The proposed urgent investment plan for Dosso consists of the following actions:
(a)  Rehabilitation of the production capacity: rehabilitation of the valves and electrical installation
of the well fields, rehabilitation of the treatment process, replacement of pumps in wells F2 and
F5;
(b)  Rehabilitation of II km existing supply system;
(c)  Extension of the production capacity: equipment of wells F4 and F8 with pumps of 25 m3/h;
(d)  Extension of water supply system: laying of new main supply line 5 kIn, DN 150, extension of
distribution system, construction of a new elevated storage reservoir of 600 m3; and
(e)   Extension of the Tertiary distribution system  and connections: extension of the tertiary
distribution system, construction of 350 private connections and 10 public standpipes.
5. Zinder (US$9.6 M)
The town of Zinder, with a population of 142.000, does not have sufficient underground water resources,
nor is the surrounding topography favorable for storing surface water in dams to guarantee continuous,
year around water supply. As an intermediate solution, water from a semi-permanent storage dam is
pumped towards infiltration ponds from were it infiltrates into a sandy aquifer. The infiltrated water is
pumped from the Gogo and Machaya well fields located 20-30 km south of the city. After neutralization
and chlorination, the water is pumped (pumping station Gogo) to town. Zinder depends on the rainfall. The
existing production capacity (5,000 m3/day provided that the aquifer is sufficiently recharged), is
insufficient for coping with increasing water demand (10, 000 m3/day). According to technical studies
carried out by Consortium Mazard & Guerard, water demand until 2005 could be covered by optimizing
the exploitation of the Machaya and Gogo well fields; but this option was rejected during the appraisal
mission, to prevent over-exploitation of the Gogo-Machaya aquifer. The proposed investment program
mainly focused on water production and includes development of new water sources (Tegama aquifer)
located 25 km north of Zinder. Feasibility studies, done by a Chinese Cooperation, confirm that the
Tegama aquifer can produce an additional 10,000 m3/day, without any negative environmental. The
proposed urgent investment program plan for Zinder consists of the following actions:
(a)  Additional hydro-geological studies and drilling new boreholes in the Tegama aquifer;
(b)  Construction of a water conveyance system (pumping station and transmission main) from
Tegama to Zinder (25 kIn); and
-41 -



(c)  Extension of the tertiary distribution system and connections: tertiary distribution system, 700
private connections and 50 public standpipes.
6. Maradi (US$2.0 M)
The town of Maradi (population 167,000) depends on ground water pumped from 7 wells. Three other
wells are out of order. Tibiri is situated of 5 kIn from Maradi. Tibiri has its own well, but it has a very
high fluoride content, which makes it unsafe for drinking purposes. There are two solutions to solving this
problem, either look for a new well or connect Tibiri to the Maradi system. This urgent investment plan
includes a second option. The proposed urgent investment plan for Maradi consists of the following
actions:
(a)  Rehabilitation of the production capacity: installation of three pumps in wells F4, F7 and F 11;
(b)  Rehabilitation of existing water supply system: mains and secondary networks;
(c)  Extension of water supply system: extension of water the supply system, connection of Tibiri to
the system of Maradi; and
(d)  Extension of the tertiary distribution system and connections: tertiary distribution system, 1200
private connections, 50 public standpipes.
7. Tahoua(US$1.3M)
The population of Tahoua is 76,000. Tahoua receives its water from 4 wells with little or no spare
capacity. During the dry season the wells function 24 hours a day and only two-thirds of the actual water
demand is covered. The wells are up to a depth of 700 m. The pumped water has a temperature of 50
degrees C and is rather aggressive. The studies proposed to explore the feasibility of creating a new well
field east of the city in less deep aquifers. In the meantime, however, it is proposed to drill a new well in
the existing well field. The proposed urgent investment plan for Tahoua consists of the following actions:
(a)  Rehabilitation of the production capacity: verification whether well F5 can still be exploited,
rehabilitation of well F5 with well tests, and replacement of the existing pump by a new pump of
45 m3/h, rehabilitation of the valves and the electrical installation;
(b)  Extension of the production capacity: drilling of a new well of 50 m3/h, replacement of the
pump in well F2 - 45 m3/h;
(c)  Reinforcement and extension of the existing supply system: secondary networks; and
(d)  Extension of the Tertiary distribution system and connections: tertiary distribution system, 450
private connections, 25 public standpipes.
8. Agadez (US$8.2 M)
The population of the town of Agadez is 65,000. Agadez receives its water from 7 wells whose pumps are
old and have to be replaced. A 1997 BCEOM study, recommended that the existing well-field be gradually
abandoned, since the recharge of the Kori Teloua aquifer is no longer guaranteed as a result of the
decreasing precipitation. Instead, they propose to exploit the N'Tagait (Gres d'Agadez) aquifer. This new
aquifer should be exploited as from 2002, the contract for the drilling of test wells has already been
awarded. In the meantime, however, the production from the existing well field should be secured by
rehabilitating the oldest pumps. The proposed urgent investment plan for Agadez consists of the following
actions:
(a)  Rehabilitation of the production capacity: replacement of the pumps in wells F1, F2 and F3;
(b)  Extension of the production capacity: drilling and equipping (2*60m3/h) of the two first wells of
the new well field, electrification of the new well field, construction of a new pumping station of
240 m3/h, construction of a new reservoir of 1,600 m3, laying of a new main supply line 50 kmn.
-42 -



DN 350, drilling of a new well of 50 m3/h;
(c)   Extension reinforcement of the existing supply system: secondary network;
(d)   Extension of water supply system: secondary distribution network; and
(e)   Extension of the Tertiary distribution system  and connections: extension of the tertiary
distribution system, construction of 500 private connections and 20 public standpipes.
9. Other Urban Centers (US$8.2 M)
The category, "other urban centers", consists of 43 centers representing "sectors", "secondary centers" and
"tertiary centers". These centers have a total population of 550,000, representing, approximately, one third
of the total urban population served by SNE. The problems of the water supply systems in these smaller
urban centers are diverse: (i) lack of production capacity, especially during the dry season; (ii) old and used
pumps; (iii) lack of security, since many centers only use one production point and one generator; (iv)
quality of the water resources (fluor, temperature, iron, aggressivity); and (v) heavy corrosion of the supply
system and storage reservoirs as a result of bad water quality.
The objective of the urgent investment plan for these urban centers is first of all the rehabilitation and
extension of production facilities and provision of a more secure supply. Apart from this, most of the
distribution systems need rehabilitation and as well as strengthening and increasing the number of private
connections and public standpipes. The proposed urgent investment plan consists of the following actions:
(a) Rehabilitation of water production and storage facilities;
(b) Extension of water production and storage installations;
(c) Rehabilitation of existing distribution systems;
(d) Extension of distribution systems;
(e) 2,780 private connections and 220 standpipes; and
(f) Extension of tertiary distribution systems.
10. Rehabilitation of internal installations of public administrations (US$0.17M)
Water used by government departments and agencies accounted for 21 percent of total consumption in
1998 and 30 percent of sector revenues. In the past, and over the last 10 years in particular, the inability of
the public sector to pay its water bills within two or three months of billing not only caused public sector
arrears to accumulate but also pushed SNE into a major cash flow deficit. In the context of the current
reform, persistence of this type of deficit would prevent the sector from achieving financial equilibrium, a
key requirement for sector sustainability and one of the development objectives of the project. Hence, the
reform needs to include an action plan to reduce water consumption in public administrations. The
proposed sub-component is part of this action plan and consists of rehabilitation works (identification of
illegal connections, water leakages, pipe repairs), equipments (purchase of water meters) in order to reduce
water bills of public administrations.
Studies and supervision
The above mentioned sub-components includes: provision of technical advisory services to SPEN in
carrying out detailed studies, preparation of bidding documents and supervision of works planned in the
physical investrnent component.
Project Component 3 - US$ 5.70 million
Rural Water and Sanitation
The primary objective of the Rural Water and Sanitation component is to increase access to, and
-43 -



sustainability of, water supply facilities in order to improve the quality of service to the population. As
many of these facilities are either non-functioning or go unused, priority will be given to making optimum
use of existing facilities instead of creating new ones. A sector strategy paper, prepared in April 1999,
recommends providing the means to ensure rational, transparent, and sustainable management of these
facilities.
It has been agreed that the rural component will focus on small water supply systems (mini-AEP). There
are now nearly 300 such systems. A rehabilitation program, following a demand-responsive approach, is
being prepared.  Rural communities (through water users associations WUAs) will define their
rehabilitation needs as well as management options (including PSP). Those sub-projects will be screened at
the regional level and implemented by DIGOH regional offices. The component will also support the
emergence of local private operations, which would take over the technical and commercial management of
water supply facilities. Operators and water users associations performance will be closely monitored by
NGO's that would provide periodic support and facilitate exchange of experiences. The total cost of the
component is approximately US$5.6 million (total costs). It will include four sub-components:
(a) About 50 of existing mini-AEPs: This sub-component will focus on maximizing the impact of
existing mini-AEPs by rehabilitating and extending facilities and (ii), strengthening their
management, including delegation to local private operators;
(b) Promotion of the private sector: This sub-component will focus on identifying and attracting the
interest of potential operators, training operators and officials of community-based organizations,
and introducing an appropriate regulation system;
(c) Improved monitoring: This sub-component will assist GON in developing and implementing a
decentralized monitoring and support system for the facilities and management authorities, based on
a clear definition of financial management procedures and conflict resolution; and
d) Sanitation , hygiene, and health education : This sub-component focuses on rural sectors
covered by the above rehabilitation program and will encourage construction of household latrines
(training of masons and marketing) and promote sanitation and water supply programs at schools and
health centers.
These four components will provide an opportunity to assess and improve community organization
management. Another expectation of the project would be to adjust the regulatory framework,
community organization at the grassroot level, and the emergence of private operators. With respect
to donors interest in the rural area in Niger, the project provides a good opportunity to coordinate
on-going activities within the sector. Several donor, including Switzerland and Germany are
interested to take part to this component, while the French Cooperation could provide complementary
actions through the private operators promotion.
Project Component 4 - US$2.10 million
Urban Sanitation (pilot program)
The primary objective of the urban sanitation component is to develop, test and implement appropriate
tools to increase sanitation coverage and improve sanitary conditions in periurban areas of Niamey. This
pilot program is part of the urban environment strategy and prepared as part of the Urban Infrastructure
Rehabilitation Project (PRIU). The program will be implemented in zones targeted by the Water Sector
Project for water supply network extensions and rehabilitation, particularly zones 5, 6, and 7 in Niamey.
- 44 -



Neighborhoods identified along sanitary, demand and socio-organizational criteria to participate in this
pilot phase are the following: Banga Bana (V); Karadje (V); Boukoki (VII); Lazaret (VII); Taladje
Koaro (VI); The urban sanitation component is scheduled to run for 2 years.
The pilot project and the ongoing PRIU strategy will be developed in tandem to ensure that approaches
taken, zones targeted, and implementation strategies are consistent. Detailed implementation procedures
are being developed and worked out with the main stakeholders and will be available before the project
effectiveness.
The program will target a population of about 100,000 with about 35,000 direct beneficiaries. The
secondary beneficiaries include about 100 craftsmen, artisans, small construction businesses, 20 local
consultants and sanitation services operators. It includes the following sub-components: (i)
infrastructure: private latrines, shared systems and public latrines and school latrines; (ii) studies and
supervision of civil works, social intermediation: social mobilization, promotion of sanitation and
hygiene education, and technical assistance and studies; (iii) capacity building: local artisans, NGOs,
CBOs and local committees, small operators and institutional stakeholders; and (iv) building on lessons
learned during the pilot program and monitoring and evaluation.
Rehabilitation and construction of household latrines
NGOs will be recruited to perform the IEC and social intermediation activities in each neighborhoods in
close collaboration with the local sanitation committees and local CBOs. Identification of the investments
to be considered will be on a demand driven basis. The population will be encouraged to choose the type
of system for which they will be able to pay or contribute. NGOs will support this process and help
organize and facilitate the contributions to be made by each individual household. The beneficiaries will
be responsible for making the choice of the artisans, and negotiating the relevant prices as appropriate.
The cost and type of structure chosen will be reviewed by the NGOs who has the mandate to guide the
process of selection and contributions. This will be based on standard guidelines, established for each
type of technology identified. Construction activities will be supported by extended education activities
targeted for the different type of audiences involved in the process.
Rehabilitation and construction of public latrines
Through the participatory identification process, on the needs and demands of the community, the NGO
will jointly identify with the community and local CBOs, public systems that need to be rehabilitated or
rebuilt. The type of technology will be discussed with beneficiaries and the nature of work to be
realized, by artisans and private enterprises, will be defined in a contract with the Department of
Hydraulic, when the scale of work is greater than 5 million FCFA. Municipality and the communities
will be involved in the supervision and the final receipt of the project outcomes. For public latrines
specifically rehabilitated for women, they will be consulted in the choice of location and installation of
the structures.
School Sanitation
The school sanitation sub-component will take into account lessons learned from on-going projects. It
includes: (i) construction or rehabilitation of around 55 blocks of toilets, 4 to 8 cubicles each, and
necessary water outlets (branch pipes or faucets); and (ii) a health education program for children and
school teachers, accompanied by recreational activities to promote sanitation.
Strengthening the Capacity of main stakeholders
The project will finance technical and entrepreneurial training for all operators, and especially for
craftsmen, small businesses, and private operators.  Around 1,600 person/training day should be
- 45 -



organized for the small local private sector. The cost of this training is estimated at an average of 10
dollars/person/training day. Regional trips (Ouagadougou an option) will be organized for the head of
the DTNAEP and DHP/ESP municipality, in cooperation with CREPA and ONEA.
Implementation of the urban sanitation component
The pilot program will provide an opportunity in verifying and supplementing hypotheses regarding: (i)
financial and economic aspects of installing self-contained sanitation systems; (ii) community
organization and district development; (iii) modalities for contracting with communities for facilities
maintenance; (iv) appropriate technological options; (v) the capacity of NGOs and public and private
partners; (vi) modalities for replicating and implementing the program on a wider scale; and (vii)
private-sector interest. The success of the program is based on three key conditions: (a) active
involvement and participation of the communities; (b) a clear vision of roles among DTNAEP, the
municipality, the NGOs and the beneficiaries; and (c) simple and expeditious procurement and
disbursement procedures with decision-making delegated to the most effective level.
DTNAEP, in collaboration with DHP/EPS, will plan, manage, implement and coordinate component
activities and order all disbursements. A Sanitation Working Group within the Technical Committee on
Water and Sanitation will be set up before the project start to promote the pilot project among the
institutions, advise on the objectives, approaches and activities, verify conformity with sectional
strategies and evaluate performance of the actors. This Working group will include DTNAEP,
DHP-EPS a representative of the Ministry of National Education, of the CUN and of a technical agency.
DTNAEP will select an NGO to develop social intermediation activities, sanitary education and support
services to artisans and small businesses. The urban municipality of Niamey and especially the councils
of the communes will be involved in project implementation and mobilization of the population. They
will have responsibility in developing appropriate ways to manage communal and semi-collective
facilities by private operators by providing standard contracts, management arrangements and selecting
operators.
Communities and inhabitants in outlying urban districts are the primary beneficiaries of the services for
which they have indicated demand and to which they have contributed financially and/or physically.
They will designate a local project committee in charge of representing them in certain contractual
procedures, such as for community or semi-collective investments and for certain monitoring activities.
They will participate in monitoring and evaluating all activities, and more specifically, activities carried
out by districts NGOs. For individual sanitation works, households will select a trained craftsman and
negotiate price and payment arrangements for the construction or repair of the facilities in question.
They will discuss arrangements for financing their contribution with the NGO operating in the sector.
This contribution may be a financial one, or in the form of materials or labor. The project will also test
the feasibility of setting up a sanitation funds for periurban areas.
Several workshops on different related sector issues will be organized during implementation of the
project. Municipal participants will be involved in training sessions and in designing IEC activities.
The project will finance: (i) 90 percent costs of the public and school sanitary facilities, and a percentage
of costs of individual latrines and semi-collective works; (ii) all the costs involved in social
intermediation, health education, IEC, project management, evaluation and assessment, training of NGO
and CBOs (iii) all the costs involved in strengthening the capacity of small private operators and
contractors, and of institutional stakeholders; and (iv) all the costs involved in capitalization of
experience. For individual systems, beneficiaries will finance part of the investments costs in cash,
- 46 -



material and/or labor. The level of the contribution is based on the type of technology and type of work.
Guidelines to effect this will be given in the procedures manual. Users will also finance all the costs of
operating and maintaining individual and semi-collective sanitation facilities.
A participatory monitoring and evaluation system will be developed and implemented by
DNTAEP-DPH-ESP, NGOs and communities. Stakeholder workshops will be organized quarterly. A
participatory evaluation of activities and beneficiary assessment will be conducted during mid-term and
at the end of project reviews.
Project Component 5 - US$0.30 million
Environmental Management Plan
Local environmnental development program in Zinder
To improve the living conditions of the population in the Gogo-Machaya-Droum area, the proposed project
will include a local environmental development program for this area (US$165,000 - total costs). In the
course of appraisal it was noted that the Gogo-Machaya-Droum area is characterized by severe
desertification due to the operation of the current water supply system built in the earl) 1980's. As a result,
the population living in the area has experienced a permanent drop in the water level, a reduction in
agricultural areas, loss of vegetation, and desertification of the valley.
Provision for design of appropriate wastewater disposalfacilities for self-contained sanitation systems in
Niamey
The provision for the design of an adequate waste disposal site for excreta, is intended to protect
groundwater resources from further contamination and to contribute to an improvement in the health of the
population. The Environmental Management Plan (EMP) includes US$53,000 (total costs) for the design
of an appropriate site to receive excreta from self-contained and semi-collective wastewater treatment
systems. This site will be chosen with the agreement and support of the "Communaute urbaine" of Niamey
and will regroup waste in order to avoid existing nuisances due to inappropriate practices.
Compensation for lost income from market gardening activities due to the construction of pipes in
Niamey
To compensate for temporary income losses, the proposed project will provide a total of $US32,000 (total
costs). This amount will cover the temporary losses due to (a) the laying of the connecting pipe which will
affect 10 small farmers and (b) the construction of the pre-decantation reservoir and laying of a new
treatment line (involving 1 hectare of land).
Support to BEEEJ for equipment, operating expenses, dissemination of EA texts to enable them to
monitor implementation of the EMP and the reporting
BEEEI will be responsible for the implementation of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP). BEEEI
was established in 1998, and the legal framework defining its organizational and operational structures as
well as administrative procedures for environmental impact assessment have been approved by the Ministry
of Environment. To fulfill its mandate, BEEEI will require sufficient human and financial resources. To
ensure effective monitoring of the EMP, the EMP includes US$45,000 (total costs) for BEEEI.
- 47 -



Niger
Water Sector Project
Components Project Cost Summary
%      % Total
(US$ Million)           Foreign    Base
Local    Foreign     Total   Exchange   Costs
A. Institutional Strengthening & Capacity Building
1. Institutional support
a. Support to the sub-sector reform                        0.186      0.435      0.621        70         1
b. New tariff structure                                    0.022      0.052      0.074        70          -
c. Support to the connections and standpipes program       0.046      0.046      0.092        50
d. Project account audits                                  0.041      0.097      0.138        70
e. Public communications campaigns                         0.033      0.022      0.055        40          -
f Logistical support to implementation of the PCU          0.382      0.095      0.477        20         1
Subtotal Institutional support                                0.711     0.747      1.458         51        2
2. Capacity building                                          0.138     0.323      0.462         70         1
3, Water Resource Management                                  0.749     0.749      1.498         50        2
Subtotal Institutional Strengthening & Capacity Building        1.598      1.819      3.418        53         5
B. Urban Water Component
1. Niamey Production
a. Rehabilitation Treatment Plants                          1.512     3.529      5.042        70         8
b. Extension Treatment Plant                               0.366      0.853      1.218        70         2
c. Studies and supervisions (Niamey production)            0.180      0.421      0.601        70         1
Subtotal Niamey Production                                    2.058     4.803      6.861         70        10
2. Niamey Extension distribution
a. Extension distribution (new primary & secondary networks)  2.613   6.097      8.710         70       13
b. Extension existing supply network                       0.224      0.522      0.746        70         1
c. Studies & supervision                                   0.236      0.551      0.787        70         1
Subtotal Niamey Extension distribution                        3.073     7.170     10.243         70        15
3. Maradi/Diffa
a. Diffa Production                                        0.032      0.076      0.108        70          -
b. Maradi Production                                       0.022      0.051      0.072        70
c. Diffa Extension Distribution                            0.014      0.034      0.048        70          -
d. Maradi extention distribution                           0.270      0.630      0.900        70         1
e. Maradi Diffa Etudes et supervision                      0.028      0.066      0.094        70          -
Subtotal Maradi/Diffa                                         0.367      0.856      1.222        70         2
4. Tillabery
Tillabery Production                                       0.768      1.792      2.560         70        4
Tillabery etudes et supervision                            0.015      0.035      0.050        70          -
Subtotal Tillabery                                            0.783      1.827     2.610         70         4
5. Dosso/Tahoua
a. Dosso & Tahoua Production
Dosso Production                                         0.042      0.098      0.140        70         -
Tahoua production                                        0.087      0.203      0.290        70         -
Subtotal Dosso & Tahoua Production                         0.129      0.301      0.430         70        1
b. Dosso Tahoua extension distribution
Dosso extension distribution                             0.183      0.427      0.610        70         1
c. DossoTahouaetudesetsupervision                          0.032      0.075      0.107        70          -
Subtotal Dosso/Tahoua                                         0.344      0.803      1.147        70         2
6. Agadez
Agadez production                                          2.203      5.141      7.344         70       11
Agadez extension distribution                              0.043      0.101      0.144         70         -
Etudes et supervision                                      0.187      0.437      0.624        70         1
Subtotal Agadez                                               2.434      5.678     8.112         70        12
7. Zinder
a. Zinder extension production                              2.610     6.090      8.700         70        13
b. Studies and supervision                                 0.195      0.455      0.650         70        1
Subtotal inder                                                2.805      6.545     9.350         70        14
8. Other Urban Centers
Other Urban Centers Production                              1.272     2.968      4.241         70        6
Other Urban Centers Distribution                            0.377     0.879      1.255         70        2
Studies and supervision                                     0.137     0.321      0.458         70         1
Subtotal Other Urban Centers                                  1.786      4.168     5.954         70         9
-48 -



9. Rehabilitation of distribution networks
Niamey                                                   0.492     1.147     1.638        70        2
DIFFA                                                    0.023     0.054     0.077        70        -
DOSSO                                                   0.060      0.140     0.200        70
MARADI                                                   0.069     0.162     0.231        70
TILLABERY                                                0.009     0.022     0.031        70         -
TAHOUA                                                   0.058     0.135     0.192        70
AGADEZ                                                   0.018     0.043     0.062        70
OTHER URBAN CENTERS                                      0.154     0.360     0.514        70        1
Subtotal ehabilitation of distribution networks            0.883     2.061     2.945        70        4
10. Social Connections, standpipes, & tertiary extensions
Niamey                                                   0.582     1.358     1.940        71)       3
Diffa                                                    0.024     0.055     0.078        70
Tillabery                                                0.013     0.030     0.043        70
Dosso                                                    0.053     0.123     0.175        701
Zinder                                                   0.166     0.388     0.554        70        1
Maradi                                                   0.227     0.530     0.757        70        1
TAHOUA                                                   0.109     0.254     0.363        70        1
Agadez                                                   0.081     0.189     0.270        70
Other urban centers                                      0.605     1.412     2.018        70        3
Subtotal Social Connections, standpipes, & tertiary extensions  1.860  4.339   6.199        70        9
11. Rehabilitation of internal installations of public administrat  0.055  0.129  0.185     70
Subtotal Urban Water Component                              16.448    38.379    54.828        70        83
C. Hydraulique rurale & assainissement
1. Rehabilitation of 50 min AEP                            2.670     1.780     4.450        40        7
2 Latrines construction                                    0.450         -     0.450          -        I
Subtotal Hydraulique rurale & assainissement                 3.120     1.780     4.900        36         7
D. Assainisssement Urbain
1. Pilot project                                           0.924         -     0.924         -        I
2. School sanitation                                       0.736     0.184     0.920        20         1
Subtotal AssainisssementUrbain                               1.660     0.184      1.843        10        3
E. Environmental Management Plan
1. Environmental development program in Zinder             0.078     0.078     0.155        50         -
2. Design of a wastewater disposal facility in Niamey      0.015     0.035     0.050         10
3. Compensation for lost income in Niamey                  0.030         -     0.030
4. Institutional support to BEEEI                          0.040         -     0.040          -        -
Subtotal Environmental Management Plan                       0.163     0.113     0.275        41         -
F. Refinancement du PPF                                      0.330     0.770      1.100        70        2
Total BASELINE COSTS                                        23.319    43.045    66.364         65      100
Physical Contingencies                                     2.700     4.550     7.250        66        9
Price Contingencies                                        2.580     3.200     5.780        58        6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                          28.600    50.790    79.400        65      115
-49 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
NIGER: WATER SECTOR PROJECT
Local        FOreg           oa
Project; ;;' C*st .y Com:O0pon   :   L  ;;:USU$liorn   US $rnillion    US $milfion
Institutional Strengthening & Capacity Building               1.60          1.82          3.42
Urban Water                                                  16.45        38.38         54.83
Rural Water and Sanitation                                   3.12           1.78         4.90
Urban Sanitation                                              1.67          0.18          1.85
Environmental Mitigation Plan                                0.16          0.11           0.27
PPF Refinancing                                              0.33           0.77          1.10
Total Baseline Cost                                         23.33         43.04          66.37
Physical Contingencies                                      2.70          4.55           7.25
Price Contingencies                                         2.58          3.20          5.78
Total Project Costs               28.61         50.79         79.40
Total Financing Required                28.61         50.79         79.40
Loctal       Foreign        Total
Projct Co s\ 00 0 ; ;;et Byz t             S $m.................. l <ion    US $mili;;n     US $million
Goods                                                          0.14           0.19          0.33
Works                                                         18.96          37.56         56.52
Services                                                       3.60           4.45          8.05
Operating Costs                                                0.30           0.07          0.37
PPF Refinancing                                                0.33           0.77          1.10
Physical Contingencies                                         2.70           4.55          7.25
Price Contingencies                                            2.58           3.20          5.78
Total Project Costs      28.61          50.79         79.40
Total Financing Required      28.61          50.79         79.40
Identifiable taxes and duties are 9.28 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 70.12 (UJS$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 68.46%
of total project cost net of taxes.
- 50 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
NIGER: WATER SECTOR PROJECT
Introduction
1. The proposed project aims at improving production and water distribution efficiency, and increasing
access to clean water supply and sanitation services, particularly in non-served and low-income urban
areas. The project will also improve the institutional effectiveness of the public water supply utility
through (i) enhancing institutional and financial reforms, (ii) reinforcing the management capabilities of the
water institutions, (iii) revising the tariff structure. In rural areas, the project will increase sustainability of
rural water facilities, through repairing small water supply systems, constructing latrines, and enhancing
the ownership and daily operation of facilities by the private sector and local residents. The following
economic analysis focuses on the urban water supply component of the project (85 percent of total project
costs). A separate economic analysis of the rural water and sanitation component is provided as an
appendix to this annex.
2. The economic analysis examines the investment program and the efficient resource allocation of project
funds in the urban water supply sub-sector (85 percent of total project costs). The analysis simulates with
and without scenarios in which the costs and benefits of both cases are compared. The project will be
carried out parallel to a privatization process, creating a holding company (SPEN) andl a private operator
(fermier). Under the privatization program, the water sector has been reorganized and the functions of its
main stakeholders changed. The private operator will assume the responsibility for operating, distributing,
and billing the urban water supply sector in Niger for 10 years, replacing the current functions of SNE.
SPEN will assume responsibilities dealing mainly with the sector's oversight and supervision of the
investment program.
3. The project's urban water supply component corresponds to the medium term (first 5 years) priority
investment program, and is estimated at US$55.5 million. More particularly, the project will increase the
water production capacity by 11 Mm3 per year (around 42 percent of the current production), implement
11,220 private connections and 556 standpipes, and rehabilitate the water distribution network. Total
direct beneficiaries of the project consist of 1.7 million people, including residents of Niamey and
secondary and tertiary centers in which the project will operate.
Water Tariff and Water Demand
4. A tariff study will be launched during the course of the project, upon which a tariff restructuring in the
urban water supply sector will take place. At the present stage it is impossible to estimate these changes,
but it is expected that the new structure and regrouping of consumers will substantially reduce the amount
of water currently consumed by the administration (estimated at 21 percent of total quantity of water sold
in 1998). The changes envisioned will increase the equitable allocation of water in the sector, and ensure a
larger share of water supply provision to disfavored groups, assuring that consumers with private
connections pay more for the water they consume. Given the lack of information, the economic analysis
treats these changes qualitatively and their benefits should be added to the quantitative benefits calculated
by the cost benefit calculation
5. Current price distortions in the water market are quite large. The following table (4.1) provides basic
figures for Niamey (which represents around 50 percent of SNE's revenues) and portrays a frequently
observed situation in which the poorest segment of the population consumes the least (in quantity per
- 51 -



capita) and pays the most (per cubic meter). The present situation fails to achieve policy goals set for the
sector. It demonstrates the unequitable price structure existing in the market. A large portion of consumer
payments for water is not collected by the state company (SNE).  It is rather charged by the
concessionaires, who have monopolistic power, and resell the water to vendors and private consumers for a
high markup (100 and 285 percent, respectively). The consumption curve diagram below demonstrates
additional loss of revenues charged by vendors, concessionaires, and neighbors who resell water to
customers.
Table 4.1: Basic figures regarding Water Supply in Niamey, 1999
Source         Number of    Market         Ouantities      Av. Price Paid     OuantitV
Concessions    Share         Consumed        bv Consumers   Consumed per
(%I     (Km3/moith & %)  (FCFA Per m3l    Cncession
_                                            .   ,u __                              mlnHnfliL
Private connection    26.400        44         845       70          200             32.0
Public fountains      9,000          15        88       7.3          520             9.7
Vendors               18.600        31         215      17.7         910             11.6
Neighbors             3.000          5         25        2           430             9.0
Wells                 3.000          5         37        3            0              13.0
Total                 60.000        100       1211       100        n.a.            n.a.
* concession is referred to as multi-family dwellings; an average concession in Niamey was found to
consist of 10. 7 persons. Source: SNE
Niamey's Water Supply Consumption Curve
Price per M3
(FCFA)                                Vendors' margin on sales to customers
910
_    /            j  C~~~~~~~~oncessionaires' rnargin on water sales to private customers|
/      j Nei~~~ghbors' margin on water sales.|
520                                               Concessionaires' margin sale to vendors
430
270~~~~ |  SNE's revenues from sales to concessionaires 
270           10   000000G_  l                                                           I         Consumption
200                                                                                                from wells
135
Quantity
215  303  328                                1074   1120                          (000 M3)
- 52 -



6. In order to estimate welfare changes that will occur in the market upon completion of the privatization
process and the project implementation, detailed data regarding the post change situation of the various
groups is necessary. The economic analysis has tried to establish these changes, but has not been able to
construct a picture which will depict a detailed sectoral position of various types of consumer groups (such
as portrayed in the above consumption curve). It is quite certain that the official average price of water
will go up in coming years (in order to reach financial equilibrium), but the current average actual price
(including the concessionaires and vendor's margins) will go down. Under these assumptions, most of the
project's benefits will go to groups that will be able to avoid the surcharge currently paid. On the other
hand, the welfare of customers with a private connection which are currently enjoying a low rate and
receiving a heavily subsidized lifeline category rate on most of the water quantities they consume (including
a VAT exemption for the first two levels of consumption), will decline.
7. Table 4.2 substantiates the fact that the highest burden of water expenditure, in relative terms, is borne
by Niamey's poorest inhabitants. The share of water expenditure is the highest among vendor buyers and
reaches almost 10 percent of income. This situation will be addressed by the project through tariff
restructuring aiming to smooth the consumption diagram above and achieving a defacto more cohesive and
equitable (horizontal) price structure. The changes envisioned will (i) be carefully designed to make
maximum use of cross-subsidies, while using the financial model for simulations; and (ii) verify the
government's commitment and support for swift execution of the tariff study's conclusion. In addition, the
expansion of water supply connections will have a downward pressure on prices currently charged by
concessionaires and vendors, due to a reduction in the average distance water is carried to customers
(currently the average distance between a public fountain and a house in Niamey is 216 meters).
Table 4.2: Sectoral quantitative indicators by source of consumption, 1999
Total Water Consumption        32.01             9.78         11.56        8.33
per concession (M3/month)
Total Monthly Expenditure      6,402            5,084        10,519       3,585
(in FCFA)                                                      _
Monthly Income of Group       130,800           44,400       55,800       51,600
(in FCFA)                                                    _.   _
Household expenditure on        4.8              11.1         18.8         6.9
water (%)                  4_     8 _        _ _ __  _    __69____
Source: WTP studv.
8. Households without a private connection were surveyed regarding their source of water supply
preferences. The results are presented in table 4.3 below and substantiate the fact that most users want a
private connection. Owners, more than renters, would like to upgrade their water supply provision to a
private connection (55 versus 34 percent). Renters are generally less sure about thae type of solution
preferred.
- 53 -



Table 4.3 Preferences of Househokds NJot Unine a Private Cnection.
Public Fountains     24           14         18
Private Connection   34           55         45
Existing System      35           28         32
Not Sure             7            3          5
Overall               o 100       100        100
9. The overall objective of the tariff restructuring study is to propose an effective plan that would
reorganize the tariff structure, reclassify some of the customers and reevaluate the threshold and eligibility
of the special tariff offered as a lifeline category (tranche sociale) to customers with private connections.
The study is expected to enable the GON to take a decision regarding the formulation of a new and more
equitable tariff structure. The tariff changes proposed by the study will be linked to the financial model
established. This linkage will calculate distribution of proposed average tariff increases among different
consumer categories.
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
10. A quantitative analysis of costs and benefits of the urban water supply component has been
constructed and is presented below. The overall project's ERR is estimated at 15 percent. The long run
marginal cost (LRMC), as expressed in the average incremental cost (AIC), is estimated at about 0.29
US$/m3. The ERR figures have been calculated on the basis of the following benefits: (i) incremental
amount of water supplied; and (ii) cost savings, as a consequence of improving the operation of the water
distribution system.
- 54 -



N~~~~~&~. c;                            .:    -                             f 4g. 0    X2
Costs (000 US$)
Investment Costs - Base line
Niamey                                             4,208      7,742     3,192   2,755    1,533
Diffa                                                 47         93        62       58       33
Dosso                                                178       325       241      268        73
Tillabery                                            205       396         19       18       13
Zinder                                               888      1,778     2,609    1,778    1,717
Maradi                                               324       636       366      360       179
Tahoua                                               113       230       277      272       145
Agadez                                                81       135      2,700   2,700    1,884
Secondary Cities                                   1,182      1,901     1,855    1,852      959
Physical Contingencies                               605      1,108      947       842      547
Inflation Price Contingencies                       446        817       699      621       403
Total Investment Costs                            8,277    15,159    12,966   11,524    7,486
Operaton and Maintenance Costs                                                                       500       500       500       500       500       500
Incremental Reduction in Operational Costs        2,148      2,220     2,294    2,370    2,449     2,738     3,023     3,338     3,404     3,472      3,542
Benefits (000 US$)
Lower Band Value of Water Sold
Lower Band Value Without Project                   6,802      7,030     7,265    7,507    7,755     8,670     9,573    10,569    10,781    10,996    11,216
Lower Band Value With Project                      7,126      7,907     8,834    9,539   10,529    11,772    12,998    14,351    14,638    14,930    15,229
Incremental Lower Band Value                         324       877      1,569   2,032    2,775    3,102       3,425     3,781     3,857    3,934    4,013
Incremental Value from Reduction in UFW               95        105       117      126      139       146       146       146       146       146       146
Taniff Restructure Related Benefil                 1,000      1,074     1,161    1,213    1,296     1,296     1,296    1,96       1,296     1,296     1,296
NPV of Incremental Costs @12 percent             22,429
NPV of Incremental Benefits @12 Percent          28,635
NPV of Incremental Net Benefits @ 12 perce       6,206
Main Assumptions:
11.  The total cost of the project has been estimated in constant 2000 prices, including physical
contingencies but excluding taxes, interest on financing the project, and a depreciation allowance. The
direct foreign component of the project was estimated at 70 percent of total cost. The estimation of these
costs was made with reference to the following fundamental considerations:
*   The current price of foreign exchange in Niger does not reflect its true value. Even though trade
liberalization has been introduced, Niger's current trade policy still distorts the foreign exchange
market through tariffs. The equilibrium price of foreign exchange is estimated tvo have a 7 percent
premium (a detailed calculation is attached in the project files).
*   Adjusting for the shadow labor rate resulted in no change, since most of the labor to be employed
- 55 -



under the current project would have already been applied in the sector. It is estimated that the
implementation of the current project will not require a major increase in staff.
12. Capital Costs of New Production and Distribution Capacity. The project's urban water supply
component consists of an investrnent program aimed at increasing the efficiency of the network through (i)
rehabilitating distribution networks and (ii) expanding the production capacity and constructing additional
public and private connections. The table below presents the indicative prograrn. The investment costs
consist of rehabilitation and extension elements (25 and 75 percent, respectively); the physical output is
summarized below Table 4.4 (base costs).
Table 4.4: The Urban Water su  1 Investment Pro ram - Costs and Im  acts
Per                         Private  Pulic  Total
.Person  Total
Niamey           0.037   18,520  603,652         5000    170   5170            3,650,000
Diffa            0.014     280   19,386           150      7      157 _80,300
Tillabery        0.076     620  13,500             90       4     94             127,750
Dosso            0.014    1,030  42542350                 10    360              266,449
Zinder           0.055    8,360  150,407          700     50    750            3,650,000
Maradi           0.010    1,780  177,387         1200     50  1,250              405,201
Tahoua            0.012     990  81,037           450      25    475 _456,250
Agadez           0.108    7,150  69,550           500     20    520              683_750
SecondaTy Centers  0.013    7,390  567 047       2780    220   3000            1,841,912
13. Operating Costs. SNE's operating costs have been estimated based on the 1997 and 1998 figures.
These costs should be regarded with caution, as the 1996 and 1997 audits were not certified by the auditor
(disclaimer issued). The figures appearing in the cost benefit calculation were used as a last and only
resort, and even if not accurate, they give an indication on the dire economic and financial situation of the
company. The per unit operating of the company have increased significantly in the past year, as the
quantities of water sold have decreased (due to a broken main pipe). They are estimated at 250 FCFA per
m3 (without depreciation), while the current average tariff is only 200 FCFA per m3. This means that at
the current tariff level, SNE's operating costs are higher than revenues collected, by a substantial 20
percent.  The current tariff does not provide enough revenues to continue SNE's operations while
maintaining existing capacity.
14. The deficit described above is an implicit subsidy which the Govemment (as the owner of SNE) is
paying. In order to continue and produce the same amount of water, renewal costs need to be added to the
above figures. If depreciation figures were added, SNE's deficit would increase to 34 percent. Adopting or
eliminating a water subsidy in an extremely poor Sahelian country is a complex and intemal issue, which is
beyond the objective and terms of reference of this economic analysis. However, allocating and utilizing
the scarce resources in the most efficient manner, is not (given the Government's decision on the size and
composition of the subsidy). All indications show that there are expected to be large operational savings, if
and when a private operator takes over management and operation of the urban water supply sector.
Similar countries in the sub-region, operating under a private operator and considered to have water supply
systerns that are technically more expensive to operate on a per unit basis (according water experts and
engineers), are currently paying substantially less to the private operators, even in absolute terms. The
issue of subsidizing the urban water supply sector should not be confused with the call for substantially
- 56 -



improving the efficiency and technical proficiency of the sector.
15. The cost benefit calculation is based on the price the private operator offered to tlhe Govemment in
return for the lease contract, and corresponds to the price used in financial model projections. As expected,
reduction in production costs resulted as a consequence of introducing a private operator. The lease fee (Pe)
offered by the private operator is: CFA 190 per cubic meter produced. The cost benefit analysis takes into
account a reduction in operating and exploitation costs only for the quantity produced without the project,
as savings from the incremental amount of water produced can not be attributed to the introduction of a
private operator.
16. Summary of Benefts. The benefits of the urban water supply sector project are the consumer value
of the additional volume of water produced and (unquantified) health improvements induced by the project.
The project's main benefits derive from extension and rehabilitation works. The estimation of these benefits
was made with reference to the following fundamental considerations:
*   A projection of the additional demand for water and sanitation in the above areas was assessed.
These figures have taken into account major changes in the population growth rate, improved water
service ratio, and a reduction in UFW (to 20 percent by the end of the project). The total demand
for water in these areas is expected to exceed the capacity of supply and is, therefore, not
considered a constraint for production over the next 20 years.
*   The value of the water services sold would be based on the consumers willingness to pay (WTP)
study which has estimated the price people are willing to pay for improved services.
* The changes in operation, distribution, maintenance and exploitation costs under the project were
estimated based on the assumptions provided above. The underlying assumptions of changes in per
unit costs aim to take into account (a) increasing water distribution and treatment capacity
according to the project's investments in incremental production capacity appearing in the cost
benefit table below; and (b) extending and improving the quality of distribution.
17. Tariff Restructuring (Consumer Surplus) Related Benefits. As mentioned before, the project will
introduce a tariff restructuring, which will change consumer surplus in the sector. While increasing the
average price charged by SNE, the project is expected to reduce the actual price paid by customers without
a private connection (price including margin paid to concessionaires and vendors). These benefits are
difficult to estimate at this time, and will be better assessed upon completion of the tariff study and the
GON's commitment to a particular scenario. Therefore, the cost benefit calculation takes into account a
modest unit reduction of 40 FCFA per m3 on quantities not sold through private connections, as a
consequence of the tariff restructuring.
18. Health Benefits. Health benefits to be derived from the project have not been quantified. It can be
assumed that the additional clean and safe water supplied to the various unserved urban centers will have
positive health benefits. As the project does not include major investments in sanitation, and half of the
water to be supplied will be through public fountains (to which health benefits have not yet been
documented in the literature), the team has decided not to quantitatively include these benefits in the
calculation. It is quite obvious that some positive impacts can be attributed to substantially increasing total
urban water supply production capacity, and they could therefore be added qualitatively to the benefits
calculated.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
- 57 -



19. The table 4.5 below presents main parameters of the sensitivity analysis and the corresponding changes
in the IRR and NPV.
Table 4.5: Changes in the main parameters of the cost and benefits
Base Case          0                .   0.15 122,4291.                28,6351           6,206
Investment costs               I0       0.13         26,456           28,63 5           2,179
-10      0.18          18,401          28,635           10,234
Exploitation costs             10       0.12         28,732           28,635              (97)
-[o      0.18          16,126          28,635            12,509
Water Sales                             0.14         22,429           25,994            3,565
-10      0.11         22,429           21,268            (1,161)
Risks
20.  This project, as most projects in Niger, faces risks.  Main country related risks are linked to
uncertainties associated with the macroeconomic and political environment. The political risk associated
with privatizing a major utility, such as urban water supply, in a country which has gone through two
military coups in the past five years, are quite high. Any private operator bidding for a 1 0-year water lease
under these circumstances, will factor these issues in his price. He is likely to require assurances from the
Government and supporting international institutions to ensure that his rights, as spelled out in the
contracts, would be respected.
21. The unstable macroeconomic situation of the country, innately related to the political situation, is an
additional risk for swift and successful implementation of the project and privatization process. The
macroeconomic situation will have an impact on consumer demand for urban water supply and the private
operator's interest in the lease contract. However, the correlation between the demand risk for water and
the country's macroeconomic situation is relatively low. Water is a basic necessity and, unlike many other
goods and commodities, it is not exposed to severe demand fluctuations as a consequence of
macroeconomic and political changes.
Forecasting and Risk Analysis
22. A quantitative risk analysis was carried out to assess the impact of the project's economic returns from
uncertainty in underlying assumptions and predictions. The primary risks affecting the projects' economic
outcome and probability distribution were defined based on sessions with the project team, drawing on
technical, financial, and economic expertise. In order to forecast cost benefit calculations presented in the
above economic analysis, a simulation, which includes a range of possible scenarios, has been performed
. To construct such a simulation, we used a forecasting and risk analysis software (Crystal Ball) that
performs a Monte Carlo risk analysis, in which a set of possible values for each uncertain parameter is
defined.
23. The simulation recalculates the main assumptions used in constructing the cost-benefit analysis. The
set of assumption parameters which has been used in the following simulation is: (i) investment costs -
normal distribution with a 3 percent standard deviation; (ii) operational costs - normal distribution with a 6
- 58 -



percent standard deviation; (iii) the tariff restructure related benefits - normal distribution with a 4 percent
standard deviation; and (iv) UFW achieved - normal distribution with a 1 percent standard deviation. Two
of the above parameters correlated. The model assumes a negative correlation of -0.75 between operational
costs and the UFW (this is logical and corresponds to field experience in which an increase in the
operational costs usually reduces losses and UFW).
24. The forecast parameters are the internal rate of return (IRR) and the Net Present Value (NPV) of the
investments. The two graphs below present the results of a thousand simulations of the cost benefit
calculation. They present the entire range of possible outcomes and the likelihood of achieving each of the
forecast parameters. According to the forecasting model, there is a 50 percent probabilily that the IRR will
be 15 percent or higher, and a 90 percent probability that it will be higher than 14 percent. The frequency
and probability with which the IRR will occur are presented in a cumulative chart. A similar test was run
on the second forecast variable, the NPV. There is a 50 percent probability that the NPV will be larger
than US$5,8 million, and a 90 percent probability that the NPV will be larger than US$3.8 million.
Forecast: IRR Forecast
1,000 Trials           Cumulative Chart            15 Outliers
.750                      ..ld750
50                       2500 20
M. .250 -------  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~20 
.000  -------0
0.13      014        0.15      0.17       0 18
Certainty is 50. 10% from 0 15 to +Infinity Percentage
Forecast: NPV of net Benefits
1,000 Trials           Cumulative Chart             5 Outliers
I 000- i1000
7 500                      "                     750
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
t 250                .f|iill     | 1      1    1       t
X000 ,...... . S|iilglll_20 
1,000     3,500      6,000     8,500     11,000
Certainty is 49 90% from 5,867 to +Infinity US$ million
25. In addition to calculating the probabilities with which the IRR and NPV will occur, the Monte Carlo
simulations also calculate the relative influence of each of the four independent variables on changes of the
dependent variables. The table below demonstrates that each 1 percent change in the IRR can be attributed
relatively to: cost overruns (0.39 percent), operating costs (0.37 percent), tariff restructure related benefits
(0.22 percent), and UFW changes (0.02 percent).
- 59 -



Sensitivity Chart
Target Forecast: IRR Forecast
Cost Oowns                                         39.2%
Oprabon Costs                                      38 8%
UFW Rsk Vable                                      222%
Tasff Resiotre                                     1.6%
UFW                                                 02%
* Co,related assufpbonl                                   0%           2f% 5Y0                      75%,          100%
Measurd by Cobbutisn ID Vce
- 60 -



Appendix
Economic Costs and Benefits Associated with the Rural Water Supply & Sanitation Component
1. The cost of the rural water supply component of the project is estimated at US$5.7 million (including
price and physical contingencies of US$0.3 and US$0.4 million, respectively). The component consists of
the following two sub-components: (i) construction and/or rehabilitation of 50 mini water supply systems
(WSS) - a total cost of US$5.2 million; and (ii) construction of latrines - at a total cost of US$0.5 million.
2. Most works will restructure existing small rural water supply systems (WSS), 35 percent of which are
currently not functioning, through a demand responsive approach. Each system will serve around
2,000-3000 people and provide an average yearly output of 10-12 liters per person per day. The economic
analysis will perform a cost benefit calculation, which will examine the viability of both scenarios: (i)
constructing a new single system; and (ii) rehabilitating old WS systems, which are run down and in need
of partial or total rehabilitation. A recent study Oumarou, Mansir, and Mahamadou - Diagnostic
participatif des mini-adductions d 'eau potable, March 2000, completed under the project, examined some
of the water supply systems to be rehabilitated under the project, and provided an overview of the modes of
operation, and reasons and constraints for the system's less than optional operation.
3. The calculations presented below are quantitatively accounting for benefits which are tangible and
expressed through actual payments for the water supply service provided.
4. Construction of new WSS: It is assumed that each WSS will provide 10,000 m3 per year serving about
2500 people. With (i) an average capital investment of US$70,000; (ii) operation and maintenance (O&M)
costs equivalent to 2.5 percent of the capital investment; and (iii) commercial costs of operation (salaries of
system operators) equivalent to 25 percent of revenues - the break-even price per m3 is equivalent to
US$0.90 per m3. This price per m3 is high for WS systems with private connections, but is considered
slightly above the average price for WSS which sell water through public connections and, therefore, in
small quantities. The study mentions the variability of current water prices supplied by rzral water supply
in Niger. The estimated price range varies between 250-805 FCFA, the equivalent of US$0.35-1.15 per
m3 . The table below presents the IRR and changes in benefits as a consequence of changes in the price
per m3. It is obvious that the return on these types of investments is marginal.
Table 4.6: Cost benefit calculation of Construction of new WSS (in 2000 prices)
SS cents                   3%    (77,792)    48,240   (951
3S cents                  -4%    (77,792)    30,698    (47,093)
65Scents                   6%    (77,792)    57,011    (20,781)
75 cents                   9%    (77,792)    65,782    (12,010)
85 cents                   11%   (77,792)    74,553    (3,239)
95 cents                   13%    (77,792)    83,324    5,532
5.  Rehabilitation of existing WSS:  It was assumed that each rehabilitated WSS will provide an
incremental amount of about 8,000 m3 per year (80 percent of the total production mentioned above)
serving about 2,500 people. It was also assumed that the capital cost of rehabilitating WSS will be around
- 61 -



US$20,000. With (i) an average capital investment of US$20,000; (ii) Operation and Maintenance (O&M)
costs equivalent to 2.5 percent of the capital investment; and (iii) commercial costs of operation equivalent
to 25 percent of revenues (the break-even price per m3 is equivalent to 35 cents per m3). The table below
demonstrates the IRR and changes in benefits as a consequence of changes in the price per m3. The IRR of
the rehabilitation of the existing WSS is much larger than the construction of new ones. The policy
implication, will favor the rehabilitation of WSS, whenever possible, prior to constructing new systems.
Table 4.7: Cost benefit calculation of rehabilitating existing WSS (in 200 prices)
55 cents                    17%    (33,149)    38,592 . ,4
45 cents                     3%    (33,149)    24,559     (8,590)
35 cents                    11%    (33,149)    31,576    (1,573)
65 cents                    23%    (33,149)    45,609     12,460
75 cents                    30%    (33,149)    52,626     19,477
6. Qualitative benefits: The cost benefit calculations presented above do not take into account all of the
benefits generated by the component. Rehabilitation of the WSS will establish a new framework that will
change and improve the operation, maintenance, and management of WSS in Niger. The activities will
promote local private sector operators and community based initiatives, to gradually take over the
management and maintenance of the established small WSS This is expected to increase ownership,
develop improved technical capacities in the sector, and have multiplier effects, as most WSS repair and
maintenance fees will stay at the local govemment/community level. On the customers' side, the
component will encourage communities to get organized and be make involved in managing their systems.
The economic benefits of the component should, therefore, be seen in a larger context than the 50 water
supply systems it will repair. Physical investments will test the proposed institutional framework, while
serving as an assessment, and enable duplication of the mechanism, if successful, for the entire rural water
sector in Niger.
7. Additional benefits, which have not been taken into account, include: (i) time savings; (ii) consumer
surplus benefits; and (iii) health benefits. Time savings will occur in that people will spend less time in
fetching water, due to an improved water supply system. Consumer surplus benefits relate to incremental
quantities of water produced by the project. Health benefits from drinking potable water are extremely
difficult to prove. However, it can be assumed that some health related benefits will materialize, especially
in rural areas in which people currently have very little access to safe drinking water.
8. Latrines Construction: The rural sanitation sub-component size is quite small. It will encourage the
construction of 15 public and 170 school and health center latrines in rural areas, serving an estimated total
of 20,000 people. Health education and awareness and private sector promotion (of Ilocal contractors) is an
integral part of the component. As explained above, this exercise should rather be seen as a pilot phase to
test the rural latrine demand for the entire country.
- 62 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
NIGER: WATER SECTOR PROJECT
Years Ending
December 31
Year 1     Year2   | Year3        Year4       Year5      Year6      Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs             9.2        14.7       26.1        15.6        13.8        0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs               0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs            9.2        14.7        26.1       15.6        13.8        0.0        0.0
Total Financing                 9.2       14.7        26.1       15.6        13.8        0.0        0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                     6.2         8.6       15.3         9.1        8,.8       0.0        0.0
Government                   1.4         1.7        3.0         1.8        1.5        0.0        0.0
Central                  0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
Provincial               0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
Co-financiers                1.6        4.3         7.7         4.6        3.5        0.0        0.0
Beneficiaries                0.0        0.1         0.1         0.1        0.0        0.0        0.0
Others
Total Project Financing        9.2       14.7        26.1        15.6       13.8       0.0         0.0
Main assumptions:
Achieving sector financial equilibrium
1. Establishing conditions for sector sustainability is one of the development objectives of this project. A
key requirement for sustainability is a financial management system that gives the sector financial
autonomy as a means to attain financial equilibrium. Financial equilibrium means capacity of the sector to
meet its financial obligations, including payment on due date of commercial debt (settlernent with suppliers)
and financial debt (reimbursement of principal and payment of interest charges on government subloans
from the proceeds of the IDA credit, credits from other donors, direct loans from donors or commercial
banks, and payment of taxes).
2. For financial management purposes, the urban water supply sector is constituted of sector assets and
liabilities and of revenues and expenditures, which may be public or private. Only a small proportion of
sector assets belongs to and be financed by the private operator. These assets ccnsist essentially of
operating equipment.  The majority of the sector assets forms part of the assets assigned to the
asset-holding company. Project investments will also form part of the assets assigned to SPEN, including
US$3.4 million in investments to be financed by the private operator under the lease contract. The bulk of
sector financial obligations to third-party creditors will consist of servicing of project investment loans and
will be taken over by SPEN. Sector revenues consist largely of the proceeds of water sales collected by the
private operator. The private operator is contractually obliged to channel all such revenues back to SPEN,
except for a fixed fee per m3 of water produced, the Pe price. The Pe price is intended to cover the private
operator's: (a) operating costs (fuel, power, spare parts and miscellaneous supplies, payroll, depreciation
of own operating equipment, and amortization of project investments); (b) working capital needs; and (c)
- 63 -



remuneration on own capital invested and debt-servicing. As a result of the competitive bidding process,
the Pe price which has been requested by the winning bidder is 190 FCFA per cubic meter. SPEN's
revenues' equation is therefore as follows:
SPEN revenues = Concession fee = [Sector revenues] - [Pe price x vol. (m3) of water produced x
contractual performance ratios].
3. Sector application of funds will equal the sum of the private operator's plus SPEN's. The private
operator's application of funds will be fully covered by the revenue it receives, which is based on quantities
of water produced multiplied by contractual target performance ratios. SPEN's application will consist
essentially of its: (a) operating expenses; (b) self-funded investments (generally a small amount); (c)
repayment of principal plus interest charges on new loans negotiated; and (d) net working capital
requirements. If SPEN revenues are at least equal to its application of funds, SPEN will show a positive
cash flow and the sector will be in financial equilibrium in current terms.
4. According to the financial simulations validated during negotiations and including a Pe of 190 FCFA as
offered by the private operator of SNE, the sector will be in sustainable financial equilibrium by 2006,
provided that the average tariff of water is increased by about 5.5 percent each year until 2006 and by 2
percent (assumed rate of local inflation), thereafter. During Negotiations, the GON and IDA agreed on the
following scenario of tariff adjustments implementation: 10 percent in 2002, 5 percent in 2004, 8.5 in 2005
and 8.5 percent in 2006. In this scenario, financial projections show that the cumulative cash balance of
the sector will decrease until December 31, 2004 and will increase steadily thereafter. SPEN's current and
cumulative cash surplus or deficit will be an indicator of project performance. Projected annual increases
in the average water tariff, together with the annual and cumulative cash flow surplus or deficits, are shown
in Table 1 below.
Table 1 - Tariff Increase and Cash surplus
2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009       2010
Increase average tariff(%)    0,00%  10,0%   0,0%   5,0%   8,5%   8,5%   2,0%   2,0%   2,0%    2,0%
Average tariff (CFAF/m3)     198    214    210    218    234    252    257    263    268         273
Annual cash surplus          85    280    -61   -133       83    514    373    446    523       595
Cumulativesurplus             85    365    304    171    254    768  1,141  1,587  2,111       2,706
5. The main assumptions underlying the sector financial projections are provided below. As part of the
financial management of the sector, financial projections will be updated by SPEN at least once a year
(October, 31) and the annual increase in the average water tariff required to maintain the sector in financial
equilibrium throughout the period will be recalculated on the basis of these updated projections. The annual
update of financial projections and recalculation of required tariff increases will be audited by an
independent auditor and submitted to the Bank for non-objection. Accordingly, actual tariff adjustments
required to maintain sector financial equilibrium by 2006 may vary year, after year as estimates are
progressively replaced by actual amounts as years go by, and financial projections of the sector are updated
accordingly.
6. Any change in certain key parameters will affect the required annual increase in average water tariff. A
sensitivity analysis has been conducted on the effect of a change in the assumptions on the final price Pe
(representing most of the operating costs of the sector), the total investment costs and water revenues. The
results of this analysis are shown in Table 2 below:
Table 2 - Sensitivity analysis of average tariff increase
- 64 -



Changes from base case  Average tariff increase req1uired
N%)               2005-2006
Base case                                        8.5 %
Annual adjustment ofPe price  +05 %             11.1 %
-0.5%                6.2%
Investments costs           + 10 %               9.5 %
-10%                 7.6%
Water Revenues              + 10 %               7.3 %
- 1 0 %             10.1 %
The above figures show that, among the three key parameters on which the sensitivity analysis has been
conducted, the annual review of the Pe price have the largest impact on the required increase in the average
water tariff.
Financial rate of return on investments and sensitivity analysis on the financial IRR
7. Based on total investment costs of US$63.4 million (including physical and price contingencies), and
revenues resulting from (i) water sales; (ii) incremental revenues from reduction in unaccounted-for-water
as a consequence of the project; and (iii) incremental savings from a lower Pe price, that is operational cost
savings, the annual financial internal rate of return (FRR) on investments has been calculated at 8.1
percent. The results of the sensitivity analysis on the FRR of 10 percent changes (upward and downward)
in key parameters are shown in Table 3 below.
Table 3 - Sensitivity analysis of Financial IRR
Changes          IRR         NPV of Net Cash Flows
(%}   %     (MFCFA, at 10%'
Base case                               8.1 %          (1,278)
Annual adjustment of Pe  +0.5 %         4.6 %          (3,443)
price
-0.5 %          10.4%             284
tnvestments costs      +10%             5.6%           (3,616)
- 10 %         11.8 %             928
Water Revenues         + 10 %           9.5 %           (308)
- 10 %          6.4 %          (2,463)
8. The financial rate of return (FRR) is significantly lower than the economic rate of return (ERR), which
yielded 15 percent (base case), the reason being that the FRR (i) does not incorporate savings derived from
the consumer surplus; and (ii) includes all contingencies in its calculation. The FRR is very sensitive to
changes in operating costs (Pe price), as shown by the fact that the FRR drops to only 5 percent when the
annual review of Pe price increase to 2 percent. The base case scenario assumes a Pe adjustment of 1.5
percent per year (due to price contingencies). This is consistent with the results of the sensitivity analysis
conducted on the required increase in the average water tariff.
Investments under the project
9. Investments under the project (total costs - million CFAF ) are shown in Table 4 below.
Table 4 - Investment plan (million CFAF)
-65 -



2002      2003      2004       2005      2006      Total
Total investment                3,941      8,052    14,399     8,407      6,441    41,239
Percentage of total              10%       20%        35%       20%        16%      100%
Of wich by private operator       213       436        780       456       350      2,235
Sources and terms of financing
10. The investments under the project will be financed by donors participating in the project as follows
(million CFAF) as shown in Table 5 below.
Table 5 - Sources of financing
2002      2003      2004       2005      2006      Total
IDA                       2,087     4,263     7,620      4,447     3,407    21,824
AFD                        435        889     1,593       931        714      4,561
BOAD                       629      1,285     2,299      1,342     1,028      6,584
Government of Niger        577      1,179     2,107      1,230       942      6,035
Private operator           213        436       780       456        350      2,235
Total PSE                 3,941     8,052    14,399      8,407     6,441    41,239
The terms of financing (or in the case of IDA and AFD, on-lending conditions by the State to SPEN the
asset-holding company) are detailed in the Table 6 below:
Table 6 - Terms of financing
Amount Interest rate (%)  Grace period   Total life (years} Loan Ecquitv canital
(years)
IDA (on-lending)  21,824      5.40%            10             20        40%       60%
AFD (on-lending)   4,561      0.00%           n.a.            n.a.       0%      100%
BOAD               6,584      3.75%            10             25        100%      0%
Government of Niqer  6,035    0.00%           n.a.           n.a.        0%      100%
Private Operator  2,235       0,00%           n.a.           n.a.        0%      100%
Total PSE         41,239
11. The proceeds of the IDA credit will be on-lent to the sector, represented by SPEN, partly in the form
of a long-term loan and partly as contribution to equity capital. In order to maintain the balanced,
conservative structure of SPEN's balance sheet, and also to limit the sector's interest expense burden and
its impact on consumers through higher water tariffs, it has been agreed that 60 percent of the proceeds of
the IDA credit be on-lent in the form of a capital increase in cash, and that the remaining 40 percent take
the form of a long-term loan on the following terms: 20 years duration, 10 years grace and 5.4 percent
interest per annumn.
Tariff structure
12. A discussion on the weaknesses of the current tariff structure, and in particular the price distortions it
incorporates, is included in the economic analysis (Annex 4). A tariff study (now in preparation) aims at
designing an equitable, realistic, and socially acceptable tariff structure that the poorest group of
consumers will find affordable. The new tariff structure will incorporate an element of cross-subsidization
-66 -



between the most affluent and the poorest groups of consumers. However, the new structure is not intended
to affect the average price of water sold, which is the key parameter in sector financial equilibrium. The
average price of water sold in a given year is defined as that year's total water billings, in FCFA francs,
divided by the volume billed.
Technical, commercial and operating efficiency
13. Increasing efficiency in the operation of the sector is one of the main objectives of the proposed reform.
Through the revenue calculation formula, briefly described earlier in this annex, the piivate operator will
have a direct incentive in achieving the contractual objectives for increasing the efficiency of the sector in
terns of unaccounted-for-water (technical losses) and commercial losses (losses on bills which cannot be
collected). The objectives of technical efficiency and commercial are set forth in Table 7 below:
Table 7 - Technical et commercial efficiency
2001      2002      2003      2004      2005      2006   Beyond
Technical efficiency      80.00%    81.00%    82.00%    83.00%    84.00%    85.00%    85.00%
Commercial efficiency     95.00%    95.50%    98.00%    98.00%    98.00%    98.00%    98.00%
Global efficiency         76.00%    77.40%    80.40%    81.30%    82.30%    83.30%    83.30%
14. It has been assumed that the average amount of receivables on the administration would be equal to 4
months of billing (see below for a discussion on the measures which will be put in place to ensure timely
payment of water bills by the administration). Technical and commercial efficiency assumed are
contractual ratios in the lease contract with the private operator. However, the 2001 baseline should be
confirmed by ongoing technical studies.
Volume of water produced and sold
Table 8 - Volume of water produced and sold (millions of m3 p.a.)
2001     2002     2003      2004     2005      2006
Water produced (without project)    33.1     33.1      33.1     33.1      33.1     33.1
New production available (Niamey)     0        1.3      3.4      5.1       6.9      8.6
New production available (Zinder)     0       0.5       1.4      2.1       2.8      3.2
Total new production                  0        1.8      4.8      7.2       9.7      11.8
Total water produced                33.1     34.9      37.9     40.3      42.8     44.9
Global efficiency (%)             76.00%    77.40%    80.40%    81.30%    82.30%    83.30%
Volume of water sold                25.2       27      30.5     32.8      35.2     37.4
Sector financial management
15. Sector financial management will be the responsibility of SPEN, which will mnonitor the sector's
financial equilibrium to ensure there is sufficient cash flow to meet legal or contractual financial obligations
of its personnel, suppliers and other business creditors, banks and donors, and the Treasury (payment of
taxes and servicing of govemment loans).
16.   SPEN  should therefore possess adequate financial management capability to take on this
responsibility. Within six months after effectiveness of the IDA Credit, SPEN's finance department should
-67 -



be able to use the financial model to monitor sector financial equilibrium. To that end, technical support, in
the form of specifically targeted consulting services, has been included as part of the capacity building
component of the project.
Transfer of SNE assets and liabilities to SPEN, and initial SPEN capital
17. Experience in similar sector reforms has shown that the systematic transfer of old liabilities and
doubtful assets may represent an excessive burden on the "reformed" sector and jeopardize the success of
the reform. Any additional past liabilities taken up by the sector as part of creation of SPEN will result in
additional fund application requirements for interest costs and principal installments on the old debt and
higher water tariffs for consumers. Accordingly, it is proposed that old commercial liabilities to suppliers
and other creditors, including the tax administration as well as financial claims on the administration, be
settled within the framework of the SNE liquidation.
18. With respect to the transfer of assets and liabilities, the figures mentioned below will be validated when
SNE's audited closing balance sheet (as of December 31, 2000) will be available. Arrears in payments to
suppliers and tax payments currently showing on SNE's balance sheet, as well as arrears due on public
sector water bills and receivables from other debtors (totaling CFAF 3.7 billion as of December 31, 1998),
will remain on SNE's books, and will be settled as part of the liquidation of SNE. Particular items here are
the amount due to NIGELEC for electric power (CFAF2.7 billion as of November 30, 1999) and SNE
receivables in respect of past due public sector water bills.
19. SNE capital assets covered by the concession has been transferred to SPEN after inventory and
valuation by auditors acceptable to IDA. Operating equipment not covered by the concession will be sold
to the private operator for a conservative fixed price that was mentioned in the bidding documents. The
opening balance sheet for SPEN has been established.
Counterpart funding
20. In line with IDA credits and guidelines, counterpart funds in the amount of 10 percent of the total
investment will be contributed by the Borrower. For the urban water supply component, counterpart funds
will be provided by the sector through the private operator's participation in financing rehabilitation works
in the amount of US$3.4 million, equivalent to 10.2 percent of the IDA participation. For the rural water
supply and pilot sanitation components, the counterpart funds will be provided by beneficiaries of these
services, communities enlisting in demand driven programs, which will be contributing the required
counterpart funds.
Payment of government water bills
21. Water use by government departments and agencies accounted for 21 percent of total consumption in
1998 and 30 percent of sector revenues. Over the past 10 years, the inability of the public sector to pay its
water bills within two or three months of billing not only caused public sector arrears to accumulate but
also pushed SNE into a major cash flow deficit. In the context of the current reform, persistence of this
type of deficit would prevent the sector from achieving financial equilibrium, a key requirement for sector
sustainability and one of the development objectives of the project. Hence, the reform needs to include an
action plan designed to limit the risk of this problem reappearing.
22. First, a plan to reduce water consumption in the public sector will be launched, as part of the current
project. Current demand projections indicate that public sector water consumption will increase from 5.5
- 68 -



Mm3 in 1999 to 8.0 Mm3 in 2005 if no measure is taken to reduce consumption. The reduction plan calls
for a 10 percent cutback in projected consumption in the first year of the plan, 20 percent in the second
year, 30 percent in the third, and so on, until the targeted 5 Mm3 for public sector consumption is reached
in 2005, instead of the 8 Mm3 now projected. The reduction plan will also incorporate a program to
privatize a number of supply points that benefit private individuals occupying government-owned housing.
The detailed version of the reduction plan will include: (a) inventory the delivery points (classified in order
of priority) selected as targets for specific reduction measures, including those points scheduled for
privatization after installation of individual meters; (b) detailed description of measures proposed; (c) cost
estimate of the measures; (d) implementation schedule; (e) current consumption and anticipated reduction
figures related to each of the delivery points; and (f identification of the authorities responsible for
implementing each of the reduction measures. Execution of the reduction plan will be overseen by the
Steering Committee for Water Sector Reform. Progress with the action plan will be monitored as part of
supervision of the proposed project. Monitoring reports will be drawn up once every six months, under the
direction of the Steering Cormmittee, to be issued no later than one month after the end of the half-year and
submitted to the Project Coordination Unit for forwarding to IDA. US$ 215,000 has been included in the
project budget to finance works, equipment, and services required to implement the action plan (
identification of networks and connection leakage, pipe repairs, purchase of water meters).
23. Second, public sector customers will be treated as private customers, except for a very small number
(to be referred to as "bonded customers"). Under the arrangements for privatization of operations,
collection of water bills from non-bonded public sector customers will be the exclusive responsibility of the
private operator. In cases of non-payment, the private operator's main recourse will be suspension of
supply, in accordance with the provisions of the lease contract. Non-bonded public sector customers will
be billed according to the same business principles as private customers, and the revenue generated by this
public sector group will enter into computation of the lease fee due to the private operator under the terms
of the lease contract. This means that the private operator will be financially penalized if the collection
targets set for these customers in the lease contract are not achieved.
24. Third, in the case of a small number of priority public sector users -- "bonded customers," (like the
Office of the President of the Republic, the armed forces, and public hospitals, for example) the
Government has given its irrevocable guarantee to settle arrears within a maximum of four months from the
billing date. The Government issued a list classifying some as users with priority delivery points, not
subject to suspension of service for non-payment. Non-priority supply points of bonded customers,
however, will be subject to suspension of service for non-payment. These provisions has been included in
the lease contract. Water use, through priority supply points of bonded public sector customers, is not
expected to represent more than 8 percent of total sector consumption.
25. Fourth, in the case of public sector customers, whether bonded or not, the government will undertake
to incorporate in their annual budget adequate allocations to cover their projected water consumption for
the year, as part of the action plan.
26. Submission of the action plan, satisfactory to IDA, for the reduction and timely payment of Govt.
water consumption, including the list of bonded customers with priority supply poinits and projections of
corresponding consumption figures, was a condition of credit negotiation. This action plan is annexed to the
Letter of sector policy.
- 69 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
NIGER: WATER SECTOR PROJECT
Procurement
Procurement Environment
1. A Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) for Niger was carried out in 1998, which found
that in general national procedures for the procurement of works, goods and services are acceptable to IDA
subject to a few amendments. So far the findings of the CPAR remain valid. No special exceptions,
permits, or licenses need to be specified in the Credit documents for Intemational Competitive Bidding
(ICB), since Niger's procurement practices allow IDA procedures to take precedence over any contrary
provisions in local regulations. National Competitive Bidding (NCB), advertised locally, would be carried
out in accordance with Niger's procurement laws and regulations acceptable to IDA, provided that they
assure economy, efficiency, transparency, and broad consistency with key objectives of the Bank
Guidelines. For NCB procedures, the following principles have been adhered to: (i) any bidder is given
adequate response time (four weeks) for preparation and submission of bids; (ii) bid evaluation and bidder
qualification criteria are clearly specified in bidding/pre-qualification documents and not be applied
arbitrarily; (iii) eligible firms are not precluded from participation; (iv) award is made to the lowest
evaluated bidder; (v)no preference margin is granted to domestic contractors and suppliers (vi) award will
be made to the lowest evaluated bidder in accordance with pre-determined and transparent methods; (vii)
bid evaluation reports will clearly state the reasons to reject any non-responsive bid; and (viii) prior to
issuing the first call for bids, draft standard bidding documents prepared as annexes to the Procedures
Manual are submitted to IDA and found acceptable.
Use of the Bank's Guidelines
2. Procurement of works and goods financed by the IDA credit will be carried out in accordance with the
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised in January and
August 1996 and January 1999). IDA's standard bidding documents will be used for all procurement under
ICB.
3. Consultant services contracts financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with the Bank Guidelines
for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised
September 1997 and January 1999. The Standard Request for Proposals as developed by the Bank will be
used for the selection of consulting firms. Simplified contracts will be used for short term assignments, i.e.
those not exceeding six months.
4. The Africa Guidelines for Simplified Procurement and Disbursement for Community-Based Investments
will be used in the design of procurement under the Urban sanitation component (pilot) of the project, and
the Rural water and Sanitation component. Simplified procurement and disbursement procedures for
community-based programs, including the positive list of items qualifying under these component, will be
developed and included in the Project Implementation Manual (PIM) for approval by IDA. The PIM will
also include procedures for IDA prior review thresholds for NGOs, private sector, and other community
initiatives. The Ministry of Water Resources will be responsible for ensuring compliance with these
guidelines, and ex-post reviews of random sub-projects will be conducted periodically by the Bank and
independent consultants appointed by the project.
- 70 -



Advertising procedures
5. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in the United Nations Development Business
(UNDB) in May 2001 to advertise for major consulting assignments (above US$200,000 equivalent) to
obtain expression of interest, and any ICB for works and goods. It will be updated annually for all
outstanding procurement. A GPN will also be published in the national press or official gazette for
contracts under NCB and to obtain expression of interest from national consultants. The program elements
by disbursement category, their estimated costs, and procurement methods are summarized in Tables A and
B below.
Status of the Project Implementation Manual (PIM)
6. As a condition for effectiveness, the Govemment will submit to IDA: (a) a Project Implementation
Manual with a specific section on procurement, detailing (i) procedures for planning, calling for bids,
selecting contractors, suppliers and consultants, and (b) a Project Implementation Plan and a procurement
plan for the first year of operations. The draft Project Implementation plan (PIP) developed by the
Borrower has been revised during negotiations.
7. The Govemment gave assurance at negotiations that it will use: (i) Banks standard bidding documents
and bid evaluation reports for Intemational Competitive Bidding, (ii) Bank's standard request for proposal,
evaluation reports and model contracts for consultant services; and (iii), apply the procurement procedures
and arrangements outlined in the above documents. The Government also gave assurance that procurement
phases will not exceed the following target periods.
Procurement Phases     Maximum Time Frame
Preparation of bidding document  4 weeks (3 weeks for small contracts)
Preparation of bids by bidders   6-8 weeks (4 weeks for small contracts)
Bid evaluation         4 weeks (2 weeks for small contracts)
Signature of contracts  2 weeks
Procurement plan
S. The procurement plan for the first year has been prepared during appraisal and will be finalized before
effectiveness. The detailed procurement plan for the following years will be developed during the first year
of operations, and submitted to IDA for review and approval. The plan will include relevant infonnation on
goods, works, and consulting services under the project as well as the timing of each milestone in the
procurement process. The procurement plan will be updated semi-annually for the first eighteen months,
and quarterly thereafter for PMR based disbursements. These plans will be reviewed by IDA supervision
missions.
Procurement Capacity Assessment
9. A procurement capacity assessment has been carried out by IDA for the implementing agencies during
the appraisal mission in March 2000 and discussed with the Government. As a result, an action plan was
agreed to address areas where the existing structures still need to be strengthened to meet performance
criteria for PMR-based  disbursement.   The action plan includes: (i) the hiring of a project
Officer/procurement specialist - done -, (ii) training sessions and technical assistance in procurement and
contract management as necessary, (iii) a procurement planning and contract management system
integrated in the computerized Financial management system to be installed at the Project Coordination
-71 -



Unit, (iv) a large section on procurement in the Project Implementation Manual to be finalized before
effectiveness, (v) the reorganization of the filing of procurement-related documents.
Institutional and Procurement Implementation Arrangements
Project Coordination
10. A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) has been set up to oversee, coordinate and monitor project
execution. It will report to the Ministry of Water Resources. The PCU will provide quarterly reports
covering the implementation status of the various components, disbursement level, status of performance
indicators, status of technical and financial audits. The PCU will be the implementation agency for the
"Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building" component of the project. The staff of the PCU
includes an Operation Officer/Procurement Specialist who will: (i) prepare and update on a semi-annually
basis, the detailed procurement plan for the whole project, including relevant information under each
component as well as the timing of each milestone in the procurement process, (ii) assist implementation
agencies in preparing bidding documents, (iii) provide procurement quality control and ensure that
proposed procurement methods are consistent with provisions of the Credit Agreement and the PIM, (iv)
maintain a tracking system to monitor aggregate values are not exceeded before IDA no-objection. The
Environmental Management Plan component will be implemented under the auspices of the BEEEI.
Urban water supply
1 1. SPEN will manage the overall implementation of the urban water supply component. The investment
program comprises three parts: (i) works to be financed and executed by SEEN, (ii) works financed from
public sources through IDA funding, executed by the private operator, (iii) remaining works of the
investment program financed by public sources through participation of donors implemented by SPEN.
12. SEEN will finance and execute rehabilitation works of water distribution networks. This is an
obligation for the private operator in the lease contract. The responsibilities of SPEN will concern
supervision and monitoring of these rehabilitation works.
13. The second part to be financed by IDA, includes construction/installation of private connections and
public standpipes, and related minor extensions of the tertiary water distribution networks. These works
will be executed (as contractor) by the private operator through a single work contract. Procurement for
this contract was done through the same package of ICB process for the lease contract.
14. The third part of the urban water investment program including: extension of water production
facilities and main distribution systems, will be implemented by SPEN and awarded through standard ICB.
Rural water supply and sanitation
15. DIGOH of the Ministry of Water Resources will manage overall coordination of the Rural Water
Supply and Sanitation component. Implementation will be decentralized at the departmental level through
DDREs (Directions Departementales des Ressources en Eau). Local communities will serve as
contracting authorities for the investments. NGOs and Consultants will provide technical advisory services
to local communities for: (i) needs assessments, (ii) community organization (water users associations -
WUAs), (iii) participatory appraisal and (iv), community-based contracting techniques. The responsibilities
of DDREs will primarily concern: (i) contract management services, including procurement of services,
goods and works and supervision of contracts, (ii) financial management by approving and ordering
- 72 -



disbursements. At the central level, DIGOH will manage private sector promotion activities for the
management of rural water systems and develop a monitoring system using data and information provided
by communities, private operators, NGOs and consultant firms, and DDREs.
Urban sanitation (pilot program)
16. DTNAEP of the Ministry of Water Resources will manage the implementation of the Urban Sanitation
component (pilot project) in close collaboration with the Office of Public Hygiene and H[ealth Education of
the Ministry of Health (DHP/EPS), and the Ministry of National Education. DIGOH will plan, manage,
implement the component and will order all disbursements. DTNAEP will select an NGO to develop social
intermediation activities, sanitary education and support services to artisans and small businesses. A
specific manual of procedures will be developed for the implementation of this component as part of the
PIM.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Civil Works
17. The construction/installation of private connections and public standpipes and related extensions of the
tertiary urban water distribution networks (totaling US$7.2 million) financed by IDA, will be executed by
SEEN through a specific work contract with SPEN. The contract was procured using ICB procedures
through the same bidding process with the lease contract.
18. The extension works for urban water production facilities and main distribution systems (totaling
U$34.4 million), financed by IDA, will be procured under ICB. For contracts estimated to cost less than
US$500,000 equivalent, national competitive bidding (NCB) may be used up to an aggregate amount of
US$4.90 million.
19. Small civil works contracts mostly for small infrastructure projects related to the Rural Water and
Sanitation component estimated to cost less than US$50,000 each, up to an aggregate amount of US$1.3
million would be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations
obtained from at least three qualified domestic contractors. The invitation shall include a detailed
description of the works including basic specifications, the required completion period, basic form of
agreement described in the Manual of Procedures, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award
would be made to the contractor with the lowest price quotation for the required work, provided he
demonstrates he has the experience and resources to successfully execute the contract.
20. Civil works contracts for subprojects under the Urban sanitation component (pilot) and on-site
sanitation works under the Rural water and sanitation component, will be procured using simplified
procedures described in the manual of procedures to be developed for this component as part of the PIM.
Goods:
21. Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract would be subject
to NCB procedures acceptable to IDA up to an aggregate amount of US$0.28 million. Contracts for small
equipment, locally available from the shelf at competitive prices, and costing less than US$10,000
equivalent each, up to aggregate amount of US$13,000 would be subject to national sh,opping, by obtaining
and comparing a least three quotations from reliable suppliers. Standard request formns and establishment of
guidelines for conduct of the shopping method (as per the June 9, 2000 Memorandum "Guidance on
- 73 -



Shopping") will be prepared and included in the PIM.
Consultants and other services:
22. Consultant services financed by IDA (totaling US$8.5 million) would be for: (i) contract management
services, studies and supervision of works; (ii) technical and financial audits; (iii) technical studies; and (iv)
training. Selection will be based on Quality-and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method, by evaluating the
quality of the proposal before combining quality and cost evaluation by weighting and adding the quality
and cost scores. For works supervision, technical and financial audits, the Least-Cost Selection (LCS)
method will be the most appropriate method. Services for small studies which can be delivered by
individual consultants will be selected through comparison of at least three CVs and qualifications.
Short-list for contracts under US$50,000 equivalent may be comprised entirely of national consultants if a
sufficient number of qualified firms (at least three) are available at competitive costs. However, if foreign
firms express interest, they will not be excluded. Consultants and NGOs to be hired under subprojects of
the Urban sanitation component (pilot), will be selected in accordance with procedures described in the
manual of procedures to be developed for this component as part of the PIM.
Training abroad and in-country:
23. The program containing: names of candidates, costs estimates, content of courses, periods of training
and selection of training institutions, will be reviewed by IDA annually. Training programs with costs
below US$15,000 equivalent per training should be identified in a semi-annual program prepared by the
Borrower. Where the cost of training exceeds US$15,000, the selection of the training institution should be
based on a competitive process using the Consultant's Qualifications method of selection.
24. Aggregate values are limitative and the implementing agencies responsible for procurement must
maintain a tracking system to monitor that these values are not exceeded, before IDA no-objection, in order
to determine what procurement procedure should next be followed.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procreen  Mho
.   C   !C,BF_____
ExpendIture  1GB                       Oth~~~~~~~~~~~r  NAB.F.  Total Cost
1. Works                         34.40          5.45          1.40         24.65        65.90
(28.18)       (4.90)        (1.26)        (0.00)       (34.45)
2. Goods                          0.00          0.35         0.01          0.00          0.36
(0.00)        (0.28)       (0.01)        (0.00)       (0.29)
3. Services                       0.00          0.00          8.50         0.00          8.50
Training                      (0.00)        (0.00)        (8.50)        (0.00)       (8.50)
4. Operating Costs                0.00          0.00         0.40          0.00          0.40
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.36)       (0.00)       (0.36)
5. PPF Refinancing                0.00          0.00          1.10         0.00          1.10
(0.00)        (0.00)        (1.10)       (0.00)       (1.10)
6. Unallocated                                                                          (3.20)
Total                         34.40          5.80          11.41        27.84         79.40
(28.18)       (5.18)       (11.23)        (0.00)       (48.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
- 74 -



2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, anc. incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
* Operating costs are related to the fumctioning of the PCU.
- 75 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
25. IDA financed contracts above the US$500,000 threshold equivalent for works and US$100,000
equivalent for goods as well as the first three contracts below the prior review threshold would be subject to
IDA's prior review procedures.
26. The selection process for hiring consultants will be subject to Bank review which will include the
review of budgets, Terms of Reference (TORs), short-lists, selection procedures, requests for proposals,
evaluation reports, contract awards and negotiated contracts. Prior review will apply to contracts for the
recruitrnent of consulting firms and individuals estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more and
the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, respectively, as well as to the first three contracts below the prior
review threshold. Prior review will also apply to the TORs of contracts, to single-source hiring, to
assignments of a critical nature (such as audits) as determined by IDA, regardless of their value, or to
amendments of contracts raising the contract value above the above-mentioned prior review thresholds.
For consultant contracts estimated above US$100,000, opening the financial envelopes will not take place
prior to receiving the Bank's no-objection to the technical evaluation. For contracts estimated to cost less
than US$100,000 and more than US$50,000, the borrower will notify IDA of the results of the technical
evaluation prior to opening the financial proposals. For training abroad and in-country, the program
containing names of candidates, costs estimates, content of courses, periods of training and selection of
training institutions, will be reviewed by IDA. The Borrower will also submit a final report not later than
three months after the training was completed.
27. The prior review process would cover about 80% of the total value of the amount contracted for civil
works, and 50% of the total amount for consultant services (See Table B). Documents related to
procurement below the prior review thresholds will be maintained by the borrowers for ex-post review by
auditors and IDA supervision missions. Selective post-review of contracts awarded below the threshold
level will be carried out by Bank staff using technical audits and other consultants, as necessary.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
1. Works                      C>500,000                    ICB                    PR: 28.2
C<500,000                  NCB              post review (except first 3
contracts)
C<50,000                3 Quotations             post review
2. Goods                      C<100,000                   NCB              post review (except first 3
contracts)
<50,000             National Shopping            post review
3. Services
a. firms                      C>100,000                QCBS/LCS                    PR: 3.4
b. individuals                C<100,000                QCBS/LCS            post review (except first 3
contracts)
C<50,000                 Individual              post review
All                 Single Source               PR: 1.0
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
- 76 -



Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   US$32.6 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 77 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category         Amount in US$million          Financing Percentae
1. Civil Works (urban water supply)         29.15                         80%
2. Civil Works (rural water & sanitat.)      5.30                          90%
3. Goods & Equipment                        0.30                  100% foreign / 80% local
4. Consulting Services                       8.50                         100%
5. Operating Costs                          0.45                          90%
6. PPF refinancing                           1.10                         100%
7. Unallocated                              3.20
Total Project Costs                         48.00          __             _     _r
Total                                       48.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
28. Disbursements will be made against statements of expenditures (SOEs) for: (i) works under contracts
costing less than US$500,000 equivalent each; (ii) goods under contracts costing less than US$100,000
equivalent each; (iii) services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than US$100,000 equivalent
each; and (iv) services of individual consultants under contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent
each; all under such terms and conditions as IDA shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Special account:
29. To facilitate project implementation and reduce the volume of withdrawal applications, GON will open
a Special Account in FCFA in a commercial bank on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The
authorized allocation for the Special Account will be FCFA I billion. Upon credit effectiveness, IDA will
deposit the amount of FCFA 500 million, representing 50 percent of the authorized allocation, into the
Special Account. The remaining balance will be made available when the total commitments issued amount
to the equivalent of US$20 million. The Special Account will be used for all payments in an amount below
20% of the initial deposit to the Special Account. Replenishment applications will be submitted monthly.
Further deposits by IDA into the Special Account will be made against withdrawal applications supported
by appropriate documents.
Financial Management
Financial Management Assessments
30. The financial management capacity of the relevant agencies was assessed during appraisal to
determiine whether financial management capacities, adequate to fulfill the project's needs and Bank's
requirements were in place (as described in OP/BP 10.02), The report can be found in the project files.
The main issues highlighted in the assessment are presented hereafter.
31. The PCU and SPEN are newly created entities. As a result, assessment of their financial management
capacity consisted in identifying needs to be fulfilled and defining an action plan to develop appropriate
- 78 -



financial management capacity and install adequate financial management system prior to project
effectiveness.
32. SPEN financial viability is vital to the success of urban water sub-sector reform, because of its
functions related to the management of sub-sector assets.  SNE's existing computerized financial
management system will not be suitable for SPEN since it lacks modules on cost accounting, budget
management, and fixed assets management. As a result, the current management program cannot be
transferred to SPEN and must acquire its own financial management system, which will enable it to meet
its financial information requirements.
33. To address those issues, the following measures were identified for SPEN:
*   Establishment of an opening balance sheet for the company, taking into account an inventory and a
thorough economic evaluation of fixed assets and stock of SNE, which will be transferred to the
operating and holding companies. The asset inventory was completed on December 2000 and the
SPEN's opening balance sheet has been finalized before negotiations.
*  Preparation of a manual of administrative and financial procedures and installation of a
computerized financial management system comprising general accounting, cost accounting,
budget management, fixed assets register, and debt management, to address SPl,N's specific needs
for proper management and financial reporting purposes. These measures aim at ensuring that
SPEN's opening financial situation will be reliable and viable and that SPEN will thereafter have a
sound financial management system capable of providing reliable information on its financial
situation. The manual is being finalized and the project will support the implementation of the
computerized financial management system.
34. A detailed action plan to strengthen both PCU and SPEN financial management capacity was defined
during appraisal. This action plan was updated after negotiations to reflect actual impleimentation progress,
and is presented as an appendix at the end of this section.
Financial Management Arrangements
35. The PCU will have overall responsibility for project financial management. It will manage the Special
Account and counterpart funds and will keep the project's accounts and report on the frnancial situation.
The PCU will be equipped with a computerized financial management system capable of recording and
reporting the project's operations by components, sub-components, activities, and expenditure categories,
regardless of origin of funds. The procurement process has already been launched for the acquisition of the
system. A manual of administrative and financial procedures is also being finalized for the project based on
terms of reference approved by IDA. The scope of the manual includes coordination mechanisms among
the PCU and other executing agencies (SPEN, DIGOH and DTNAEP), for which separate manuals are
being developed describing procedures regarding activities to be implemented. The PCU accountant has
already being recruited, based on terms of reference approved by IDA. The installation of the computerized
financial management system and the completion of the final version of the manual, satisfactory to IDA,
are conditions of credit effectiveness.
36. The PCU will make all payments to suppliers of the rural water supply component after approval of
decentralized units of DIGOH: "Directions Departementales des Ressources en Eau," (DDREs). In this
context, the additional financial management requirements are summarized as follows: (i) well defined
coordination mechanisms between the PCU and DIGOH and between DIGOH and other governmental
structures and other partners involved; (ii) detailed implementation procedures including mobilization and
- 79 -



reporting on communities contribution. During project appraisal it was discussed and agreed upon that the
project's manual of administrative and accounting procedures will include a specific part describing
detailed procedures for activities under DIGOH responsibility, including the flow of information to and
from the PCU. In addition, the PIM will include specific criteria for the selection of the local private
operators of rural water supply systems, who will get assistance under the project to enhance their
management skills.
37. The financial management arrangements between the PCU, DTNAEP and the NGO for implementing
the urban sanitation component were clarified during negotiations. Since the NGO will manage part of
funds allocated to the component, the commercial bank account opened by the NGO for this purpose will,
be audited in the same way as the project accounts. The entity's selection criteria will include strong
financial management capacity requirements. A specific manual of procedures for the urban sanitation pilot
component is being developed as part of the Project implementation Manual.
Financial Reporting
38. The project's financial statements will comprise a statement of Source and Application of Funds for the
first financial year and cumulatively from the start of the project, and a balance sheet. These two financial
statements will be prepared annually and in accordance with international accounting standards. In
addition, agreement has been reached during negotiations to submit a quarterly report, using the Financial
Management Initiative (FinMI) model, including financial statements, procurement/contracts schedule and
output monitoring, one month after the end of each quarter. The objective is to familiarize the project unit
with periodic reporting, as required under the FinMI, so that by the end of an 18-month interim period,
reliable project management reports (PMRs) can be prepared and eventually be used as the basis for
disbursement in place of the traditional disbursement method through SOEs. However, any decision on
PMR based disbursement must be certified by a designated procurement specialist as well. To facilitate the
preparation of these quarterly reports, the computerized financial management system will be customized
automatically to generate them from the reporting module.
39. As a public enterprise, SPEN will have to follow the West African Accounting System, commonly
called SYSCOA, under which a set of financial statements must be prepared annually, including a balance
sheet, and income cash flow statements, which will provide necessary information on SPEN's financial
situation. SPEN will be required to submit these annual financial statements to the Bank within three
months of the end of each calendar year.
Auditing
40. The annual financial statements for the project (as well as for SPEN) will be audited each fiscal year
by an independent auditor, acceptable to IDA, and in accordance with auditing standards, also acceptable
to IDA. Audit reports of reasonable scope and detail would be submitted to IDA within six months of the
end of the audited period. The auditor will provide an opinion on (i) project financial statements (statement
of Source and Application of Funds, Balance Sheet), (ii) statement of expenditures (SOEs), and (iii) special
account. In addition to the audit of the project's financial statements mentioned above, SPEN statements
will be audited for each fiscal year by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA in accordance with
auditing standards also acceptable to IDA.
41. Audit reports of reasonable scope and detail would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end
of the audited period. The selection of an auditor acceptable to IDA for all project accounts and for the
financial statements of SPEN is a condition of effectiveness. Terms of reference and bidding documents for
- 80 -



selecting auditors have been approved by IDA.
Appendix
Financial Management Capacities Strengthening Action Plan
42. As a result of the assessment of financial management capacities, the measures included in the
following action plan were defined and agreed on with the Government during project appraisal. The target
completion dates were revised after credit negotiations to reflect actual progress.
Project Coordination Unit
Tasks                       Responsible               Revised target
completion date
1. Manual of administrative and
financial procedures
Preparation of terms of reference    PCU/IDA                  Done
Selection of the Consultants        PCU/IDA                   Done
Draft manual submitted               Consultants              Done
Comments on draft manual             PCU/IDA                  Done
Revised manual completed             Consultants              Done
Comments on revised manual           PCU/IDA                  Done
Final version of the manual          Consultants              Credit effectiveness
2. Recruitment of the PCU Accountant
based on terms of reference approved by   PCU/IDA             Done
IDA
3. Selection and installation of a
computerized financial management
system
Definition of the technical specifications
(hardware and software) and          Consultants/PCU          Done
preparation of the request for proposals   PCU/IDA            Done
(RFP)                               PCU/Consultants/IDA       30 May 200l1
RFP approved and sent out
Bidding process completed            Consultants/PCU           30 June 2001
Financial Management System installed
and operational (condition of credit
effectiveness)
-81 -



4. Selection of the project's and SPEN
auditor                              PCU                       Done
Preparation of the request for proposals  IDA                  Done
(RFP)                                PCU                       Done
Non objection from IDA on the RFP
RFP sent out to short-listed audit firms    PCU/IDA             15 June
PCU                       30 June
Bidding process completed
Signature of contract
5. Action plan for the use of
PMR-based disbursement method                                  One month after the end of
Preparation and submission to IDA of    PCU                    each quarter starting from
quarterly PMR, including financial,                            date of effectiveness
procurement and physical progress
report
Re-assessment of the quality and     IDA                        18 months after credit
reliability of the quarterly PMR and                           effectiveness.
overall financial management system to
determine whether PMR-based
disbursement can be used or to define
additional strengthening measures.
Holding Company (SPEN)
Tasks                                Responsible               Target Completion Date
1. Inventory of SNE assets and       SNE/PCU/Consultants       Done
preparation of SPEN opening balance
sheet
SPEN                      30 October 2001
2. Development of SPEN manual of
administrative and financial procedures
SPEN                      30 October 2001
3. Installation of SPEN computerized
financial management system
- 82 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
NIGER: WATER SECTOR PROJECT
ProEct $chedule                                    Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       24                            24
First Bank mission (identification)              02/18/99                     02/18/99
Appraisal mission departure                      02/15/2000                    03/06/2000
Negotiations                                     02/26/2001                    03/08/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    08/31/2001                    09/30/2001
Prepared by:
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in collaboration with executing agencies: Ministry of Water Resources
(MRE - DIGOH and DTNAEP), National Water Holding Company of Niger (SPEN); Ministry of Health
(MH - DHP/ESP), Ministry of Environment (ME - BEEEI)
Preparation assistance:
PPF Q176-0-NIR: US$1,100,000
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Matar Fall                        Team Leader / Water & Sanitation Specialist
Richard Verspyck                  Water & Sanitation Specialist
Claude Sorel                      Private Sector Development Specialist
Ousmane Dione                     Water Resources Management Specialist
Sylvie Debomy                     Urban Specialist
Paul Kriss                        Economist
Ahmadou Moustapha Ndiaye          Financial Management Specialist
Bernard Abeille                   Procurement Specialist
Hans Wabnitz                      Counsel
Renee Desclaux                    Disbursement Officer
Heidi Mattila                     Private Sector Specialist
Edeltraut Gilgan-Hunt             Environment Specialist
Fanny Barrett                     Program Assistant
Guy-Joseph Malembeti              Procurement Specialist
Amadou Tidiane Toure               Procurement Specialist
Mariam Taleb                      Economist
Eric Cole                          Sanitation Specialist
Tracy Hart                        Economist
Mamadou Yaro                      Financial Management Specialist
Connie Kok Shun                   Program Assistant
Sophie Hans-Moevi                 Team Assistant
Mariam Daifour Ba                 Team Assistant
- 83 -



Quality Assurance Team
Alain Locussol                      Water Sector
Lee Travers                         Economic Analysis
Franklin Cardy                      Water Resource
Jan Janssens                        Water & Sanitation
Serigne Oumar Fye                   Environment
- 84 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
NIGER: WATER SECTOR PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft Project Implementation Manual - September 2000t
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Procurement Capacity Assessment - March 2000
Financial Management Capacity Assessment - May 2000
Aide-memoires and BTOR of project preparation missions
C. Other
Environmental Assessment for the project and EMP- August 2000t
Draft Manual of Administrative and Financial Procedures - October 2000t
Annual Report of the Preparation of the Water Sector Project - Project Coordination Unit - January 2001t
Urban Water Supply
1. Urban Water Supply Sector Policy Letter, March 2001t
2. Law reorganizing urban water supply and creating SPEN - August 10, 2000t
3. Action plan for reducing the water consumption of Government agencies and for timely payment of
public water bills - January 2001t
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
1. Rural Water Sector Policy Letter - March 2001 t
2. Participative assessment of mini-AEP - Final Report - May 2000t
3. Definition of the rehabilitation program for mini-AEP - Draft Final Report - July 2000t
4. Financial management and financing of mini-AEP - Draft Report - May 2000t
Water resources Management
1. Dissemination of legal and regulatory framework of WRM - Final Report - April 2000t
2. Groundwater pollution in Maradi and Zinder - Preliminary Study, Final report - April 2000t
3. Preparation of a business plan for ranking water projects - Final report - April 2000t
4. Strategy for collecting data on water resources - Final Report - April 2000t
Water Supply and Sanitation for Periurban Areas
1. Identification and classification of pilot areas for a periurban WSS program - Final r eport - April 2000
t
2. Socio-economic assessment of periurban areas - Final report - April 2000t
3. Feasibility of technical options for WSS in periurban areas - Final Report (not dated)t
4. Organization and implementation of a program of social water service connections and standposts and
regulation of water resale - Final report - January 2001 t
- 85 -



5. Implementation manual for the urban sanitation component - Draft report - February 2001 t
Miscellaneous Studies
1 . Investigation studies of the sustainable yield of groundwater resources in Northern Zinder - Chinese
Cooperation - October 1998t
2. Africa 2000 Initiative - Integrated water, sanitation and hygiene Project - Final Project Document -
September 1998t
3. Feasibility studies for the Kandadji dam - Kandadji High Commission - ADB - August 1998t
4. Kandadji dam Project - Presentation Notes - August 1998t
5. Water supply for periurban areas of Niamey - French Cooperation - 1998t
6. Master Plan for the valorization and management of water resources - Ministry of Water - January
1999t
7. Support program to the national plan for environment and sustainable development - UNDP -
January 1999t
8. Results of ichtyo-biological studies of the Niger river - FAO, Rome, 1987t
9. Development of the fisheries - Report of the transitional phase - FAO, March 1987t
10. Comparative computation of water abstraction fees - ONAHA - October 1995t
11. Development of fisheries and aquaculture - Proceedings of the national forum of Birni N'konni -
November 1998t
12. Demand and willingness to pay for water services - GOPA - November 1998t
13. Water and sanitation sector strategy - Introductory Report - Ministry of Water, Swiss Cooperation,
UNDP - January 1999t
14. Indicative plan for the management of wetlands - UICN - September 1995t
15. RWS Program for the Maradi region - PHV/M, GTZ - 1 999t
16. Agrhymet Hydrologic Bulletin - February 1999t
17. Documentation SIGNERt
I8. Assessment of the rehabilitation of the Goudel plant and of the distribution network - BCEOM -
October 1996t
19. Rehabilitation of Goudel 1 and Yantala treatment plants and of water storage tanks - BCEOM -
December 1996t
20. Urban water supply Master Plan for Niamey - Framework - BCEOM - December 1997t
21. Urban water supply Master Plan for Niamey - New facilities and rehabilitation - Final Report -
Executive Summary - BCEOM - December 1997t
22. Economic and Financial Analysis - Final Report - BCEOM - December 1997t
23. Reinforcement of Zinder water supply - Phase III - Exploratory boreholes (1994 - 1995) and
hydrogeological assessment - ANTEA - July 1995t
24. Feasibility study (volume IA) - Final Report - ANTEA - July 1996t
25. Feasibility study (volume IB) - Annexes - ANTEA - March 1996t
26. Impact of water drawdown on the environment - Final report - ANTEA -July 1996t
27. Feasibility study (volume III) - Plans and Maps - ANTEA - July 1996t
28. Improvement of water distribution and treatment facilities in Agadez - Final report (a) Preliminary
Design - documents I to VI; (b) annexes document VII; (c) Drilling program - documents IX; (d)
Plans and maps - BCEOM - November 1997t
t Reports and documents in French
*Including electronic files
- 86 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
NIGER: WATER SECTOR PROJECT
Apr-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                                disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                         IBRD          IDA                           Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
P058730        2000 Agro-pastoral Export Promotion Project               0.00      10.35                             0.00       9.99       0.00       0.00
P051272        1999 PRIVATIZJREG-REFORM                                  0.00      18.60                             0.00      12.58      12.82       0.00
P035608        1998 TRANSP. INFRA. REHAB                                 0.00      28.00                             0.00      12.11       0.12       0.00
P001999        1997 HEALTH II                                            0.00      40.00                             0.00      19.25      16.B9       0.00
P049691        1997 URBAN INFRAS. REHAB.                                 0.00      20.00                             0.00       9.52       6.00       5.05
P001967        1996 NATURAL RES. MGMT                                    0.00      26.70                             0.00       7.11       6.92       3.17
P001994        1995 PILOT PRIVATE IRRIG                                  0.00       6.80                             0.00       1.33       1.95       2.09
P001980        1994 EDUCATION III - SECA                                 0.00      41.40                             0.00       3.53       2.67       0.00
Total:        0.00      191.85                             0.00      75.40      47.38       10.32
- 87 -



NIGER
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Apr-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FY Approval         Company                         Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
Total Portfolio:          0.00     o.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0 00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval         Company                            Loan     Equity     Quasi      Partic
Total Pending Commitment:           0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
-88 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
NIGER: WATER SECTOR PROJECT
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Sabarrn      Low-
NIaer    Africa   Income       Development diamond*
1999
Poulation. mid-vear (million)5                        10.5       642      2.417                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                     190       500        410
GNP (Atlas method. U$ billhons)                        2.0       321       988
Average aflnual qrowth, 1993-99 1
Population                                              3,4       2.6       1,g.9                       -
Labor force I`%)                                       3.11       2.        2.3     GNP           , .      ,         Gross
per     ~            ~         primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                               capita                       enrollment
Poverty f% of 0P0o0u/fon, belownet /ope/ DOVerly lIne)  63
Urban populatlon (% of total popueation)                20        34         31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        46        50         60
Infant mortalitY (per 1.000 /ive births)               1t8        92         77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              50        32         43               Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of Population)       53        43         64
lititeracy (% of population Soo 154)                    85        39         39
Gross primarv enrollment (% otschool-age oDopulaboni    29        78        gr       -     Niger   - - Low-income group
Male                                                  36        8s        102
Femate                                                23        71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989      1998      1999
Economic ratios*
GDP (USS billions)                            2.1      2,1        2.0       2.1
Gross domestic investmentUGOP                25.8     14.1       11.4       9-7                     Trade
Exoorts of oods and services/GDP             28.5      17.1      16.4      14.t
Gross domestic savings/GOP                   17.5      7.2        4.0       3.2
Gross national savings/GDP                   19.1      9.0        1.6       0.9
Current account balance/GDP                  -10.2     1.5       -9.9       -.8     Domestic   In'ste.
Interest oavments/GDP                         2.0      1.7        0.5       1.3     SavingsInvestment
Total debt/GDP                               29.8     70.6       81.2      80.1     S
Total debt service/exOorts                   13.9    32.3        33.0      38.6
Present value of debt/GDP                       .        ..       4.4 
Present value of debttexoorts                  ..       ..    322.3
Indebtedness
1979-49  1989-99     1998      1999   1999-03
(average annual qrowtht)
GOP                                 -0.9      2.3      8.3        2.5       3.8       -     Niger      - Low-income group
GNP Der capita                      -3,7     -1.3      4.7       4.7        0.3
Exoorts of goods and services       -4.0      1.8      9.8      -12,1       3.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998      1999      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GOP)                                                                          ao
Aariculture                                  48,7     35.0       41.2      40.0
Industrv                                     18.7     18.0       16.9      17.1     40 -
Manufacturinq                                4.2      6.4       6.3       6,3
Services                                     32.6     46.9       41.9      42.9      o                  =
Private consumption                          71.1     76.7       82.7      82.9    940
General government consumption               11.4     16.2       13.3      13.9              -     GMI     - -GDP
ImDorts of goods and services                36.9     24.0       23.8      20.6
1979-89  1989-99      1998      1999     Growth of exports and imports I%)
(avera.ge annual growth)
Agriculture                                   1.7      3.0       17.3      -0.3    50-.
Industrv                                     -1.6      1.7        2.1       3.6    40- .
Manufacturinq                                 ..      2.1       3.3       3.5
Services                                     -3.7      1.2        2.8       4.7    20
Private consumption                          -0.2      3.2        7.9       2.8      s
General government consumption                1.7    -0.3         4.8       7.5                       95   9    g
Gross domestic investment                    -7.3      2.5       14.5     -13.0   .20
Imports of qoods and services                -5.0      3.9        8.7     -11.3                  Exports     :  lmports
Gross national product                       -0.4      2.1        8.2       2.6
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev Indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-qroup averaqe. If data are missingi, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 89 -



Niger
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989      1998      1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                           40
Consumer pnces                                  ..    -0.8         3.0       3.0     30-
Implicit GDP deflator                          4.6      0.9        3.0       2.0     20
Govemment finance                                                                   IC)
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                   0
Current revenue                                 ..    11.1        11.2       9.1     -o-    94   95    96   97   98   99
Current budget balance                           ..    -1.1        1.2      -0.9                GDPdeflor         CPl
Overall surplus/deficit                          .    -10.4       -5.3      -6.6 
TRADE
1979     1989      1998      1999     ~
(US$ millions)                                                                      , Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                           485       308       301       256      soo
Uranium                                       ..    232          133       106     400 T
Livestock                                              43         48        50
Manufactures                                   - sc . _                            300 _
Total imports (cit)                                     386       431       367      200
Food                                           . 27  36 28 iiiiiia
Fuel and energy                                --      18         25        27     100
Capital goods                                  ..     118         97        71
93   94   95   90   97          9
Export price index (1995=100)                            74       103       107
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..       58       112       113                  M Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       ..    128           92       94
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979     1989      1998      1999  --
(US$ millions)                                                                       Current account balance to GDP )%)
Exports of goods and services                  521      350       337       290    !
Imports of goods and services                 769       358       4B8       424
Resource balance                              -249       -7       -151     -134      -
Net income                                     -57       28       -28       -28
Net current transfers                           91      1-1        -22      -19      48
Current account balance                       -215       32       -202     -181        |
Financing items (net)                         359       -32       209       149
Changes in net reserves                       -144        0         -7       32    -16
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)          ..       ..        77        53
Conversion rate (DEC, localJUS$)             212.7    319.0      590.0    615.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                       Composition of 1998 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           629    1,496      1,662     1,643
IBRD                                          0        0          0         0
IDA                                          48      383        687       694
Total debt service                              75      122        114      116
IBRD                                          0         0         0         0          E 486
IDA                                           0         4         8        11                             s         687
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             117       169       158
Official creditors                           66        81         0
Prvate creditors                             125       10       -24
Foreign direct investment                    47         0         1                         D 350
Portfolio equity                              0         0         0                                         C 76
World Bank program
Commitments                                   37        0        83         0      A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 12      40         50        26      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Prvate
Principal repayments                           0        1         7         7      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                     12       39        43        19
Interest payments                             0         2         5         4
Net transfers                                11        37        38        15
Development Economics                                                                                                  9/12/00
- 90 -



Additional
Annex 11
NIGER WATER SECTOR PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
MITIGATION
(I) Identification of potential environmental and social impacts of investments to be funded under the
proposed proiect
Project Component 2: Urban Water Supply
Niamey: Extension of the water production plants at Goudel and Yantala. Addition of a new treatment
line, construction of a pre-decantation basin, and connecting pipeline from Goudel to Yantala for treated
water.
*   The construction of the pre-decantation basin for use in Yantala and Goudel as well as the laying
of a connecting pipeline from Goudel to Yantala will lead to the loss of income from market
gardening activities in the affected areas.
*   The planned additional water withdrawals from the Niger River will normally have minimal effects
on the water availability in the river.
-   Sludge disposal from drinking water production plants Goudel and Yantala: A continuation of the
current practice of disposing untreated sludge in the Niger River would lead to river sedimentation
downstream and risks of water quality problems in the drinking water supply system.
Niamey: Extension of the distribution system (Supply Niamey Zone VI). Construction of reservoir Rl3,
supply of Taladje from reservoirs RI3 and R9, gravity supply of Saga from ZI, construction of reservoir
RI 1, feeding line from Yantala to R 11, connection of RI I to the existing supply system.
9   The construction of the reservoirs will not have any social or environmental impacts.
v  Indirect impacts: The ceinture verte is the only major wooded area surrounding Niamey. While the
laying of new water pipes in the vicinity of the ceinture verte will not affect the trees, it is
anticipated that more people will move into this area as more water becomes available. There is
concern that a population increase may lead to more extensive use of the vegetation and
indiscriminate use of the area for waste disposal, including excreta disposal.
Zinder: Project redesign. Zinder's water supplies come from two well fields (Gogo and Machaya),
located about 20-30 km south of the city. As Zinder is situated on the granite massif of Damagaran, there
are no exploitable groundwater resources in its proximity to meet the increasing demand for potable water.
It has been established that demand for potable water in Zinder is about 1,000-l0,000 m3/day during the
dry season, and annual average production is about 6,000 m3/day. The aquifer in Gogo-Machaya can
supply only 5,000 m3/day in a sustainable manner (7,000 m3/day maximum production).
*   To prevent over-exploitation of the aquifer in Gogo-Machaya, the investment component for
Zinder was redesigned during the appraisal mission to include the development of water sources
north of Zinder, taking into account the project developed by the Chinese cooperation. In light of
the development of water resources north of Zinder, no rehabilitation arid/or extension of
production facilities are planned south of Zinder. There are only plans to improve Zinder's
- 91 -



secondary and tertiary distribution systems.
Dosso: Extension of water supply system. Laying of a new main supply line, extension of the distribution
system, construction of a new elevated storage reservoir.
*   Withdrawals in this area as planned under the proposed project will not have negative impacts on
the groundwater resources, provided they are monitored regularly.
*   The construction of a new elevated storage reservoir in Dosso and the construction of the new main
supply line (5km) will not have any social or environmental impacts.
Diffa: Extension of production capacity. Drilling of a new well with its equipment.
*   Withdrawals in this area as planned under the proposed project will not have negative impacts on
the groundwater resources, provided they are monitored regularly.
Maradi: Extension of water supply system. Extension of water supply system; connection of Tibiri to the
system of Maradi.
* Withdrawals in this area as planned under the proposed project will not have negative impacts on
the groundwater resources, provided they are monitored regularly.
* The connection pipe from Tibiri to the system of Maradi will not have any negative social or
environmental impacts as the pipe will be layed alongside road RNI.
Tahoua: Extension of the production capacity. Drilling of a new well with its equipment, replacement of
the pump in well F2.
*   Withdrawals in this area as planned under the proposed project will not have negative impacts on
the groundwater resources, provided they are monitored regularly.
Tillabery: Extension of water supply system. Laying of a new main supply line from the new water
production plant to the reservoir, extension of the distribution system.
*   The new feeding pipe, about 600 m long, designed to convey water to the reservoir, will be
constructed on the existing track without any difficulty.
Agadez: Extension of the production capacity. Drilling and equipping of the first two wells of the new
well field, electrification of the new well field, construction of a new pumping station, construction of a new
reservoir, laying of a new main supply line of 50 k1m, drilling of a new well.
The current water supply source for Agadez is the aquifer in Kori Teloua, used for drinking purposes and
irrigation. This aquifer will not be able to meet future demand for water supply due to environmental issues
(lowering of the aquifer, loss of revenue for agricultural development, biological hazard for the area). In
order to meet this future demand, the proposed project will support the development of new water sources
in the multi-layer sandstone aquifer of Agadez which encompasses the three main layers of Teloua,
Tchirezrine 1 & 2, located about 45 km from Agadez.
*   Withdrawals in this area as planned under the proposed project will not have negative impacts on
the groundwater resources, provided they are monitored regularly.
*   The new feeding pipe designed to convey water will be constructed along the existing road.
-92 -



*   The construction of a new reservoir will not have any social or environmental impacts.
Other Urban Centers: Extension of water production and storage installation.
*   Withdrawals in these areas as planned under the proposed project will not have negative impacts
on the groundwater resources, provided they are monitored regularly. Most of the investments are
related to rehabilitation of existing capacities.
Temporary impacts related to construction activities (all sites)
*  Various temporary nuisances on the surrounding populations during construction.
Project Component 3: Rural Water and Rural Sanitation
Sanitation, hygiene, and health education: This component is intended to contribute to the improvement
of rural water supply, sanitation, and hygiene. Despite past efforts to provide latrines, the sanitary
conditions of the population have continued to worsen due to the development of water-related diseases.
The coverage rate of 52 percent for rural water supply is misleading as many installations do not work. As
regards rural sanitation, the treatment rate for excreta is less than 5 percent. Thus, it is planned, among
other things, to rehabilitate 50 mini-water supply facilities, about 180 blocs of latrines in schools and health
centers, and about 15 blocs of latrines for community markets. In addition, hygiene education and
awareness campaigns will be supported by the proposed project.
*   Various temporary nuisances on the surrounding populations during construction.
Project Component 4: Urban Sanitation
The urban sanitation component under the proposed project aims at testing mechanisms and technologies
designed to improve the sanitary conditions of the poor segments of the population living in the peri-urban
areas, and to improve access to sanitation at the household, community and school levels. This will involve
investments in sanitation facilities such as latrines or cesspools for households, public areas, and schools,
as well as public information activities, and institutional strengthening.
*   Potential impacts are related to the continued inappropriate wastewater excreta disposal from
individual, self-contained sanitation systems that will have a negative impact on the urban
environment (groundwater resources, odors).
II.    Description of mitigation and monitoring measures of the EMP
Project Component 2: Urban Water Supply
Niamey: Extension of water production plants and the distribution system
* To compensate for income losses, the proposed project will provide a total of $US30,000. This
amount will cover the losses due to (a) the laying of the connecting pipe which will affect 10 small
farmers (FCFA300,000 per small farmer, totaling CFA 3,000,000); and (b) the construction of the
pre-decantation basin and laying of a new treatment line (involving I hectare of land, at a rate of
FCFA 1,500/m2, totaling FCFA 15,000,000.). The total amount of FCFA 18,000,000 has been
converted and rounded up to $US30,000.
-93 -



*  Indirect impacts: In an effort to prevent further damages to the ceinture verte of Niamey, it is
requested that the staff of the Ministry of Environment and members of the communaute de
Niamey responsible for the ceinture verte conduct periodic monitoring of the area and report the
results in order to assess and prevent the extent of urban development pressures.
*   Sludge disposal from drinking water plants: Sludge treatment processes to be included in the
detailed technical studies and bidding documents, in order to avoid possible sedimentation at the
water intake infrastructure of Goudel and to reduce sludge disposal in the Niger River.
Zinder: Project redesign
The proposed project now incorporates the water production project developed by the Chinese cooperation,
located 25 km north of Zinder. It will support the development of the Tegama aquifer in the new well fields
of Arougousa. Studies have shown that, with natural recharge, the Tegama aquifer can sustain withdrawals
of 5,000 m3/day. The proposed project will finance: (i) preliminary studies pertaining to geophysical
circumstances, hydrogeology, well identification and exploitation; and (ii) provision of water conveyance
systems. The well fields at Gogo-Machaya will supply 5,000 m3/day.
*   To improve the living conditions of the population in the Gogo-Machaya-Droum  area, the
proposed project will include a local environmental development program  for this area
(US$155,000). In the course of appraisal it was noted that the Gogo-Machaya-Droum area is
characterized by severe desertification due to the operation of the current water supply system
built in the early 1980's. As a result, the population living in the area has experienced a permanent
drop in the water level, a reduction in agricultural areas, loss of vegetation, and desertification of
the valley.
*   A groundwater monitoring system, including a piezometric network, is required to ascertain
periodic variations due to withdrawals for drinking purposes and other uses. The costs are included
in AEP Zinder casier nord.
Agadez: Extension of water production capacity
The multi-layered sandstone aquifer of Agadez contains significant amounts of water and is the only
sustainable water source for the city in the long run. To illustrate, the lowering of the water level by I m
can lead to a loss of 650 million m3. However, the recharge rate of this aquifer is weak.
*  A piezometric network will be provided under the proposed project, with regular, systematic
monitoring of the level variations of the aquifer, and systematic reporting.
Dosso, Diffa, Maradi, Tahoua and Other Urban Centers
*   Regular, systematic monitoring of the level variations of the aquifer, and systematic reporting.
Tillabery: Extension of water supply systems
*   As the water withdrawals from the Niger River do not pose a threat to the resource, no mitigation
measures are required.
- 94 -



Impacts of construction activities at all sites
* Environmental guidelines as well as social and sanitary precautions will be included in the bidding
documents for private construction contractors to limit environmental impacts and inconveniences
to the population. Requirements would include systematic consultations with the local population,
outline of construction areas, appropriate disposal of construction materials, and provision of
information to the local population about sanitary risks, including HIV/AIDS, due to the presence
of numerous workers.
Project Component 3: Rural Water and Rural Sanitation
Sanitation, hygiene, and health education: In addition to the project's provision of water supply system
rehabilitation, household latrines construction and promotion of sanitation and water supply programs at
schools and health centers, it is proposed to reduce potential social and environmental impacts due to
construction activities by:
*   Implementing the three elements (water supply/sanitation/health education) of the component
simultaneously.
*  Environmental guidelines as well as social and sanitary precautions included in the bidding
documents for private construction contractors to limit environmental impacts and inconveniences
to the population. Requirements would include systematic consultations with the local population,
appropriate disposal of construction materials, outline of construction areas, and provision of
information to the local population about sanitary risks, including HIV/AIDS, due to the presence
of numerous workers.
Project Component 4: Urban Sanitation
Niamey
*   Design of appropriate wastewater disposal facilities. This measure complements the provision of
infrastructure (private latrines, shared systems, public latrines, promotion of sanitation and hygiene
education, and school sanitation) under the proposed project.
III.   Description of the potential environmental and social impacts of the mitigation measures
Project Component 2: Urban Water Supply
Niamey
Extension of water production plants: Compensating the market gardeners for their income losses due to
construction activities will have favorable impacts. The affected market gardeners will have the necessary
financial resources to bridge a temporary income gap.
Indirect impacts: As urban development pressures will increase during implementation of the proposed
project, periodic monitoring of the ceinture verte of Niamey is intended to at least slow down the current
trends towards deforestation and the use of the area as a waste receptor.
Sludge disposal: Effective drinking water sludge treatment will reduce the risks to water quality, water
intake infrastructure, and sedimentation of the Niger River.
- 95 -



Zinder: Project redesign. The environmental and social impacts of the proposed measure will be very
significant:
*   Limiting water production to 5,000 m3/day at the Gogo-Machaya aquifer will conserve
groundwater resources in the long run, and will contribute to a regeneration of the environment
south of Zinder as less water will be withdrawn from this aquifer.
* The development of a new water source at the Tegama aquifer will provide 5,000 m3/day. Studies
have shown that this quantity can be sustained on the basis of infiltration through precipitation.
* Combined, the Gogo-Machaya aquifer and the Tegama aquifer will provide 10,000 m3/day,
thereby meeting the increasing demand for drinking water estimated between 9,000 m3/day and
10,000 m3/day.
* Groundwater monitoring will be a critical activity to avoid a lowering of the water table in the
aquifers given the population's increasing demand for potable water.
* The local environmental development program in the Gogo-Machaya-Droum area will aim at (i)
the provision of new wells to restore market gardening activities; (ii) organization and development
of agricultural activities; and (iii) restoration of the vegetation cover, regeneration of biology, and
reversing desertification in the area. 10,100 inhabitants, including 640 gardeners, living in eleven
villages will be affected. They will be assisted by a Nigerian NGO.
Dosso, Diffa, Maradi, Tahoua, and Other Urban Centers
*   Ground water monitoring will ensure the long-term safety of these water resources.
Agadez: Extension of production capacity. The benefits of the development of new water resources will
be significant:
3   The groundwater level of the Kori Teloua aquifer will increase as a result of fewer withdrawals.
3 As the water level rises, the banks of the Kori River will be revitalized.
* Regular grounclwater monitoring and systematic reporting will be critical in view of the weak
recharge rate of this aquifer.
Tillabery: Extension of water supply system.
* No specific mitigation measures are required.
Impacts of construction activities at all sites: Requiring private construction contractors to adopt
environmental guidelines and to consult with the local population, to provide information on sanitary risks,
including HIV/AIDS, to use construction methods that will reduce the levels of dust, noise, as well as
requiring appropriate disposal of materials will reduce potential impacts on the health of the population as
well as the environment.
Project Component 3: Rural Water and Rural Sanitation
The positive environmental and social impacts of the proposed mitigation measures will be twofold. First,
the health of the rural population will improve as the contracting process will ensure that the investments in
water supplies, sanitation facilities, and hygiene education will be provided simultaneously, thereby
educating the rural population how to handle improved access to water supplies effectively. Second,
requiring private construction contractors to adopt environmental guidelines and to consult with the local
population, to provide information on sanitary risks, including HIV/AIDS, to use construction methods that
- 96 -



will reduce the levels of dust, noise, as well as requiring appropriate disposal of materials will reduce
potential impacts on the health of the population as well as the environment.
Project Component 4: Urban Sanitation
Niamey
The provision for the design of an adequate waste disposal site for excreta is intended to protect
groundwater resources from further contamination and to contribute to an improvement in the health of the
population. The Environmental Management Plan (EMP) includes $US50,000 for the design of a
specialized site to receive excreta from self-contained and semi-collective wastewater treatment systems.
This site will be chosen with the agreement and support of the communaute urbaine of Niamey and will
regroup waste in order to avoid existing nuisances due to inappropriate practices.
MONITORING PLAN
IV. Description and technical details of monitoring measures
Project Component 2: Urban Water Supply
Niamey
Medium-term: Implementation of compensation measures for income losses.
SPNE staff will be responsible for the implementation of this mitigation measure. Prior to effectiveness of
the proposed project, SPNE will contact the affected market gardeners. Jointly, they will agree on a process
of relinquishing the use of the land and the transfer of the compensation.
Long-term: Ceinture verte. As part of their regular responsibilities, one staff of the Ministry of
Environment and members of the communaute urbaine de Niamey will periodically visit the ceinture verte
to assess the extent of urban development pressures on the area. They will regularly prepare reports which
outline the steps that have been taken to treat and/or prevent damages.
Zinder, Agadez, Dosso, Diffa, Maradi, Tahoua, and Other Urban Centers
In the context of their current responsibilities for groundwater monitoring, regional DRE staff will
regularly monitor the groundwater resources. (For Zinder and Agadez, piezometric networks would have
been set up before, financed under the proposed project.)
A local NGO will be responsible for implementing a local environmental development program in the
Gogo-Machaya-Droum area.
SPNE will be responsible for ensuring that the bidding documents for construction activities will require
contractors to adopt environment-friendly construction techniques pertaining, for example, to waste
management, truck traffic in villages, dust, disposal of construction materials, and to provide information
on social and sanitary risks, including HIV/AIDS.
The implementation of the above mentioned measures will be monitored by the BEEEI, as part of its
legal responsibility. This agency will report on the implementation of the EMP to the government and to the
financial agencies.
Project Component 3: Rural Water and Rural Sanitation
The control of wastewater in rural areas is the regular responsibility of regional DIH/D HP staff. DIH/DHP
- 97 -



will be responsible for implementing the water/sanitation/health education component simultaneously which
will be stipulated in the bidding documents. BEEEI will monitor the implementation of this component.
V.    Capacity development measures and training
Bureau des evaluations environnementales et des etudes d'impact (BEEEI). The BEEEI will be
responsible for the implementation of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP).  BEEEI was
established in 1998, and the legal framework defining its organizational and operational structures as well
as administrative procedures for environmental impact assessment have been approved by the Ministry of
Environment. To fulfill its mandate, BEEEI will require sufficient human and financial resources. To
ensure effective monitoring of the EMP, the projrct includes US$40,000 for BEEEI.
Direction des Ressources en Eau (DRE): DRE is responsible for monitoring water resources and
conducting water quality analyses. DRE currently monitors all aquifers affected by the project. They are
using piezometric networks which give information on the available water volume in each aquifer. They
report the information to a data bank within DRE, and regularly review and compare the information
obtained. DRE will benefit from a study dealing with institutional capacity building in ground water
pollution management to be prepared under the capacity building component under the proposed project.
DRE has sufficient human and financial resources to fulfill the additional monitoring responsibilities under
the proposed project.
Direction des de l'Inventaire et la Gestion des Infrastructures Hydrauliques (DGOH): DIGOH will
coordinate the sanitation component with the Direction de l'Hygiene Publique (DHP). It is proposed that
DIGOH/DHP be responsible for the design of appropriate wastewater disposal facilities as proposed in the
EMP.
- 98 -



EMP SUMMARY TABLE
Measures         Implementing Agency          Timing                 Costs
Requirement to        DIH/DHP                      Project start
contractors to address
simultaneously the needs
for sanitation and public
health issues in the rural
water component
Public Education and    UCP                        Project start    Costs included under
Demand Management                                                   Institutional
Campaigns                                                           Strengthening
Component: Studies &
Technical Support
Promotion of sanitation  DIH/DHP                   Project start    Costs included in Rural
systems                                                             and Urban Sanitation
Components
Environmental guidelines SPNE, DIH                 Project start
for construction activities
as well as social and
sanitary precautions,
including HIV/AIDS, to
be included in the bidding
documents to address
potential negative social
and environmental
impacts
Groundwater Monitoring:                          Project duration    None
Dosso, Diffa, Maradi,   DRE
Tahoua: periodic
monitoring of
groundwaters
(a) Costs included under
Zinder, Agadez: (a)   (a) SPNE                                      Urban WVater Component
Establishment of                                                    (b) None
piezometric networks to  (b) DRE
monitor the new well
fields; (b) periodic
monitoring of
groundwaters;
Local environmental   UCP with local NGO         Project duration    US$155,000
development program in
Zinder to address
environmental issues and
prevent further
desertification of the
valley of
Gogo-Machaya-Droum
-99 -



Provision for design of   DIH/DHP/Communaute     Urban sanitation    US$50,000
appropriate wastewater  of Niamey                 component start
disposal facilities from
self-contained sanitation
systems in Niamey
Sludge treatment      SPNE                         Project start    Costs included in Urban
processes to be included                                             Water Component:
in the detailed technical                                            Studies & Supervision
studies and the bidding
documents
Compensation for lost   SPNE                       Project start    US$30,000
income from market
gardening activities due
to the construction of
pipes in Niamey
Periodic monitoring of   Ministry of Environment/    Project duration  None
the green area ("ceinture communaute de Niamey
verte") of Niamey and
regular reporting
Support to BEEEI for   BEEEI                       Project start    US$40,000
equipment, operating
expenses, dissemination
of EA texts to enable
them to monitor
implementation of the
EMP and the reporting
Legal framework        Government of           In the two first years  None
outlining the         Niger/Ministry of         from the Project start
responsibilities in    Environment
environmental impact
assessment to be
approved by the
govenmuent
Total                                                       US$275,000
-100 -



Additional
Annex 12
Lettre de politique sectorielle
de l'hydraulique urbaine
Repubhlique du Niger
FraternitW - Travail - Progres
Ministere du Plan                                Ministere des Ressources en Eau
Les Ministres
A
Monsieur James WOLFENSOHN
President de la Banque mondiale
1818, H. Street N.W
Washington, D.C. 20433 USA
Monsieur le President,
Nous voudrions par la pr6sente vous indiquer les lignes directrices de la lettre de politique sectorielle de
I'hydraulique urbaine qui reflete la vision du Gouvemement du Niger sur 1'evolution du secteur de
Ihydraulique urbaine.
Rappel des erands principes de la politique nationale en matiere d'hydraulique urbaine
Le Niger dispose d'un potentiel hydraulique considerable compose notamment de:
* 30 milliards de m3 par an d'ecoulement superficiel concentre en grande partie dans le fleuve Niger
(moins de 1% actuellement exploite);
-   2,5 milliards de m3 d'ecoulement souterrain par an (moins de 20 % exploites pour les besoins de
Phydraulique villageoise, pastorale et urbaine);
*   2000 milliards de m3 d'eau souterraine constituant une reserve non renouvelable (une infime partie
est utilisee dans le cadre des activites minieres du Nord du pays).
La mobilisation de cet important potentiel se heurte a des contraintes d'ordre technique socio-economique
et institutionnel, en particulier l'approvisionnement en eau potable des centres urbains situes en zone de
socle et dans le cadre du partage des eaux avec d'autres pays.
Le partage des eaux du fleuve Niger et l'intervention en generale dans l'ecosysteme affectant le bassin du
fleuve est regle par les Conventions de l'Autorite du Bassin du Niger,avec laquelle le Gouvernement se
propose de cooperer dans l'exploitation de la ressource.
Le r6le du secteur de l'eau dans la stimulation des forces productrices du pays justifie amplement la
priorite que les autorites nigeriennes lui accordent regulierement.
Pour atteindre les objectifs assignes a ce secteur, le Niger s'est dote d'une politique nationale en la matiere
dont les principes reposent sur la maitrise et la gestion adequates des ressources en eau, la preservation de
la sante des populations et la protection de 1'environnement.
- 101 -



Ainsi, les grands axes de la politique de l'eau sont:
*   Ia meilleure connaissance et la maitrise des ressources en eau;
*   I'amelioration de la couverture des besoins en eau des populations et de leur cadre de vie a travers
notamment un programme hardi de rehabilitation, de realisation et de maintenance des ouvrages
existants
*   Ia protection de la ressource en eau, de la qualite de l'eau et des ecosystemes  aquatiques;
*   Ia valorisation des ressources en eau a travers une meilleure organisation des filieres;
*   I'appui a tous les secteurs de production tout en recherchant une meilleure adequation entre couits
d'investissements, d'entretien et de fonctionnement des infrastructures hydrauliques;
*   l'implication et la responsabilisation de Collectivites Locales dans la gestion du secteur, en faisant
proceder au transfert de certains des domaines de competences de l'Etat aux Collectivites Locales
dont l'organisation et les attributions sont definies par la loi du 6 Fevrier 1996;
*   Ia Promotion du Secteur Prive et de la Societe Civile pour la gestion du secteur par le renforcement
de leurs capacites dans la prise en charge de la maitrise d'ceuvre des ouvrages et infrastructures
hydrauliques;
*   la pleine participation des populations a la conception et a la realisation des travaux, l'amelioration
de la prise en charge des infrastructures, la clarification et le respect des r6les des differents
partenaires (Etat, collectivites, secteur prive, populations beneficiaires) et la securisation des droits
d'exploitation.
La prise en compte effective des exigences environnementales dans la conception, la planification et la mise
en oeuvre des programmes hydrauliques. Les mesures d'attenuation des impacts des projets sur
l'environnement seront identifiees et prises en compte dans un Programme de Gestion Environnementale qui
sera partie integrante de chaque projet.
SOUS-SECTEUR DE 1'HYDRAULIQUE URBAINE
Situation actuelle et problematique
Le sous-secteur de l'hydraulique urbaine a connu une forte evolution durant la Decennie Internationale de 1'
Eau Potable et de l'assainissement (DIEPA - 1981/1990) avec la realisation de 70 prograrmmes concemant
les infrastructures d'implantation de nouveaux reseaux d'adduction d'eau potable (AEP) dans les centres
secondaires, 1'extension et le renforcement des reseaux existants. L'investissement consenti a cet effet est de
l'ordre de 23 milliards FCFA.
La Societe Nationale des Eaux (SNE) a et creee en 1987 pour assurer la gerance du service public d'AEP
en milieu urbain et semi-urbain. Elle gere actuellement 51 centres class6s en 3 types.
Les caracteristiques essentielles du sous-secteur de l'hydraulique urbaime en fin 1998 se presentent cornme
suit:
Nombre de centres geres             51
Population concemee                  1300 000 habitants
Production annuelle                 30 500 000 m3
Volume annuel distribue             25 300 000 m3
Rendement de facturation                    80 %
Nombre de branchement factures              45 000
- 102 -



Chiffre d'affaires                    5017 millions de FCFA
Cependant, des efforts importants restent A foumir dans les domaines de la gestion de la ressource, de
l'approvisionnement en eau potable et de la desserte en eau des centres urbains. En effet, les villes de
Niamey et Tillaberi, dont la ressource est essentiellement constituee par le fleuve Niger, sont
periodiquement menacees de p6nurie. Les villes d'Agadez, de Zinder et A un degr6 moindre, Diffa,
connaissent egalement des problemes lies A la ressource en eau.
Aussi un nombre important de gros villages de plus de 2000 habitants, equipes de reseaux sormmaires
d'AEP aspirent A etre pris en compte dans le sous-secteur de l'hydraulique urbaine.
Sur un autre plan, 1'exploitation des centres existants est confrontee a des problemes de vetuste des
6quipements et de limite de capacite des installations d'une part, et de gestion (tarification inadaptee,
recouvrement des impayes de l'administration), d'autre part.
Politiqiue et obiectifs sous-sectoriels
De la Politique
Dans le cadre de la politique nationale en matiere d'hydraulique urbaine, sont consideres comme centres
urbains: tous les chefs-lieux de regions, de departements, d'arrondissements, les communes urbaines et
rurales, les gros villages administratifs de plus de 2000 habitants equipes de reseaux sommaires
d'alimentation en eau potable.
Pour ces demiers, la gestion de leurs installations de production et de distribution d'eau pourra etre
transferee dans le domaine de l'hydraulique urbaine sous certaines conditions particulieres.
Des obiectifs sous-sectoriels
Les objectifs generaux s'inscrivent parfaitement dans le cadre de la politique de developpement economique
et social du pays et visent l'amelioration des conditions d'approvisionnement en eau potable des
populations. II s'agit:
*   d'ameliorer la desserte en eau potable des centres urbains; et
*   d'operer une reforme institutionnelle du sous-secteur.
En ce qui conceme l'amelioration de la desserte en eau potable des centres urbains, il s'agit de:
*   renforcer et/ou rehabiliter les installations au niveau des 51 centres dejA equipes.; et
*   faire des etudes devant aboutir A l'equipement de nouveaux centres qui seront transferes dans le
domaine de l'hydraulique urbaine.
S'agissant de la reforme institutionnelle, les objectifs assignes sont entre autres:
a) d'ameliorer les performances techniques et financieres du secteur en vue de reduire les charges
d'exploitation et de fonctionnement;
b) d'assurer au sous secteur, une gestion commerciale de type prive lui perrnettant d'encaisser
reguli&ement les factures d'eau y compris celles de l'administration et de recouvrer rapidement les arrieres
de l'Etat, en excluant toute ingerence indue du Gouvemement;
- 103 -



c) accroitre la desserte en eau par le developpement des systemes de production et de distribution;
d) atteindre 1'equilibre financier du sous secteur A l'horizon 2006 afin d'assurer la realisation des
programmes d'investissements sans recours A priori aux subventions de l'Etat.
e) creer une Autorite de Regulation Multisectonelle (ARM), dotee d' une personnalite morale de droit
public, independante, et disposant d'une autonomie financiere et de gestion.
Cette reforme vise la mise en place d'un cadre institutionnel approprie garantissant la viabilite financiere du
sous-secteur. Elle s'articule autour de quatre (4) principaux acteurs dont les attributions sont les suivantes:
Cadre institutionnel du sous secteur
a) I'Etat est charge de:
* Ia definition de la politique sectorielle;
*   la gestion des ressources en eau et de la salubrite environnementale;
*   1'elaboration du cadre legislatif et reglementaire et de la police des eaux; et
*   Ia politique tarifaire.
b) l'Autorite de Regulation Multisectorielle a pour mission de:
*   veiller A 1'application des textes legislatifs et reglementaires regissant les secteurs dans des
conditions objectives, transparentes et non discriminatoires;
*   proteger les int&&s des utilisateurs et des operateurs;
*   promouvoir le developpement efficace du secteur en veillant notamment A l'equilibre economique et
financier et A la preservation des conditions economiques necessaires a sa viabilite;
*   mettre en ceuvre les mecanismes de consultation des utilisateurs et des operateurs prevus par les
lois et reglements.
c) une Societe de Patrimoine des Eaux du Niger (SPEN) concessionnaire du sous secteur de
.'hydraulique urbaine, chargee de:
*   la gestion du patrimoine: mise en valeur, amortissement et service de la dette;
* le plan directeur, le programme des investissements et la recherche de financement;
*   Ia maitrise d'ouvrage des travaux de rehabilitation et de renouvellement de l'infrastructure;
*   Ia maitrise d'ouvrage des travaux neufs et d'extension de l'infrastructure;
*   Ia maitrise d'ouvre des projets (etudes et realisations); et
* la sensibilisation du public;
II est prevu que la Societe de Patrimoine des Eaux du Niger (SPEN) delegue au fernnier la realisation des
travaux de densification des branchements des bomes fontaines ainsi que les extensions des reseaux
tertiaires y afferentes. Cette delegation s'effectuera par le biais de contrats specifiques de travaux.
d) une Societe Privee d'Exploitation (fermier) chargee dans le cadre du contrat d'affermage de:
*   1'exploitation et l'entretien de l'infrastructure et du materiel d'exploitation;
*   le renouvellement du materiel d'exploitation, des branchements et des compteurs;
*   la maitrise d'ceuvre pour la rehabilitation, le renouvellement et l'extension des reseaux finances sur
fonds propres (equivalent kms A determiner suivant les diametres);
- 104 -



*   1'etude et la justification de la necessite de travaux de renouvellement de l'infrastructure;
*   I'etude et la motivation de la necessite de travaux d'extension de l'infrastructure;
*   Ia facturation et l'encaissement;
*   Ia communication et les relations avec la clientele.
Conformement A la politique nationale, elle assurera:
*   I'assainissement autour des points de desserte;
* Ia protection des zones de captage dans les limites de sa responsabilite; et
* Ia qualite physico-chimique et bacteriologique de l'eau distribuee.
Strategie de mise en oeuvre
Cette strategie doit permettre de parvenir A:
*   la gestion rationnelle des ressources en eau a travers la connaissance, la sauvegarde, la maitrise et la
valorisation des ressources en eau;
*   le renouvellement et le renforcement des systemes d'approvisionnement en eau potable pour accroitre la
desserte en eau et ameliorer le cadre de vie des populations;
*   l'application d'une politique tarifaire appropriee, en vue de restaurer 1'equilibre financier du secteur en
2006.
De fa,on specifique, la strategie se resume comme suit:
* Dans le domaine de l'alimentation en eau potable, la strategie dfimie vise l'amelioration de la
maintenance et de l'entretien des equipements, le renouvellement et le renforcement des systemes
d'approvisionnement en eau potable et plus particulierement dans les grandes agglomerations et le
renforcement institutionnel et financier du sous-secteur en vue de retablir son &'uilibre financier a
l'horizon 2006 et d'assurer sa croissance A moyen et long terme;
*   En ce qui conceme la gestion des ressources en eau, les axes retenus s'articulent autour d'une
meilleure connaissance et d'une protection efficace des ressources en eau et de la. mise en place d'un
cadre institutionnel approprie de concertation et de prise de decision garantissant une gestion
globale et coherente des ressources;
*   Impliquer le secteur prive dans la gestion du service public de l'eau.
PLAN D'ACTION SOUS-SECTORIEL
En partant de l'analyse de la situation actuelle du sous-secteur de l'hydraulique urbaine et des objectifs
vises par ledit sous-secteur, le plan d'action a court, moyen et long terme comprend:
Actions ur-entes
Reforme institutionnelle
a) Actions realisees
* Ia creation de la Societe de Patrimoine des Eaux du Niger (SPEN) par la loi No. 2000-12 du 14
aout 2000 et la nomination de son Directeur General par d6cret No. 2000-406-.PRN du 20 octobre
2000; et
- 105-



*   Ia creation de l'Autorite de Regulation Multisectorielle par la loi ; No 99-044 du 26 octobre 1999.
b) Actions a court terme:
*   Ia creation de la Societe d'Exploitation (en cours);
*   la realisation d'un programme d'investissements pour l'extension et la rehabilitation des
infrastructures devant accompagner la reforme du secteur.
Afm de limiter les augmentations tarifaires A un niveau acceptable, le financement de ce programme
d'investissement sera assure en partie sur fonds publics (prets concessionnels) et en partie sur fonds propres
de l'operateur prive dans le cadre de son contrat d'exploitation.
Mesures administratives et financieres
II s'agit de:
A. La reduction des consommations d'eau des administrations publiques et des etablissements a caractere
administratif par:
*   la mise a jour et la centralisation du fichier des abonnes administratifs. L'analyse de ce fichier
pernettra de deceler et par la suite d'e1iminer les cas de fraudes;
* I1'eaboration des budgets annuels sur la base de previsions realistes des consommations d'eau des
Administrations publiques;
*   la reahisation dans les meilleurs delais d'un pTogramme de rehabilitation des installations
interieures des administrations publiques;
B. Le paiement i bonne date des factures d'eau de I'Etat par:
*   I'adoption d'une liste restreinte d'abonnes Administratifs cautionnes, pour lesquels l'Etat garantit
le reglement des factures d'eau dans un dMlai maximum de deux (2) mois apr&s l'echeance des
factures fixee a quatre (4) mois;
_   l'obligation au fermier de suspendre la foumiture d'eau aux abonnes administratifs non cautionnes,
au meme titre que les abonnes prives particuliers (APP).
*   La mise en place d'un organe central de suivi des consommations et des reglements des factures
d'eau des Administrations.
C. L'equilibre financier du sous secteur:
le Gouvemement du Niger s'engage a assurer 1'equilibre financier du sous-secteur de l'hydraulique urbaine
A l'horizon 2006. A cet egard, des hausses tarifaires moyennes annuelles de l'ordre de 5 a 6% seront
appliquees sur la periode 2002-2006, conformement aux projections actuelles du modele financier. Le
premier ajustement tarifaire de 4,89 % est intervenu en Fevrier 2000.
La grille tarifaire de l'eau sera revisee pour tenir compte de l'evolution de la demande des differentes
categories de consommateurs et assurer une meilleure repartition des hausses tarifaires sur les differentes
tranches de consommation.
DMveloppement des capacites.
- 106 -



II s'agit de:
* services de consultants, destines notamment a la realisation d'etudes techniques complementaires;
*   assistances techniques diverses; et formation.
Actions a court et moven terme (2001-2006)
Elles sont constituees d'un certain nombre de projet identifies:
*   7 projets concernant les centres principaux que sont: Niamey, Maradi, Tahoua, Zinder, Agadez,
Dosso et Tillaberi;
*   projet de rehabilitation des centres secondaires concemant l'ensemble des 43 centres secondaires
exploites;
*   projet de realisation de branchements sociaux et des bomes fontaines.
Actions a long terme (2006-2015)
*   projets ayant pour objet le developpement etlou le renforcement des systemes d'AEP de nouveaux
centres pouvant etre integres dans le perimetre afferme.
N.B.: Le Plan de Reduction des consommations d'eau des administrations publics et le paiement
regulier des factures d 'eau de ces administrations est annexe ai la presente lettre de politique sectorielle
de l 'hydraulique urbaine.
Fait a Washington, D.C. le 8 mars 2001
Maliki Barhouni                                                Elhadj Akoli Daouel
Ministre du Plan                                               Ministre des Ressources en
Eau
- 107 -



Lettre de politique sectorielle
de I'hydraulique rurale
Republique du Niger
Fraternite - Travail - Progres
Ministere du Plan                                      Ministere des Ressources en Eau
Les Ministres
A
Monsieur James WOLFENSOHN
President de la Banque mondiale
1818, H. Street N.W
Washington, D.C. 20433 USA
Monsieur le President,
Nous voudrions par la presente vous indiquer les lignes directrices de la lettre de politique sectorielle de
llhydraulique rurale qui reflete la vision du Gouvernement du Niger sur l'evolution du sous secteur de I'
hydraulique rurale.
1.     Apereu 2kn6ral du sous-secteur de l'hydraulique rurale
Le sous-secteur de 1'hydraulique rurale, englobe tous les aspects relatifs A l'approvisionnement en eau des
populations rurales et du cheptel. II se subdivise en deux volets que sont VIhydraulique villageoise et
l'hydraulique pastorale. Le sous-secteur de l'hydraulique rural a connu une evolution assez significative, du
debut des annees 1960 a nos jours.
A.    Historigue
Avant 1980: Les ouvrages d'hydrauliques rurales etaient constitues essentiellement des puits cimentes. On
denombrait alors 5120 PEM au Niger au debut de lannee 1980. Le parc hydraulique se comptait ainsi
4959 puits ciment6s et 161 forages. A la meme epoque on denombrait environ 1900 ouvrages pastoraux,
dont pres de 300 puits cimentes, 50 stations de pornpage, 10 puits-forages et pour le reste des puits
traditionnels. L'entretien des PEM etait assure par l'OFEDES (Office des Eaux du Sous-Sol) dont les
attributions incluaient l'inventaire et l'entretien des puits et forages ruraux ainsi que le fonctionnement des
stations de pompage en zone pastorale.
A partir de 1980: Le sous-secteur de l'hydraulique rurale a connu un essor consid6rable grace a la DIEPA
(Decennie Internationale de l'Eau Potable et de l'Assainissement 1981-1990) avec la realisation de 927.
points d'eau modemes : puits cimentes et forages equipes de pompes A motricite humaine (PMJ-.
Toutefois, pour des raisons techniques et financieres, ces realisations ont privilegie les forages par rapport
aux puits. Elles ont necessite un investissement de plus de 80 milliards de F CFA et 16,2 milliards dans le
domaine de l'assainissement.
Les premieres annees de la DIEPA, se singularisent par la realisation de forages equipes de PMH sans
consultation prealable des beneficiaires. De surcroit, la gratuite de la maintenance a contribue A maintenir
- 108 -



le nombre de pompes en panne tres eleve avec des charges recurrentes insupportables par I'Etat. A la fin de
I' annee 1982, le nombre de puits s'61evait a 5 889 et l'OFEI)ES estimait le cout de 1'entretien a 50 000 F
CFA par an et par puits. En 1983 1'entretien systematique des puits a ete supprim6 et devait etre remplace
par un systeme d'entretien a la demande et remuner6 a la tache.
A partir de 1985: I'Etat a decide de se desengager du systAme inadequat et cofiteux d'entretien des
equipements hydrauliques devenus de plus en plus nombreux et varies, pour se consacrer aux r6les de
coordination et de contr6le des differentes activites.
B.     Situation actuelle-probf6matigue
L'Etat est en train de reviser sa position d'acteur principal dans le processus de recherche de fmancement et
de mise en ceuvre des projets et programmes d'hydraulique rurale. D6sormais ces projets et programmes
comportent un volet animation-sensibilisation en vue d'assurer une meilleure implication et l'entiere
adhesion des populations.
Des enquetes socio-economiques systematiques permettent dTappr6cier le choix des b6n6ficiaires, leur degr6
de motivation et le niveau de participation physique et financiere en fonction du type d'ouvrage. II n'en
demeure pas moins qu'un certain nombre d'obstacles naturels (climat, hydrogeologie), economiques
(ressources limitees de l'Etat, pauvrete), socioculturels (analphabetisme, nomadisme,..), irstitutionnels
(maitrise des effectifs des populations, absence des services techniques dans certaines sous-regions etc ...)
entravent le developpement du sous-secteur.
1.     Hydraulique villazeoise
Une des difficulte majeure en hydraulique rurale est la non maitrise du nombre exact des Points d'Eau
Modemes (puits et forages) et de leur etat de fonctionnement. On estime qu'environ 40 % des pompes a
motricite humaine (ou de forages) sont en panne et une proportion importante de pompes vieilles de plus de
10 ans. En en tenant pas compte des taux d'ouvrages en 6tat de non-fonctionnement, on estime a la date du
31 Decembre 1998, la situation de l'hydraulique villageoise comme suit:
- nombre de PEM existants                          17 230
- besoins en PEM                                          32 771
- taux de couverture des besoins en PEM            51 %
- nombre de mini-aep existantes                    256
- besoins en mini-AEP                              800
- taux de couverture des besoins en mini-AEP       32 %
Le mode de gestion communautaire actuellement pratiquee sur la quasi-totalite des reseaux de mini-AEP a
montre ses limites. De serieuses insuffisances se sont averees aux niveaux de la securisation des fonds
generes par la vente de 1'eau, de la stabilite des membres des comites de gestion ainsi que dans l'implication
des femmes aux postes pr6ponderants des comites de gestion.
2.     Hydraulique pastorale
L'abreuvement du cheptel du Niger est surtout probl6matique dans les limites de la zone pastorale et de la
zone intermediaire (300-400 mm/an) durant les neufs (9) mois de la saison seche. Les prelevements actuels
sont infiniment petits par rapport aux ressources des aquiieres. Les difficultes majeures du sous secteur
proviennent de la mobilisation des ressources en eau et de l'exploitation des ressources fourrageres. II s'y
- 109 -



ajoute la mauvaise repartition des ouvrages de captage, le surpaturage A proximite de grosses stations de
pompage et les problemes socio-economiques tels que l'appropriation des ouvrages et les conflits entre
pasteurs et agriculteurs.
II.    Politique et obiectifs sous- sectoriels
A.     De la politiclue
L'hydraulique rurale se compose de l'hydraulique villageoise et de I'hydraulique pastorale. Dans le cadre
de la politique nationale en matiere d'hydraulique villageoise, sont consideres comme centres ruraux tous
les centres inferieurs a 2000 habitants. Les centres dont la population est superieure a 2000 habitants mais
non pris en compte par le sous secteur de l'hydraulique urbaine restent du domaine du rural.
L'hydraulique pastorale concerne les points d'eau realises en zone pastorale ou equipes de superstructures
specifiques en zone agricole.
La politique du Niger en matiere d'hydraulique rurale est fondee sur le concept odu droit A l'eau pour tous
>> mais aussi <<du devoir pour les beneficiaires d'entretenir leur point d'eau et de proteger la ressource>.
Cette politique comprend aussi la prise en compte systematique d'un volet hygiene et assainissement, et
l'amelioration de 1'exhaure dans tout projet et programme d'hydraulique rurale. Elle repose enfin sur la
responsabilisation des Collectivites Locales (arrondissements et communes) dans la gestion du sous secteur
par un desengagement progressif de l'Etat.
B.     Des obiectifs sous-sectoriels
Les objectifs sous sectoriels sont definis dans les documents cadre que sont le Schema Directeur de Mise
en Valeur et de Gestion des Ressources en Eau, et le document de politique et strategies. Les principaux
objectifs sont:
*   L'amelioration de la couverture des besoins en eau des populations et de leur cadre de vie en vue
d'atteindre un taux de couverture de 70% en l'an 2004;
* La promotion du secteur prive et la pleine participation de la societe civile (Associations d'usagers)
dans la gestion et la prise en charge de la maitrise d'cmuvre deleguee des ouvrages et infrastructures
hydrauliques;
*   L'appui A la production animale;
C.     Strat6gies de mise en ceuvre
La nouvelle approche preconis&e vise A resoudre les problemes recurrents du sous-secteur. Elle repose
essentiellement sur la clarification du r6le et des responsabilites des diff&ents acteurs a savoir l'Etat, les
Collectivites Territoriales, les Associations d'Usagers ainsi que le Secteur Prive.
*   L'Etat est responsable de la definition de la politique du sous secteur;
*   La maitrise d'ouvrage est de la responsabilit6 de l'Etat qui la delegue aux collectivites territoriales.
Ces dernieres peuvent sous certaines conditions la retroceder aux associations d'usagers;
*   Les associations d'usagers assurent la maitrise d'oeuvre de gestion qu'elles peuvent deleguer aux
operateurs pnives ou A toute autre structure competente.
Pour atteindre ces objectifs, les strat6gies consistent A;
- 110-



*   L'elaboration de programmes coherents de rehabilitation et de maintenance des ouvrages
hydrauliques;
*   La formation des usagers et des acteurs du secteur prive, le renforcement des reseaux d'artisans
reparateurs ainsi que des structures de vente de pieces detachees;
*   L'adequation  entre infrastructures hydrauliques, potentiel fourrager et capital betail par
l'organisation des parcours et la formation des eleveurs en relation avec les autres minist&es
concemrs;
*   L'appui conseil aux associations d'usagers ainsi qu'un suivi accru du parc hydraulique par les
structures decentralisees de l'Etat;
La mise en place effective de la decentralisation renforcera la, responsabilite des populations et ameliorera
le systeme de suivi et de prise en charge des ouvrages par leurs beneficiaires.
III.   Plan d'action sous-sectoriel
En partant de l'analyse de la situation actuelle du sous secteur de l'hydraulique rurale et des objectifs fixes,
le plan d'action a court, moyen et long terme vise A:
A.    A court et moyen terme (d'ici 5 ans )
*   Apporter des correctifs aux projets en cours et ceux en instance de demarrage pour une approche
qui tient compte de l'integration approvisionnement en eau potable et assainissement, tout en
am6liorant les systemes d'exhaure;
*   Ameliorer la gestion, la maintenance des infrastructures hydrauliques et le systeme de suivi par
l'implication effective d'operateurs prives;
*   Favoriser des operations d'optimisation et de rehabilitation (remise a niveau technique, formation,
consolidation...) dans les localites pourvues de points d'eau modernes, de mini-AEP ou de stations
de pompage pastorales;
*   Promouvoir des mesures d'accompagnement sur les plans legislatif, institutionnel et promotionnel
du secteur prive;
* Renforcer les capacites nationales en matiere d'AEP/Assainissement en milieu rural et
d'hydraulique pastorale;
*   Impliquer davantage les femmes dans les comites de gestion;
* Mettre en place un programme d'information, 6ducation et communication (IEC) en vue de
sensibiliser les populations sur les risques des maladies hydriques et leurs droits et responsabilites
dans la gestion et la maintenance des ouvrages hydrauliques.
B.     A long terme (10 prochaines annees)
*   Poursuivre les actions entamees pendant le court et rnoyen terme;
*   Reduire les disparites regionales en matiere d'infrastrucxtures hydrauliques et deconcentrer et
decentraliser les services techniques ayant en charge l'approvisionnement en eau des populations
Fait a Washington DC, le 8 Mars 2001.
Maliki Barhouni                                                    Elhadj Akoli Daouel
Minstre du Plan                                                    Ministre des ressources en Eau
-111 -






IBRD 31315
o                            5910c                                                                                                                   15
-a-...           .-'*   ~-..              LIBYA
NIGER                                                                                                         '.
WATER SECTOR PROJECT 
5  PROJECT CITIES                                                                                                      \'.
VILLES DU PROJET                                                                        eN   F A                     X N.                  "             N
PAVED ROADS                                                             \           \     .e,    i                                             I                            i
ROUTES PERMANENTES                                                                F              I                           i     I         I                             I
EARTH ROADS                                                                          .\
ROUTES EN TERRE                                                                    .             ,
-.-~.RIVERS                                                                             t.'~It     
FLEUVES                                                                        _---           1                                                                                t
DISTRICT CAPITALS                                                          I                                                        ,         I
CHEF-LIEU D'ARROND15SEMENT                                                                                                                                                         \
DEPARTMENT CAPITALS                                                   .                                                                                                              ;
CHEF-LIEU DE DEPARTEMENT
-20-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
20      tik1   ~NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                  Zf~TB I L M A 
CAPITALE NATIONALE                                                                         A R L I T                                                                                                                       2n -
LIMITE D'ARRONDISSEMENT                                    /                                _
DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                            .            tI, p'                                         A   G   AID   E  Z
LIMITE DDEPARTEMENT                           '-         N,                                                            A D   E 
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES      --       '                    '' 'I   t         A   /
FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES     L         -         ,        l / ' |           P                                         I
I ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     i //I                I                        I/                     *EI _-J
/ } ,r, _=__             I                                  I                                                        r             C H A D
!ll' Z- c-                     - .I
t , J o .... -,wly ~~~~~~~~~~~c H                                  r H  O  A E R I N E ,j
M A L I                        TCHIN-I                                                                     ICHA
| v oX * ............~~..                               \       C ~       OZ RN                                               -z <ihgorn   
MALI    ~~~~    (" ~~TABARADENE                 "It"                                              .I                                                                                 0   150  150   200
Ii    TAHOUA                                                                                                     DIFFA
-~~~~~                            -dl.                                                                                                                                                 b  d,!~    - -
I,                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TIh. Wa1Id S.L G-op, a-y ad g-ll,t
<__R/N    B       O Y E/   TAH                                                       TAO                          G O  U  R
II      4A ''NE Y'
N           )         i MAYAHI       t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(n1 ~~~~~ALGERIA                                                                      -           IY
LOD~   r~    KNNI       MGUMiED                                                                                                    al M.                           .-t
Ao~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ MALI
IP  ~       A     NIGER
/URKINA    (        -
B U R K,I-~N A                                                                                                                                                                                                      NGR
F A S                                   Do~Z NIGERIA ~/nAI~                                                                                                                                                                  
BE    IN~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~  5~~~~~             to,                                                      .d' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~             r          APR CAN REPUBLIC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FP CNREUBI
MARCH 2001



