                                              Documentof
                                            The World Bank

                                     FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                             ReportNo: 35613-NE




                                           PROJECTPAPER

                                                  ON A

                       PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCINGCREDIT

                              INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR7.0MILLION
                                 (US$lO MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                TO THE

                                        REPUBLICOFNIGER

                                                 FOR A

                                    WATER SECTORPROJECT

                                              May 30,2006




Water andUrbanI1
CountryDepartment 14
Africa Region

This document has a restricteddistribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanceof their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwisebe disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (ExchangeRateEffectiveMarch 31, 2006
                          Currency Unit = CFA Francs (CFAF)
                            CFAF 1,000 = US$1.8518
                                  US$l = CFAF540
                           US$1.43783 = SDR 1

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1    - December31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFD    FrenchDevelopmentAgency (Agence Francaise de De`veloppement)
ARM    MultisectoralRegulatory Authority (Autorite` de Re`gulationMultisectorielle)
BEEEI  EnvironmentalAppraisal Office (Bureau d'Evaluation Environnementale et des
       Etudes d'lmpact)
BOAD   West African DevelopmentBank (Banque OuestAfricaine de De`veloppernent)
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CPAR   Country ProcurementAssessmentReview
CPPR   Country PortfolioPerformanceReview
DIGOH  Directorateof Inventory andManagement of Water Works (Directionde
       l'lnventaire et de In Gestion des Ouvrages d'Hydraulique)
DTNAEP Directorateof Constructionof New Water Works (Direction des TravauxNeufs
       d'Alimentntion en Eau Potable)
EA     EnvironmentalAssessment
EIRR   Economic InternalRate of Return
EMP    EnvironmentalManagement Pian
EOP    Endof Project
FIRR   Financial InternalRate of Return
GoN    Government of Niger
IDA    InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
MHELCD Ministry of Water, EnvironnmentandFightingDesertification(Ministdre de
       l'Hydraulique, de 1`Environnement et de la Lutte contre la De`sertijcation
NPV    Net PresentValue
PCU    ProjectCoordinationUnit
PRSP   PovertyReductionStrategy Paper
SDR    StandardDrawingRights
SEEN   UrbanWater Supply PrivateOperatingCompany (Socie`te`d'Exploitation des Eaux
       du Niger)
SPEN   Water Assets HoldingCompany of Niger (Socie`te`de Patrimoine des Eaux du
       Niger)
WTP    Willingnessto pay
WUA    Water Users Association


                        Vice President:       GobindT. Nankani
                      Country Director:       MadaniM.Tall
                       Sector Manager:        Eustache Ouayoro
                    Task TeamLeader:          Matar Fall

                                     REPUBLIC OF NIGER

                                WATER SECTOR PROJECT

                                 ADDITIONAL FINANCING

                                                CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                 Page

A.  INTRODUCTION......................................................................................................... 1

B.  BACKGROUNDAND RATIONALE FOR ADDITIONAL FINANCING................1
C.  PROPOSEDCHANGES...............................................................................................                 5

D.  CONSISTENCYWITH THE CAS AND THEPRSP..................................................                                          5

E.  APPRAISAL OF ADDITIONAL ACTIVITIES...........................................................                                  6

F.  EXPECTEDOUTCOMES............................................................................................                   6

G.  BENEFITSAND RISKS...............................................................................................                7

H.  FINANCIALTERMS AND CONDITIONSFOR ADDITIONAL FINANCING.......7

TECHNICAL ANNEX.............................................................................................................. 9

APPENDIX A: PROJECTPREPARATIONAND TIMETABLE OFKEY
PROCESSINGEVENTS.........................................................................................................          13

APPENDIX B: MONITORINGINDICATORS.....................................................................                              14

APPENDIX C: DETAILEDPROJECTCOSTS.....................................................................                              16

APPENDIX D:ECONOMICAND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .............................................                                            19

IBRDMAP 31315 ...................................................................................................................  22

                                 REPUBLICOFNIGER

                              WATER SECTORPROJECT
                               ADDITIONAL FINANCING

                          PROJECTPAPERDATA SHEET

Date: May 30,2006                                Team Leader: Matar Fall
Country: Republicof Niger                        Sector Manager: Eustache Ouayoro
Project Name: Water Sector Project               Country Director: Madani M.Tall
Project ID: PO99121                              Environmental Category: B
Borrower: Government of Niger
Responsible Agency: Ministry of Hydraulics, Environment and FightingDesertification




Current ClosingDate: December 31,2006




Revised project development objectives/outcomes: The project development objectives have not
been revised.


[ ]Loan     [XICredit    [ ] Grant   [ ] Guarantee    [ ]Other:

For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): 10.00
-terms:          40 years maturity, including a grace period of 10 years




Borrower: Government of Niger
ResponsibleAgency: Ministry of Hydraulics, Environment andFightingDesertification
(MHE/LCD)
Project Coordinating Unit
Contact Person :Mr.Zibo Zakara, Project Coordinator
Tel: (227) 72 47 31; Fax: (227) 72 47 31
m s e n i g e r @intnet.ne                                       P


A.      INTRODUCTION

1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to provide an
Additional Financing in an amount of SDR 7.0 million (US$lO million equivalent) to the
Republic of Niger for the Water Sector Project (Cr. 3505-NIR). The proposed Additional
Financing would help finance the costs associated with: (i)rehabilitating water
distribution systems in secondary towns, which could not be fully implemented under the
current project due to an unanticipated financial gap; and (ii)providing about 5,000 new
private connections to the water distribution network, 70 public standpipes and 1,500
household latrines as a result o f the strong additional demand from the population. N o
changes to the objectives or general design and implementation modalities of the project
are being proposed.

2.      The Additional Financing will be used: (i)to address a financing gap under the
current IDA-financed project (estimated at US$6 million); and (ii)to scale up the
project's impact and development effectiveness (estimated at US$4 million).           It will
therefore address both, the first and the third situations described in the guidance note to
staff on additional financing dated May 2005. Additional activities will scale up the
project's impact articulated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) presented to the
Board in June 2001. The current IDA-financed project i s properly implemented and the
proposed additional financing will mainly finance priority activities that were to be
financed originally, but could not be executed because of an unanticipatedfinancial gap.

B.      BACKGROUNDAND RATIONALE FOR ADDITIONAL FINANCING

3.      Country context. Niger, one of the poorest countries in the world, i s emerging
from more than ten years of political instability and poor governance, with a strong
negative impact on economic prospects. Since the return o f democratic governance in
late 1999, Niger has made considerable progress towards macroeconomic stability and
growth but the reform agenda remains vast and poverty i s widespread. The country's
prospects are clouded by a lack of natural resources and a degraded natural environment,
high population growth rate, low institutional capacity and limited international
competitiveness.     Vulnerability to drought has worsened food insecurity and
consequently malnutrition which affects 50 percent of children. Combined with poor
access to safe water, this contributes to a high infant mortality rate and life expectancy at
birth is only 46 years. The overall burden of poverty falls disproportionately on women
and children whose access to social services remains limited, despite some recent
progress.

4.      The original Credit. The original Development Credit Agreement (Cr. 3505-NIR)
in the amount of SDR 37.3 million (US$48.0 million equivalent) was signed on June 8,
2001. It became effective on September 12, 2001 and the closing date i s December 31,
2006. It i s executed under a Sector Investment Program (SIP) in a multi-donor financed
project of US$79.4 million, of which IDA i s financing US$48 million. Other donors
involved in the financing of the Government's water sector program are the French
Development Agency (AFD), the West African Development Bank (BOAD) and the



                                              1

Republic of China. As of May 22, 2006'96 percent of the Credit (SDR 35.9 million) has
been disbursed. Disbursement projections indicate that the total credit amount may be
fully disbursedby June 2006, six months ahead of the project closing date.

5.      Project objectives. The original project development objective as stated in the
Project Appraisal Document and the original Development Credit Agreement, i s to
increase sustainable and efficient access to improved potable water supply and sanitation
services in urban and rural areas through: (a) improving water production and distribution
efficiency and providing affordable sanitation services; (b) strengthening the institutional
capacity in the areas of oversight, policy formulation, monitoring and regulation; and (c)
rehabilitating rural water facilities,    developing on-site sanitation services and
implementing community-based management of rural water facilities involving private
sector participation.

6.      Scope and design of the project. The project has a countrywide geographic scope
and focuses on: (i)water infrastructure rehabilitation and extension; and (ii)extending
sanitation services by promoting demand-based on-site sanitation facilities.        In that
respect, the project supports the Government's policy of facilitating access to water and
sanitation services for disadvantaged population groups in peri-urban areas, by providing
funds to cover part of the cost of private connections to the water distribution network
and household latrines. The project also supports the Public-Private-Partnership in the
delivery o f urban water services and the various regulatory and institutional changes
associated with this partnership. The overall project oversight i s under the responsibility
of the Ministry of Water Resources (MRE) while the day-to-day coordination is ensured
by a Project Coordination Unit (PCU).         Implementation of physical components i s
delegated to three executing agencies: SPEN (the urban water holding company) for the
urban water supply, the Directorate of Inventory and Management of Water Works
(DIGOHin the MRE) for the rural water component and the Directorate of Construction
of New Water Works (DTNAEPinthe MRE) for the sanitation component.

7.       Components.     The project includes five components: (i)the institutional
strengthening and capacity building component designed to support the urban water
institutional reform and capacity building activities; (ii)the urban water supply
component which finances physical works for the rehabilitation and extension of water
supply networks in 51 urban cities; (iii) the rural water and sanitation component which
focuses on the rehabilitation of water systems in 55 rural towns and the promotion of
private sector participation in the management of rural water facilities; (iv) the sanitation
pilot program aimed at developing, testing and implementing appropriate on-site
sanitation technologies (individual latrines, public and school latrines) to improve
sanitary conditions in peri-urban areas of Niamey; and (v) the environmental component
which supports the implementation of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP),
including a local development program in Zinder, compensation of affected people for
loss of income from market gardening activities due to the expansion of the Niamey
water treatment plant, and capacity building and equipment supply to the Bureau of
Environmental Studies and Evaluation in the Ministry o f Environment which is
responsible for the implementation of this component.



                                             2

8.       Project performance. Implementation performance is satisfactory and the project
i s likely to achieve or exceed its development objectives.        Results achieved so far
outperformed most appraisal targets; both in terms of physical infrastructure and
development impact. As of December 2005, 265,000 additional people in urban cities
(115 percent of the end-of-project -EOP- target) gained access to potable water,
representing an increase of 20 percent of the level of access (from 62% in 2001to 82% in
2005). In Niamey, 100,000 additional people (133 percent of the EOP target) gained
access to improved sanitation services. By securing additional production capacity and
increasing transfer capacity through water transmission mains, the project has led the
ground work for future operations to increase access through additional private
connections and public standpipes during subsequent years. The institutional reform
supported by the project has improved the overall management of the sector in terms of
service quality and cost recovery.         The private water utility operator (SEEN) is
performing as expected, as well as the state-owned asset holding company (SPEN). The
financial equilibrium of the urban water sub-sector i s being restored progressively
(equilibrium i s expected by December 31, 2006) with moderate annual tariff adjustments
applied on a regular basis since 2001. The rehabilitation/extension works of rural water
systems have been completed in 35 small towns (70 percent of the EOP target). As a
result, the level o f access to potable water in concerned rural towns has increased from 52
to 75 percent.        The selection of local private operators for the management of
rehabilitated systems i s underway.

9.       Compliance with fiduciary, procurement and environmental safeguards has been
satisfactory. As part of project preparation and design, an EMF' was prepared following
the Bank's environmental and social safeguard procedures, as well as a specific
environmental component to be implemented by the Ministry of Environment. The
Government i s fully committed to the project and has complied with all covenants
 specified in the Development Credit Agreement, with the exception o f one covenant
related to the regular payment of state agencies' water bills on which delays have been
noted. The PCU has established an acceptable accounting and reporting system for the
 project that will continue for the Additional Financing. The performance of the PCU and
 implementing agencies in procurement has so far been satisfactory.

 10.     Rationale and reasonsfor requesting the additional financing. The Government
 has requested additional financing of US$10 million equivalent in order to: (i)complete
 the rehabilitation program of the water distribution systems in secondary urban centers,
 which could not be fully implemented under the current credit; and (ii)scale up the
 "social water connections program" and the "on-site sanitation pilot program", in view of
 the strong demand o f populations for these services, which largely exceeds the originally
 plannedfinancing envelope.

 11.     The rehabilitation program for water distribution systems in secondary centers
 concerns 43 small towns for a total population of 550,000 people, representing
 approximately one third of the urban population served by the water utility.          Water
 systems in small towns face various problems: (i)insufficient water production capacity,
 especially during the dry season due to a drop in the water level in wells; (ii)lack of
 production security due to old and worn out pumps and other related equipments; and (iii)


                                                3

poor quality of water resources (presence of fluoride and iron). The main objective of the
urgent investment program i s the rehabilitation of water production facilities and the
provision o f more secure water supply in quantity and quality.          At appraisal, this
investment program was estimated to US$8.2 million for 43 water systems. However,
during project implementation only 12 water systems (28 percent of the initial target)
have been rehabilitateddue to unexpected cost increases.

12.     This cost overrun i s the result of circumstances beyond the Borrower's control. It
was discovered after the bidding process for civil works which revealed large
discrepancies between bid prices and initially estimated costs. These discrepancies were
not specific to this project. Cost overruns of 20 to 25 percent were reported in many civil
works contracts under the project including components financed by other donors. In
November 2005, the French Development Agency (Agence Frunpise de De`veloppement
- AFD) ordered an audit to find out the reasons behind these hikes. The audit concluded
that initial costs estimates based on practices in neighboring countries that were used as
benchmarks might have been unrealistic and couldn't be applied in a country emerging
from ten years of political instability, characterized by a very low level of business
activity without any significant civil works contracts in the infrastructure sector for many
years. Therefore, the few contractors who came back in the country after the return of the
democratic regime in early 2000 took advantage of their monopolistic position at the
beginning o f the project. In addition, the substantial decrease of the exchange rate
between the SDR and the CFA Franc (from CFA Franc 963 for a dollar at appraisal, to
CFA Franc 791 in June 2003) has had a significant impact on cost overruns.

13.     As regard to water connections and the on-site sanitation programs, populations
have already mobilized contributions to support their additional demand for about 5,000
water connections, 70 public standpipes and 1,500 household latrines, and are eager to
see these requests implemented as soon as possible.         Not satisfying this additional
demand which was generated under the project would undermine the current momentum
and may also promote distrust between the populations and the water sector reform. The
Government i s therefore anxious to maintain the momentum generated by the project's
participatory approach and its highly satisfactory outcome.

14.     Given the economic situation in Niger, the Government i s currently unable to
provide any financial resources from its own budget to fund proposed additional activities
prior to project completion. Regarding other donors, the French Development Agency
was interested to participate but could not provide additional financing in the requested
period of time, while the West African Development Bank decided to fund the
investment program for the city of Zinder which could not be implemented under the
initial budget. In that respect, only an Additional Financing from the World Bank could
help the Government strengthen the sustainability of water services in secondary centers
and meet the additional demand for water connections and householdlatrines. During the
November 2005 results-based Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR), the Water
Sector Project was recognized as one of the most successful operations in the World
Bank's portfolio in Niger. Therefore, the Bank accepted the Government's request for
further support to scale up the project impact. This support will be consistent with the
lack of IDA resources to provide significant lending to the water and sanitation sector


                                                4

before FY08 and the need to maintain the policy dialogue beyond 2006, to avoid risk of
disruption or loss of momentum in one of the best managed sectors in the country and
also critical to the Government's poverty reduction efforts.

C.      PROPOSEDCHANGES

15.     The proposed Additional Financing would support the original development
objectives o f the Water Sector Project. The additional funds will help finance unfunded
activities that have already been identified and appraised, including civil works for which
technical studies and bidding documents are already available.               They will be
implemented using the same institutional framework, procurement and disbursement
arrangements as for the original project. Activities to be financed under the Additional
Financing are expected to be completed by the end of June 2008; therefore the original
Development Credit Agreement would be amended to reflect a new closing date of
December 31,2008.

16.     The costs and financing plan for the Additional Financing are presented in the
table below. The total cost based on actualized unit costs is estimated at US$12.04
million, of which an IDA financing of US$lO million i s proposed. The beneficiaries'
contribution i s estimated at US$2.04 million representing 17 percent of the total
additional financing. Detailed project costs are given in Appendix C.




D.       CONSISTENCYWITH THE CAS AND THE PRSP

 17.    The current Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Niger focuses on key areas
covered by the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) aiming at: (i)       insuring a viable
and stable macroeconomic framework; (ii)developing productive sectors especially in
rural areas; (iii)reducing poverty by improving access for the poor to quality social
services; and (iv) strengthening institutional and individual capacity at the central and
local levels. Creating the conditions for poverty reduction through sustainable access to
water and sanitation services is the main objective of the proposed additional activities
which are fully consistent with the third pillar of the CAS and the PRSP.




                                              5

E.      APPRAISAL OFADDITIONAL ACTIVITIES

18.     Although additional activities have been included, the project remains as
originally designed and appraised.      The economic, financial, technical, institutional,
fiduciary, environmental and social aspects of the activities to be undertaken with the
additional financing remain the same as in the original project.

19.     As noted in paragraphs 1and 2, the Additional Financing would help implement
water and sanitation works in urban and rural centers most of which have already been
identified and evaluated based on their socio-economic viability and their positive
impact. These include: (i)rehabilitation of twelve (12) water systems in secondary
centers including the replacement of 6 boreholes and the construction of 7 water
treatment facilities (de-ironing systems); (ii)the construction of about 5,000 water
connections and 70 public standpipes in urban centers; (iii)the construction of 1,500
household latrines in Niamey; (iv) securing water production capacity in three rural
towns by the replacement of 3 deep wells; and (v) the rehabilitation o f internal water
distribution installationsin 3 selected state agencies' buildings.

20.     These activities were included in the original investment program and do not
change the environmental category of the project which i s Bynor trigger any new
safeguard policy, including OP 7.50 as there i s no additional increase of water use from
the Niger River. For that reason, the environmental and safeguards category for the
requested additional funding remains B as it was under the original LDA credit, and no
further safeguards study is needed. Procedures laid out in the EMP will carry on for the
execution of activities funded through the requested additional credit.

21.     An economic and financial analysis of the impact of the main additional
investments has been carried out.       Details are given in Appendix D. The financial
analysis shows a financial internal rate of return (FIRR) of 11.6 percent for SPEN. The
economic analysis takes into account water sales as a proxy for benefits, together with the
consumer surplus. The net present value (NPV) of the additional investments in urban
water supply, using a 12 percent discount rate i s estimated at US$1.13 million and the
economic internal rate of return (EIRR) i s 17.3 percent.

F.      EXPECTEDOUTCOMES

22.     The proposed additional activities will strengthen and enhance the impact of the
original project development objectives. The indicators to be monitored will cover the
following (included in Appendix B):

    0   Number o f additional people receiving improved water services in urban centers;
    0   Number of additional people receiving appropriate sanitation services in Niamey;
    0   Access to water and availability o f water facilities increased in twelve (12)
        secondary centers covered by the Additional Financing.




                                               6

G.       BENEFITSAND RISKS

23.      Benefits. The proposed activities will primarily improve access to potable water
for urban residents (particularly inNiamey, Tahoua, Maradi, Konni, Gaya, Mirriah, Kollo
and Gourk) and the availability of water facilities in three rural areas. It i s estimated that
these activities will provide access to safe water to about 150,000 inhabitants across the
country and help restore water quality and sustainable service in 12 secondary centers
and three rural settlements. The number of private connections will be increased by 6
percent in urban cities and extensions of water distribution networks will lay the ground
work for additional private connections and public standpipes during subsequent years.
Urban sanitation activities will provide access to improved sanitation services to about
25,000 people in peri-urban areas. Hygiene education and awareness campaign will
target about 20,000 people, mostly children and women. Finally, the rehabilitation of
internal water distribution networks of state agencies' buildingswill help the Government
reduce water consumption by public administrations and ensure regular payment of water
bills.

24.      Risks. The level of risk associated with the additional financing i s substantially
lower than the one prevailing at the time of project approval. Moreover, the successful
implementation of the water sector reform demonstrated that critical risks originally
associated with the sustainability of the project were minimized. The only remaining risk
i s related to the payment o f Government agencies' water bills. The regular payment o f
state agencies' water bills is still critical for the financial viability of the sector. A
monthly payment system for central state agencies was adopted in October 2002 to
mitigate the risk of non-payment. However, as of December 2005, arrears for all state
agencies amount to more than one billion CFAF. During the appraisal mission of the
Additional Financing, the Government has revised the payment system by increasing the
monthly payment allocation from CFAFlOO million to CFAF15O million.                        The
Government i s committed to clear the outstanding arrears by July 31, 2006. In fact,
clearing of the arrears i s an effectiveness condition of the requested Additional
Financing. Rehabilitation works of state agencies' internal water distribution networks
planned under the Additional Financing will help the Government reduce water
consumption by public administrations and ease payment of water bills on a regular basis.

H.       FINANCIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR ADDITIONAL
FINANCING

25.      The Additional Financing of US$lO million will be provided as a Credit. The
additional Conditions of Effectiveness are the following:

         (a)     The amendment to the SPEN Equity Financing Agreement and the
                 amendment to the SPEN Subsidiary Loan Agreement have been executed
                 on behalf o f the Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity, each in
                 form and substance satisfactory to the Association.

         (b)     The Original Financing Agreement has been amended in form and
                 substance satisfactory to the Association.


                                               7

(c) The Recipienthas:


            (i)   cleared all arrears in the payment of water bills by the
    public administration entities whose payments have been guaranteed by
    the Recipient (public administrations of strategic importance), in
    accordance with the Recipient's covenant included in Section 6 (d) of
    Schedule 4 to the Original FinancingAgreement, as well as by the other
    public administrations,and


            (ii)  strengthened, in a manner considered satisfactory to the
    Association, the system put in place in accordance with the Recipient's
    covenantincludedin Section6 (d) of Schedule4 to the Original Financing
    Agreement to ensure that water bills will, from the Date of Effectiveness
    on, be paid when due, by the public administration entities whose
    payments have been guaranteed by the Recipient (public administrations
    of strategicimportance) as well as by the other public administrations.




                                 8

                           NIGER WATER SECTORPROJECT
                                 ADDITIONAL FINANCING
                                      __________________I_._.




                                  TECHNICAL ANNEX


1. DetaileddescriptionoftheAdditionalFinancing

Urban Water Supply (US$9.20million including taxes of US$l.SS million)

The Additional Financing in urban water supply focuses on increasing coverage and
improving reliability and quality of water supply inNiger's urban centers. It includes four
main components: (i)extension of water distribution networks and execution of social
connections and public standpipes; (ii)improving water quality in 7 secondary centers;
(iii)securing production capacity in 5 secondary centers; (iv) installatian of household
latrines in peri-urban areas of Niamey; and (v) rehabilitation of internal installations of
public administrations. The estimated costs for each component mentioned below are
calculated free of taxes and duties.

Extension of water distribution networks and construction of social connections and
public standpipes (US$4.30 million). The demand for social connections in the ongoing
investment program largely exceeded the budgetary provisions.              Therefore, the
Additional Financing Program envisages implementing about 5,000 more social
connections and 70 public standpipes in three towns (Niamey, Tahoua and Maradi) and in
five secondary centers: (Konni, Gaya, Mirriah, Kollo and Goure). The program includes
a 104 km tertiary water distribution networks extension.           In Niamey, the social
connection program will target new peri-urban settlements. These peri-urban settlements
will first be connected to the water supply system by extending primary and secondary
distribution pipes with a total length of approximately 30 km. B y extending primary and
secondary water distribution networks the project will also lay the ground work for
complementary operations to increase access through additional private connections and
public standpipes. Through this additional program, it i s expected that an additional
population of 150,000 will get access to improved water supply.

Improving water quality in 7 secondary centers (US$ 0.55 million). The iron content of
the water from wells in a number of secondary centers i s extremely high and exceeds the
water quality recommendations of the World Health Organization. To make the water
from these wells drinkable, water production systems of 7 secondary centers will be
equipped with de-ironing installations.     The related facilities will be installed in the
secondary centers of Loga, Keita, Tamaske, Illela, Bagaroua, Ibohamane and Matankari.

Securing production capacity in 5 secondary centers (US$ 2.25 million). Under this
component two problems related with water availability in secondary centers will be
addressed.    The first one concerns the scarcity of water in the centers of Kollo
(population of 15,000 inhabitants) and GourC (population of 15,000). Hydrologically,
these centers are unfavorably situated on a rock formation "le socle" without any


                                             9

significant exploitable groundwater availability in the surrounding areas. The town of
Kollo, which i s situated at 25 km from Niamey, will therefore be connected to the water
supply system of the capital city. In addition, seven other centers will be connected to the
same water supply system.        Contrary to Kollo, GourC will be supplied through the
development of a new field in a sedimentary aquifer, 15 kilometers away from the city.
Here also, two additional centers close to the transmission line will be connected to the
water system and supplied with water. Additional production capacity will be provided
to the secondary urban centers of Ingall, Say and Filingue and will therefore increase
reliability of the production system contrary to the current situation when production
relies on the yield o f only one borehole by city.

Rehabilitation of internal installations of public administrations (US$0.25million). The
regular payment of state agencies' water bills i s still critical for the financial equilibrium
of the sector.     Rehabilitation works of 3 selected state agencies' internal water
distribution networks planned under the present Additional Financing will help the
Government reduce water consumption by public administrations and ease payment of
water bills on a regular basis.

Rural Water and Sanitation (US$1.38 million)

The objective of the Rural Water and Sanitation component i s to increase access to, and
sustainability o f water supply services in selected rural areas. The rural component under
the Additional Financing will replace three existing deep-wells in advanced stage of
degradation due to corrosion in the Tahoua region. These new wells with a depth of
between 600 and 800 meters will supply water to the Taza, Affala and Samo.

Urban sanitation (US$0.45 million)

The objective of the pilot Urban Sanitation component was to develop, test and
implement appropriate sanitation program aimed at increasing access to sanitation
services and improving sanitary conditions in peri-urban neighborhoods of Niamey.
Demand for improved on-site sanitation facilities under the ongoing investment program
exceeded the provisions and could not be met. The Additional Financing will fund the
construction of 1,500 new household latrines and three public latrines in the pen-urban
areas of Niamey: Boukoki, Lazaret, TalladjC, Baya Bana and Kanadje. 25,000 additional
people will benefit from the program.

Consultantservices and capacity building (US$0.96 million)

This component includes the provision of technical advisory services to the implementing
agencies SPEN, DIGOH and DTNAEP for detailed designs, preparation of bidding
documents and supervision of the above-mentioned works.                 It moreover contains
provisions for consultancy services to the Project Coordination Unit, environmental
monitoring o f project activities, financial auditing of project accounts, institutional
strengthening and capacity building for the implementing agencies.




                                               10

2. ImplementationArrangements

The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will coordinate and monitor implementation of
the Additional Financing.    It will report to the Ministry of Hydraulics and Fighting
Desertification (MHE/LCD).       The PCU will provide quarterly reports covering the
implementation status of the various components, the disbursement levels, the
performance indicators, technical and financial audits. The PCU will implement the
Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Buildingsub-component of the project.

SPEN will manage implementation of the urban water supply component.                  The
Additional Financing comprises two parts: (i)works financed from IDA funding,
implemented by SPEN; and (ii)works financed from IDA funding and executed b y
SEEN.

SEEN will execute the social connections and public standpipes program as well as
limited extensions of the tertiary water distribution network.     These works will be
executed through an addendum to the existing works contract associated with the lease
contract.

DIGOH of the Ministry of Hydraulics will ensure overall coordination of the Rural
Water Supply and Sanitation component.

DTNAEPof the Ministry of Hydraulics will implement the Urban Sanitation component
in close collaboration with the Office of Public Hygiene and Health Education of the
Ministry of Health (DHPEPS).

Project implementation period. The closing date of the original credit i s December 31,
2006. An extension of the Credit closing date to December 31, 2008, was agreed with
the Government in order to implement additional activities. As part of the amendment to
the legal documentation for the Additional Financing, the initial Development Credit
Agreement has been amended to reflect the new closing date.

Capacity of the Borrower to execute the project. The existing implementing agencies
(PCU, SPEN, DIGOH and DTNEAP) which have performed satisfactorily under the
original project will carry out and oversee execution of the new activities. The proposed
Additional Financing does not require any additional implementation capacity beyond
what i s already in place, and its implementation will be subject to the same monitoring
and reporting requirements as in the original project.

Procurement and disbursement. Procurement and disbursement procedures will follow
the procedures applied under the original Credit. However, the procurement section of
the original Credit Agreement has been amended as regards to procurement aggregate
amounts.     The PCU and implementing agencies have prepared a comprehensive
procurement plan, which covers additional activities. According to this plan, all activities
should be completed before June 30, 2008.




                                            11

3. Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements

The following objectives of the project's financial management system remain the same
for the Additional Financing. These objectives are: (i)to ensure that funds are used only
for their intended purposes in an efficient and economical way while implementing
agreed activities; (ii)to enable the preparation of financial reports that show costs
budgeted and incurred for the current period and the total budget and cast of the Project
to date; (iii)to enable the PCU's and SPEN's Management to monitor efficiently
implementation of the project; and (iv) to safeguard the Project's assets and resources.

Given that the project's accounting and reporting system, including arrangements for
audits to date have been overall satisfactory and there was no proposal to make changes
inthe implementation arrangements for the Additional Financing, only a desk review was
conducted on the financial management (FM) capacity of the PCU and SPEN. It was
agreed that the FM staff and the computerized financial management system in place
should continue to be used to support implementation of the additional activities.
Particular attention will be paid to the regular production of periodic financial reporting
such as Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR). Special account, Statement of Expenses
(SOEs) and annual accounts of PCU and SPEN will continue to be subject to annual
audits by private independent auditors, as well as periodic reviews by national Public
Control Institutions.

4. Environmental and socialaspects

The proposed activities do not trigger any new safeguard policies or raise the
environmental category of the project. During appraisal, it was confirmed that activities
proposed under the Additional Financing are the same as were proposed in the original
project (category B) and therefore, the existing environmental assessment report was re-
disclosed at the Bank's InfoShop in March 2006. Concomitantly, the Government has
publishedanother disclosure notice in the country.

During execution of the original project, no detrimental environmental issues were
triggered as a result of the project and the EMP has been implemented as required and
has included a local environmental development project in Zinder to prevent further wind
erosion and related negative impacts. The EMP also included compensation for market
gardeners who were to lose temporarily part of their incomes because o f the laying down
of the pipes and the construction of a settling tank. Compensation measures have been
implemented satisfactorily. In addition, a traditional local leader in Tillabery received
funds from the water utility (documentation is available) in relation with his willful
donation of a piece of land that was needed during the rehabilitation of the existing water
production facility in Tillabery. Capacity to supervise social and environmental aspects
has been satisfactory under the original Credit and institutional support and training has
been deliveredto the staff of BEEEI. A provision has been secured under the Additional
financing to support BEEEIin the supervision of environmental and social aspects.




                                             12

                           NIGERWATER SECTORPROJECT

                                 ADDITIONALFINANCING


        APPENDIX A: PROJECTPREPARATIONAND TIMETABLE OFKEY
                                 PROCESSINGEVENTS



I RVP Approval                                 I March  31,2006
  AppraisaVNegotiations                        I April 4-14,2006
                                               I
  Board Presentation                           I July 13,2006
  Date of Planned Effectiveness                  October 16, 2006
  Credit Closing                                 December 31,2008



  IDA staff andconsultants who worked on the projectincluded:

            Name                                     Title                     Unit
  Matar Fall                   Senior Sanitary Engineer and Task Team Leader AFTU2

  Richard Verspyck             LeadWater and Sanitation Specialist            AFTU2
1 Ousseynou Diop             I Senior Water and Sanitation Specialist       I EWDAF
  IrinaLuca                    LeadProcurement Specialist                     AFTPC
~~    ~




  Aissata Zerbo                Procurement Analyst                            AFTU2
  Helene Bertaud               Senior Counsel                                 LEGAF
  Wolfgang M.T. Chadab         Finance Officer                                LOAG2
  Edeltraut Gi1gan-Hunt        Environmental Specialist                       AFTS2
  Mamadou Yaro                 Senior Financial Management Specialist         AFTFM
  Connie Kok Shun
I RCkiatou                                                                    AFTU2
            Oumarou Idrissa Team Assistant
                             IISenior Program Assistant                     11AFMNE




                                               13

                    APPENDIX B: MONITORINGINDICATORS


                                                          (target date in

                                                  1                              1
                                                    Agreement before this
                                                           amendment)
Outcome/Impact Indicators
1. Additional people
receivingwater services in                                    230,000                     380,000
urban center
2. Availability of water
facilities in rural areas covered       5's                    55%                          75%
by the project (percentage)
3. Additional people
benefitingfrom on-site                                        75 000                      125,000
sanitation services in peri-
urban areas of Niamey covered
by the Project
4. Sustainable financial                              Equilibriumreached           Equilibrium
equilibriumin urban water sub                                                      maintained
sector reached                                     I                             I
Output Indicators
1. Additional water supply in
urban areas coveredby the                                     35,000                       50,000
Project(m'lday)
2. Installationof new social
water connections in urban                                     11,200                     16,800  `
centers
3. Installationof new public
standpipes                                                      550                         330 *
4. Rate of technical
efficiency of the urban water           80%        I           85%                1         85%
distributionnetworks




 The achievement of this objective as of December 31,2005 was 11,700 connections (above the
 expected EOP target). With the additional financing, it is expected that about 5,000 additional
 connections will be added.

 Due to budget constraints for the extension o f the tertiary water distribution network, only 260 public
 standpipes have been installed as of December 31,2005 instead of 550 (EOP target). Under the
 additional financing, 70 new standpipes will be installed.




                                                  14

                                    I Baseline    1   December31,2006          December31,2008
                                        June            (targetdate in
                                        2001         Development Credit
                                                   Agreement beforethis
                                                         amendment)
5. (i) Reduction in water
consumptionof administrative             0.6                  2.4                       1.0
offices of the Borrower
(million m3/year)compared to
1999 consumption
     (ii) consumptionof
        Water
bounded administrative offices         9.64%                  8%                         8%
of the Borrower as a
percentageof total water sales
6. Annual tariff increases                         FY 2002: 10%               Tariff adjustments
applied for the urban water sub     I              FY 2004: 5%                applied annually if
sector                                             FY 2005: 8.5%              necessary, to
                                                   FY 2006: 8.5%              maintain financial
                                                       Tariff adjustments     equilibrium on the
                                                         applied (inthe       basis of the financial
                                                        aggregate: 32%)       model
7. Number of rural water
systems
     (i)rehabilitated                                          50                         55

     (ii)
        managed by private          I             I
     operators                                                 25                         25
8. Number of water users'
associationscreated inrural                                    50                         55
areas covered by the Project
9. Construction/
rehabilitation of individual
latrines and/or semi-collective                               5,000                     8,000
systems in peri-urban areas of
Niamey
10. Number of blocks of
toilets constructed or                                         37
rehabilitated in public schools
of Niamey
11. Number of households
who have received hygiene                                     4,000
and sanitation education




 Impact of envisaged measureto reduce water consumption by 2.4 million m3/yearby public
 administrations will not allow the project to reach the EOPtarget, mainly because of the creation of
 new administrations between 2000 and 2006. Therefore, this objective has been revised and agreed
 upon during the negotiations of the additional financing.



                                                 15

                           NIGERWATER SECTORPROJECT
                                 ADDITIONALFINANCING
                                        ------_1_________11____




                    APPENDIX C: DETAILEDPROJECTCOSTS



Costs with taxes:

        Cost by Component and by Financier               IDA    Beneficiaries/  Total
  (Amount inUS$ million, including contingencies)                Government
 Urban water works                                        7.35      1.85        9.20
 Rural water and sanitation works                          1.25     0.13        1.38
 On-site urban sanitation works                           0.40      0.05        0.45
 Consultant services and capacity building                0.96                  0.96
I Operating costs                                         0.04     0.005        0.045
  Totalcosts                                           I 10.00 1    2.04      I 12.04   1

Costs without taxes:




Rural Water and Sanitation                                   0.41        0.96        1.38
Urban Sanitation                                             0.45        0.00        0.45
Consultant services and capacity building                    0.56        0.40        0.96
Operating Cost                                               0.05        0.00        0.05
                                  Total Project Cost         3.68        6.50       10.19
                          Total Financina Reauired           3.68        6.50       10.19



              Project cost by Category

Goods
Works                                                                                8.691
Services                                                                             0.96
Operating Costs                                               0.05        0.00       0.05
Total BaselineCost                                            3.54        6.17       9.71
Physical and Price Contingencies                              0.14        0.34       0.48
                                  Total Project Cost          3.68        6.50      10.19
                          Total FinancingRequired             3.68        6.50      10.19




                                                16

S
E
P

     z     .-s
           u
     .-
     z
     E


                                 NIGER WATER SECTOR PROJECT
                                       ADDITIONAL FINANCING


               APPENDIX D: ECONOMICAND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS

This annex summarizes the methodology and results of the economic and financial
analysis of the impact of the investments financed by the Additional Credit. In line with
the approach used in the Project Appraisal Document, the financial analysis i s conducted
from the SPEN's perspective, whereas the economic analysis encompasses the whole
urban water supply sub-sector. Both consider the impact of additional investments on
potential beneficiaries, whose water service will improve. Main assumptions and results
are given below.

Impactof AdditionalInvestmentsonWater Services

The investments in network expansion and the additional program of social connections
would help to serve 150,000 people through (i)70 new standposts; (ii)about 5,000 social
connections; and (iii)about 8,000 standard connections.                         The additional standard
connections correspond to the backlog of actual demand, which will not be met until
secondary and tertiary networks are expanded.

The present and future service available to those 150,000 beneficiaries i s given in the
table below, together with the average consumption and water price according to the type
of service provided. Beneficiaries in areas to be served by the future standposts are
presently served by vendors. Beneficiaries of new connections are presently served by
standposts.

                               Table 1:Type of service (with and without project)

    Type of service              Number of beneficiaries              Average         Average price
                               Present      With additional     COnSUmptiOn(liters      (CFAF/m')
                                               investments       per capita per day)
    Vendors                          17,500                 0                     18              500
    Standposts                      132,500            17,500                     27          127/300t
    Snrial connection                     0            52.500                     45              267




tprice paidto SEENIprice paid to caretaker

FinancialAnalysis

The financial analysis i s carried out from SPEN's perspective over a 30-year period
(2007-2036). Accordingly, incremental revenues are the difference between the annual
value of future and present sales of water by SEEN to the beneficiaries, using SEEN'S
tariff schedule. Incremental costs are the sum of (i)annual investment costs (US$4.3
million); and (ii)annual incremental fees paid to SEEN (CFAF203/m').                       The detailed
computation is given in Table 2 below.



                                                      19

Usingthe above assumptions, the financial internal rate of return (FIRR) of the additional
investments is 11.6 percent.

Economic Analysis

The economic analysis takes into account the following benefits: (i)the value of
incremental water sales, using the tariff as a proxy; and (ii)consumer surplus resulting
from the decrease of the price paid by customers shifting from vendors to standposts
(from CFAF 500/m3 to CFAF 300/m3) and by customers shifting from standposts to
house connections (from CFAF 300/m3to CFAF 267/m3). Investment costs are identical
to the ones o f the financial analysis. Incremental recurrent costs are the variable costs of
producing water (energy and chemicals, i.e. CFAF 80/m3distributed) and incremental
commercial costs associated with new connections (about CFAF 4,00O/connection).

Using these assumptions and a discount rate of 12 percent, the net present value of the
additional investments i s estimated at CFAF 600 million (US$l. 13 million equivalent).
The economic internal rate of return i s estimated at 17.3 percent.




                                             20

R
.I
v)

z
I



4



    E


MAP SECTION


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD 31315

              0                                                                                 5                                                                           10                                                     15


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            L I B Y A
                                                NIGER

                WATER SECTOR PROJECT
                        PROJECT CITIES                                                                                                                        I A
                        VILLES DU PROJET                                                                                                                   ER
                        PAVED ROADS                                                                                                                    G
                        ROUTES PERMANENTES                                                                                                       A   L
                        EARTH ROADS
                        ROUTES EN TERRE
                        RIVERS
                        FLEUVES
                        DISTRICT CAPITALS
                        CHEF-LIEU D'ARRONDISSEMENT
                        DEPARTMENT CAPITALS
                        CHEF-LIEU DE DEPARTEMENT
20                                                                                                                                                                                                              B I L M A
                        NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               20
                        CAPITALE NATIONALE                                                                                                                  A R L I T
                        DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
                        LIMITE D'ARRONDISSEMENT
                        DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                  A G A D E Z
                        LIMITE DE DEPARTEMENT
                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                        FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES

                                                                                                                                Arlit                                                                            Bilma


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             C H A D




                                                                                                                      T C H I G H O Z  R I N E
                                                                                                                                              Tchighozrine

                                                                                                                                                   Agadez
                               M A L I                                                     TCHIN-
                                                                                     TABARADENE                                                                                                                                                                         0       50       100      150        200

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     KILOMETERS

         Niger                                                                           TAHOUA                                                                                                                     DIFFA
              R.                                                                                        Tchin-Tabaradene

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        The boundaries, colors, denominations
                                                                                                                                                                                                            N G U I G M I                                               and any other information shown on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        this map do not imply, on the part of

                                                                                                                                                                         Z I N D E R                                                                                    The World Bank Group, any judgment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        on the legal status of any territory, or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        any endorsement or acceptance of
15                                                                                        Tahoua                                                                Tanout           G O U R                                                                              such boundaries.                               15
                                         BOBOYE                                                          KETA          DAKORO                       TANOUT
                         TILLABRI                        FILINGU                   TAHOUA
                                         N I A M E Y                                                        Keta

                                                                                                               Bouza      Dakoro
                                          Ouallam               Filingu                      Illla      BOUZA         MARADI                                                                               Nguigmi
                      TRA                                                             ILLLA
                   Tra         Tillabri                                                                    Madaoua                 MAYAHI                                                                                                                                                                  L I B YA
                                                                                             Birnin                                  Mayahi                        MIRIA          Gour                                                                          A L G E R I A

                                                                       DOGONDOUTCHI          Konni                                                                                        MAN-SOROA
                                                                                                                        Guidan-                   Tessaoua  Zinder
                                                                                                                                                                     Miria
                                        Niamey                Dogondoutchi                                              Roumji
                                                            Loga                     BIRNIN         MADAOUA                                                                                                  D I F FA
                                          KOLLO                 LOGA                 KONNI                              Maradi
                                                                                                           GUIDAN-                     Agui                Matamey                               Man-Diffa
                                         Kollo                                                              ROUMJI     Madarounfa    A G U I                                                     Soroa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Lake
                                         Say        Birnin Gaour                                                                                                                                                                                    M A L I
                                                                                                                                                                MAGARIA
                                    SAY           BOBOYE    Dosso
                                                                                                            MADAROUNFA                 TESSAOUA                    Magaria                                                      Chad
                                                  DOSSO                                  R.                                                                                                                                                                                      N I G E R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C H A D
                                                        DOSSO                                                                            MATAMEY

                                                                                   Sokoto
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BURKINA
                                            PARK                                                                                                                                                                                                            FASO

   B U R K I N A                                             GAYA                                                                                                                                                                      CAMEROON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NIGERIA
     F A S O                                               Gaya                                                                                                                                                                                                    BENIN
                                                                     Niger                                                                            N I G E R I A                                                                                   GHANA TOGO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CENTRAL
                                                B E N I N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AFRICAN REPUBLIC
                                                                               R.                                                                                                                                                                                                      CAMEROON
       0                                                                                    5                                                                               10                                                               15  Gulf of Guinea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MARCH 2001

