Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3505 NIR
Project Agreement
(Water Sector Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SOCIETE DE PATRIMOINE DES EAUX DU NIGER
(SPEN)
Dated June 8, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3505 NIR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 8, 2001, between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and the SOCIETE DE PATRIMOINE DES EAUX DU NIGER  (SPEN).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Republic of Niger (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-seven 
million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 37,300,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition 
that SPEN agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth 
in this Agreement; 
(B)
by two financing  agreements: (i) the  SPEN Subsidiary Loan Agreement, 
and  (ii) the SPEN Equity Financing Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and SPEN, part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to SPEN on terms and conditions set forth in said 
Agreements; and
WHEREAS SPEN, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the 
term "Fiscal Year" means, for the purpose of this Agreement, the fiscal year of SPEN, 
beginning on January 1 and ending on December 31 of each calendar year.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project and other Covenants
Section 2.01. (a) SPEN declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall 
carry out Part B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency, and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, environmental and technical practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the carrying out of  Part B  of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and SPEN shall otherwise agree, SPEN shall carry out 
Part B of the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Project Implementation 
Manual and the SPEN Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services, required for Part B of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. SPEN shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part B  of the Project.
Section 2.04. SPEN shall duly perform all its obligations under the SPEN 
Financing  Agreement and the SPEN Equity Financing Agreement. Except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, SPEN shall not take or concur in any action which 
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving said Agreements or 
any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. SPEN shall:
(a)
at the request of the Association, exchange views with the Association 
with regard to the progress of Part B of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement, and  the SPEN Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the accomplishment of the objective of the 
Project;
(b)
promptly inform the Association of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of  the objectives of the Project, or the performance by SPEN of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the SPEN Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)
carry out, in conjunction with the Borrower and the Association, the 
annual review and the mid-term review respectively, referred to in paragraphs 4 and 5 
of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement; and 
(d)
promptly after completing such reviews, carry out recommendations arising 
out of said reviews, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with 
appropriate practices.
Section 2.06. SPEN shall furnish to the Borrower and the Association, for review 
and approval:
(a)
before the beginning of each Fiscal Year, a proposed annual work program 
in respect of Part B of the Project, including a proposed budget and financing plan, 
for the forthcoming Fiscal Year;
Page  3
(b)
until the implementation of the Project Management Reports, semiannual 
and annual progress reports, on the status of  the works carried out under Part B of 
the Project, including feedback received from water sector users, if any; and
(c)
following the implementation of Project Management Reports, SPEN shall 
contribute to their establishment in respect to Part B of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SPEN
Section 3.01. SPEN shall carry out its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and technical practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff  
targeted to number not more than about twenty persons.
Section 3.02. SPEN shall at all times operate and maintain its facility, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound administrative 
and technical practices.
Section 3.03. SPEN shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such 
risks, and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, SPEN shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association no later than three months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Association and SPEN, a plan 
for the future evolution of its services to water sector, and
(b)
afford the Association reasonable opportunity to exchange views on said 
plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SPEN shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
accounting standards acceptable to the Association consistently applied, adequate to 
reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part B of the Project.
(b)
SPEN shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each Fiscal Year: 
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as 
so audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, SPEN shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association 
for the strengthening  of the financial  management  system  referred  to in  
Page  4
paragraph  (a) of said  Section 4.01 in order to enable SPEN, not later than 18 months 
after the Effective Date, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to 
prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of 
which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for Part B 
of the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and projected sources and applications of funds for 
Part B of the Project for the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report, and (B) shows separately 
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the 
period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the six-month 
period following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in implementation of Part B of the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and (B) explains variances between the actual and 
previously forecast implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under Part B of the Project 
and expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, SPEN shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of 
each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination,
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
SPEN thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate; or
 (ii)
the date twenty-one (21) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified 
in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify SPEN of 
this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Page  5
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
   INTBAFARMD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
   Washington, DC
 64145 (MCI)
For SPEN
SOCIETE DE PATRIMOINE DES EAUX DU NIGER
Direction Générale
BP. 10.738
NIAMEY
République du Niger
Facsimile:  
(227) 73.28.01
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of SPEN or by 
SPEN on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by its Director General, or by such other person or persons as SPEN shall 
designate in writing, and SPEN shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of 
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Niamey, Niger, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Antoinette Sayeh
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SOCIETE DE PATRIMOINE DES EAUX DU NIGER
By /s/ Seyni Salou
Authorized Representative
