Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
IDA GRANT NUMBER H259 NIR 
Additional Financing to Credit 3505 NIR 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Water Sector Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF NIGER 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated December 14, 2006  
 
Page  2
IDA GRANT NUMBER H259 NIR 
Additional Financing to Credit 3505 NIR 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated December 14, 2006, entered into between the REPUBLIC 
OF NIGER (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities related to 
the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Recipient and 
the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to 
seven million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,000,000) (the 
“Grant”) to assist in 
financing the Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are June 1 and December 1 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is the Euro. 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out Parts A, C, D and E of the Project and cause 
Part B of the Project to be carried out by the Project Implementing Entity in 
accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the Project Implementing 
Entity’s Legislation being amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived 
so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Project Implementing 
Entity to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the event specified in  
Section 4.01
 
of this Agreement occurring and continuing for a period of 60
 
days 
after notice of the event has been given by the Association to the Recipient. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
(a) 
The amendment to the SPEN Equity Financing Agreement and the 
amendment to the SPEN Subsidiary Loan Agreement have been 
executed on behalf of the Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity, 
each in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
(b) 
The Original Financing Agreement has been amended in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association. 
(c) 
The Recipient has:  
(i) 
cleared all arrears in the payment of water bills by the 
public administration entities whose payments have been 
guaranteed by the Recipient (public administrations of 
strategic importance), in accordance with the Recipient’s 
covenant included in Section 6 (d) of Schedule 4 to the 
Original Financing Agreement, as well as by the other 
public administrations; and  
Page  4
-
3
-
(ii) 
strengthened, in a manner considered satisfactory to the 
Association, the system put in place in accordance with 
the Recipient’s covenant included in Section 6 (d) of 
Schedule 4 to the Original Financing Agreement to 
ensure that water bills will, from the Date of 
Effectiveness on, be paid when due, by the public 
administration entities whose payments have been 
guaranteed by the Recipient (public administrations of 
strategic importance) as well as by the other public 
administrations.  
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following: 
 
Each of the amendment to the SPEN Equity Financing Agreement and 
the amendment to the SPEN Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by the Recipient and the Project Implementing 
Entity, and is legally binding upon the Recipient and the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms. 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
5.04. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under Schedule 1 of this Agreement shall terminate 
is twenty years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of the Recipient at the time 
responsible for finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Minister of Economy and Finance 
 
Ministry of Economy and Finance  
 B.P. 
389 
 Niamey 
 
Republic of Niger 
 
Facsimile: (227) 73 59 34 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
AGREED at Niamey, Niger, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF NIGER 
 
By /s/ Ali Lamine Zeine 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Ousmane Diagana 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
1. 
Execution of the Project 
The provisions of Article III of the Original Financing Agreement are 
incorporated herein by reference. In case of inconsistency between the provisions 
of Article III of the Original Financing Agreement and the provisions of this 
Schedule, the provisions of this Schedule shall prevail. 
2. 
Use of the Proceeds of the Grant 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project Implementing Entity’s Respective 
Part B of the Project, the
 
Recipient shall make such part of the proceeds of the 
Financing equivalent to three million seventy thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 3,070,000) available to the Project Implementing Entity under an 
amendment to the SPEN Equity Financing Agreement and such part of the 
proceeds of the Financing equivalent to two million forty thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 2,040,000) available to the Project Implementing Entity 
under an amendment to the SPEN Subsidiary Loan Agreement, under terms and 
conditions approved by the Association.  All other provisions of the SPEN 
Equity Financing Agreement and the SPEN Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall 
remain unchanged. 
3. Financial 
Covenants 
The provisions of Article IV of the Original Financing Agreement are 
incorporated herein by reference. In case of inconsistency between the provisions 
of Article IV of the Original Financing Agreement and the provisions of this 
Schedule, the provisions of this Schedule shall prevail. 
For purposes of Section 4.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than June 30, 2009. 
Page  8
-
7
-
Section II. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association 
may specify by notice to the Recipient, to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing
 (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated  
(expressed in SDR)
Percentage of  
Expenditures  
to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works 
 
(a)  for Parts C and D of the 
Project 
 
(b)  for Part B of the Project 
 
1,190,000 
 
5,110,000 
 
90% 
 
80% 
(2)  Vehicles, Equipment and 
Materials 
0
100%
of Foreign 
Expenditures and  
80% of Local 
Expenditures 
(3)  Consultants’ services and 
training 
670,000 100% 
(4)  Operating costs 
30,000 
__________ 
90% 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
7,000,000 
========= 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.   
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2008. 
Page  10
-
9
-
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section II of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
2. 
“Foreign Expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any country other 
than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Recipient. 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005. 
4. 
“Local Expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the Recipient or for 
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; provided, however, 
that if the currency of the Recipient is also that of another country from the 
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency 
for such goods or services shall be deemed to be Foreign Expenditures. 
5. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the Development Credit Agreement for a 
Water Sector Project (Credit No. 3505-NIR) dated June 8, 2001, between the 
Recipient and the Association, as amended to the date of this Agreement. 
6. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
7. 
“Operating costs” means the incremental expenses incurred on account of 
implementation of the Project, audits, management and monitoring, including 
office supplies, administrative support, communication and utility services, travel 
and supervision costs but excluding salaries of officials of the Recipient’s civil 
service. 
8. 
“Project” means the Original Project, whose development objectives and 
description remain unchanged. 
9. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means 
Société de Patrimoine de l’Eau du Niger
 
(SPEN), a state enterprise established and operating pursuant to the Recipient’s 
law no. 2000-12 dated August 14, 2000. 
10. 
“Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means Recipient’s law no. 2000-12 
dated August 14, 2000 for the establishment and operation of 
Société de 
Patrimoine de l’Eau du Niger
.
Page  11
-
10
-
11. 
“SPEN Equity Financing Agreement” is defined in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
 
12. 
“SPEN Subsidiary Loan Agreement” is defined in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
 
