                                                                                                   94050
Niger Water Sector Project                                                                         April 16, 2012




 Improved Access to Clean Water in Niger
 How to increase efficient and sustainable access to water


Overview
Thanks to the project, half a million people (541,000) gained access to piped water in urban
areas. In contrast with the situation of rationing that existed in 2001 (about 12 hours a day of
service) in all urban cities (including Niamey the capital city), water supply is now continuous
(24 hours a day/7 days a week) throughout the entire service area. The financial equilibrium of
the urban water sector was also restored; meaning that the sector has become financially
autonomous and able to recover its capital and operational expenditures without government
subsidies.


Challenge
By the turn of the century, the water and sanitation sector in
                                                                   More Results
Niger was facing critical challenges in terms of viability and
sustainability. In 2001, out of a total urban population of 1.9

                                                                   541,000
million served by the national water utility, only 64 percent
had access to piped water. Water shortages were frequent in
the service area, including Niamey the capital city.
Government interference had led to high management                 People who have gained access
                                                                   to piped water
instability and an overstaffing of the water utility. The
financial situation of the company was undermined by
inadequate cost recovery policies and the accumulation of

                                                                   78%
arrears from public customers.

Approach                                                           2009 rate of access to rural
                                                                   water services, up from 52
Following extensive national consultations during the 1997         percent in 2001
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) preparation process,
increasing access to safe water was identified as one of the
three major objectives of the Bank's assistance. As a result,
the Water Sector Project was developed to increase access         MORE INFORMATION
to improved water and sanitation services and support the           Niger Water Sector Project
urban water sector reform that was prepared under the
                                                                    Country Website
Privatization and Regulatory Reform Technical Assistance
Project (P051272) also funded by the International                  Country Brief
Development Association (IDA). The Water Sector Project             Country Assistance Strategy
focused on: (a) improving water production and distribution
                                                                    Data and Statistics
efficiency and providing affordable sanitation services; (b)
strengthening the institutional capacity in the areas of
regulatory oversight and policy formulation, monitoring and
regulation of the urban water sector; and (c) rehabilitating
rural water facilities, developing on-site sanitation services,
and implementing community-based management of rural water facilities involving private
sector participation.

Results
Access to urban water services .More than half a million people (541,000) gained access to
piped water, representing 142 percent of the end-of-project-target (EOPT). In contrast with the
situation of rationing that existed in 2001 in all urban centers (including Niamey, the capital
city), water supply is now continuous (24 hours a day/7 days a week) throughout the entire
service area.
The financial equilibrium of the urban water sector was restored in December 2006;
meaning that the sector has become financially autonomous and able to recover its capital and
operational expenditures without government subsidies. Water losses decreased from 20 to 15
percent of the production and the bill collection ratio improved from 79 to 97 percent, which is
an outstanding performance by international standards.
Access to rural water services has markedly improved as a result of the project. The rate of
access to rural water services in project areas improved from 52 percent in 2001 to 78 percent
at the end of 2009, representing 104 percent of the EOPT.
Access to improved sanitation . The project has provided improved sanitation services to
120,000 people, representing 96 percent of the EOPT. In addition to the construction of
household and school facilities, the project helped develop efficient mechanisms for generating
and managing demand for improved sanitation that will be used for scaling up this pilot
program.
 
Bank Contribution
The Niger Water Sector Project (WSP) of US$48 million was approved in June 2001. Following
the successful implementation of this initial project, IDA provided additional financing of US$10
million in 2006.
 
Beneficiaries
Primarily, the project provided access to safe water and improved sanitation services in urban
towns and rural areas. The targeted population benefited from better living conditions and
environmental health. Getting water services closer to households through social connections
and standpipes programs financed by the project, has limited the reliance on costly water
vendors and reduced the financial burden of water expenses on family budgets. Other
beneficiaries included rural community members, including water users' associations (WUA),
craftsmen, small-scale enterprises, local consulting firms and, nongovernmental organizations
(NGOs), whose capacities have increased through training and participation in the urban
sanitation pilot program and the rural water and sanitation component.
Partners
The Bank played a leading role in the policy dialogue with the government on the sector
reform and coordinated efficiently actions with other donors involved in the project including:
the French Development Agency (AFD), the West African Development Bank (BOAD) and the
People’s Republic of China. Donors stressed the satisfactory outcome of the project and
complementarities of project components. In the project Implementation Completion Report
(ICR), the AFD praised its collaboration with the Bank in the following terms: “The satisfactory
collaboration between the World Bank and AFD teams in Niamey and at headquarters is
appreciated.  Several joint-supervision missions were carried out and the two donors always
harmonized their views on all issues related to the sector reform, tariff policy, investment
planning and the consolidation of the financial equilibrium.”

Toward the Future
To allow strategic continuity in the long standing and successful Bank support to the
development of the water and sanitation sector in Niger, a US$90 million IDA-financed follow-
up operation was approved in April 2011. This new project covering the period 2011-15, aims
to support the Government of Niger’s efforts towards achieving the Millennium Development
Goals (MDGs) and is perfectly in line with objectives laid out in the World Bank Strategy for
Africa on developing infrastructure and improving the business environment.
