Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB6311 
Operation Name 
First Development Policy Loan in support of the Plan Maroc Vert 
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Country 
Morocco 
Sector 
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (75%); Agro-
industry (25%) 
Operation ID 
P116557 
Lending instrument 
Development Policy Loan 
Borrower(s) 
Government of Morocco 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Agriculture and Maritime Fisheries 
Date PID Prepared 
January 26, 2011 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal  
January 27, 2011 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
March 17, 2011 
Corporate Review 
Decision 
Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to proceed 
with the preparation of the operation. 
I. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
1. 
The agri-food sector is an important pillar of the Moroccan economy.
 Representing 15 
percent of Morocco’s GDP and 23 percent of the country’s exports, and employing close to half of the 
labor force, the agri-food sector (together with the forestry and fishing) is a pillar of the Moroccan 
economy. In the rural areas it is the primary source of employment and income for about 80 percent of 
the labor force. Although rural poverty decreased from 25 percent in 2001 to 14 percent in 2007 largely 
due to the combined effect of increases in the value of agricultural production, diversification of the 
rural economy, and increases in remittances, the contribution to overall inequality of the gap between 
rural and urban living standards in Morocco is the highest of any Middle East and North Africa (MENA) 
country.  
 
2. 
Despite some successes in selected commodities, the agri-
food sector’s growth potential is 
constrained by the dualistic nature of farming in Morocco.
 The vast majority of the 1.5 million 
agricultural holdings are semi-subsistence farms that have low productivity and product quality levels 
and limited market integration. These farms are small and largely rainfed and vulnerable to recurrent 
droughts. They often have aging household heads with a low education level, make limited use of 
modern technologies, and lack technical know-how. In order to meet their food consumption and animal 
feed needs and partially in response to the incentives provided by Government subsidy schemes and 
market protection, smallholders typically engage in the production of low-value agricultural 
commodities such as wheat and barley. This large group of smallholder farmers co-exists with a small 
but very efficient group of commercial farmers producing crops for high-value export markets and milk 
for domestic markets. This sub-sector of mainly irrigated production accounts for 7 percent of GDP, 50 
percent of Morocco’s agricultural value added, generates over 75 percent of Morocco’s agricultural 
exports, and provides jobs to 50 percent of the rural labor force. This duality was partly a result of 
policies that have limited the opportunities of traditional agriculture and smaller farmers.  
 
Page  2
3. 
Morocco launched a transformative agricultural development strategy - the 
Plan Maroc 
Vert 
(PMV) for the period 2008-2020
.
The PMV
 
is an ambitious strategy that
 
aims to transform the 
agri-food sector into a stable source of growth, competitiveness, and broad-based economic 
development in rural areas
 
through a combination of agricultural investments and systemic public sector 
reforms. The PMV addresses important constraints in the sector and embodies a paradigm shift from a 
highly protected to a more open market oriented agriculture and away from concerns with only farm-
level production and towards integrated value-addition all along the agri-food chain that will bring better 
opportunities to small and large farmers alike. Institutionally, it represents a major shift from state 
intervention that replaces private sector to one that focuses on delivering public goods and services and 
developing Public Private Partnerships (PPPs) to support the sector. In the period 2009-2020, an 
estimated 140 billion MAD of combined public and private sector
 
investments are envisaged in around 
1,500 commercial (Pillar I) and smallholder (Pillar II) agriculture investment projects. The latter would 
focus mainly on marginalized rural areas. In combination with the GoM’s ongoing 
Programme National 
d'Economie d'Eau en Irrigation
 (PNEEI) and the systemic public sector reforms undertaken by the 
PMV, these investments are to realize the agri-food sector’s domestic and export growth potential, 
particularly in fresh and processed high-value fruits and vegetables, stemming from Morocco’s 
geographic position and privileged access to the EU and US markets, rising domestic demand for quality 
food driven by growing incomes, favorable climate, and abundant and relatively low cost labor.  
 
II. 
Operation Objectives 
 
4. 
The proposed operation will support the implementation of the GoM’s PMV program 
(2008-2020) by targeting supply and demand constraints to agricultural development.
 The DPL 
series is structured around four of the key cross-cutting policy and institutional reform priorities 
identified in the PMV. The objectives of the proposed operation are to (i) improve the efficiency of 
domestic markets; (ii) improve the socio-economic impacts of Pillar II projects; (iii) improve 
agricultural services; and (iv) improve the use and management of irrigation water.  
 
Component A. Improve the efficiency of domestic markets 
 
5. 
The municipal fruit and vegetable
 
wholesale markets in Morocco are faced with decaying 
infrastructure, inadequate management, limited marketing services, and poor sanitary conditions.
 
Communes have a monopoly on decisions regarding the establishment and management of fruit and 
vegetable wholesale markets in their jurisdictions. Prices are in principle set by the market management 
and a fixed tax of 7 percent on the gross sales value of each transaction is levied by the communes at the 
markets. The lack of uniform rules governing the operation of markets and the inadequate reinvestment 
of market revenues have contributed to opaque management and poor physical condition of the markets. 
Dysfunctional domestic marketing and distribution systems for fruits and vegetables result in high 
marketing costs, low producer incomes and high consumer prices, while undermining incentives for 
improving quality. The weak services of wholesale markets have pushed many producers to market their 
produce through informal channels. The liberalization of the trades in agriculture will contribute to 
seriously disadvantage local producers in the domestic market.  
 
6. 
The domestic meat marketing and distribution system faces similar challenges.
 With the 
exception of fully prepared cuts, wholesalers cannot market meat directly to retailers if the meat does 
not originate from the municipally owned slaughterhouse located at the point of destination for selling 
the meat. While communes are responsible for the overall maintenance of municipal slaughterhouses, 
the slaughtering of animals and meat cutting are generally conducted by a large number of small, private 
businesses run by 
chevillards
.
The latter typically purchase animals from farmers and transport them to 
municipal slaughterhouses, where they slaughter the animals and sell the meat to local butchers. Various 
Page  3
municipal taxes are levied at the slaughterhouses that enter the general budget of the commune. As with 
fruit and vegetable wholesale markets, there are no mandatory reinvestments of slaughterhouse revenues 
and no uniform rules for their operation. As a result, slaughterhouses generally suffer from outdated 
infrastructure and equipment, inappropriate locations, inadequate services, and sub-standard sanitary 
conditions. In addition to encouraging illegal slaughtering practices in the informal market, these various 
constraints negatively affect producer revenues, consumer prices, product quality and safety conditions, 
and domestic trade flows.  
 
7. 
Prior actions
 of this component for DPL/1 are: (i) the validation of the National Fruit and 
Vegetable Wholesale Markets Reform Strategy and Action Plan (Schéma National d'Orientation) by 
MICNT, MAPM, and MI; and (ii) adoption of specifications concerning sanitary, hygienic, and facility 
requirements of private slaughterhouses (Cahier des Prescriptions) by ONSSA. 
 
Component B. Improve the socio-economic impacts of Pillar II projects 
 
8. 
The sustainability of Pillar II projects will largely depend on the success of the proposed 
contract farming (aggregation) model.
 The process of added value creation under the Pillar II (and 
Pillar I) investment program is to be driven by a voluntary aggregation of farmers (
agrégés
)
around 
private investors, traders, and/or entrepreneurs (
agrégateurs
). Public investment support provided under 
Pillar II serves primarily to leverage the private investment resources required to cover the remaining 
investment costs and is conditioned on the conclusion of tri-lateral contractual arrangements between 
agrégateurs
,
agrégés
,
and the GoM. This aggregation model is intended to help overcome existing land 
constraints, promote farmer organizations, support risk-sharing, optimize production and marketing 
links, and enable producers’ access to finance, knowledge, and technologies. International experience 
suggests that the success of such vertical coordination arrangements critically depends on a sufficient 
level of trust between 
agrégateurs
 and 
agrégés 
to enter into a mutually beneficial contractual 
relationship.  
 
9. 
Good governance and public financial management rules for the Pillar II investment program 
would be strengthened. 
International experience shows that transparency and stakeholder participation are 
critical to the effectiveness of publicly financed projects.
 The transparency of ADA’s existing governance and 
public financial management systems for the Pillar II investment program could be improved
 
by
widely 
disseminating operational manuals that outline the procedures for (i) prioritizing the use of budget allocations for 
implementing Pillar II projects; and (ii) preparing, submitting, and implementing Pillar II projects. A 
communication program and an information campaign has been developed to raise awareness among farmers 
about the procedures for Pillar II implementation. Accountability would be improved by enhancing stakeholder 
participation in the decision-making processes related to the identification of Pillar II projects. In this context, a 
stakeholder-based provincial committee would be responsible for preselecting Pillar II project proposals. In 
addition, an internet-based project monitoring and evaluation system of the implementation of Pillar II projects is 
currently under improvement at the central (ADA) and regional level (DRA). It would function on the basis of 
clearly established baseline indicators and reporting requirements. To these ends, a monitoring and evaluation 
framework based on results indicators for each individual Pillar II project has already been developed by ADA. 
 
10. 
Prior actions
 of this component for DPL/1 are: (i) the adoption of a manual for prioritizing the 
financing for projects directed to small farmers, and the manual describing procedures for preparing, 
submitting, and implementing projects directed to small farmers by MAPM; and (ii) the publication on 
the National Gazette of the Decree and Order (Arrêté) regulating Government support for contract 
farming projects.
 
Page  4
Component C. Improve agricultural services 
 
11. 
A
disjointed public agricultural innovation system constrains technology transfers to 
farmers.
 In addition to the human capital constraints, the effective transfer of technologies to farmers is 
limited by a public agricultural innovation system that is underfunded and understaffed and lacks formal 
coordination of applied research, training and extension activities. The allocation of funds to applied 
research programs and extension activities is mainly based on interactions between and within the 
different layers of the public administration. Producers, particularly smallholders, have limited 
participation in the decision-making process. Only a few producer organizations perform applied 
research and extension activities. Organizations such as water user associations and the recently 
established Regional Chambers of Agriculture are weak and remain dependent on government subsidies. 
The public extension and advisory service delivered by MAPM reaches only a small share of the total 
agricultural population. These trends in the public agricultural innovation system are counterbalanced to 
some extent by the increase in private operators
—including input importers and distributors and output 
processors—that are expanding their field presence to engage in applied research and extension 
activities aimed at improving their profitability. 
 
12. 
International food safety and quality standards will become increasingly important 
determinants of competitiveness. 
Following the adoption of the new food safety law and the signing of 
the agricultural FTA with the EU, Moroccan producers and processors will need to meet stringent 
international food quality standards in order to take advantage of high value export markets 
opportunities and to compete with foreign imports on the increasingly demanding domestic market. The 
existing antiquated rules-based food control system that focuses on final food products would need to 
shift to a modern risk-based system underpinned by self-monitoring by producers and processors across 
the value chain. The public plant health and veterinary services, under the aegis of the recently 
established Food Safety Agency (ONSSA), will have a key role in helping producers and processors 
adjust to international food safety and quality standards such as the Hazard Analysis and Critical Control 
Point (HACCP) and International Standards Organization (ISO). In addition, they would need to 
encourage compliance with these standards by separating their risk assessment, risk management, and 
risk communications functions. The information generated from food safety risk assessments will be 
used to evaluate available strategies for managing risks. Risk communication requires the interactive 
exchange of information throughout this process among risk assessors, risk managers, and sector 
stakeholders.
 
13. 
Prior actions
 of this component for DPL/1 are: (i) the issue of the circular (Circulaire) 
governing the competitive applied research financing mechanism by MAPM; (ii) the submission of the 
draft law on the legal status of the agricultural advisor (Conseiller Agricole) by MAPM to the Secretary 
General of the Government; inclusion of the financing of the Pillar II Resources Center (
Centre des 
Ressources Pilier II
,
CRPII) in the 2011 budget law of the Borrower; appointment of the CRPII acting 
director by MAPM; (iii) the publication on the National Gazette of the Law concerning the sanitary 
safety of the food products; and (iv) the identification of the food safety control functions to be 
delegated to private operators by ONSSA.
 
Component D. Improve the use and the management of irrigation water and the planning of 
irrigation infrastructure 
 
14. 
Efficient and sustainable irrigation will be critical for Moroccan agriculture. 
The 
agricultural sector consumes 87 percent of water resources in Morocco and faces increasing competition 
from urban and industrial consumers. However, suboptimal irrigation practices and deficient water 
service contribute to low irrigation water productivity. Average value-added of irrigation water is 1.63 
Page  5
MAD/m
3
,
which is well below its potential of 4 MAD/m
3
.
An important pillar of GoM’s strategy to 
reduce current and future water deficits while increasing the productivity of irrigated agriculture is to 
improve water management at both farmers and service providers level. Farmers need to rationalize 
water use based on market costs and benefits with the ultimate goal of putting water to its highest valued 
use. In addition, the quality and sustainability of current irrigation services provided by the Public 
Agricultural Development Agencies (ORMVAs) need to improve. These services are constrained by 
poor maintenance of the irrigation infrastructure, under-pricing of water, inadequate allocation of water 
revenues, and rigid mechanisms for allocating water to farmers. Furthermore, coordination of 
investment planning and financing between government institutions involved in the irrigation and the 
water sectors is weak, resulting in a persistent gap between water mobilization capacity through dam 
storage and area irrigated downstream.
 
15. 
Prior actions
 of this component for DPL/1 are: (i) the publication on the National Gazette of an 
Order (Arrêté) requiring the beneficiaries of State assistance for drip irrigation to install a water 
metering system; and the signature of the associated Instruction requiring these beneficiaries to include 
in their application package for the above assistance a declaration or authorization of water abstraction; 
(ii) the signature by MEF of a decision to waive interest for lateness and fees associated with 
accumulated arrears the farmers who engage within a period of 12 months starting from the date of 
publication of this decision to reimburse their debts related to irrigation water; and (iii) the transmission 
by MAPM to MEF of the integrated investment plan for the irrigation perimeters downstream of the 
dams under construction and those programmed for the period 2010-2012.
 
III. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
16. 
The Bank is well positioned to assist the GoM in implementing its agri-food reforms in light 
of its experience in supporting the design and implementation of similar operations in other 
regions. 
In addition to sharing international best practices, Bank support of an inter-ministerial policy 
dialogue encourages collaboration and maximize development impact.  
 
17. 
The proposed DPL is aligned with the objectives and priorities defined in the Country 
Partnership Strategy (CPS) 2010-2013.
 It addresses the three long term development challenges 
facing Morocco identified in the CPS: (i) enhancing growth and employment; (ii) reducing social 
disparities; and (iii) ensuring sustainability. By supporting the GoM’s pursuit of institutional and policy 
reforms in relation to domestic markets, agricultural investments and services, and irrigation water 
resources, it contributes directly to the three thematic pillars around which the Bank’s program is 
structured: (i) growth, competitiveness, and employment; (ii) service delivery to citizens; and (iii) 
sustainable development in a changing climate. Furthermore, it is linked to the two cross-cutting themes 
of governance and territoriality. Though most pronounced in the proposed Pillar II component, both 
themes are mainstreamed across the four components of the proposed DPL.  
 
18. 
The World Bank and the IMF maintain close collaboration in Morocco.
 Regular contacts 
between the IMF and World Bank country teams are customary, with discussions focused on the 
respective work programs, country priorities, recent developments and prospects.  Collaboration 
between the Fund and the Bank in Morocco has been seamless, with a shared assessment of the critical 
macroeconomic challenges facing the country. Overall there is broad agreement on the division of labor 
between the two organizations. The collaboration may also take the form of joint activities such as the 
Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) update dissemination and follow-up of its 
recommendations. The Fund regularly participates in Bank project review meetings where relevant.  
 
Page  6
19. 
The World Bank works closely with other donors. 
The programmatic framework and results 
indicators established by the Policy Matrix of the proposed DPL have been leveraged by the MAPM to 
organize its work with other donors supporting the PMV. Though no joint activities are envisaged at this 
stage, the World Bank, the European Union (EU), African Development Bank (AfDB), Food and 
Agriculture Organization (FAO), French Development Agency (AFD), German Development Bank 
(KfW), the Belgian Cooperation (BC), and United States Agency for International Development 
(USAID) have been coordinating their preparation activities on a bilateral basis to avoid overlaps and 
ensure coherence.  
 
IV. 
Tentative financing 
 
Source: (EUm.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
100 
 Total 
100 
 
V. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
20. 
Responsibility for implementing the program rests with the MAPM
.
The Strategy and 
Statistics Directorate (DSS) of the MAPM will be responsible for the overall implementation, 
monitoring and evaluation of the program in collaboration with other government stakeholders such as 
the MEF, MICNT, MI, and SEEE. In addition, a Steering Committee at the level of the Ministry of 
Economic and General Affairs (MAEG) has been established and will be responsible for supporting the 
inter-ministerial coordination of the implementation of the DPL program. The Committee comprises 
representatives of the different Government departments and organizations involved in the program.  
 
21. 
Monitoring and evaluation of the program will be an integral part of the supervision 
process
.
Bank staff will focus on the impact outcomes of the program and the adjustments that need to 
be made to the operation as it evolves, to take into account the latest country developments, stakeholder 
support, and feasible options for realizing the intended development goals. While taking into account the 
goals of the DPL program, the review will be largely based on the results indicators and associated 
target values included in the Policy Matrix and Results Monitoring and Evaluation Framework 
respectively. A
t
the same time, the overall status of the Government’s program will be monitored to 
determine whether country conditions and the specific policy actions of the proposed operation have 
been met. The selected monitoring indicators and associated target values focus largely on measuring 
progress in terms of institutional gains achieved under the DPL program, rather than development gains 
on the ground. In fact, the program’s development gains are unlikely to materialize in the relatively short 
timeframe of the proposed program and hence would be difficult to measure. 
 
VI. 
Risks and Risk Mitigation 
 
22. 
Government commitment to agri-food sector reform may weaken
.
However, the risk that 
DPL/2 does not materialize is mitigated by the demonstrably strong commitment to the implementation 
of the PMV at the highest level of the current government and H.M. the King. In addition, Morocco’s 
Page  7
Advanced Association Status with the EU and bilateral agricultural trade liberalization will help 
maintain reform momentum in the agri-food sector.  
 
23. 
Some of the proposed reforms may be opposed by vested interests and marginalized 
stakeholders
.
The proposed reform agenda for domestic markets is may meet resistance from 
municipalities as well as the vested interests of current agents and intermediaries linked to the municipal 
fruit and vegetable wholesale markets (
mandataires
)
and users of slaughterhouses (
chevillards
). 
Resistance of municipalities in relation to the domestic markets reform program would be mitigated 
through the pilot approach adopted under the DPL program as well as the potential demonstration effect 
of the win-win arrangements in the new wholesale market ownership and management structures piloted 
under the program. Specific measures to mitigate the risk of opposition stemming from the vested 
interests of current agents, intermediaries and users at the level of the fruit and vegetable wholesale 
markets and slaughterhouses, water users, and stakeholders on collective lands, are proposed based on 
the PSIA and are being taken into account in the design of the program. They are likely to include 
safeguard measures ensuring enhanced stakeholder consultation and participation in the decision-making 
processes related to the proposed reforms. 
 
24. 
The private sector may be hesitant to participate in the proposed aggregation model for the 
Pillar I and Pillar II investment program. 
Although
 
central and local administrations will play a 
mediating role between producers and potential investors and active mobilization of investment 
resources will be pursued by ADA, the risk of a lack of confidence between potential 
agrégées
 and 
agrégateurs
 
could undermine the design of the PMV’s Pillar I and Pillar II investments. The adoption of 
the Law on Aggregation could mitigate this condition by creating a supportive legal and institutional 
environment, for example through the establishment of a procedure in the law.  
 
25. 
Morocco remains vulnerable to chronic drought and adverse climate changes. 
The 
dependency of Morocco agriculture on rainfed yields, particularly for poor and vulnerable farmers, 
coupled with increased water scarcity and adverse evolution of climate changes in the medium and long 
run pose serious social and economic concerns. The Government is increasingly aware of the situation 
and is starting to devote considerable efforts that would lead to an integrated strategy to address climate 
change issues. The new strategy addressing the impact of global warming as well as the PMV are key 
contributions to foster this agenda.  The Bank will continue to support such efforts as the entire third 
pillar of the new CPS is devoted to the challenge of climate change and sustainable development. A 
SCCF/GEF grant on integrating climate change adaption in the implementation of the PMV is closely 
aligned with the DPL.  
 
VII. 
Poverty and Social Impacts, and Environmental Aspects 
 
26. 
While the operation is expected to have significant positive impacts, a Poverty and Social 
Impact Analysis (PSIA) conducted jointly with the Government has been carried out. 
The PSIA 
focuses in particular on the potential impacts of the: (i) restructuring of the fruit and vegetable wholesale 
markets and slaughterhouses on formal and informal operators; (ii) implementation of Pillar I and II 
projects including  aggregation; (iii) irrigation water tariff adjustments; (iv) extension and advisory 
services reform and introduction of enhanced food safety and quality standards. The PSIA report 
included consultations and was discussed with stakeholders in the GoM during the appraisal mission. An 
additional poverty and social impact assessment on irrigation is planned for the preparation of DPL/2. 
Specifically, the reform of the wholesale markets and slaughterhouses is likely to benefit large numbers 
of small farmers, however the livelihoods of some people, and particularly those active at the interface 
between formal and informal sector may be negatively affected. Measures aiming at enhancing irrigation 
water efficiency have largely beneficial impacts, but require capacity building and awareness raising 
Page  8
efforts to improve implementation. The reform of extension and advisory services will not have major 
negative impacts, while the introduction of more stringent food safety standards implies the need for 
resources and expertise to ensure compliance.  
 
27. 
The assessment of the potential environmental effects of the reforms under the proposed 
DPL program concluded that on balance it is likely to have significant positive effects on the 
environment. 
Main positive effects of the proposed operation include: (i) improved water resources 
management (ii) improved waste handling and disposal (iii) increased environmental awareness in the 
agricultural sector. Potential negative effects include: (i) increased generation and concentration of 
waste at wholesale markets and slaughterhouses; and (ii) increased pressure on scarce water and arable 
land resources due to increased demand and pollution resulting from accelerated agricultural 
development. These potential negative effects, if not properly mitigated, could be important and long 
lasting. Appropriate mitigating measures already integrated in the current program design include: (i) 
improved operation and maintenance of wholesale markets and slaughterhouses through the introduction 
of new ownership and management models; (ii) environmental screening mechanisms governing the 
identification and selection for Pillar II projects; (iii) development of more efficient irrigation water 
systems management through PPPs; and (iv) promoting more efficient water use through tariff 
adjustment and improved monitoring mechanisms. 
 
VIII. 
Contact point 
 
World Bank 
Contact: Julian A. Lampietti 
Title: Lead Program Coordinator 
Tel: (202) 458-8221 
Email: Jlampietti@worldbank.org 
 
Borrower 
Contact: Abir Lemseffer 
Title: 
Directrice de la Stratégie et des Statistiques 
Tel: (212) 537-764612 
Email: a.lemseffer@mpm.gov.ma 
 
IX. 
For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Tel: (202) 458-4500 
Fax: (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
