CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1496 NI
Loan Agreement
(Third Managua Water Supply Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
EMPRESA AGUADORA DE MANAGUA
Dated January 30, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1496 NI
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 30, 1978, between EMPRESA AGUADORA
DE MANAGUA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called
the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan
as hereinafter provided; and
(B) the Borrower intends to contract a loan from one or more
private- commercial banks (hereinafter called the Private Loan) in
an amount equivalent to not less than one million nine hundred
thousand dollars ($1,900,000) to assist in financing part of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in a contract
(hereinafter called the Private Loan Contract) to be entered into
between the Borrower and said bank or banks;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any of the following
agreements between the Guarantor and the Borrower: (i) the Subsid-
iary Loan Agreement for purposes of the First Managua Water
Supply Project, dated October 2, 1962; and (ii) the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement for purposes of the Earthquake Reconstruction
Project, dated July 24, 1973;
(b) "Mgd" means millions of gallons of water per day;
(c) "Reglamento" means the regulations governing the organi-
zation and operations of the Borrower, contained in Reglamento No.
3-B issued by the Minister of Public Works of the Borrower pursu-
ant to the Borrower's Decree Law No. 292 dated February 16, 1972,
as such Reglamento was published in the Gaceta Oficial of March
13, 1972, and as it may be amended from time to time;
(d) "Prior Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement (Second
Managua Water Supply Project) dated March 17, 1972, between
the Bank and the Borr ver, as amended, and the term includes
further amendments ther 'if;
(e) "Project Agreement" means the Part B Project Agreement
(Earthquake Reconstruction Project), dated June 6, 1973, between
the International Development Association and the Borrower,
as amended from time to time;
(f) "DENACAL" means the Guarantor's Departamento Nacional
de,Acueducto y Alcantarillado, and any successor thereto;
(g) "C6rdoba" means C6rdoba in currency of the Guaran-
tor;
(h) "Street" means any of the following streets in downtown
Managua: Momotombo, Bolivar, 5ta Avenida Este and Col6n;
(i) "Indebtedness" means an amount of approximately C6rdobas
6,500,000 that, as of August 31, 1977, the Guarantor owes to the
Borrower in respect of water supply charges; and
(j) "Prior Guarantee Agreement" means the Guarantee Agree-
ment, dated June 6, 1973, between the Guarantor and the Bank, as
amended from time to time.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million
one hundred thousand dollars ($10,100,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accorAauce with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works required
for the Project shall be procured in accordance with the provi-
sions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay ti the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and nine-tenths per cent (7.9%) per annum on the princi-
pal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the aiortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
engineering, financial, administrative and public utilities
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the
carrying out of: (i) works (including procurement therefor and
final designs and supervision thereof) under Parts A through G of
the Project; and (ii) Part I of the Project, the Borrower shall
employ engineering or management consultants, as the case may be,
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall employ the consultants required for
the carrying out of Part I of the Project not later than June 30,
1978.
(c) The Borrower shall (i) coordinate, in a manner satis-
factory to the Bank, the carrying out of the study included in
Part I (iii) of the Project with DENACAL and any other agencies or
departments of the Guarantor that the Guarantor may indicate to
the Borrower for the purpose; (ii) complete such study by June 30,
1979; (iii) upon completion of such study, furnish the Bank,
DENACAL and each such other agency of the Guarantor with the
findings and recommendations of such study; and (iv) afford the
Bank, DENACAL and each such other agency of the Guarantor a
reasonable opportunity to comment on such findings and recommenda-
tions before such recommendations are implemented.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿-5-
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities end construction sites included in the Project
and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish
to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and
rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying out
the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall establish, not later than
March 31, 1978, a system, satisfactory to the Bank and the Bor-
rower, for the purpose of monitoring the carrying out of the
Project, and shall furnish the Bank, quarterly until the comple-
tion of tLe Project, with reports containing such data and indica-
tors as shall have been included in such system and such other
data and indicators as the Bank shall, from time to time, reason-
ably request.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower covenants not to change
the Borrower's tariff structure that has been consulted with the
Bank and put into effect as of November 1, 1977 unless the Bank
and the Borrower shall have agreed on further changes to such
tariff structure.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) herein,
the Borrower shall: (i) carry out, not later than February 28,


﻿-6-
1978, a study, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
on, inter alia, the tariff structure to be used and the rates to
be charged by the Borrower for its water supply services; (ii)
furnish the Bank, promptly after the completion of such study,
with the findings and recommendations thereof; and (iii) afford
the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall at all times maintain
its existence and right to carry on operations and, except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall take all steps necessary
to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges
and franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of
its business.
(b) The Borrower shall operate and maintain all its plants,
equipment and property and from time to time make all necessary
renewals and repairs thereof in accordance with sound engineering
standards, and at all times manage its affairs, operate its
plants and equipment and maintain its financial position, in
accordance with sound business and public utility practices, under
the supervision of experienced and competent management.
(c) Without in any way limiting the generality of paragraph
(b) herein, the Borrower undertakes to maintain its (i) operating,
maintenance and administrative expenses, (ii) employee/connections
ratio, and (iii) spare parts inventory, within limits to be
agreed from time to time between the Bank and the Borrower.
(d) For purposes of paragraph (c) of this Section:
(i) the employee/connections ratio shall be calculated
as follows: (A) dividing the number of employees by
the number of connections, and (B) multiplying by
1,000 the quotient so obtained; for purposes of
such calculation, the definitions of sub-paragraphs
(ii) and (iii) below shall apply;
(ii) "number of employees" means the number of employees
of the Borrower that, at the time the calculation
referred to in sub-paragraph (i) above is made for
purposes of paragraph (c) of this Section, have
!been in the Borrower's payroll for more than two
months; and


﻿-7-
(iii) "number of connections" means the number of the
Borrower's domiciliary water connections being
served at the time referred to in sub-paragraph
(il) of this paragraph (d).
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory
to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall:
(i) maintain and operate at all times a revolving fund
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank;
(ii) credit such fund with an amount of not less than
$1,000,000 equivalent;
(iii) in addition to (ii) above, cause such fund to
be creditid with each payment of principal of,
and interest and other charges on, long-term
loans referred to in (iv) below; and
(iv) take all such action as shall be necessary to
ensure that the monies credited to such fund shall
only be used for providing long-term loans to
assist low income households aiming at being
provided with water supply.
(b) For purposes of this Section, the following definitions
shall apply:
(i) "low income households" means households having an
aggregate monthly income which shall not exceed 800
C6rdobas (purchasing power as of December 31,
1977) or such other amount as the Bank may determine
from time to time; and
(ii) "long-term loans" means loans having a final
maturity of not less than two years, to be used for
financing water house connections and basic indoor
piping.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary on its part for purposes of Section 3.04
of the Guarantee Agreement.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than April 30 of the year following each such fiscal year,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for sich year
as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satis-
factory to the Bank to secure the payment of the    principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however,
that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply
to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase
thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price
of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not mote than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.


﻿-9-
Section 5.04. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not incur any debt, other
than debt required to finance the carrying out of the Project,
unless the Borrower's net revenues for any twelve consecutive
months within the fifteen months next preceding such incurrence,
shall be at least 1.5 times the maximum debt service requirement
for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt, including -the debt t6
be incurred. For the purposes of this Section:
(i) "Debt" means any debt maturing by its terms more
than one year after the date on whichI ft is
originally incurred.
(ii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under
a loan contract or agreement (including the Loan
Agreement and any Prior Loan Agreement) on the
date and to the extent the amount of the loan
is drawn down and outstanding pursuant to such
loan contract or agreement, and (B) under a guaran-
tee agreement, on the date the agreement providing
for such guarantee has been entered into but only..
to the extent that the guaranteed debt is outstand-
ing.
(iii) "Net revenues" means gross revenues from all
sources, which do not include dep6sitos and any
investment contribution paid or turned over to the
Borrower, adjusted to take account of rates for
the Borrower's water supply services in effect at
the time of incurrence of debt even though such
rates were not in effect during the fiscal year or
twelve-month period to which such revenues relate;
less all operating, maintenance and administrative
expenses, including provision for taxes, if any,
but excluding provision for depreciation, and
interest and other charges on debt.
(iv) "Debt service requirement" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund
contributions, if any), interest and other charges
on debt.
(v) Whenever it shall be necessary to value, in terms
of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable
in another currency, such valuation shall be made


﻿- 10 -
on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
exchange at which such other currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable by the Borrower
for the purpose of servicing such debt, or if such
other currency is not so obtainable, at the rate of
exchange that will be reasonably determined by
the Bank.
Section 5.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary to
set and maintain rates for its water supply services as shall be
required to produce an annual rate of return of not less than 6%
on the average value of the Borrower's net fixed assets in opera-
tion, calculated in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5
to this Loan Agreement; provided, however, that such annual rate
of return may be less than 6% but not less than 4% during the
Borrower's fiscal years of 1978, 1979 and 1980.
(b) The Borrower shall, not later than July 1, 1978, adjust
the rates referred to in paragraph (a) herein in a manner satis-
factory to the Bank.
Section 5.06. The Prior Loan Agreement is hereby amended
by the deletion of paragraphs (ii) and (iii) of Section 5.04,
and Section 5.05, and the replacement thereof by, respectively,
paragraphs (a) (ii) and (iii) of Section 5.04, and Section 5.05,
both of this Agreement.
Section 5.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not: (i) sell or otherwise dispose of all or
substantially all of its property or assets, unless the Borrower
shall first redeem and pay or make adequate provision, satisfac-
tory to the Bank, for the redemption and payment of all of the
Loan which shall be outstanding and unpaid; or (ii) sell or
otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of the property
included in the Project or any plant included therein unless the
Borrower shall first redeem and pay or make adequate provision,
satisfactory to the Bank, for redemption and payment of a propor-
tionate part of the Loan which shall then be outstanding and
unpaid equal to the proportionate part of the Project so sold or
disposed of. The Borrower may, however, without reference to the
foregoing, sell or otherwise dispose of any property which shall
have become old, worn-out, obsolete or unnecessary for use in its
operations.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) a default shall have occurred in the payment of prin-
cipal or interest or any other payment required under any Subsidi-
ary Loan Agreement;
(b) the Reglamento shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived, so as to materially and adversely
affect the conduct of the Borrower's operations, financial con-
dition or the performance of its obligations under this Loan
Agreement; and
(c) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any loan (including the Private
Loan) made to the Borrower for the financing
of the Project shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the agreement pro-
viding therefor (including the Private Loan
Contract), or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfac-
tion of the Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancel-
lation, termination or prematuring is not caused by
the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its


﻿- 12 -
obligations under such agreement, and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions consis-
tent with the obligations of tb Borrower under
this Agreetint.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following events are specified pursuant to para-
graph (h) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
thirty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower and the Guarantor; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (b) or in paragraph
(c) (i) B of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions:
(a) that the Borrower shall have executed and delivered
the Private Loan Contract under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank;
(b) that the consultants referred to in paragraph (a) (i)
of Section 3.02 of this Agreement shall have been employed by
the Borrower; and
(c) that the Guarantor and the Borrower shall have taken
all such action as shall be satisfactory to the Bank for purposes
of the payment or setting off of the Indebtedness.
Section 7.02. The date May 3, 1978, is hereby specified for
the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Empresa Aguadora de Managua
Apartado Postal 3599
Managua, D.N.
Nicaragua, C.A.
Cable address:
AGUADORA
Managua, Nicaragua
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written, and the International Development
Association, acting through its. duly authorized representative,


﻿- 14 -
has evidenced, for purposes of Section 4.03 of the Project
Agreement, its agreement to the amendment of the Prior Loan
Agreement as provided in Section 5.06 of this Agreement.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
EMPRESA AGUADORA DE MANAGUA
By /s/ Evenor Masis A.
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works for               550,000         62% (repre-
Parts A and B                                senting the
of the Project                               estimated
foreign expen-
diture com-
ponent)
(2) Equipment for                 750,000         100% of foreign
Parts A and B                                expenditures
of the Project
(3) Civil works for             1,000,000         43% (represent-
Parts C, D, E and                            ing the esti-
F of the Project                             mated foreign
expenditure com-
ponent)
(4) Equipment and               4,200,000         100% of foreign
materials for                                expenditures
Parts C, D, E and
F of the Project
(5) Equipment for               1,300,000        100% of foreign
Part G of the                                expenditures
Project
(6) Equipment for                 400,000        100% of foreign
Part H of the                               expenditures
Project


﻿Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(7) Consultants' ser-             600,000        100% of foreign
vices                                        expenditures
(8) Unallocated                 1,300,000
TOTAL      10,100,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggre-
gate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $50,000, may be made
in respect of preparation of final designs under Category (7) on
account of payments made for such expenditures before that date
but after August 31, 1977; or
(b) on account of expenditures for any neighborhood under
Part F of the Project until the Bank has been furnished by the
Borrower with a sewage disposal program for such neighborhood


﻿- 17 -
satisfactory to the Bank. For purposes of this paragraph, "neigh-
borhood" means any of the following neighborhoods of Managua:
Bolonia 2, Santa Emilia, SatSlite Asososca, La Gruta, OPEN 3,
Bella Cruz, Reparto Ulsa, El Mirador, El Recreo and El Pilar;
or
(c) on account of expenditures under Part D of the Project,
in respect of each Street, unless the Bank has been furnished with
evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the Guarantor has under-
taken the expansion and improvement of such Street.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set fort1 in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably-estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower:--(i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have besen
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the Borrower's program for expanding
the Borrower's water supply system, to be carried out during
the 1978-1980 period, and includes the following Parts:
A.   Construction of, and equipment for, six water wells, each of
about 150 meters depth, in the vicinity of Josf M. Moncada,
with an aggregate yield averaging 6 Mgd.
B.   (i) Expansion of the existing booster-pumping stations
located in Rafaela Herrera and Altamira by providing
additional pumping equipment therefor, to increase its
aggregate capacity in about 3,000 gallons per minute and
2,800 gallons per minute, respectively.
(ii) Construction of, and equipment for, three new minor
pumping stations which will operate in connection with
the water tanks included in Part C of the Project.
C.   Construction of three water tanks on the Managua-Le6n
Highway, south of Villa Fontana, with a capacity of 0.5
million gallons each and a fourth water tank in the vicinity
of Villa Fontana, with a capacity of 0.126 million gallons.
D.   Installation in the Streets of about 14 km of 6 to 16 inches
distribution mains (including the necessary valves therefor)
to replace existing damaged pipes and valves.
E.   Improvements in the water supply networks in different
neighborhoods of Managua by replacing about 200 malfunc-
tioning valves and about 70 malfunctioning hydrants, and
eliminating about 10,000 abandoned house connections in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank.
F.   Construction of about 86 km of 4 to 24 inches distribution
mains in different neighborhoods of Managua other than those
included in Part D above.
G.   Installation of about 20,000 domiciliary service connections.
H.   Acquisition and use of a new computer to be substituted
for the one presently used by the Borrower.


﻿- 19 -
I.   (i) Preparation of a study for the next expansion stage
of the Borrower, which will include the selection of the
least costly alternative among several possible water
sources and the preliminary design for such alternative,
and the requirements for said expansion up to the
year 2000.
(ii) Review and improvement (including training of the
Borrower's personnel) of the Borrower's operation
in the fields of, inter alia, preventive maintenance,
pumping optimization, billing and inventory control,
and long-term planning and management of the Borrower's
commercial department.
(iii) Preparation of a study on the organizational arrange-
ments to be made, in respect of the provision of water
and sewerage services in Managua, in order to optimize
the coordination of the different agencies of the
Guarantor involved in such provision of services.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning August 15, 1982
through   August 15, 1994                    390,000
On February 15, 1995                               350,000
To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 21 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.40%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                    2.80%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                             5.10%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                             6.95%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                             7.90%


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Cred-
its" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding as
described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   Bidders for the works included in Part F of the Project shall
be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the
Guidelines.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Civil works contracts (excluaing contracts for civil works
under Part A of the Project) estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $200,000 and contracts for the purchase of goods
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $25,000, may be
awarded on the basis of bidding procedures locally advertised
provided: (i) said procedures are satisfactory to the Bank; and
(ii) the aggregate cost of said contracts shall not exceed the
equivalent of $1,000,000.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Manufacturers Established in the Territories of the Central
American Common Market
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods:
(a) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the
c. and f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-
factory price for domestically-manufactured goods;
(b) customs duties and other import taxes on imported
goods, and sales and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods,
shall be excluded; and
(c) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight, insurance
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 23 -
2.   Bids shall be compared in accordance with the following
rules:
(a) the term "Central American Bid" means a bid submitted
by a manufacturer established in the territories of the Central
American Common Market for goods manufactured or processed to
a substantial extent (as reasonably determined by the Bank)
in such territories; any other bid will be deemed to be a "Non-
Central American Bid";
(b) the bid price under a Central American Bid will be
the sum of the following amounts:
(i) the ex-factory price of such goods; and
(ii) freight, insurance and other costs of delivery
of such goods to the site designated in the
specifications; and
(c) for the purpose of comparing any Non-Central American
Bid with any Ceatral American Bid, the price under a Non-Central
American Bid will be the sum of the following amounts:
(i) the c. and f. (port of entry) price of such
goods;
(ii) insurance costs to the port of entry;
(iii) half the amount of any taxes on the importation
of such goods into the territories of the Guar-
autor which generally apply to non-exempt impor-
ters, or 15% of the amounts specified in (i)
and (ii) above, whichever shall be the lower;
and
(iv) freight insurance and other costs of delivery
of such goods from the port of entry to the site
designated in the specifications.
3.   The bidding documents shall clearly indicate the margin
of preference to be granted.
D*   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inf.orm the Bank in detail of the


﻿-24 -
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any appli-
cant for prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower to
the Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified of
the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such addi-
tions to, deletions frsm, or modifications in, the said list as
the Bank shall reasornably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more and to all contracts for
equipment or materials, or both, estimated to cost the equivalent
of $25,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to
in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and compar-
ison of the bids received, together with the recommendations for
award of the said consultants and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿- 25 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of
the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 5
Method of Calculating Rates of Return
For the purposes of Section 5.05 of this Loan Agreement:
1.   The annual rate of return shall be calculated by relating
the Borrower's net operating income for the fiscal year in ques-
tion to the average value of the Borrower's net fixed assets in
operation.
2.   The term "value of the Borrower's net fixed assets" shall
mean the gross value of such assets used for the Borrower's water
supply services, as revalued at least annually in accordance
with the variations of the consumers price index published by
the Guarantor's Central Bank (or with such other methods of
revaluation as the Bank and the Borrower shall determine from time
to time), less the amount of accumulated straight-line deprecia-
tion, as set forth in paragraph 4 (b) below, and less any instal-
lation or construction cost of the Borrower's assets, if any such
cost has been recovered by the Borrower through the collection
of derechos de servicios or other contributions to investment.
3.   The term "average value of the Borrower's net fixed assets"
shall mean one-half of the sum of (i) the value of the Borrower's
net fixed assets at the beginning of the fiscal year in question,
and (ii) the value of the Borrower's net fixed assets at the
end of the same fiscal year.
4.   The term "net operating income" shall mean the difference
between:
(a) gross operating revenues accruing from the Borrower's
water supply services (which do not include derechos
de servicios, dep6sitos and any investment contribution
paid or turned over to the Borrower); and
(b) the sum of operating, maintenance and administration
expenses (but excluding interest and other charges on
debt), adequate provision for bad debts, indirect
cost of connections and reconnections, taxes (if any)
and adequate provision for straight-line depreciation on
all depreciable assets in operation at an average rate
of not less than 3% per annum (or such other rate as
the Bank and the Borrower may from time to time agree)
of the gross value of such assets, as shown in the
balance sheets of the Borrower and revalued as set forth
in paragraph 2 above, all related to the Borrower's
water supply services.


