Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AC3049 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 07/12/2007 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: Afghanistan 
Project ID: P107101 
Project Name: Kabul Urban Roads Improvement Project 
Task Team Leader: Mohammad Qahir Haidari 
Estimated Appraisal Date:  
Estimated Board Date:  
Managing Unit: SASDE 
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery 
Loan 
Sector: Roads and highways (100%) 
Theme: Regional integration (P);Trade facilitation and market access (P);Other urban 
development (S);Export development and competitiveness (S) 
SPF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
0.00 
 
Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund 
18.00
18.00 
B.  Project Objectives [from section 2 of PCN] 
The objective of this project is to improve traffic flow on priority corridors or segments of the 
main urban roads in Kabul. This will be achieved through improvement of priority roads, 
improvement of some points/intersections, and side drains systems; which are critical for smooth 
flow of traffic in Kabul City.   
 
C.  Project Description [from section 3 of PCN] 
The current proposed ARTF allocation for this project is US$18 million.  The project will be 
prepared under OP-BP 8.00- RAPID RESPONSE TO CRISES AND EMERGENCIES.  
 
The project will be implemented by the Kabul Municipality (KM). KM will use the services of 
an Implementation Consultant (IC) for implementation and supervision of the project. The IC, in 
addition to project management and other experts, will also have local financial management 
(FM) and technical experts in its team to facilitate the implementation. It is agreed that KM will 
use the services of the Procurement Unit (PU) of Afghanistan Reconstruction and Development 
Services (ARDS) of the Ministry of Economy for procurement under this project. FM will be 
carried out by the related department of KM, which is being supported by Kabul Urban Roads 
Page  2
Improvement Project (KURIP). Based on the results of the FM assessment, if needed, 
international FM consultant will be considered to support KM in financial management. The 
civil works will be contracted out to private sector based on competitive bidding. These 
arrangements will be clearly defined during project preparation.  
 
KM has identified about 75kms of the main roads of the City, which need to be rehabilitated on 
priority basis. KM intends to seek retroactive financing to start some of the urgent road 
rehabilitation works this summer, s
ubject to the Ministry of Finance’s approval. However, 
related documentation in terms of readiness has to be met before we agree on retroactive 
financing. Current status is that KM has identified and completed the survey of the candidate 
roads proposed under this project; some design have been done (about 50%), although not much 
design is needed as mostly the civil works will be overlay on the existing roads; and preparing 
for bids.  
 
Based on the recent request by the office of the president for the urgent start of this project, the 
team is exploring ways of amending the ongoing contract of SMEC, IC, under IDA financed 
Kabul Urban Reconstruction Project (KURP) with Ministry of Urban Development (MoUD) so 
that they could also work as the IC for KURIP. In this case, in addition to preparatory works, 
design and supervision, FM and procurement will also be managed by SMEC for this project.   
 
D.  Project location (if known) 
The project is located in Kabul, the capital of Afghanistan. The specific roads to be financed 
have not yet been determined. The selection of project roads will be made on the basis of road 
condition.   
 
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies [from PCN] 
KM has little institutional capacity for compliance with the Safeguard Policies of the World 
Bank but the IC, whose employment is underway, would be helping in preparation of the 
Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) for the project and the IC would 
also be helping the capacity building of the staff of KM in the relevant issues, including the 
implementation of the ESMF prepared by the IC. The ESMF should be making guidelines for 
community consultation and the disclosure of information, including the ESMF, to all relevant 
stakeholders in the local languages. The World Bank will also have to send the ESMF to the 
InfoShop.  
 
The project is not aiming at resettlement, but this will only be known after detailed surveys, but 
land acquisition as such can not be avoided. The ESMF should be providing clear guidelines for 
any land or asset acquisition or contribution by government or private owners, entities or 
individuals having claims on the land or assets. The recording and documentation of the 
proceedings of the meetings with acknowledgement of the participants should be clearly 
stipulated in the ESMF.  
 
It should be mentioned that the World Bank Policy on Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 
4.11) is also triggered and measures to be provided in the ESMF to take care of the relevant 
issues in it in consultation with the relevant stakeholders and experts.   
 
Page  3
F.  Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Ms Asta Olesen (SASDS) 
Mr Mohammad Arif Rasuli (SASDN) 
 
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Yes.   
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X  
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X  
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X  
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
X
Yes.   
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X  
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 
X
TBD.   
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X  
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X  
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X  
Environmental Category:
 
B
-
Partial Assessment 
 
III.  SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN 
 
A.  Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD-stage ISDS 
would be prepared:  N/A 
 
B.  For simple projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD-stage 
ISDS:  11/19/2007 
 
C.  Time frame for launching and completing the safeguard-related studies that may be needed.  
The specific studies and their timing
1
should be specified in the PAD-stage ISDS. 
..   
 
1
Reminder: The Bank's Disclosure Policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal (i) at the 
InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible to potentially affected 
persons.
 
Page  4
IV.  APPROVALS 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Mohammad Qahir Haidari 
06/26/2007 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Frederick Edmund Brusberg 
07/12/2007 
Comments:  This PCN-Stage ISDS for this EA category 'B' project is cleared for public disclosure in 
the InfoShop. 
Sector Manager: 
Mr Mitsuyoshi Asada 
06/27/2007 
Comments:  The ISDS is cleared with SM.  Please change the management unit name from SASEI to 
SASSD in "A. Basic Project Data". 
