                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR2325



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT


                                      ON A

                                      GRANT

                                  (TF-93632)

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$18 MILLION

                                      TO THE

                   ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN

                                      FOR A

              KABUL URBAN ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT



                                 June 22, 2012




Sustainable Development Department
Afghanistan Country Management Unit
South Asia Region
             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective April 2012)

                Currency Unit = Afghani

                Afghani 1.00 = US$ 0.02

                US$ 1.00 = Afghani 49.8



                     FISCAL YEAR

                  March 21 - March 20



        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



ARTF    Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund
IC      Implementation Consultant
KM      Kabul Municipality
MoF     Ministry of Finance
PMU     Project management unit
UNOPS   United Nations Office for Project Services



            Vice President: Isabel Guerrero
        A/Country Director: Robert J. Saum
           Sector Director: John Henry Stein
         A/Sector Manager: Binyam Reja
         ICR Team Leader: Mohammed Ajmal Askerzoy
                                           AFGHANISTAN
                                 Kabul Urban Roads Improvement Project




                                                        CONTENTS



DATA SHEET ..................................................................................................................... i
   A. Basic Information........................................................................................................ i
   B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................... i
   C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................ i
   D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................... ii
   E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... ii
   F. Results Framework Analysis ...................................................................................... ii
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................... iii
   H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................ iii
   I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................. iv

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 3
3. Assessment of Outcomes ................................................................................................ 8
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 10
5. Assessment of Bank and Recipient Performance ......................................................... 10
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 12
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Recipient/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 13
   Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 15
   Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 16
   Annex 3. Economic Analysis....................................................................................... 18
   Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ...... 19
   Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 21
   Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 23
   Annex 7. Summary of Recipient's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 24
   Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 26
   Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 27

  MAP – IBRD 39269
                                          DATA SHEET

A. Basic Information
                                                                    Kabul Urban Roads Improvement
Country:                  Afghanistan       Project Name:
                                                                    Project
Project ID:               P107101           L/C/TF Number(s):       TF-93632
ICR Date:                 06/22/2012        ICR Type:               Core ICR
                                                                    ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:       SIL               Grantee:
                                                                    AFGHANISTAN
Original Total
                          USD 18.00M        Disbursed Amount:       USD 14.641M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:           USD 18.00M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agency: Kabul Municipality
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: NA
B. Key Dates
                                                                                          Revised /
      Process                   Date                 Process           Original Date
                                                                                        Actual Date(s)
Concept Review:            06/25/2007         Effectiveness:            03/18/2009        02/25/2009
Appraisal:                 11/11/2008         Restructuring(s):                               NA
Approval:                  12/19/2008         Mid-term Review:          Not planned       07/11/2010
                                              Closing:                  12/31/2010        12/31/2011
C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                                Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                             Substantial
Bank Performance:                                        Moderately satisfactory
Recipient Performance:                          Moderately satisfactory
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Recipient Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                     Ratings            Recipient                Ratings
                                                                      Moderately
Quality at Entry:       Moderately satisfactory Government:
                                                                      satisfactory
                                                                      Moderately
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                                  unsatisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:



1
 The Recipient is processing a final disbursement request of about USD 1.5 million, which is expected to
be received in the Bank and paid before the end of the revised grace period for disbursement of June 30,
2012


                                                    i
Overall Bank                                           Overall Recipient    Moderately
                        Moderately satisfactory
Performance:                                           Performance:         satisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
                                                    QAG Assessments (if
     Implementation Performance         Indicators                                         Rating
                                                            any)
 Potential Problem Project at any time
                                           Yes             Quality at Entry (QEA): None
(Yes/No):
                                                           Quality of Supervision
Problem Project at any time (Yes/No):      Yes                                      None
                                                           (QSA):
DO rating before Closing/Inactive status: Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General transportation sector                                         10                   10
Public administration- Transportation                                 20                   20
Roads and highways                                                    70                   70

Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                10                   10
Other urban development                                               90                   90
E. Bank Staff
          Positions                           At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:                 Isabel M. Guerrero                 Praful Patel
Country Director:               Robert J. Saum                     Alastair J. McKechnie
Sector Manager:                 Binyam Reja                        Guang Z. Chen
Project Team Leader:            Mesfin Wodajo Jijo                 Hasan Afzal Zaidi
ICR Team Leader:                Mohammed Ajmal Askerzoy
ICR Primary Author:             Graham Smith



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The development objective of the Project is to improve traffic flow on priority corridors
or segments of the main urban roads in Kabul.




                                                  ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

Not applicable

(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                              Original Target                    Actual Value Achieved
                 Baseline                       Formally Revised
  Indicator                    Values (from                        at Completion or
                  Value                          Target Values
                            approval documents)                      Target Years
    Length
   of roads        0 km           12 km                    NA                 11.9
 rehabilitated


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s): Not applicable

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


                                                                                Actual
        Date ISR
                                                                            Disbursements
No.                             DO                            IP
        Archived
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1    05/25/2009    Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                  0.00
  2    11/26/2009    Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory                3.31
  3    05/31/2010    Moderately Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory       5.43
  4    07/20/2010    Moderately Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory       5.43
  5    11/01/2010    Moderately Unsatisfactory    Unsatisfactory                8.08
  6    01/04/2011    Moderately Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory       8.08
  7    08/29/2011    Satisfactory                 Moderately Satisfactory      10.20
  8    01/03/2012    Satisfactory                 Moderately Satisfactory      14.64


H. Restructuring (if any)

A Level -2 restructuring was done once, to extend the grant closing date by one year.
Thus the original grant closing date- December 31, 2010 was extended to December 31,
2011.




                                            iii
I. Disbursement Profile2




2
 The Recipient is processing a final disbursement request of about USD 1.5 million, which is expected to
be received in the Bank and paid before the end of the revised grace period for disbursement of June 30,
2012


                                                   iv
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

In 2008 the population of Kabul city was estimated at about 4 million, more than half of
the country‘s total urban population. It was growing at about 5 percent per year. More
than a fifth of the city‘s population was thought to live below the poverty line. Due to
massive destruction caused by the wars of the 1980s and 1990s, as well as rapid
population growth (natural and by immigration from rural areas), transport service levels
were very low. Very little investment had been made in city infrastructure, with the result
that, of more than 1,500 km of roads, only 350 km were paved. Of these, about 60
percent were damaged and the remaining streets were in poor condition. It was estimated
that half of all drains were not functional. Traffic congestion on Kabul‘s inadequate road
network was a cause for serious concern. Three fifths of the urban population lived in
informal developments served by unpaved roads.

Traffic flow in the city center was slow and chaotic. This was due to several factors:
inadequate infrastructure (road width, no separation of motorized traffic from pedestrians
and street vendors), weak traffic management system and a lack of law enforcement,
security barriers installed across many secondary roads to protect government offices,
foreign embassies and the offices of international agencies, and no attention to parking
discipline. The latter was particularly disruptive in downtown areas crammed with shops
and offices. Vendor kiosks had proliferated without any regulation. The urban vehicle
fleet, though not well documented, was thought to have reached about 450,000, or 110-
120 per thousand inhabitants.

Institutional responsibility for urban street improvements and traffic management was
diffuse and disorganized. The Kabul municipality (KM) was –and still is—responsible
for physical improvement of the road infrastructure, while the Ministry of Interior
controlled the traffic police and the Ministry of Transport operated the bus services.
Throughout Afghanistan municipalities have very limited responsibility for urban
transport.

KM had estimated the investment needs for improvement of the city roads to be about
$650 million for the next five years and $1,160 million for the next 15 years. This would
include rehabilitation and widening of the main roads, asphalting of the unpaved
secondary streets, construction of a Ring Road and of other new roads needed by the
city‘s rapid expansion. Within that 5-year program, a three-year priority program was
estimated at $127 million.

This triggered a concerted effort to embark on a major Road Rehabilitation and
Construction Program. Several donors were active in Kabul. The German government
funded €5 million in 2002-3, which was complemented by a $3 million grant from the
Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF), and between November 2003 and
December 2004 about 140 km of city streets were repaired: pot-holes were patched and




                                            1
streets were resurfaced with asphalt3. United Arab Emirates through its Abu Dhabi Fund
and Turkey also provided funding for reconstruction of other parts of Kabul‘s street
network, implemented in parallel with this project.

In April 2007 the MoF requested $18 million from ARTF for the present project, which –
after long delays until a consultant could be hired, as an essential prerequisite-- was
approved in December 2008. The consultant‘s contract was funded retroactively from the
ARTF grant, once it became effective.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The project development objective was to improve traffic flow on priority corridors or
segments of the main urban roads in Kabul. The key indicator was the length of roads
rehabilitated (km).

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

Not applicable.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The main beneficiaries would be the users of the project roads: occupants of buses, cars
and trucks, and also pedestrians; as well as those living and working on the project streets.
Secondary benefits would follow from the easing of congestion in adjoining streets. Third,
the project would create short-term jobs in a labor market suffering from high
unemployment. Fourth, KM would be expected to gain institutional capacity through the
Project Management Unit and hands-on training from the implementation consultant.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component A: Improvement of Key City Roads in Kabul: consisting of (i)
rehabilitation of existing roads; (ii) construction and rehabilitation of roadside drains and
walkways; (iii) construction of roundabouts at key intersections; and (iv) installation of
street lights. Cost (appraisal estimate): $14.8 million.

 Component B: Project Management Support: (i) provision of support to Kabul
Municipality for the preparation, survey and design, implementation and supervision of
the Project; and (b) establishment of a Project Management Unit within the Municipality
to strengthen its institutional capacity. Cost (appraisal estimate): $3.2 million.




3
 Kabul City Roads and Water Drainage Systems Project, ARTF no. TF052482, grant of $3 million,
approved November 8, 2003


                                                 2
1.6 Revised Components

No changes were made.

1.7 Other significant changes

Because of long delays in project implementation, the closing date for disbursement of
the ARTF grant was extended one year, from December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2011.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Since the resumption in 2002 of donor activity in Afghanistan, the World Bank Group
has been involved in several projects in the transport sector, funding mainly rehabilitation
and improvement of secondary and tertiary rural roads with grants from IDA and ARTF.
The previous ARTF-funded project had been implemented on time, though delays had
been experienced in the processing of disbursements by KM. These projects had shown
the fragility of institutional capacity in the Afghan government, and hence the importance
of keeping project objectives and design simple. Preparation of the project had first
required hiring the consultant for three tasks: (i) to prepare designs for reconstructing 75
km of city streets, from which the highest priority streets, totaling 12 km, would be
improved as the core of the Project; (ii) to advise Kabul Municipality on procurement of
the works contractor, and (iii) to supervise implementation of the works.

More attention should perhaps have been paid to the broader drainage problem of the city
center, which lacks storm drains to carry rain and snow melt down to the Kabul River.
However, the project as defined was deliberately small and simple, whereas the cost of
such a drainage network would have been several times greater.

Previous Bank projects had shown the difficulty often encountered in procurement of
contractors and consultants. The only contractors bidding for the relatively small
contracts were all local and often limited in their experience and financial resources. The
skills required of consultants were not available locally, but few international consultants
submitted proposals. This had led more than once to the rejection of all bids as
unqualified, or acceptance of bidders whose qualifications proved to be marginal. This is
part of the Afghan country risk. The Project Proposal (the equivalent of an appraisal
report) did not explicitly recognize this risk; it contributed to lengthy delays in its
implementation.

The project proposal identified financial management as moderate to high risk to the
project development objectives. The mitigation measure contemplated was support from
the Implementation Consultant to the KM to manage project finance. This measure
however fell short of defining the role of the IC in financial management, as was
identifying appropriate staff to provide the envisaged support. The establishment of a
project management unit (PMU) in the Kabul Municipality was an integral part of the
project description (Component B – Project Management Support), on a par with the
International Consultant. But little was said elsewhere in the project proposal on details
                                             3
of the PMU‘s make-up, duties and powers. As will be explained below, KM‘s failure to
attract and retain qualified people for the PMU was a main cause for problems that arose
during implementation.

Given this experience, it is now clear that having the Kabul Municipality put in place the
Project Management Unit, with the requisite skills and powers, should have been made a
condition of effectiveness or disbursement, as appropriate. That is, works should not have
started until the PMU was operational.

2.2 Implementation

The funding for the project, approved in December 2008, became effective two months
later in February 2009. The components were duly implemented, but the delay made it
necessary to extend the closing date by one year. The bidding for the four works
packages in September 2008 had elicited few bids, and one contractor, an Afghan firm,
submitted the lowest bids for the first two packages, and was awarded the contract in
February 2009. No acceptable bid emerged for the third and fourth packages, which had
to be rebid. The sole qualified bidder in the second round was the same contractor who
had won the first two packages.

The international consultant‘s third task, to supervise implementation of the civil works,
was interrupted when it withdrew its three resident staff because none of its invoices had
been paid during more than 12 months since it had mobilized, even though the contracted
services had been delivered. This occurred in August 2009 when it had used all the staff-
months allowed in the contract, even though at that point the civil works were far behind
schedule (having started late because KM had not paid the contractor‘s mobilization
advance) and only 23 percent had been completed.

Project implementation progress was slowed for several reasons:
(i)     KM failed to attract candidates to staff the Project Management Unit in time for
        the start of the works.
(ii)    The civil works contractor encountered difficulty in getting access to construction
        sites on heavily trafficked streets in the center of Kabul.
(iii)   Poor contract management by KM led the implementation consultant to
        unilaterally terminate his contract, which in turn prompted the suspension of the
        civil works for over nine months.
(iv)    The contractor‘s early invoices were kept unapproved by the KM during this
        period for lack of certification by the supervising engineer, who was not available
        for the above reason.
(v)     Even in the period when works proceeded, poor financial management resulted in
        excessive delays to the contractor‘s payments, which led to a shortage of the
        contractor‘s cash flow and eventual slowing down of construction activities.

The long delays in processing interim payments to the contractor can be attributed to
very clumsy clearance requirements (as many as 40-45 signatures), mainly in KM but

                                             4
also in MoF, and a widespread lack of internal management systems and skills to tackle
this problem. By October 2009, the completion date set in the contract, the contractor
had executed civil works equivalent to about $2.8 million out of the contracted $13.7
million, barely 20 percent. Thereafter the contractor slowed down works even more,
pleading lack of working capital with which to pay suppliers. The Bank warned KM that
it was in violation of the grant agreement in allowing works to proceed without
supervision, and the contractor also ceased work.

Following a change in mayor in November 2009, KM decided to reengage with the
consultant and resolve the pending issues of the project. The new mayor took an active
interest in the project, sometimes intervening in person to resolve implementation
problems, notably negotiating with the police to allow the contractor night-time access to
the work sites. Amicable settlement was reached on the previous contract and a new
supervision consulting contract for the remaining works was signed in May 2010. After
nine months of suspension with city center streets torn up but none completed, the
contractor remobilized in June 2010 and resumed the works.

Thereafter, despite some further payment delays, this time mainly on MoF‘s part, the
contractor stepped up the pace of activity. Following the 2010-11 winter season some
defects appeared in the asphalt surfacing, which upon close inspection of the defective
sections were found to be caused by poor workmanship and substandard quality of
asphalt mix. The contractor took steps at his own expense to remove the pavement and
reconstruct it under the close supervision of the consultant.

The consultant also called attention to the need for a revised design for the roadside
drains. The initial design for part of the project roads was an open ditch, but it was soon
found that garbage thrown out from dwellings and shops blocked the drains and caused
pooling. In response, alternative designs were adopted using either steel grills or solid
concrete blocks that could be easily removed to give access to the drain below.

The long delay in completing the road works made it necessary to extend the closing date
by one year, to December 31, 2011.

In short, works that the consultant and the contractor expected would take 9 months, and
which KM had insisted should be done in 4 months, actually took 33 months: March
2009 through December 2011. This was due mainly to the absence of an adequately
staffed PMU and consequent lack of skills in the Municipality and MoF for managing
such a project, and especially for processing interim payment requests; and partly to the
challenge of putting in place a project management plan resilient enough to allow
disruptive civil works to be carried out in a chaotic city environment.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Given the simple project design, the only outputs to measure were the physical
completion of the works and the services of the consultant in the design and construction
supervision phases. No baseline was needed. At appraisal different indicators were
examined. Travel time reduction was eventually discarded, as significant improvement

                                            5
was not foreseen considering the traffic volumes and congestion on these main roads.
Roughness measuring equipment and baseline data were also not available.

Monitoring by the supervision consultant identified the above quality problems in the
asphalt. It also led to adoption of the improved designs for the roadside drains. Monthly
and quarterly progress reports submitted by the contractor provided a reasonable account
of the project progress and key issues with practical recommendations. KM has prepared
interim unaudited financial reports each quarter. Both reports have enabled the KM
management and the Bank team to monitor the project‘s physical and financial status.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguard compliance: Bank safeguard policies: Environmental Impact Assessment
(4.01) and Physical Cultural Resources (4.11) were triggered at appraisal. Dust nuisance
was an issue occasionally, and the contractor attempted to address it through regular
spraying of water. The disruption to traffic was managed to some extent by working on
half the roadway at a time, to allow traffic to move with some degree of congestion
during rush hours. The project required no resettlement, as the civil works were all within
the existing alignment. For the same reason the project did not require that any trees be
cut down. The consultant‘s specialist in environmental and social impacts ensured that
Bank safeguard guidelines were respected. He held consultations with persons affected
by the works, considering both temporary and permanent impacts (see Annex 5). As a
result, KM took various steps: (i) it relocated mobile vendors‘ stalls away from the
roadway (no compensation was required); (ii) it took (limited) measures to discipline on-
street parking; and (iii) it introduced movable concrete slabs that separate traffic going in
opposite directions, and in some locations marked off lanes reserved for pedestrians and
cyclists. (See also Annex 2.)

Both this project and its predecessor (see Footnote 1) included reconstruction of street-
side drains. But the main environmental concern was and remains accumulated garbage
and construction debris blocking these drains and the lack of any network of larger storm
drains to carry rain and melted snow away from the city center. The natural drainage is
into the Kabul River, which runs through the heart of the old city. However, this would
have been necessarily a far larger and more risk-prone project. (It is a problem limited to
2-3 months each year –February-April, the rest of the year being dry.)

Financial Management: The project operated under the steadily improving Public
Financial Management reforms under implementation by the Government of Afghanistan
with the World Bank/ARTF assistance. Under these reforms proper records of grants
received and disbursements through the designated account were maintained by the
Ministry of Finance, Special Disbursement Unit (SDU) which was initially manual and
later migrated to the Afghanistan Financial Management Information System (AFMIS).
The funds flow to the project was timely.

Proper records of eligible expenditure for various components and activities were
maintained by the implementing agency – Kabul Municipality through its PMU. The



                                             6
internal controls were adequate. Regular interim unaudited financial reports in the agreed
format were submitted during the life of the project.

Annual audited financial statements were submitted regularly. The audit opinion of the
Control and Audit Office of Afghanistan was qualified for the initial year but thereafter
the audit opinion was unqualified (clean). Audit observations were promptly resolved.

The financial management capacity was strengthened during the course of the
implementation of the project. The Bank‘s FM unit participated in all supervision
missions and provided guidance and support to strengthen the FM arrangements. The
project closed with a ‗Moderately Satisfactory‘ FM supervision rating.

Procurement: Procurement performance under the project was moderately satisfactory.
All procurement was conducted in accordance with the Bank‘s guidelines. Since no
procurement capacity existed in the Kabul Municipality, the implementation consultant
was tasked to perform the major procurement of the project, namely the civil works. The
firm prepared bidding documents and bid evaluation reports (BER) for the civil works.
As most of the bids were deficient in one way or another, requiring extensive
consultation between the IC and the Bank and ultimately rejection as non-responsive, it
took several months before the BERs could be finalized, in turn delaying contract award
for the works.

Earlier there had also been considerable delay in the finalization of the consultant firm‘s
contract. No major goods or non-consulting services were planned under the project.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Ever since the 2003-5 ARTF-supported project, KM has had a force account maintenance
brigade with reasonable equipment, some of it financed from the associated KfW grant,
to maintain the city street network. However, it lacks sufficient budget and maintenance
planning and management systems.

In June 2011 the Ministry of Finance requested World Bank funding for a follow-on
project to rehabilitate the other 63 km of roads for which designs were prepared under the
completed project. It also included the study of two tunnels suggested by the Master Plan
of 1978 that would alleviate congestion in the city center; and the design of vehicular
flyovers for about six critical intersections. The total cost was estimated at $45 million.
The Bank is considering this request.

In parallel Kabul Municipality is discussing with the Bank a possible project to equip the
city with a network of major storm drains, as mentioned above. The next step will be to
carry out a feasibility and design study.

The final accounting of project expenditures shows that $1.9 million of the Grant remains
unspent. Had this been foreseen early enough, the savings might have been used to pay
for feasibility studies or advisory services on the above follow-on proposals. However,
the savings materialized only in 2011 when the local currency lost value quickly against

                                            7
the US$, leaving the Government and the Municipality too little time to prepare and
negotiate such a restructuring.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project objective was in line with the Afghanistan Transport Sector Strategy4, where
the Government set a goal ―Seventy percent of all roads in municipalities (i.e., cities) are
rehabilitated and improved by the end of 2010‖. The objectives will remain relevant even
in the future, as the Bank is focusing on ensuring equitable delivery of basic services
across the country, as articulated in its strategy5 approved in April 2012. Although there
was no baseline with which to compare the outcomes, the traffic flow in the key corridors
has improved substantially, following the rehabilitation of the road segments, thereby
confirming the relevance of the project design as appraised.

During the 2010 Kabul Conference, the Government set national priorities to rebuild
essential infrastructure and restore key areas damaged during the two decades of conflict
and the lack of investment during that long period. The conflict had led to much
migration from rural areas to the capital in search of work, causing Kabul‘s population to
grow rapidly, at the same time as private car ownership began to take off. These two
mega-trends put great stress on the limited capacity of the city center‘s street network.
The project was timely and appropriately designed, contributing to the efficiency of the
national capital and hoping to strengthen the Municipality‘s institutional capacity.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
The key outcome indicator was the length of roads rehabilitated, with a target of 12 km,
which was met by the closing date of the project. This marked the achievement of the
project development objective of improving traffic flow on priority corridors or segments
of the main urban roads in Kabul. Both vehicular and pedestrian traffic movements have
improved on city center streets that previously had been severely congested, causing long
trip delays. The improvement has been applauded by road users and the national
parliament. Air quality has also improved, thanks to the repaving of damaged streets that
had been sources of air-borne dust, and reduced exhaust emissions, due to smoother
traffic flow. Designs for improving a further 63 km of streets were prepared and
accepted.

Achievement of the PDO would have even been better, had the design included activities
that would establish a traffic management system for the corridors and at key junctions,
including introduction of physical barriers between opposite lanes, traffic signs and


4
    Forms part of the Afghanistan National Development Strategy (ANDS 2008-2013).
5
    Interim Strategy Note for Islamic Republic of Afghanistan for FY12-FY14.




                                                   8
signaling, with associated regulations, enforcement mechanisms and incentives. Taking
such measures in conjunction with the road improvements would have enhanced the
traffic flow, even at the risk of complicating the project to some extent.

3.3 Efficiency

At appraisal it was estimated that the project investments would yield benefits in reduced
vehicle operating costs and travel time, sufficient to give an economic return of 16-21
percent (depending on the expected life of the rehabilitation pavements, estimated at 15-
20 years). All four contracts were awarded at prices below the engineer‘s estimate (in
aggregate 11 percent less), and were completed within the funding available. However,
during the more than two years that completion was delayed, traffic was disrupted and
benefits were postponed. Since completion, on the other hand, traffic has grown rapidly
and the easing of congestion is palpable. But KM lacked the capacity to conduct formal
traffic counts or measures of travel time once the works were completed, so no quantified
re-evaluation of the economic return is feasible. However, overall the substantial easing
of congestion within the planned cost suggests that the economic return will be high. (See
Annex 3.)

Had the PMU functioned as intended beyond the completion of the works, one of its tasks
would have been to oversee traffic counts. But this was not to be (see below).

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

The PDO remained relevant throughout, evidenced by the improvement in the traffic
flow when the rehabilitated road segments were fully opened to traffic. The parliament,
road users and other stakeholders highly appreciated it; Government has already
submitted a request to the Bank for financial support to scale up the effort through a
second-phase project. Although implementation of the works took far longer than
expected, they were all completed to the intended engineering standard within budget,
with some improvements in details such as the drains, the sidewalk design and the street
lighting.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project was designed with its impact on traffic flow as the main target, keeping
simplicity in view. The impact on poverty of a project of such limited scope will be
localized, starting with the creation of short-term jobs for the labor force that carried out
the works, estimated at about one hundred Kabul workers for two years. As noted, the
paving of otherwise dusty roadways has improved air quality, and KM expects that the
much-improved street lighting will encourage roadside businesses to work more hours in
the evening, which will enhance incomes. But before-and-after data to support these
views are not available.


                                              9
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The Bank‘s appraisal stressed the importance of the Kabul Municipality developing
institutional capacity to manage civil works improvements like this project, if it was to
keep pace with the city‘s rapid physical expansion and the growth of its vehicle fleet.
Unfortunately the Municipality had difficulties in finding qualified specialists for its
project management unit and in retaining them as implementation proceeded. When the
works were completed, the last two of the PMU‘s three members left for more attractive
jobs elsewhere: institutional capacity building was not sustained under the project.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

None

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Shop keepers and people living and working on the project streets were interviewed as to
their concerns about the impacts of the rehabilitation works. Most were pleased with the
final result, but concerns were expressed about the noise, dust, safety hazards and
inadequate disposal of waste during the construction period. The contractor accepted to
implement suggestions addressing these concerns. See Annex 5.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Significant to high.

The absence of a permanent unit in the KM to manage road improvements leaves the city
at risk that the easing of congestion in the city center made possible by the project will be
short-lived. Kabul sorely needs a permanent unit to manage traffic and network
improvements. Maintenance of the improved roads is not an immediate concern, as they
were deliberately designed for a life of 15-20 years. However, unless the city-wide
drainage problem is addressed soon, the durability of the pavements will be undermined.
Lastly, the sidewalks will be at risk of damage from parked cars. The interlocking
concrete slabs used for most sidewalks are a good solution for pedestrians, but are not
designed to take the load imposed by parked cars.

5. Assessment of Bank and Recipient Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

With its ample experience of long delays and institutional weaknesses in prior Afghan
projects, it has to be asked whether the Bank put enough effort at appraisal into reducing
the risk of delays and poor performance by the Municipality and contractors. The Project
Proposal included procurement and financial management in its risk assessment and saw
                                             10
the implementation consultant and strong oversight by the Bank team as instruments to
mitigate the risk to some extent. The Bank team has indeed scheduled more frequent
supervision missions and worked closely working with the KM to make up for the latter‘s
weak fiduciary capacity. The implementation consultant helped the KM with the major
procurement --the civil works-- and it was completed satisfactorily. If staffing the PMU
(which was to include a financial analyst) had been made a condition of effectiveness or
disbursement, the risk of delayed payments to the contractor and the consultant would
have been lessened. More broadly, a strong autonomous project management unit could
have offset the inefficiencies observed in the KM administration and the contractor.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

Supervision was conducted twice in 2009 and three times in 2010, the year of most
activity, then once in 2011 and 2012 (see Annex 9). The aide memoires went to some
length to press for solutions to the project‘s many implementation problems, especially
financial management staffing and procedures (which might have speeded up the
payments). Besides the routine supervision missions which were more frequent than the
institutional minimum, the Bank team carried out weekly meetings on a regular basis
with the project team, consultant and contractor, closely followed up the payment process
on a daily basis, and put substantial effort into bringing the otherwise problem project
back on track.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

This overall rating combines the moderately satisfactory rating of quality at entry and the
satisfactory rating of supervision.

5.2 Recipient Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately satisfactory.

The Ministry of Finance fulfilled its role in managing the designated account, but was
partly responsible (together with KM) for the delays in procurement and payment
processes. Despite all the difficulties faced during implementation, the Government
stayed focused on the project and has made a reasonable effort to create conducive
environment for implementation and openly discussed with the Bank‘s supervision team
on key issues and actions to be taken.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory



                                            11
It was a condition of the grant agreement that KM would maintain a project management
unit and would set up a budget committee to exercise financial supervision of the project.
The budget committee was appointed late and remained barely functional. As for the
PMU, it was expected that it would be in place by December 2008. Instead, the three
positions were not filled until February, May and July 2010 respectively. The positions of
team leader and the engineer were filled for only a few months; low salary rates were
cited as one cause for their leaving. The finance officer stayed longer and was often the
sole member of the PMU.

The failure to put in place and sustain a competent PMU contributed in a large way to the
lengthy delays, as did the failure to make payments to either the consultant ($2.3 million)
throughout the first year of its activities, or to the contractor ($2.1 million) throughout the
first half year of his operations (the mobilization advance was paid only 3 months after
the contractor started work, and the first payment for works done was not made until 15
months after the start, i.e. a whole year late). The main reason for the delays in payment
was the excessive number of approvals required and the lack of capacity for supervising
compliance with the contracts, exacerbated by inadequate delegation of decision
authority from top management to intermediate levels.

However the complete deadlock in implementation during August-November 2009 was
eased when new Kabul Municipality leadership took office in November of that year. It
thereafter took steps to re-engage with the implementation consultant and enable the
contractor to resume works at site. At the same time it reduced the complexity of the
payment approval process.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Recipient Performance

Rating: Moderately satisfactory.

This reflects a balance between the satisfactory achievement of the intended outcome,
and the moderately unsatisfactory performance by the implementing agency, while the
performance of the central government (Ministry of Finance) was in between. Moreover
the overall performance of the Recipient was viewed from the significant effort made by
the new KM leadership after it took office in November 2009, to change the otherwise
‗problem project‘ back on track. Recognition of the effort will boost the KM
management‘s morale in performing even better on the follow on operations.

6. Lessons Learned

(a)     In the absence of implementation capacity in the implementing agency, it is
prudent to ensure the establishment of a strong project management unit well before the
financing becomes effective. Project Preparation Funds may be used to employ essential
staff of the unit before the project is approved. The unit should be guided by a clear
implementation manual that gives it adequate autonomy to avoid traps in the
implementing agency‘s dysfunctional systems. The PMU‘s budgeting should allow
sufficient flexibility to attract and retain suitably qualified staff to manage the project.



                                              12
(b)    The implementing agencies –in this case primarily KM but to a lesser degree
MoF—must be made aware of the obligation to pay their bills on time, when the work
has been done in compliance with the contract. This applies especially to interim requests
for payment, as the retention percentage is deliberately designed to give the owner
leverage over the contractor as works approach completion. The implementing agencies
must also be made aware of the damaging consequences of withholding payment
approval at length, far beyond the time that the contractor had been led to expect (with
reasonable safety margins) when he prepared his bid. This requires training staff to
understand the requirements of the contracts and payment procedures, financial
management systems, and appropriate delegation of decision authority.

(c)     Traffic management and the planning of access for the contractor‘s crews and
equipment is very important in any project involving works to upgrade crowded city
streets. This argues that traffic police in the capital should report to the municipality
rather than to the Ministry of Interior.

(d)    Considering the implications of undertaking civil works in a challenging city
environment, contract packaging should be done to limit the number/size of contracts that
can be awarded to a single contractor to an appropriate level. This can mitigate the risk of
over-relying on a single contractor and possible poor implementation performance.

(e)     The arguments for pre-qualification versus post-qualification need to be weighed
carefully when the procurement plan is developed. In this case it was decided to rely on
post-qualification, because the market was known to be so thin, that pre-qualification ran
the risk of excluding firms who would have been borderline qualified, relative to the few
other bids received. Pre-qualification also bore the risk that the obligatory public
announcement of the results might encourage collusion among those firms found to be
qualified. In hindsight, this decision is seen to have been appropriate, as none of the
contract packages yielded more than two qualified bidders.

(f)    In difficult work environments like this one it is imperative to locate the core
members of the Bank‘s project team in the country. This will significantly improve
communication with the client and other players in the project, provide hands-on
guidance to the client and other parties, and address issues as they arise. Furthermore,
wherever project implementation is challenging, the Bank‘s supervision effort should be
stronger. It should be conducted more often than the norm. This provides an incentive for
the implementing agencies to address issues highlighted by previous Bank missions more
quickly. Frequent meetings between the Bank‘s team and the Recipient‘s team to monitor
progress enhance project performance.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Recipient/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Recipient/implementing agencies

The completion report prepared by the supervising engineer and submitted by the Kabul
Municipality is fully consonant with the Bank‘s assessment.



                                            13
The Bank accepts that many factors contributed to the delays in implementing the road
works. On the particular issue of managing traffic flows around the construction sites
during the works, it is clear in hindsight that neither the Municipality nor the contractor
had the experience or the capacity to manage the difficult task of minimizing disruption
to traffic while at the same time giving the contractor adequate and efficient access to
work sites –the importance of which was not foreseen at appraisal.

The Bank still maintains the view that the dispute that has arisen in 2009 between KM
and SMEC, could have been easily resolved had there been a good capacity of managing
contracts and disputes within the Kabul Municipality.

(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Not applicable




                                             14
                          Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Costs by Component

                                        Appraisal Estimate          Actual        Percentage of
             Components
                                           ($ million)            ($ million)      Appraisal
A: Road Improvements                            14.80               11.71              79%

B: Preparation, Design & Supervision             3.20                   4.40         138%
-- Consultant                            2.94                    4.30
-- Project Management Unit               0.18                    0.08
-- Goods                                 0.08                    0.02

Total Project Costs                             18.00               16.11              90%




(b) Road Improvement Contracts

                                Engineer’s           Contract        Final          Final Sum
  Contract
                Road Length      Estimate            Amount         Contract         as % of
  Package
                                  ($000)              ($000)       Sum ($000)        Estimate
     W1                3.14            3,867             3,289            3,313        86
     W2                3.28            4,439             3,618            3,796        86
     W3                2.22            2,833             2,663            2,120        75
     W4                3.27            4,200             4,112            2,857        68
    Total             11.91        15,340               13,681           12,087        79




                                                15
                             Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component A: Road Improvements

All the roads included in the project plan were duly improved (see map at end of the
report). Their total length was 11.9 km. The final cost was lower than expected: 82
percent of the appraisal estimate and 79 percent of the engineer‘s estimate (which was
slightly higher than the appraisal). See the table below. The main reason for the project
saving was the elimination from the task list of the excavation and replacement of
subgrade on roads in the fourth package, when investigations showed that the existing
subgrade was of satisfactory quality. In all four packages the winning bid was also
appreciably below the engineer‘s estimate.

All planned roundabouts and street lighting were also completed, as part of the same
contracts.

                              Road                      Intended       Substantial      Actual
Contract   Road
                             Length     Start Date     Completion      Completion     Completion
Package    Numbers
                              (km)                        Date           Date*           Date
           2A, 2B, 3, 4,
W1                            3.14     1 Mar 2009      29 Jun 2009    10 May2011      24 Dec 2011
           4A, 4B, 5, 6, 7
           10A,10B, 1A,
W2                            3.28     1 Mar 2009      29 Jun 2009    10 May2011      25 Dec 2011
           1B, 8, 9
W3         8A, 12             2.22     6 Jun 2009      14 Oct 2009    10 July 2011 25 Dec 2011
W4         5, 6, 8B, 9, 11    3.27     6 Jun 2009      14 Oct 2009    20 May2011      25 Dec 2011

* The only elements remaining to be completed after the dates in this column were installation of
street lights and some adjustments to drainage channels and their covering (metal grill or concrete
blocks). All were completed by the end of December.

Component B: Project Preparation, Design and Supervision, Institutional Capacity
Building, and Setting up of a Project Management Unit in Kabul Municipality

The consultant services for design and supervision planned as the main part of this
component were fully completed as planned. However, the final cost exceeded the
appraisal estimate by about 46 percent, mainly because the supervision of the civil works
was priced on a per-month basis, and the works took far longer than expected.

The funds earmarked for the three PMU consultants ($180,000) were not fully drawn on,
because KM was unable to attract and retain qualified experts for the planned duration,
spending instead only about $80,000.




                                                16
The following text is taken from the aide memoire of the October 2010 supervision
mission, to illustrate the main issues that arose during implementation in the various
technical disciplines. At this point the civil works had resumed and solutions had been
worked out for the main implementation problems.

Procurement: Project procurement was rated satisfactory during the October 2010
supervision mission. KM had successfully carried out all procurement activities indicated
in the procurement plan, updated the procurement plan in a timely manner, and prepared
a complaint registration form. All the procurement documents are kept at the custody of
the PMU for any future inspection.

Quality Control: In 2010 the quality of the asphalt pavement on some roads was found
to be unsatisfactory. The contractor replaced the defective sections at his own expense.
At that point agreements were reached that: (i) to ensure quality first time, the contractor
would provide asphalt mix only from suppliers approved by the IC; (ii) the supervising
consultant would deploy on a permanent basis a qualified inspector at the asphalt mix
production site to certify all batches produced for the project, each time the supply to the
project is processed.

Financial Management: The October 2010 supervision mission rated financial
management moderately satisfactory. The project had improved its financial management
system. Accounting records like cash book and contracts register were maintained using
spreadsheets; and bank reconciliation statements were prepared monthly. Internal
controls were adequate, except that the internal audit was done only for the operating
budget but not for the development budget, which at the time was not the mandate of the
internal audit department. The project started submitting quarterly FMRs from the fourth
quarter of SY1388 (first quarter of 2010). In the year that followed, disbursement picked
up and reached 53 percent as of April 30, 2011, substantial progress compared to a 30
percent disbursement over the 19 months prior to the October 2010 mission. The payment
process to the contractor, consultant and PMU staff had been slow, but improved over
time since the KM had introduced a new, more efficient payment process for the project,
agreed with the finance department.

Safeguards Management: The October 2010 mission rated safeguard management
satisfactory. Improvements had been made through a number of measures, including
deploying a safeguard specialist under the consultant‘s contract, and training sessions had
been conducted for the contractor‘s and the consultant‘s teams. Public consultations had
been conducted with a view to understanding concerns on the manner in which the
project was being implemented, and unforeseen negative and positive impacts that
surfaced during implementation. Though belatedly, a traffic management plan had been
prepared and implemented; despite some problems impeding full implementation, the
plan was a crucial element for efficient construction in the highly congested city center.




                                            17
                             Annex 3. Economic Analysis

During appraisal an economic analysis was carried out on the 12 km of streets to be
improved. The average daily traffic was estimated at 9,000 vehicles. Vehicle operating
cost savings due to the improved road surface conditions were evaluated with the help of
the Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM-4). The economic return
was calculated for three scenarios: that the improved pavements would have a working
life of 10, 15 or 20 years. The rates of return for these scenarios were respectively 11, 16
and 21 percent, and a cost-benefit ratio in the range 1.25-1.6. Since the project benefits,
compared to the Do Nothing alternative, are likely to persist at least 15 years, it was
reasonable to conclude that the economic return would be at least 16 percent.

No economic analysis has been prepared following completion of the project, for lack of
capacity in Kabul Municipality to conduct traffic counts and collect other relevant data.
However, the final cost of the road improvements was 8 percent lower than the appraisal
estimate; and since the works were completed, traffic has been growing as expected. On
the other hand, the start of most benefits was postponed by more than two years. The
economic return cannot be re-estimated with any precision, as no traffic counts have been
made since completion, and trip times have not been measured systematically. However,
the distinct improvement in traffic flow, despite marked growth in the vehicle fleet,
suggests that the economic return estimated at appraisal will be achieved or exceeded.




                                            18
     Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision
                                 Processes

(a) Task Team Members

                                                                         Responsibility/
         Names                           Title                  Unit
                                                                           Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation
Mohammad Qahir Haidari Senior Operations Officer               SASDT Task Team Leader
Hasan Afzal Zaidi      Transport Specialist                    SASDT Task Team Leader
Mitsuyoshi Asada       Senior Transport Specialist             EASIN
Rajesh Singh Dongol    Program Assistant                       SASDO
Ke Fang                Senior Urban Transport Specialist       EASIN
Deepal Fernando        Senior Procurement Specialist           ECSO2
                                                                     Financial
David Freese            Senior Finance Officer                 CTRFC
                                                                     Management
Soraya Goga             Senior Urban Development Specialist    MNSUR
Mariam Haidary          Program Assistant                      SASHD Team Assistance
Susanne Holste          Lead Social Development Specialist     EASID Sector Coordinator
Gul Ahmed Kamali        Operations Officer                     SASDT Operations mgt
Sheila Braka Musiime    Senior Counsel                         LEGOP
Kenneth Okpara          Snr Financial Management Specialist    SARFM
Asta Olesen             Senior Social Development Specialist   SASDS Safeguards
Ramy Rabenja            Consultant                             AFTTR
Mohammad Arif Rasuli    Senior Environmental Specialist        SASDI Safeguards
Abdul Hameed Khalili    Operations Analyst                     SASDT Operations mgt
Supervision/ICR
Hasan Afzal Zaidi       Transport Specialist                   SASDT Task Team Leader
Zafar Iqbal Reja        Sr. Highway Engineer                   SASDT Task Team Leader
Mesfin Wodajo Jijo      Sr. Transport Specialist               SASDT Task Team Leader
Muhammad Wali
                        Financial Management Analyst           SARFM
Ahmadzai
Abdul Mohammad Durani   Consultant                             SASDS   Safeguards
Deepal Fernando         Senior Procurement Specialist          ECSO2
Mariam Haidary          Program Assistant                      SASHD   Team assistance
Gul Ahmed Kamali        Ex-Operations Officer                  SASDT   Operations mgt
Abdul Hameed Khalili    Consultant                             SASDT   Operations mgt
Asha Narayan            Financial Management Specialist        SARFM
Kenneth Okpara          Sr. Financial Management Specialist    SARFM
Mohammad Arif Rasuli    Senior Environmental Specialist        SASDI   Safeguards
Rahimullah Wardak       Procurement Specialist                 SARPS
                                                                       Ex-Task Team
Hasan Afzal Zaidi       Transport Specialist                   SASDT
                                                                       Leader
Graham Smith            Consultant                                     ICR main author
Mohammed Ajmal
                        Operations Officer                     SASDT Operations mgt
Askerzoy

                                             19
Zohra Farooq              Financial Management Specialist      SARFM
Ahmad Rafi Hotofat        Team Assistant                       SASDO
Aimal Sherzad             Procurement Analyst                  SARPS
Asif Ali                  Senior Procurement Specialist        SARPS
Mohammad Yasin Noori      Safeguards Consultant                SASDS
Obaidullah Hidayat        Safeguards Consultant                SASDS

(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                         $ 000 (including travel and
                                        No. of staff weeks
                                                                    consultant costs)
Lending                                         26.3                       30.6
Supervision/ICR                                 68.6                      116.3
                            Total:              94.9                      146.9




                                            20
                         Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

In preparing his environmental and social monitoring report, the consultant‘s
environmental and social specialist held a series of public consultations with potential
project-affected persons (PAPs), particularly in relation to mitigating the environmental
and social impacts. Field visits were made to consult PAPs along the roads to obtain their
views on mitigation measures and other aspects of environmental and social impact
management. During August 2010, the specialist held 50 such consultations with the
project-affected persons. Most discussions were with pedestrians and shop owners,
although a small number were with communities along the roads. The consultant‘s
deputy team leader was present as facilitator. Discussions were also held with Kabul
Municipality and representatives of the contractor and the World Bank country office in
developing mitigation measures.

The affected people were well aware of the road conditions and therefore could
contribute to the planning of mitigation measures by providing information and advice.
The main objective of the consultation was to understand the social response to the road
construction.

The consultations were carried out keeping in view the following major objectives:

      Sharing of information with the public on the project activities and expected
       impacts on the socio-economic conditions of the project area.
      Understanding the stakeholders‘ concerns regarding the construction works and
       the potential impacts of construction-related activities.

A series of public discussions were carried out at various project sites. The PAPs pointed
out the following issues and concerns associated with the Project.

Observations at Project Sites After Construction

It was observed that the advanced technology and proper construction arrangement had
minimized negative impacts on the environment and on social issues, and the civil works
improvement was seen to be satisfactory. Table A5.1 is a sample of the impacts cited by
those who were interviewed and their suggestions for mitigating the impacts.




                                            21
     Table A5.1: Public Consultation Findings (a sample)

SL.    Name of        Location
No.    Person         (Road No./       Nature of Impact                 Mitigation Suggestion
                      Contract No.)
1      Waysoden       In front of      If contractor closes this        It would be better if
                      Istaqlal Lacee   road in daytime, then it will    contractor does construction
                      (Road 10B/W2)    create many problems. This       work during the nighttime.
                                       inconvenience is not only
                                       for pedestrians but also for
                                       shopkeepers and children
                                       who attend school.
2      Haji Gul       In front of      If contractor closes the         If contractor do it during the
                      Istaqlal Lacee   road, that will create many      night that would be good,
                      (Road 10B/W2)    troubles for us. Most of the     otherwise contractor can do it
                                       pedestrians are using this       during the day--half the width
                                       road for their daily work.       of the road at a time.
3      Mohammad       In front of      The road site is more prone      Spray water on the
       Qayum          Istaqlal Lacee   to dust problems during          construction road to prevent
                      (Road 10B/W2)    construction.                    dust.
4      Hashmatullah   In front of      If contractors reconstruct it,   If contractor can repair road
                      Istaqlal Lacee   then road will become nice,      during the night, that would
                      (Road 10B/W2)    but people will suffer short-    be great.
                                       term inconvenience.
5      Ghulam Nabi    In front of      During daytime so many           If drain work and road
                      Istaqlal Lacee   vehicles and people are          construction can be done
                      (Road 10B/W2)    moving within the city.          during nighttime, that would
                                                                        be great.
6      Ghulam Sayed   In front of      Dust pollution is the big        Spraying water two or three
                      Istaqlal Lacee   problem during road              times daily would be the best
                      (Road 10B/W2)    construction.                    solution on this.
7      Mustafa        In front of      If contractor close both         It would be good if contractor
                      Istaqlal Lacee   sides of the road then our       work during nighttime.
                      (Road 10B/W2)    sales should be decrease.        Otherwise, first one half of
                                                                        the road‘s width would be
                                                                        done, then the other.
8      Ateequllah     In front of      If construction work start       This road should be repaired
                      SeranaHotel      during daytime it means          during the nighttime.
                      (Road 6/ W1)     that the road will be closed
                                       for flow of traffic, and
                                       therefore people will face
                                       big problems.
9      Shamsurahman In front of        We would not face any            Recommend that road work
                    SeranaHotel        major problems if                during nighttime would be
                    (Road 6/ W1)       contractor reconstruct this      better, because traffic volume
                                       road.                            is less and air is also cool.
10     Qayuam         Juddah Nader     If contractor closes the road    Start the construction work
                      Pashtone (Road   during daytime, that would       during the nighttime.
                      9/W2)            damage our income
                                       seriously.

                                               22
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

                 Not applicable.




                       23
     Annex 7. Summary of Recipient's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Kabul Municipality, implementing agency for the project, submitted an
implementation completion report prepared by the implementation consultant. Since that
report was over 50 pages long, it is summarized as follows.

The report has essentially two parts: a chronology of the works to resurface and improve
the four sets of city streets, and review of the enforcement of environmental and social
safeguards. Both parts are illustrated by many photographs, which are useful in
documenting the quality issues that arose regarding (in particular) the drainage ditches,
and the process of consultation with stakeholders, addressing such issues as arrangements
made for relocating street vendors affected by the works.

Construction Supervision

The report documents the quality controls observed regarding the asphalt and concrete
mixes. At one point the quality of asphalt placed on W3 roads was found to be defective;
the engineer duly drew this to the attention of the client (KM) and the contractor accepted
to replace the defective asphalt at his own expense.

The report lists four main difficulties faced by the works contractor:
      Permission to work denied at particular sites and times because of security
       concerns.
      Working under traffic (in particular, having to take no more than half the road‘s
       width at a time, so that the remainder could remain open to traffic)
      Cash flow problems because of slow payments by KM
      Difficulties in recruiting and retaining experienced personnel.It draws the lesson
       that timely payment gives the best environment for efficient and effective project
       delivery.

Safeguards

The works contractor appointed four safety managers, two for the first batch (W1 and
W2) and two for the second batch (W3 and W4). The consulting engineer‘s
environmental and social expert gave a month-long training workshop for these safety
managers in July 2010, when works restarted after the 9-month interruption. He stressed
the importance of measures to protect the health and safety of construction crews,
including the wearing at all times of safety boots, helmets, gloves and protective masks.

The environmental and social specialist was on the job for three months in mid-2010.
During this time he arranged site visits for project stakeholders including the
Municipality, the contractor and the World Bank. Weekly meetings were held to address
public complaints, most of which were about the disruption of traffic flows, access to
road-side properties, dust and noise, and treatment of excavated waste soil and road

                                             24
materials. The specialist advised on ways to prevent waste from blocking the drains.
Safety issues arose from the public ignoring barriers and walking and driving through the
construction sites. Arrangements were made for the proper disposal of waste and for
better night-time lighting of construction sites. This led the consultant to revise and
update the environmental and social mitigation framework. Signage was improved and
hoarding erected to minimize dust and keep unauthorized people off the sites. Waste from
construction sites and the workers‘ camps, previously dumped in a location that risked
polluting Kabul‘s water supply, was disposed of instead in appropriate landfills. Noise
from the heavy equipment –especially that used in breaking up road surfaces—was
measured and efforts made to reduce noise impacts on nearly residents, especially at
night.

The consultation with stakeholders is summarized in Annex 5.

Recipient’s Comments on the Bank’s Draft ICR

On behalf of H.E Deputy Mayor please have the comment of KM about the ICR report:

- On page iv, Data Sheet, Disbursed amount as per our record is: USD15.715

- On page 4, 2.2Implementation, the below paragraph has to be reviewed:

 ―No acceptable bid emerged for the third and fourth packages, which had to be rebid.
The sole qualified bidder in the second round was the same contractor who had won the
first two packages‖.

―(ii) The civil works contractor encountered difficulty in getting access to construction
sites on heavily trafficked streets in the center of Kabul.― The heavily trafficked streets
of construction sites were in same condition when it was designed but low managerial
capacity for implementation of works by contractor was one of the reasons about the
issue.

―(iii) Poor contract management by KM led the implementation consultant to unilaterally
terminate his contract, which in turn prompted the suspension of the civil works for over
nine months.‖

In our belief this was not due to poor management but it might have been due to
inappropriate design of implementation of the project for the 4 months which took 33
months in reality.




                                            25
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

                          Not applicable.




                                26
                    Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1.   Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund Proposal for Kabul Urban Roads
     Improvement Project, November 11, 2008
2.   Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund Grant Agreement (Kabul Urban Roads
     Improvement Project), of January 24, 2009
3.   Kabul Municipality: Kabul Urban Roads Improvement Project: Construction
     Project Completion Report, December 2011 (prepared by the supervising
     consultant)
4.   Aide Memoires for the supervision missions conducted in:
          May 4-6, 2009
          October 26-28, 2009
          May 8-20, 2010
          July 11-25, 2010 (Mid-Term Review)
          October 26-31, 2010
          September 4-12, 2011
          April 23-30, 2012
5.   Implementation and Status Reports filed on the following dates:
          December 2010
          August 2011

     ISRs
           October 2010
           December 2010
           August 2011
           December 2011




                                        27
                                                                                                                                                             ARTF Proposal: KURIP




                                        AFGHANISTAN
                        KABUL URBAN ROAD
                       IMPROVEMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                        DESIGN AND REHABILITATION
                                                                                                                                                                  FINANCED PROJECT WORK PACKAGES:
                             (KURIP)                                                                                                                                         W-1
                                                                                                                                                                             W-2
                                             UZBEKISTAN                                                                                                                      W-3
                                                               TAJIKISTAN
                                  TURKMENISTAN                                                                                                                               W-4
                                                                                                                                                                  DESIGN FINANCED FUTURE
                                                                                                                                                                  WORK PACKAGES:

                                                       -
                                                      Kabul
           ISLAMIC REP. OF IRAN




                                                  (see main map)
                                         AFGHANISTAN


                                                              PAKISTAN              This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.




                                                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD 39269
                                                                                    The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                    shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
MAY 2012




                                                                                    Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                            INDIA
                                                                                    endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                      -1-
