                              Document of
                           The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR3058



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (IDA-41640 P100785)



                                ON A

                               CREDIT

                 IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 30.90 MILLION
                    (US$46.65 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                               TO THE

                    FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA

                 IN SUPPORT OF THE SECOND PHASE OF

  WEST AND CENTRAL AFRICA AIR TRANSPORT SAFETY AND SECURITY
                          PROGRAM



                            March 28, 2014




Transport Sector
Country Department AFCW2
Africa Region
                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective May 31, 2013)

            Currency Unit = Nigerian Naira (NGN)
                    SDR 1.00 = US$1.50
                   US$1.00 = NGN 158.80

                        FISCAL YEAR
                    January 1 – December 31

           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFTN      Aeronautical Fixed Telecommunication Network
APL       Adaptable Program Lending
ATN       Air Telecommunications Network
BAG       Banjul Accord Group
BAGASOO   Banjul Accord Group Safety Oversight Organization
CAA       Civil Aviation Authority
CCTV      Closed Circuit Television
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
DME       Distance Measuring Equipment
ECOWAS    Economic Community of Western African States
ERGP      Economic Reform and Governance Project
ESIA      Environmental and Social Impact Assessment
ESMF      Environmental and Social Management Framework
ESMP      Environmental and Social Management Plan
FAA       Federal Aviation Administration (United States)
FAAN      Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria
FM        Financial Management
FMA       Federal Ministry of Aviation
FMOF      Federal Ministry of Finance
FMOT      Federal Ministry of Transportation
FMR       Financial Management Report
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GON       Government of Nigeria
IASA      International Aviation Safety Assessment (done by the FAA)
IATA      International Air Transport Association
ICAO      International Civil Aviation Organization
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
ICR       Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA       International Development Association
IDF       International Development Fund
IGR       Internally-generated Revenues
ILS       Instrument Landing System
IPR       Interim Performance Review
ISR       Implementation Status Report
IT        Information Technology
LAN       Local Area Network
LLWAS     Low Level Wind Sheer Alert System
MDA           Ministries, Departments and Agencies
NAMA          Nigerian Airspace Management Agency
NCAA          Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority
NCAT          Nigerian College of Aviation Technology
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NIMET         Nigerian Meteorological Agency
OP/BP         Operational Policy/Bank Procedures
PCU           Project Coordination Unit
PIM           Project Implementation Manual
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
PPR           Personal Performance Review
PSC           Project Steering Committee
REC           Regional Economic Community
RIAS          Regional Integration Assistance Strategy
SARP ICAO’s   Standards And Recommended Practices
SATCOM        Satellite Communication System
SBD           Standard Bidding Documents
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
US$           United States Dollar
VAT           Value Added Tax
VOR           Omnidirectional Range Navigation System
VHF           Very High Frequency
WCA           West and Central Africa (Region)
WCAATSSP      West and Central Africa Air Transport Safety and Security Program
YD            Yamoussoukro Decision



                      Vice President: Makhtar Diop
                    Country Director: Marie-Francoise Marie-Nelly
                      Sector Director Jamal Saghir
                     Sector Manager: Supee Teravaninthorn
                Project Team Leader: Noroarisoa Rabefaniraka
                   ICR Team Leader: Mohammed Aliyu
              THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
 WEST AND CENTRAL AFRICA AIR TRANSPORT SAFETY AND SECURITY
                         PROGRAM


                                                        CONTENTS



Data Sheet
  A. Basic Information........................................................................................................ i
  B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................... i
  C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................ i
  D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................... ii
  E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... ii
  F. Results Framework Analysis ...................................................................................... ii
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .................................................................... v
  H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................. v
  I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................. vi

   1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
   2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 8
   3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 14
   4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 20
   5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 22
   6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 25
   7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 26
   Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 27
   Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 28
   Table 2.1: Achievements by Component ...................................................................... 28
   Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 34
   Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 36
   Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 38
   Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 39
   Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 40
   Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 50
   Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 51
   MAP
                                       DATASHEET

A. Basic Information
                                                                   West and Central Africa Air
Country:                Africa          Project Name:              Transport Safety And Security
                                                                   Program - APL Phase 2-A
Project ID:             P100785         L/C/TF Number(s):          IDA-43640
ICR Date:               3/14/2014       ICR Type:                  Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     APL             Borrower:                  Federal Republic of Nigeria
Original Total
                        XDR 30.90M      Disbursed Amount:          XDR 22.07M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 22.07M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: Federal Ministry of Aviation: Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority
(NCAA), Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), Nigerian Airspace Management
Agency (NAMA), Nigerian College of Aviation Technology (NCAT), and Nigerian Metrological
Agency (NIMET).
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: N/A

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process              Date              Process             Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:        04/17/2006      Effectiveness:            06/24/2008         06/24/2008
                                                                                    06/23/2011
Appraisal:             05/02/2007      Restructuring(s):
                                                                                    06/21/2012
Approval:              10/02/2007      Mid-term Review:                             06/30/2010
                                       Closing:                  06/30/2011         05/31/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Substantial
Bank Performance:                                 Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank                 Ratings             Borrower                           Ratings
                                                                            Moderately
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:
                                                                            Unsatisfactory
                                                  Implementing              Moderately
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory
                                                  Agency/Agencies:          Unsatisfactory

                                                  i
Overall Bank                                         Overall Borrower          Moderately
                           Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                         Performance:              Unsatisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                             Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before             Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:     Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Aviation                                                                94                  94
Central government administration                                        6                      6


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                  29                  29
Regional integration                                                    29                  29
Regulation and competition policy                                       14                  14
Trade facilitation and market access                                    28                  28

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                           At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:              Makhtar Diop                         Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:            Marie Francoise Marie-Nelly          Hafez M. H. Ghanem
Sector Manager:              Supee Teravaninthorn                 C. Sanjivi Rajasingham
Project Team Leader:         Noroarisoa Rabefaniraka              Pierre A. Pozzo di Borgo
ICR Team Leader:             Mohammed Aliyu
ICR Primary Author:          Mohammed Aliyu


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project Development Objective is to: a) Improve Civil Aviation Authorities’ (CAAs)
compliance with International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) safety standards; b)


                                                 ii
Increase CAA’s compliance with ICAO’s security standards; and c) Enhance main
international airports’ compliance with ICAO’s security standards.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
None

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target      Formally           Actual Value
                                            Values (from        Revised            Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                               approval         Target            Completion or
                                             documents)         Values            Target Years
Indicator 1 :     NCAA's compliance rate with ICAO's safety standards
Value
quantitative or             70%                        90%                             88%
Qualitative)
Date achieved             06/30/2008              06/30/2008                         05/31/2013
                  The indicator measures Compliance rate with ICAO safety standards.
Comments
                  The achievement is significant with a difference in percentage points equal to 18
(incl. %
                  from the baseline level to the actual value achieved at completion. The target was
achievement)
                  nearly achieved – 88%.
Indicator 2 :     NCAA’s compliance rate with ICAO's security standards
Value
quantitative or            70%                      90%                                85%
Qualitative)
Date achieved          06/30/2008               06/30/2008                          05/31/2013
Comments        The achievement is significant with a difference in percentage points equal to 15
(incl. %        from the baseline level to its actual value achieved at completion. The target was
achievement) nearly achieved – 85%.
                 Percentage of embarking passengers stopped in possession of illegal objects as
Indicator 3 :
                defined by ICAO and by airlines security personnel
Value
quantitative or           < 6%                     < 2%                                 3%
Qualitative)
Date achieved          06/30/2008               06/30/2008                          05/31/2013
Comments
                The achievement is a good improvement from the baseline level as the measured
(incl. %
                percentage has been reduced by half. Achievement – 67%
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                            Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                            Revised
                                               approval                        Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                             documents)                        Target Years
                  Percentage of NCAA's technical personnel in compliance with ICAO's safety
Indicator 1 :
                  standards
Value                       84%                   90%                              88%

                                                 iii
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved            06/30/2008              06/30/2008                           05/31/2013
Comments
                  Original target value almost achieved. This indicator is a key element in
(incl. %
                  assessing a Civil Aviation Authority (CAA)’s performance. 88% Achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Total NCAA's budget (US$ millions)
Value
(quantitative                 40                       47                                 61
or Qualitative)
Date achieved            06/30/2008              06/30/2008                           05/31/2013
Comments
                  Target value was surpassed. This demonstrates an increasing financial autonomy
(incl. %
                  of NCAA. 130 % achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Percentage of airport security personnel with three or more years of experience
Value
(quantitative               <45%                    >90%                                 82%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved            06/30/2008              06/30/2008                             05/31/2013
Comments          A significant jump was recorded from the baseline to the value at the end of the
(incl. %          project, which indicates efforts of stabilization of staff turnover at the airports
achievement)      under observation.
                  Percentage of NCAAs' ICAO certified security inspectors trained during the last
Indicator 4 :
                  three years
Value
(quantitative                80%                       90%                               90%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved            06/30/2008              06/30/2008                           05/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %          Target was 100% achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     NCAA's budget level dedicated to security (US$ millions)
Value
(quantitative                 0.6                      1.5                                0.8
or Qualitative)
Date achieved             06/30/2007             05/31/2013                           05/31/2013
Comments          Target was not met, by a relatively large shortfall, but NCAA is more aware of
(incl. %          the necessity to continue to monitor this parameter in order to further enhance its
achievement)      security oversight duties. 53% achieved.
                  Number of serious problems recorded during annual airport crisis exercise/
Indicator 6 :
                  airport
Value
(quantitative     Baseline not available      3 per airport                        4 per airport
or Qualitative)
Date achieved           06/30/2008             06/30/2008                           05/31/2013
Comments
                 No baseline was available at appraisal and a target of 3 per airport was set which
(incl. %
                the project almost achieved - 75%
achievement)

                                                  iv
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
      Date ISR
No.                          DO                             IP               Disbursements
      Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1   12/29/2007       Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                      0.00
  2   05/30/2008   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                0.00
  3   09/09/2008   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                0.76
  4   02/21/2009       Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory                5.30
  5   08/27/2009       Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory                5.30
  6   03/05/2010       Satisfactory              Moderately Unsatisfactory               9.73
  7   09/11/2010       Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory               22.19
  8   03/28/2011       Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory               26.88
  9   09/24/2011       Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory               27.57
 10   04/11/2012       Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory               30.88
 11   11/07/2012   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory               30.88
 12   04/28/2013   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Unsatisfactory              33.55
 13   05/27/2013   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Unsatisfactory              33.65

H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board    Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO       IP      in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Extension of Closing date. From
                                                     June 30, 2011 to June 30, 2012.
                                                     To allow completion of on-
                                                     going contracts related to the
                                                     implementation of key activities
                                                     contributing to achieving the
                                                     project development objectives’
                                                     achievement (recruitment of
                                                     consultants to update ICAO-
                                                     related project indicators;
 06/23/2011                S     MS          26.88   update of non-ICAO related
                                                     indicators; civil works at NCAA
                                                     training center); and (ii)
                                                     enhancement of air transport
                                                     safety and security, by allowing
                                                     the Recipient to re-align the
                                                     activities they wish to finance
                                                     with adjusted priorities, with the
                                                     inclusion on a fifth parastatal
                                                     agency involved in air transport
                                                     safety: the Nigeria

                                             v
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board    Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO       IP      in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Meteorological Agency
                                                     (NIMET)
                                                     Extension of Closing date from
                                                     June 30, 2012 to May 31, 2013,
                                                     to allow the completion of
                                                     previously scheduled activities
                                                     that were under procurement
                                                     process and would consolidate
                                                     safety and security concerns
                                                     (such as the acquisition and
                                                     installation of closed-circuit
                                                     television for Abuja and Lagos
 06/21/2012                S     MS          30.88
                                                     international airport) and the
                                                     completion of the acquisition
                                                     and installation of equipment
                                                     that have been previously
                                                     defined after design studies
                                                     financed by the project for some
                                                     parastatal agencies; and (ii) the
                                                     possible review of the priority
                                                     activities if the Government
                                                     agrees to do so.


I. Disbursement Profile




                                         vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
1.       Country background. At the time of project appraisal, Nigeria was experiencing the
first civilian-to-civilian transfer of power in the country’s history. Expectations were high for
consolidating democratic governance, strengthening the enabling governance environment and
creating space for non-state actors at both federal and state levels. Progress had been made
towards improved macroeconomic stability. The government’s fiscal deficit had been reduced
from an average of 4.7 percent of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) between 1999 and 2003, to
below 2 percent between 2004 and 2005; and to a surplus of 6.6 percent in 2006 and 1.0 percent
in 2007. Real GDP growth was 6.3 percent in 2007, up from 6.0 percent in 2006. While the oil
sector still dominated the economy, efforts were being made to diversify the economy.

2.      Air transport background. Air transport held both a potential for growth and for the
economic diversification and development of Nigeria. Poor road, port and railway infrastructure
had been constraining the rapid and efficient movements of high value goods earmarked for
export, as well as internal travelers and visitors to Nigeria. Air transport had however its own
long list of shortcomings that prevented Nigeria, as well as other countries in West and Central
Africa (WCA), from tapping its full economic development potential.

3.     In order to address these shortcomings, African Ministers responsible for civil aviation
adopted in 1999 the Yamoussoukro Decision (YD) on the liberalization of access to air transport
markets in Africa. It is enforceable continent-wide since it was endorsed by the African Union
Heads of State under the African Union Treaty framework signed in 2000. The YD’s primary
aim is to liberalize intra-African air transport. In order to achieve this goal without
compromising safety and security standards, national Civil Aviation and Airport Authorities
must be capable to collectively reach the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO)’s
standards in these areas. ICAO’s Standards and Recommended Practices (SARP) are
complemented by a certain number of Annexes in the Chicago Convention on International Civil
Aviation.

4.      The main safety 1 issues that were facing Nigeria’s, and WCA’s, air transport sector
included the lack of a compliant and enabling legal framework and a critical shortage of
qualified inspection manpower. Nearly all WCA countries lacked the required level of Civil
Aviation Administration capacities. The situation resulted in the presence of unqualified airlines
whose operations distorted the air transport market, prevented access to the world market for
locally registered African airlines, and largely contributed to WCA’s high accident rates, which
were thirty times higher than that of the United States in 2007 according to ICAO’s statistics.

5.     In terms of security 2, fewer than five of WCA’s numerous international airports were
compliant with world standards. Indeed, most WCA international airports lacked adequate


1 ICAO   Definition of Air Transport Safety: A condition in which the risk of harm or damage is limited to an acceptable level.
2
 ICAO Definition of Air Transport Security: A combination of measures and human and material resources intended to
safeguard civil aviation against acts of unlawful interference.


                                                                         1
security procedures and basic access control to runways and terminals. This situation endangered
WCA’s air transport network security, resulting in sky-high insurance costs and high internal
security costs for airlines. Moreover, in a post September 11, 2001 environment, WCA had been
further isolated from main air trade flows.

6.      This safety and security agenda had to be tackled within Nigeria’s own institutional
framework. Under the aegis of the government through the responsible ministry (Ministry of
Transport at the start, and then the Ministry of Aviation at the end of the project), the aviation
sector in Nigeria is organized around five main agencies: (a) the Nigerian Civil Aviation
Authority (NCAA), which regulated the sector; (b) the Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria
(FAAN), which managed all of Nigeria’s twenty one main airports; (c) the Nigerian Airspace
Management Agency (NAMA), which provided air traffic services, including air traffic control,
aeronautical telecommunications, visual and non-visual aids, to enable public transport, private
business and military aircraft flight within Nigeria’s airspace; (d) the Nigerian College of
Aviation Technology (NCAT), which managed four training schools; namely a flying school, an
aircraft maintenance engineering school, an air traffic services/communications school and an
aeronautical telecommunications engineering school; and (e) the Nigerian Metrological Agency
(NIMET).

7.      Apart from the demonstrated deficiencies in safety and security, a host of issues affected
day-to-day operations of the aviation sector in Nigeria. Among the most pressing ones were: (a)
sector and agency governance, which was the result of many years of mismanagement and poor
governance in the sector; (b) lack of funding, although the agencies’ financial books looked
relatively healthy, the combination of delays by the Federal Authorities in transferring the ticket
charge receipts, as well as difficulties associated with the collection of users’ fees from domestic
airlines tend to leave these agencies often cash strapped; and (c) overstaffing, which translated
into an overall employee productivity level several folds lower than that of its South African
counterparts, for example.

8.      Rationale for Bank assistance. The World Bank was instrumental in the adoption of the
YD and later supported through successive regional International Development Fund (IDF)
grants, the adoption of common policies in safety and air transport regulations in WCA. The
Bank along with regional institutions and other international lenders had to acknowledge that
most WCA states did not and would not, in the foreseeable future, have the financial and human
resources to comply and maintain such compliance with either the United States’ or ICAO’s
safety and security requirements without external assistance. Accordingly, the Bank in
conjunction with regional institutions and other international lenders adopted a comprehensive
approach to address these problems by: (a) supporting the establishment of regional mechanisms
to oversee safety and security standards in member countries; and (b) financing of national safety
and security support programs to enhance local CAA’s ability to comply with ICAO’s standards.

9.      Contribution to higher level objectives. This project, which was part of the West and
Central Africa Air Transport Safety and Security Program (WCAATSSP), focused on Nigeria
while directly supporting the ultimate goal of regional integration in this part of Africa. In spite
of the long term goal of establishing regional aviation safety agencies in WCA, the enforcement
of aviation safety and security at the time of appraisal remained in the foreseeable future a



                                                 2
national endeavor, if only for legal reasons 3. It was critical that known shortcomings affecting
national CAAs aviation safety and security oversight capacity, as well as airport security
personnel and infrastructure be addressed at a national level, because regional aviation safety and
security reflects each country’s achievements in these areas. This approach was in line with and
directly supported the Regional Integration Assistance Strategy (RIAS) for West Africa, adopted
by the Bank on August 2, 2001, and for Central Africa, adopted by the Bank on February 6, 2003.
In addition, the same approach was consistent with the Africa Action Plan, which was adopted
by the Bank in September 6, 2005 and it promoted regional integration, regional exchanges and
economic growth. The regional integration goals and the approach of WCAATSSP meant that
the program and the project met all of the requirements to be classified as a regional project.

10.     Lending instrument. At appraisal, since the readiness and needs of the 23 WCA
countries that were to receive support from the program varied significantly, it was decided to
select a horizontal Adaptable Program Loan (APL) instrument to allow for a phased long-term
development program. Countries were to join the program under three successive phases using
similar eligibility criteria. These criteria were: (a) the creation of an administratively and
financially autonomous national civil aviation agency; (b) the use of aviation security and/or
safety taxes for the purpose of financing its civil aviation agency; and (c) the attainment of
definite percentage of compliance level with ICAO’s standards in the areas of aviation security
and safety, as well as improved airport security. Prior to appraisal, Nigeria met these criteria, and
in particular NCAA had been established as an operationally and financially autonomous
authority under the Civil Aviation act of 2004.

11.     Under Phase I of the program, approved by the Board in April 2006, four countries,
namely Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Guinea and Mali, received a total of United States Dollar
(US$) 33.57 million in grant and credit financing. Phase II-A of the program included only
Nigeria and is the focus of this Implementation Completion Report (ICR). The Phase II-A
project was approved in October 2007, with a credit amounting to US$46.65 million. Phase II-B
of the program which included Benin and Senegal, for an estimated total investment cost of
US$16.00 million was approved by the Board on February 25, 2009. Phase III, which should
have included Mauritania, the Republic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Cote d’Ivoire, Ghana,
Niger, Guinea Bissau, Liberia, Sierra Leone, Chad, Central African Republic, Sao Tomé &
Principe, and Togo for an estimated investment cost of US$55.28 million, was never triggered.
This is because: (a) change in the World Bank’s regional priorities and financing constraints
even though air transport remained a priority at the national level; (b) the program design
entailed high transaction costs with negotiations, Financing Agreements, and implementation
support costs for each beneficiary country; and (c) the lack of immediate expression of interest
from the potential client sides.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
12.     The Project Development Objective (PDO), as stated in the Financing Agreement, was
“to support Nigeria in improving compliance of its civil aviation authority and principal
international airports with ICAO safety and security standards.”


3
 According to the 1944 Chicago convention, aviation regulation remains a sovereign activity. Until this approach is altered, air
safety and security will continue to be managed at national levels.


                                                               3
13.    The project development objectives, as stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD),
were as follows: “(a) improve CAAs’ compliance with ICAO safety standards; (b) increase
CAAs’ compliance with ICAO’s security standards; and (c) enhance main international airports’
compliance with ICAO’s security standards.” Although the two wordings of the PDO are not
exactly the same in the two documents, they are consistent.

14.    The performance indicators, as set out in the PAD and in the Financing Agreement, and
the expected changes in these indicators ‘values are presented in Table 1 below.
                                      Table 1: Indicators at Appraisal
          PDO                           Main Project Outcome Indicators                          Expected changes
1. Improve NCAA’s            •   Compliance rate with ICAO safety standards.              •   From 70% to at least 90%
   compliance with           •   Percentage of Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority          •   From 84% to at least 90%
   ICAO’s safety                 (NCAA) technical personnel in compliance with
   standards.                    ICAO’s safety standards.
                             •   Total NCAA’s budget (US$ millions).                      •   From $40 million to at least
                                                                                              $47 million
2. Improve NCAA’s            •   Compliance rate with ICAO’s security standards.          •   From 70% to at least 90%
   compliance with           •   Percentage of NCAA’s ICAO certified security             •   From 80% to at least 90%
   ICAO’s security               inspectors trained during the last three years.
   standards.                •   Level of NCAA’s budget dedicated to security             •   From $0.65 million to at least
                                 (US$ million).                                               $1.50 million
3. Enhance main              •   Percentage of airport security personnel with three or   •   From < 45% to at least 90%
   international airports’       more years of experience.
   compliance with           •   Number of serious problems recorded during annual        •   To 3 or less (Baseline was
   ICAO’s security               airport crisis exercise/ airport.                            not available at appraisal)
   standards.                •   Percentage of embarking passengers stopped in            •   From >6% to 2% or less
                                 possession of illegal objects, as defined by the ICAO,
                                 by private airline security personnel.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

15.     The PDO was not revised at any time during project implementation and the key
indicators remained unchanged.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

16.     The PAD did not specify the main beneficiaries. However, as captured in the PDOs and
components, the project benefited five government agencies involved in civil aviation: Nigerian
Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), Nigerian
Airspace Management Agency (NAMA), Nigerian College of Aviation Technology (NCAT),
and Nigerian Metrological Agency (NIMET), further to the project restructuring in 2011. The
level of performance of these agencies, which hinges on their compliance with international
safety and security standards, has a direct impact on the air transport industry in Nigeria.

17.    The secondary beneficiaries of the project are passengers who use air transport services
in Nigeria (about 8.3 million in 2010), freight shippers who transport their goods by air (about




                                                             4
180,000 tons in 2010), airline companies and other air transport-related businesses (which by
estimates supported some 160,000 direct, indirect, and induced jobs in 2010) 4.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component 1: Strengthening of Safety and Security Oversight Capacity (US$29.29 million)
NCAA (US$7.90 million)
  a) Replacement of basic communications and inspections equipment e.g. Very High
     Frequency (VHF) radios, IT network at headquarters, etc.;
  b) Purchase of technical library equipment (e.g. relevant ICAO’s manuals, directives, online
     library, training materials, etc.);
  c) Training of civil aviation staff in the area of civil aviation safety oversight; and
  d) Establishment of an in-house personnel training center.

FAAN (US$4.70 million)
  a) Construction of crisis management centers;
  b) Construction of aircraft remote parking in the event of crisis;
  c) Acquisition of airport security equipment (closed circuit television monitoring systems,
     X-Ray machines for freight and passengers luggage);
  d) Acquisition of firefighting equipment; and
  e) Training of airport safety personnel.

NAMA (US$7.99 million)
  a) Replacement of the satellite communication system and extension of VHF coverage
     pending the results of a prior exploratory study of satellite communication system needs;
  b) Acquisition of resource software and information and document management system as
     identified by the institutional study financed under Nigeria’s Economic Reform and
     Governance Project (ERGP);
  c) Installation of a local area network at tower controls of Lagos, Abuja, Port Harcourt and
     Kano airports; and
  d) Training for air traffic control personnel based on a prior needs’ assessment study.

NCAT (US$8.70 million)
  a) Acquisition of two basic flight simulators;
  b) Purchase and Installation of runway lights, Instrument Landing System (ILS) and VHF
     Omnidirectional Range Navigation System (VOR) for the School’s airport to enable
     night flight operations training;
  c) Construction/ Expansion of a non-destructive testing, a cartography and Air
     Telecommunications Network (ATN), Aeronautical Fixed Telecommunication Network
     (AFTN) and Aeronautical Message Handling System (AHMS) laboratories within
     NCAT’s premises;




4
    Oxford Economics, 2012.



                                              5
   d) Purchase and Installation of Fire Fighting training equipment based on a prior needs’
      assessment study and a Memorandum of Understanding 16 with the involved agencies;
      and
   e) Personnel training based on a prior needs’ assessment study.

Component 2: Strengthening of Security Standards of Principal International Airports
(Abuja, Kano, Lagos, Port Harcourt) (US$10.06 million)

NCAA (US$1.70 million)
  a) Installation of a security system and an access control system at headquarters; and
  b) Training of civil aviation staff in the area of civil aviation security.

FAAN (US$8.36 million)
  a) Acquisition of basic communications and inspections equipment for airport personnel
     (e.g., VHF radios, IT network at headquarters, etc.);
  b) Strengthening of airport security (design of airport emergency plans and installation of
     airport personnel identification equipment, security cameras and, communications
     systems);
  c) Construction, within each airports’ operational perimeters of a single aircraft remote
     parking zone in the event of a crisis;
  d) Rehabilitation and/or construction within existing airport buildings of crisis centers,
     including acquisition of necessary communication and surveillance tools to equip these
     centers;
  e) Improvement of airport security through the acquisition of passengers and cargo X-ray
     machines, as well as an explosive material tracer; and
  f) Training of airport security personnel.

Component 3: Project Coordination, Management, and Oversight (US$8.76 million)

18.     This activity was meant to encompass the financing of project operating costs covering
the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and the Project Implementation Units (PIUs) salaries, office
rentals and expenses; as well as inter alia annual fiduciary audits and day-to-day management.

1.6 Revised Components

19.     There were no formal changes to the project components. However, some of the initial
scheduled activities were dropped such as: (a) acquisition of resource software and information
and document management system; (b) construction of the in house training center; (c)
acquisition of runway lights; (d) two basic flight simulators; and (e) acquisition of passengers
and cargo X-ray machines, as well as an explosive material tracer, as FAAN preferred to double
the number of firefighting equipment to be financed by the project and take charge of procuring
these security equipment themselves using government funds. Most of those dropped activities
were later financed by the agencies themselves. Further to the inclusion of NIMET among the
parastatal beneficiary agencies of the project during the 2011 restructuring, some new activities
were included. The added activities were compliant with the PDOs, and they included: training
of NIMET staff, supply of Upper Air Consumable and other spare parts for Automated Weather
Observing System spares operated by NIMET. Agreement was also reached during project


                                               6
implementation that the project would finance the procurement of low level wind shear (LLWS)
equipment for NIMET with a budget of about US$4 million. Subsequently, the LLWS
equipment was purchased using government funding.

1.7 Other significant changes

20.     Closing date was extended twice. The project underwent two “Level 2” restructurings
during its life (June 2011 and in June 2012). The first extension of the project closing date was
carried out in order to formally include a fifth government agency (NIMET) involved in air
transport safety, and to extend the closing date of the project by a year. The second restructuring
was aimed at extending the closing date of the project from June 30, 2012 to May 31, 2013,
thereby, making a cumulative extension period of 23 months. In both cases, the closing date
extension was necessary following project implementation delays, to allow the continuation of
previously scheduled activities that were under procurement process such as the acquisition of
airfield lighting and Fire Fighting Simulator for NCAT, Security Upgrade NCAA, Airport
Wailer-Birds deterrent equipment for FAAN, fire-fighting simulator, and the procurement and
installation of badge identification and closed circuit television monitoring systems (CCTV
systems) for Lagos and Abuja airports.

21.    Government-funded activities. Some of these activities were however not carried out
under the project, but they were implemented, with some adjustments, using parastatal agency
funding (e.g.: the misprocured air navigation systems; security device scanning at the airports, as
the government preferred to use the project’s funds to finance double the number of fire fighting
vehicles) and government procedures outside the ambit of the project 5 . The successful
procurement and installation by the government have consolidated the safety and security gains
already achieved under the project as the activities had a positive outcome on the PDO. Please
see Annex 2 for a detailed breakdown of outputs by component.

22.     Another significant change was the declaration of misprocurement for the acquisition of
two ILS/VOR/DME 6 systems in November 29, 2010. Consequently an amount of SDR1.53
million (US$2.35 million equivalent) was cancelled from the initial Credit amount. The reason
for the misprocurement was that no legal documentary evidence was provided to the Bank to
support the project’s rejection of the lowest evaluated bid, and the Government’s subsequent
decision to instruct NAMA to finance the purchase of such equipment from its internally-
generated revenues (IGR).




5
    Detailed information relating to these procurements was unavailable to the ICR team during the preparation of this report

6
    ILS: Instrument Landing System; VOR: VHF Omni-directional Radio; DME: Distance Measuring Equipment.


                                                                  7
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

23.    Soundness of the background analysis. As previously indicated, the project was part of
a WCA region-wide program to enhance air transport safety and security. Project preparation
included a good analysis of the challenges facing the aviation sector in the region in general, and
in Nigeria in particular at the time of appraisal. Project preparation built on successful Bank
involvement in the sector, which was instrumental in the adoption of the YD, as mentioned
above in paragraph 8.

24.     Assessment of the project design. The project design, scope and components were
developed to respond to the key challenges facing the aviation sector. The project also had a
strong and extensive capacity building component aimed at enhancing the functionality of the
staff of the beneficiary agencies and ensuring the long term sustainability of results achieved
under the project. Project design can also be credited for breaking grounds in forcing cooperation
between air transport entities that traditionally worked in silos. The complexity of the technical
aspects of the various sophisticated equipment that were to be procured under the project may
however have been under-estimated. In particular, beneficiary agencies had difficulties preparing
technical specifications for complex systems, and in particular in developing the functional
requirements for those systems. This was not without consequences on the efficient and timely
implementation of the procurement processes. The project team also seems to have
underestimated the time it takes for most projects to become effective in Nigeria , as well as the
time it takes to have the implementing agencies fully on board especially when not conversant
with IDA process and procedures. Finally, the project was affected by the frequent changes in
the Ministry of Aviation, including the Minister, during project preparation and in the first three
years of implementation.

25.    Project design took cognizance of the fact that NAMA, NCAA and FAAN derived
substantial revenues from users’ fees, although these agencies suffered from a combination of
delays by the Federal Authorities in transferring the ticket charge receipts, as well as difficulties
associated with the collection of users’ fees from domestic airlines which left these agencies
often cash strapped. The project design therefore envisaged that the Nigerian component of the
WCAATSSP could act as a gap financing tool until such time when the Federal Government has
devised a more reliable system to ensure proper financing of the various sector’s agencies. As it
turned out, during implementation, government and agency funds did become available and they
were used to fund some activities initially envisaged under IDA funding.

26.      Linkage with other Bank Projects. Prior to the commencement of the project some
activities and preparatory studies were undertaken under the ERGP. Both projects were intended
to be complementary, the idea being that the WCAATSSP would implement some of the
recommendations arising from the reports financed by the ERGP, while the goods and works
from the ERGP would reinforce the achievement of the WCAATSSP’s PDO. The key activities
funded by the ERGP include: (a) Institutional study of each aviation agency (with a training
needs assessment); (b) Recertification of the Nigerian airline industry for NCAA; (c)
Construction of operational perimeter fences and access roads at Abuja and Port Harcourt
International Airports; and (d) Installation of Low Level Wind Sheer Alert System (LLWAS) for


                                                 8
Lagos, Kano, Port Harcourt and Abuja Airports. The recommendations of the training needs
assessment funded under the ERGP were implemented under WCAATSSP as part of the
capacity building program and the output of the second study allowed an NCAA to rapidly
address the issue of un-airworthy airlines operating in the country.

27.      Adequacy of government’s commitment, and stakeholder involvement. At the time of
appraisal, the project was consistent with the objectives and priorities of Nigeria. Those priorities
were to address the aviation safety and security crisis, prevalent in the country as Nigeria’s
airline industry has had particularly poor safety record with three major fatal crashes taking place
in 2005-2006 alone. The Government and stakeholders’ commitment was evidenced by the
passing of relevant legislation, the provision of financial and administrative autonomy to the
NCAA, and the government demand for assistance from the ICAO’s Technical Cooperation
Bureau (TCB) to assist the NCAA in carrying out a far reaching airplane and aircrew
recertification exercise. Project preparation was also carried out in conjunction with other
international partners such as ICAO, Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS),
and African Development Bank (ADB).

28.    Assessment of risks. At appraisal, the overall risk for the project was rated as substantial.
The following is an assessment of project risks identified at appraisal:

   a) Implementation capacity. There was a substantial risk that limited project
      implementation capacity of the Project Implementation Units (PIUs) (FAAN, NAMA,
      NCAA and NCAT) would slow down project implementation. To mitigate this risk, a
      combined Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and PIU approach was part of the project
      design to distribute technical and fiduciary responsibilities with each PIU officer
      reporting to their corresponding counterpart in the PCU. This approach helped overcome
      the initial project implementation challenges and helped ensure greater quality control in
      outputs. Additionally, as part of the risk mitigation measures, project design included the
      establishment of a project steering committee (PSC) under the stewardship of the Federal
      Ministry of Aviation. Although the committee was established, its effectiveness in risk
      mitigation was only partly successful. The steering committee was unable to convene and
      meet as expected. This prevented it from providing the necessary support needed to
      resolve most of the constraints that hampered project implementation.

   b) Ability of NCAA to aggressively enforce security and safety standards on national
      operators. This risk was rated as Substantial, and it was well mitigated as NCAA was
      able to carry out a recertification exercise of the airline industry in 2010 under the
      support of the ERGP. Through the assistance of the project, Nigeria was able to receive
      US FAA Category 1 in 2010, and had continued to maintain this rating at the time of this
      ICR. The preservation of this rating highlights the sustainability of NCAA enforcement
      ability throughout the project.

   c) Ability of NCAA to secure and maintain a technically proficient workforce. This risk
      was rated as Substantial and it was to be mitigated by: (i) extensive capacity building
      based on a prior needs assessment by the project; and (ii) increase of salary scales within




                                                 9
       NCAA to be more competitive. The mitigation measures were successful as supported by
       NCAA’s training achievements (see Section on Assessment of Outcomes).

29.     The risks identified during project preparation were generally appropriate. The overall
project risk was rated Substantial, and the supporting analysis appears appropriate for most of the
assumptions made. However, political interference, a key risk, could have benefited from a
greater emphasis. In fact, during project preparation this was indeed the Bank team’s initial
proposed a substantial risk rating for the project, but it was lowered following negotiations. With
the benefit of hindsight this rating should have been High due to the following reasons: the high
turnover of Ministers of Aviation (six different ministers); the late effectiveness of the project;
the decision of the Government relative to the procurement process that led to misprocurement;
the inability of the PCU to fully implement procurement activities despite a cumulative 23 month
extension due to lack of a formal reallocation request from the Government of Nigeria; and in
some cases, arbitrary decisions from the Minister, such as the cancellation of planned training
activities for technical staff by the Ministry.

2.2 Implementation

30.      Project objectives. Overall, the PDOs were focused on improving compliance with
international safety and security standards. As such, they were clear, and the performance
indicators were generally adequate for measuring project performance. The PDOs were also
realistic as they did not claim to solve all the problems facing the sector. The PDOs responded to
borrower circumstances and development priorities and supported both the Country Partnership
Strategy 2005 – 2009, and the Bank’s regional integration strategy. The PDOs did not place
unrealistic demands on the government or the implementing agencies, given their relative
simplicity. It seems however that the timeframe initially envisaged to complete the project and
achieve project outcome may have been underestimated by one or two years. Key factors in this
type of projects that attempt to achieve significant organizational performance improvement in
an environment of weak human resource capacity, and governance are people and organizational
behavior. The project supported some training activities, but it may not have been sufficient to
influence behavior.

31.     Components. The components were designed to achieve project objectives although the
management of the implementation of the various components may have initially been beyond
the capacity of some agencies. For example, as previously indicated, at the start of project
implementation, the PIUs experienced some challenges regarding the complex technical
specifications that were to guide the procurement of certain systems under the project (e.g. the
specifications for the X-Ray machines and Fire Tenders for FAAN), due to the novelty of Bank
procurement requirements. Finally, as explained in the PDO discussion above, barring the
training component, components that could have helped in influencing the behavior of people or
organizations were not part of the project. The reason might have been that such components that
could have supported a change management approach may not be suitable under investment
projects. In fact, a technical assistance under the parallel Bank-funded ERGP was designed to
offer a platform for dialogue between IDA and the Government on the issue of governance and
efficiency of the air transport parastatals.




                                                10
32.     Factors outside the control of government or implementing agencies. The
achievement of the higher level objectives of the project of making air transport an engine for
regional economic growth was continuously hampered by the non-implementation by countries
in WCA of the recommendations and directives of the YD on deregulation of the sector in WCA
and the opening of the market, with consequences on sector fragmentation and lower growth
rates. Other factors outside the control of government were the tragic loss of two key staff of the
project implementation unit in the Dana Air crash in June, 2012.

33.     Factors subject to government control. Government commitment to the project was
high throughout the project preparation and first phase of implementation period, especially from
end of calendar year 2009 up till June 2011. However, this commitment was increasingly
weakened by the bureaucratic inefficiencies. Effectiveness was delayed by about 11 months
(until June 24, 2008), due to prolonged bureaucratic procedures. Later on, the responsible
ministry had weak oversight over the project’s actual progress towards the achievement of its
objectives while, in some cases, the Ministry went beyond its strategic and policy oversight role
and tried to interfere in procurement decisions at the parastatals’ level.

34.     Following the air crash that occurred on June 3, 2012 involving a Nigerian registered
aircraft, the government was very keen to have the project support and bolster aviation safety in
Nigeria through the use of uncommitted funds. While the Bank favorably responded to this
request, government’s position changed, with contradictory signals emanating from the Ministry
of Aviation, and the envisaged support was not provided. This lack of clarity from the
government side was also highlighted by the in-and-out of the NIMET or the various agreements
in principle for project restructuring which went unprocessed by the government.

35.     Factors subject to implementing agency control. As identified in project risks, there
was a weak relationship between the PCU and the PIUs which translated into the inability of the
PCU to enforce appropriate quality control over project implementation management. There
were instances where PIUs were unable to meet project reporting deadlines, especially in the
case of FAAN, which submitted its 2008 audited accounts in September 2011, and those for
2009 and 2010, in June 2012. Regarding procurement capacity strengthening, the PCU and the
PIUs did take action through additional trainings. The Bank team also provided intensive
implementation support through monthly meetings and videoconferences. These combined
efforts ensured that the initial challenges experienced were eventually overcome.

36.      Implementation efficiency. Implementation delays were a challenge throughout the
project’s life. Given that the project design was relatively simple, these delays were partly due to
inadequate involvement at the ministry level especially during the second phase of
implementation (July 2011 – May 2013). The two project closing date extensions were necessary
to complete all project activities after it became evident that the initially allocated timeframes
were no longer sufficient. Despite this, the ministry never formally submitted to the Bank a
request to finance the remaining feasible activities and a project’s funds reallocation request
which would have contributed to the achievement of the PDO; but rather limited their requests to
extensions of the project’s closing dates. Therefore, despite the two extensions, several project
activities could not be completed, and consequently project funds were not fully used. As stated
earlier this was due to the inability of the PCU to receive clear approvals from the parent



                                                11
Ministry to commence the necessary procurement and the inability for the government to
formalize its restructuring proposals.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization.

37.     The Results Framework of the PAD consisted of outcome indicators and intermediate
results for monitoring progress and outcomes, which reflected the expected results. While the
results indicators may appear to be complex, they are based on the industry standards, as defined
by ICAO.

38.     Project monitoring during project implementation was carried out by M&E Teams which
were set up for both the PCU and PIUs. These teams had the primary responsibility of data
collection and analysis regarding the impacts of the project in relation to its stated objectives.
The evaluation of outcomes during the course of the project was done through the analysis of
primary data collected by FAAN and the NCAA. In order to validate the results and ensure
objectivity, an ICAO certified safety consultant was engaged to carry out validations and follow-
up audits. The result of the audit was submitted in May, 2013. The final achievements as
reported at project closure and in this ICR were based on the report of this consultant.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Environment and Social Safeguards

39.    Environment. The Project triggered Bank safeguards policy “Environmental Assessment
(OP/BP 4.01)” and was classified as an environmental Category B project as the expected
environmental and social impacts were minimal and site specific. An Environmental and Social
Management Framework (ESMF) and Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP)
were prepared and disclosed in country and on the Bank’s Infoshop: these included all measures
to address potential environmental and social impacts.

40.   An environmental safeguards audit was undertaken in September 2012 which made
recommendations such as the recruitment of environmental officers at desk level and the setting
up of committees for monitoring of environmental and social issues and their mitigation
measures. The recommendations arising from the report were not fully implemented, and most of
them were rendered mute as sub-components of the project that would have required the full
implementation of the ESMF and EMP were not implemented by the project.
Financial Management (FM)
41.    Financial management was rated Moderately Satisfactory, throughout the implementation
period. Financial Management Reports (FMR) were received regularly and were mostly
compliant with the agreed format. As part of the financing agreement, the agencies supported
under the project were to submit their yearly audited financial statements, not later than six
months after the period in question. All the agencies complied with this provision except for
FAAN.




                                               12
Procurement
42.     At project appraisal, all procurement arrangements including procurement plan and
procurement methods were discussed and were consistent with the Bank’s guidelines. With
hindsight it seemed that the implementing agency’s procurement capacity was initially
overestimated as it experienced initial difficulties in the preparation of terms of references and
technical specifications of key project activities. These challenges were eventually overcome
through the prior review of procurement packages by the Bank’s procurement team. The project
was however unable to fully implement all activities under its updated procurement plan due to
inability to secure permission and approvals from its parent ministry to commence and undertake
agreed activities. However a number of these activities with some adjustments were achieved
and implemented using government funding as described in Annex 2. A more specific
procurement issue was the declaration of misprocurement of the procurement of two
ILS/VOR/DME systems as described earlier.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

43.     The investments undertaken under the project have been duly internalized in the daily
operations of the various beneficiary agencies. For example, the 10 Fire Tender Vehicles have
been deployed to four major international airports and the school of aviation as targeted by the
project. Very High Frequency (VHF) – Radio Communication Equipment is in use in four major
airports and facilitates communication amongst the airport workers. Their use helped the four
international airports to comply with ICAO standards.

44.     A positive aspect of the project was the extensive training and capacity building program
of the staff of all the beneficial agencies. The training has greatly enhanced the ability of the
agencies to perform their functions thereby improving the industry’s safety and security. In this
respect, adequate trained staffs are in place to operate the systems. Trained staff have also
allowed their respective agencies to ensure compliance with international standards. However,
the various agencies also received from the government budget allocations from time to time to
help them to make punctual investments. The revenue generating agencies have seen increased
revenues due to the increase in passenger traffic and business activity, even though arrears from
some domestic airlines remain uncovered. Additionally, the monitoring and evaluation of future
operations will rely on the project’s M&E framework which is based on industry-standard
indicators with a clear and agreed methodology for data collection and reporting.

45.      Although there are no plans for another aviation project in Nigeria, the Bank continues to
provide its technical support to the ECOWAS in the field of air transport to allow effective
follow up of strategic issues such as regional safety and market development. Since Nigeria is
the largest member of ECOWAS, especially in terms of air transport market size, it plays a key
role in leading this industry’s development at sub-regional level.




                                                13
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The overall rating is Substantial for the following reasons.

46.     Relevance of the PDO. The relevance of the PDO is rated High. The PDOs remained
highly relevant under the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) 2010 – 2013 and continues to do
so under the new 2014 – 2017 CPS, which specifically supports regional programs, including
collaborative efforts in West and Central Africa to improve air transport safety and security. The
PDOs are additionally highly relevant under Bank’s strategy for the transport sector: “Safe,
Clean, and Affordable Transport for Development”. More broadly, the PDOs remain very
relevant today as ensuring the safety and security of air transport is an everyday global challenge,
and in the case of Nigeria and WCA, there is a long way to go to sustain current achievements.
Indeed, air transport safety and security in the WCA region continues to be an issue to be
addressed and supported and the number of the region’s airlines blacklisted by the European
Union is high.

47.     Relevance of Design. The relevance of the Design is rated High. Project components
directly supported the PDOs as they were in direct response to critical aviation safety and
security requirements in Nigeria. Project components focused on extensive training to the staff of
the various entities and on updating procedures, which are prerequisite to enhancing the safety
and security outcomes and in securing the various international certifications from ICAO for
example. Linking the project to the parallel IDA-funded ERGP ensured that activities that were
better suited under a country-specific project and outside this regional program were
implemented, such as airport-specific investments or governance enhancing activities. The
segregation of project components by agencies established clear accountability for project results,
while involving the same agencies in all aspects of project implementation helped break grounds
in forcing cooperation between air transport entities that traditionally worked in silos. Project
design was simple and flexible and allowed some changes to project activities without having to
modify the PDOs. The project design paid close attention to an effectively measurable results
framework, and this framework remained highly relevant throughout project implementation and
continues to remain relevant today as the indicators are using the industry standards for
monitoring civil aviation safety and security.

48.     Relevance of project implementation. The relevance of Project Implementation is rated
Substantial. Project implementation was strong during the initial phases of the project but
weakened during the latter part of the project. This was due to diverging views in the Ministry
of Aviation combined with the tragic loss of key project implementation staff in 2012. However,
this weakened implementation performance did not affect the consistency of project design with
its PDOs. In fact, during implementation, the Ministry of Aviation wanted to use project funds
for new activities that were not in support for the PDOs, and the project successfully resisted any
restructuring that would have rendered the project design irrelevant.

49.     Furthermore, in terms of implementation, while a relatively large amount of the credit
remained undisbursed (US$12.83 million or about 28 percent), the government did not complete
the agreed project restructuring as the ministry in charge of aviation did not pay enough attention


                                                14
to the project implementation issues since it was not in line with their own priorities, including
building new airports. Instead, the Government and some agencies used their own resources to
implement some of the previously agreed investments with some adjustments. The PAD did
envisage the possibility of this arising as it stated that the Nigerian component of the
WCAATSSP would act as a gap financing tool until such time when the government had devised
a more reliable system to ensure proper financing of the various sector’s agencies.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

50.     The achievement of the PDOs is rated as Moderately Satisfactory. The NCAA has been
truly strengthened which has allowed the country to achieve its Category 1 status with the US
FAA. The country’s main international airports’ compliance with ICAO’s security standards has
also been significantly enhanced, as evidenced by the ability now to have direct scheduled flights
between Nigeria and the US. In fact, achieving Category 1 status and direct flights connection
to/from the US are in themselves the greatest achievements of the program in Nigeria. These two
achievements were not included as outcome indicators of the program because project results
framework had been designed and harmonized for the entire APL program that included other
countries in the region for which setting such outcome targets would not have been realistic.

Objective 1: Improve NCAA’s compliance with ICAO safety standards.
Rating is Moderately Satisfactory.

                          Table 2: Compliance with ICAO Safety Standards
Outcome Indicators                                  Expected Changes                   Achievements
• Compliance rate with ICAO safety standards.       • From 70% to at least 90%         • 88%
• Percentage of Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority   • From 84% to at least 90%         • 88%
   (NCAA) technical personnel in compliance with
   ICAO’s safety standards.
• Total NCAA’s budget (US$ millions).               •   From $40 million to at least   •   $61 million
                                                        $47 million


51.     The greatest impact of the project is Nigeria’s achievement of IASA Category 1 status in
August 2010, and its ability to maintain this achievement ever since, which is not a minor
achievement (some countries have obtained and lost their status). This achievement means that
the country has the relevant laws and regulations necessary to support the certification and
oversight of air carriers in accordance with minimum international standards; the NCAA has the
technical expertise, resources, and organization to license or oversee air carrier operations;
NCAA has adequately trained and qualified technical personnel, a total of 426 staff trained;
NCAA provides adequate inspector guidance to ensure enforcement of, and compliance with,
minimum international standards; and the NCAA has sufficient documentation and records of
certification and adequate continuing oversight and surveillance of air carrier operations. There
has also been good improvement in the two key outcome indicators on compliance with ICAO
safety standards. The difference in percentage points between the achieved rate of 88 percent and
the end target of 90 percent is not considered substantial by industry standards. All these
achievements are directly linked to project activities that enabled the update of regulations and
procedures, airlines re-certification, and massive training to certify technical staff.



                                                        15
52.     It is also noteworthy that Nigeria is among the leaders in the Banjul Accord Group
(BAG). This sub-regional organization has made substantial progress in air safety and security
regulations harmonization by establishing models of regulations. Moreover, they are the only
organization that has created a sub-national safety oversight organization in 2009, with the
Banjul Accord Group Safety Oversight Organization (BAGASOO), based in Abuja, Nigeria.
Thanks to the project and the extensive training it financed, Nigerian inspectors and experts are
providing support to BAG member states’ respective CAA.

53.     On funding, while the total overall budget allocated to the NCAA was about US$40
million in 2007, as the baseline level indicates, it achieved US$61 million by the end of the
project, which is significantly highly than the targeted value of US$47 million at the end of the
project. This sharp increase reflects strong growth in passenger activities in Nigeria over the
course of the project to which NCAA’s revenues are linked (NCAA funding is linked to airlines
ticket sales).
Objectives 2 and 3: Improve NCAA’s compliance with ICAO security standards, and
Enhance main international airports’ compliance with ICAO’s security standards
Rating is Moderately Satisfactory
54.     The country’s main international airports’ compliance with ICAO’s and other
international security standards have been enhanced through intensive training of staff involved
in security (not only from NCAA, FAAN, but also the customs and police working at the airport)
and through acquisition and deployment of equipment under the project. The clear evidence of
the enhanced security is the ability now to have direct scheduled flights between Nigeria and the
US. Project activities were critical to achieve project outcomes that were equal or slightly below
the targets, but the differences are not considered substantial by industry standards.
55.     A remarkable achievement was that currently 90 percent of NCAA’s ICAO-certified
security inspectors were trained under the project in the previous three years, and similarly 82
percent of airport security staff now have more than three or more years of experience. These
indicators are part of international standards references, and the achievements are certified by
independent technical audits. The project also helped improve security procedures and processes,
as NCAA and FAAN, under the oversight of the Ministry of Aviation, implemented the
recommendations of various consultancies under the project such as the design and supervision
of installation of security upgrade (NCAA), technical assistance for implementation of ICAO
safety and security corrective plan. To complement training and procedures, the project provided
equipment and systems to enhance security and communication equipment. This extensive
training program, together with the deployment of equipment purchased under the project and
the implementation of procedures and rules developed under the project allowed significant
improvement in security screening: from a baseline of about 6 percent in 2007 the situation had
improved to 3 percent of embarking passengers stopped in possession of illegal objects.
56.    All these efforts were accompanied by a slight increase in the share of NCAA budget of
the earmarked specifically for airport security, which stood at US$0.8 million at the end of the
project—falling significantly short of the end-of-project target of US$1.5 million. This is a very
modest increase when compared to the baseline value of US$0.6 million.
57.     However, it is noteworthy that the majority of the security investments envisaged by the
project for FAAN were taken over by the agency and were implemented using its own IGR, as it


                                               16
was agreed with FAAN that their project’s funds allocation would better be allocated to the
acquisition of firefighter vehicles. See Annex 2 for a detailed breakdown of activities achieved
under the project and using government funds and IGRs.

                                             Table 3: Outcome Indicators
                       Outcome Indicators                                    Expected changes                 Achievements
•   Compliance rate with ICAO’s security standards.                  •   From 70% to at least 90%         •    85%
•   Percentage of NCAA’s ICAO certified security inspectors          •   From 80% to at least 90%         •    90%
    trained during the last three years.
•   Level of NCAA’s budget dedicated to security                     •   From $0.65 million to at least   •    $0.8 million
    (US$ million).                                                       $1.50 million
•   Percentage of airport security personnel with three or more      •   From < 45% to at least 90%       •    82%
    years of experience.
•   Number of serious problems recorded during annual airport        •   To 3 or less                     •    4/airport
    crisis exercise/ airport.
•   Percentage of embarking passengers stopped in possession         •   From >6% to 2% or less           •    3%
    of illegal objects, as defined by the ICAO, by private airline
    security personnel.



58. The rating of Moderately Satisfactory is therefore justified by the good compliance rates
recorded by the project, the achievement and the maintenance of the Category 1 status to date,
which has led to a solid air transport sector in Nigeria that represents about 2/3 of the West
African Market.
3.3 Efficiency
Efficiency is rated as Moderately Satisfactory for the following reasons.

58.     The PAD recognized that measuring the economic benefits of the project (and the
regional program as a whole) would require forecast data about the quantitative impact of putting
in place measures that would strengthen safety and security of air transport in the country (and
the region as a whole). However, no such information was available and no cost-related data
could be obtained to make relevant computations in the PAD.

59.     Furthermore, the nature of the investments financed (i.e. airport security infrastructure
and equipment, safety and security training) make any quantification of these benefits difficult.
The PAD therefore highlighted the impact, at the time of appraisal, of the project on the aviation
sector globally in Sub-Saharan Africa based on available studies and surveys. More specifically,
the PAD highlighted the major impacts that the project would have on tourism, travel fares, trade
and investment in Africa.

60.     The ICR confirms the PAD’s view that the assessment of the project’s direct economic
impacts would be complex and the uncertainty of the assumptions that would need to be made
for such an analysis would weaken its validity. The ICR’s rating of efficiency as Moderately
Satisfactory is therefore based on a review of how air transport has performed in recent years in
Nigeria and how the key agencies have performed from a financial stand-point. The ICR also
reviewed recent literature of the economic impact of air transport on Nigeria’s economy. The
assumption is that the project’s focus on safety and security, with reasonable costs by industry
standards, was instrumental in supporting the development of air transport market in Nigeria.



                                                                17
This assumption is reasonable, for example in neighboring countries such as in the Democratic
Republic of Congo, where the issues of safety and security were not addressed in a similar
manner, air transport has failed to develop despite huge potential demand.

61.     During project implementation, demand for air transport dramatically increased in
Nigeria. According to FAAN figures, passenger traffic across all airports in Nigeria (domestic
and international) has increased by an annual average of more than 15 percent per year, and
therefore more than doubled during project life. The statistics show that airport passenger traffic
has increased from 8.4 million passengers in 2007 to 15.1 million in 2011 and 14.4 million in
2012, hence more than 10 percent annual increase during the course of project implementation.
The fall in the number of passengers in 2012 reflects the bankruptcy of Air Nigeria and increased
domestic air fares. With regard to the various agencies’ financial performance, audited financial
statements show that FAAN revenues increased from N17.52 billion (US$109 million) in 2006
to N28.04 billion (US$175 million) in 2010; NCAA N5.85 billion (US$36.5 million) in 2007 to
N8.94 billion (US$55.9 million) in 2011; and NAMA N6.2 billion (US$38.8 million) in 2007 to
N13.6 billion (US$85 million)to 2011; all this with relatively stable operating costs especially for
NCAA (see Annex 3).

62.     As for the quantification of the economic impacts of air transport in Nigeria, the most
comprehensive assessment to date in Nigeria was undertaken by the research firm Oxford
Economics in 2012 using 2010 data, and the results are available in the report 7 The key findings
of the research were that in 2010 the civil aviation sector contributed by 0.4 percent of Gross
Domestic Product (GDP) to Nigeria’s economy, and it supported 159,000 jobs or 0.3 percent of
the Nigerian workforce. When the sector’s contribution as an enabler of the tourism industry is
included, these figures rise to 0.6 percent of Nigeria’s GDP and 289,000 jobs, or 0.5 percent of
the workforce. It is significant to note that these are high productivity jobs. The annual estimated
value added or Gross Value Added (GVA) by each employee in air transport services in Nigeria
in 2010 was 3.5 million Naira (N) (US$22,000 equivalent), nearly seven times higher than the
Nigerian average.

63.    Consumer benefits of air transport were also estimated. It was estimated that passengers
pay N866 billion (inclusive of tax), and that the value of the benefit to travelers from flying in
excess of their expenditure is worth N785 billion a year. Similarly, freight shippers pay airlines
N89 billion annually, and the benefits to shippers in excess of this expenditure was estimated at
N37 billion.

64.     In addition to its economic impacts, the civil aviation sector’s tax base in Nigeria is large
and the tax revenues derived by GON from it are substantial. More specifically, Nigerian-based
aviation companies paid an estimated N8.5 billion annually in direct taxes and social security
payments to GON. Passengers paid a further N17.0 billion in Value Added Taxes (VAT) on
domestic and international flights originating in Nigeria. It is estimated that an additional N8.9




7
    Economic Benefits from Air Transport in Nigeria”, published in 2012.




                                                         18
billion of government revenue is raised by suppliers to the aviation sector and N7.1 billion
through taxation of the activities supported by the spending of employees of both the aviation
sector and its supply chain This means that the total direct and indirect taxes raised from the
aviation sector was estimated for 2010 at N41.5 billion or about US$256 million.

65.     With some slight adjustments, the Government used its own funding to implement some
of the project sub-components especially regarding FAAN security improvement investments,
which led to non-utilization of the respective IDA funding. However, it did mean that those
activities were effectively undertaken which had a positive effect on the achievement of
indicators and PDOs. At the same time, with two extensions to the project closing date, the
project did deliver under IDA funding on most of the soft activities that were key to improving
safety and security and ensuring international certification, and those activities included
extensive training of staff and management of the various agencies, as well as updating of rules
and procedures.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

66.     The overall outcome is rated Moderately Satisfactory, due to: (a) the relevance of the
PDOs and project design and implementation to the Bank’s current CPS and RIAS, national,
regional, and global priorities; (b) the moderately satisfactory achievement of the PDOs; and (c)
the satisfactory efficiency of the project. The most important indicators to show the achievement
of the PDO are: (i) NCAA’s compliance with ICAO’s safety and security standards; (ii) the
increase NCAA’s technical personnel in compliance with ICAO’s safety standards; (iii) NCAA’s
certified inspectors trained during the last three years; and NCAA’s budget. The target values of
those key indicators were all achieved. Besides, even though it was not among the formal
indicators (for consistency purposes with the other phases of the project), the FAA IASA
Category 1 recognition is a strong argument to justify the rating of the project’s overall outcome.
Thanks in a great part to the project; air transport in Nigeria is in compliance with international
standards for safety and security, therefore supporting one of Nigeria’s key priorities following
years of underperformance and unfortunate air transport incidents. This was achieved with
reasonable costs by industry standards, except for the mis-procured activities. Although the
outcomes were mostly achieved, there is a risk of the benefits diminishing if the efforts are not
sustained, and the parent ministry has to clearly demonstrate full support of the started reforms
and activities, hence, the rating for the project’s overall outcomes as Moderately Satisfactory.

                                     Table 4: Outcome Ratings
                S/N   Item                                    Rating
                1     Relevance                               Substantial
                           •   Relevancy of objective         High
                           •   Relevancy of design            High
                           •   Relevancy of Implementation    Substantial
                2     Achievements                            Moderately Satisfactory
                3     Efficiency                              Moderately Satisfactory
                4     Overall                                 Moderately Satisfactory




                                                    19
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
67.    The project had no specific poverty, gender or social development related objectives.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
68.      As stated in section 2 above, the project, and particularly its components, was not
specifically designed to directly induce institutional change. To achieve such a goal, dedicated
activities that focus on the process of change management within the various agencies would
have been needed. Additionally, an investment lending or Adaptable Program Lending (APL)
project over a five year period may not be the ideal vehicle to induce an organizational and
people behavior change, especially in an environment of weak human resources capacity and
governance. The project could however be credited with initiating such a process, thanks to the
extensive training program of staff and management in the various beneficiary agencies. This is
also reflected in Nigeria exporting its knowhow in the field as described in the following section
on unintended outcomes.

69.      It should be noted that, the Bank-funded ERGP assisted the government to introduce
institutional strengthening initiatives in the sector through a dedicated study. This study was
completed before the current project’s closing date, and a stakeholders’ meeting to discuss the
study’s outcomes and recommendations was held in Lagos and Abuja in April 2013. The
government’s effective implementation of these recommendations will be crucial to sustain the
results achieved so far.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

70.     Nigeria has become the leader in WCA in terms of air transport safety and security
regulations and their effective implementation. Thanks to the project and the extensive training it
financed, Nigerian inspectors and experts are providing support to CAAs in the region such as
the Gambia, Liberia, Sierra Leone, and Ghana.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

71.    This is a core Implementation Completion Report and Results Report (ICR) which does
not require a beneficiary survey/stakeholder workshop

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Substantial

72.     The ICR identifies the political and the governance risks as significant which reflects the
overall operating environment in Nigeria and are not unique to the project. More specifically,
most projects in Nigeria including this one were affected by delayed effectiveness. On the
political risks, while changes in political circumstances have generally not impacted the overall
directions of reforms, they usually impacted the governance structure of the various agencies,
including senior management appointments, which in turn can temporarily disrupt safety and



                                                20
capacity enhancement initiatives, and put on hold the momentum. Like the overall environment
in Nigeria, air transport regulation is not immune from the overall governance risks in Nigeria.

73.     The ICR also considers institutional risk as Substantial, as it would take government
continuous and deliberate efforts to sustain and build upon the hard won achievements under the
project. At the national level, further capacity has been built at the beneficiary agencies, leading
to higher expertise, especially in safety and security supervision; funding for security and safety
has been improved; and regulations have been updated. There are still pending sector issues,
such as the sustainability of reforms started during the project’s implementation, their solutions
are now fully within the hand of the national Government. Specific attention needs to be paid to
the sector’s institutional reforms to make the agencies more autonomous in financial and
administrative terms, and make them more accountable vis-à-vis the Government and the public,
especially the users of air transport services and to the follow-up on the recommendations as
contained in the institutional reform studies. It is worthy of note that Nigeria continues to hold
Category 1 status thanks to NCAA’s improved performance; however, if the autonomy of the
NCAA is not guaranteed, this could translate into poor performance and Category 1 status could
be withdrawn.

74.    Apart from these risks, other conceivable risks are rated negligible/low to moderate.
These include the following risks, with their respective ratings:

       a) Technical risks are negligible to low. These are related to the sophisticated equipment
          supported by the project. All the beneficiary agencies have the qualified staff,
          resources, and organization to operate these systems.
       b) Financial risks are negligible to low. These are related to the sustainable funding for
          air transport safety and security. These risks should become even more negligible as
          increased revenues from air transport are expected with the air transport industry’s
          growth in Nigeria. However, greater attention needs to be paid to the utilization of
          such funds: they should go to aviation purposes, while a clearer strategy should be in
          place to make sure that the right priorities are addressed first.
       c) Economic risks are negligible to low. Project achievements were resilient to the
          global financial crisis which hit at the middle of the project implementation period. It
          is expected that having been resilient to this extreme, project achievements should be
          in a better position to face similar circumstances in the future.
       d) Government ownership/commitment risks are moderate to substantial, as government
          ownership and commitment waivered in the latter years of project implementation.

 75. In term of mitigating factors, the Bank is continuing the dialogue in close collaboration
with ECOWAS Commission in order to promote further regional collaboration at the regional
level. The President of Cote d’Ivoire has been appointed as champion to continue to push the
implementation of the Yamoussoukro decision. Within this framework, a number of planning
and regulatory instruments have been adopted. The ECOWAS Air Transport Committee has
updated their Action Plan for the period 2014-2020, and an Air Transport Roadmap is being
elaborated, to be presented to the President of Head of States at ECOWAS level. At the
WAEMU level, a model of the Civil Aviation Code for the WAEMU State members have been
adopted; likewise, standard regulations at the sub-regional level have also been adopted



                                                21
(limitation of the air carriers’ responsibility in case of accidents; and security regulations and
procedures).

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

76.     Rating: The Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated Moderately
Satisfactory for the following reasons.

77.     Overall the project was well prepared and offered a timely answer to the Government’s
request for assistance to enhance air safety and security in Nigeria. The alignment of
WCAASSTP’s Development Objectives and strategy with the sectors’ challenges at the time of
identification yielded positive support from the Government which in turn helped mobilize line
ministries and authorities during preparation. The project did not depart significantly from the
APL Phase 1; therefore, the preparation phase was fast and it benefited from the experience
gained from Phase 1 as shown in section 3.1. The project results framework helped monitor
outcomes and initial targets and proved to be an effective tool for monitoring and evaluation.

78.    However, the capacity of the project implementation entities to effectively manage the
project considering the independence and autonomy of all the implementing agencies was
underestimated. The PAD did recognize that the implementation arrangements selected were
complex and risky but were justified by the desire to have the five key parastatal agencies
involved in air transport playing a role in the implementation of activities in order to increase
ownership and improve capacity at agency level and to promote inter agency cooperation and
dialogue. The team stressed the need for the agencies to collaborate and recommended that the
PCU be located in the Ministry of Aviation to ensure greater oversight through frequent dialogue
with PIUs. This design approach turned up to be less effective than initially envisioned. As
explained in the Risks section of this ICR, project preparation files show that the Bank project
team’s initial rating of overall project risks was “High”. This initial risk assessment was however
lowered in the final PAD due to strong push back of the Government at the time of Negotiations,
to which Bank management agreed. Diluting the overall risk assessment of the project at the time
of appraisal/negotiations may have sent a wrong signal to Government.

(b) Quality of Supervision
79.     Rating: Satisfactory. The Bank performance during implementation was satisfactory for
the following reasons:

80.     Bank implementation support was proactive, identified problems early on, and provided
practical solutions. Project supervision was adequately carried out, with team staffed with the
necessary skills. Regular audio and video conferences were held in-between actual site visit
missions. The Bank had a good understanding of the high risks of the project, and had an
intimate knowledge of air transport in Nigeria and WCA, as well as familiarity with Nigeria’s
environment.


                                                22
81.     There was a very high level of commitment by Bank staff to resolving project
implementation issues and clear communication from Bank management to the client on critical
issues identified. This had been a major challenge given the frequency of top ministry hierarchy
changes during project implementation. The Bank team provided practical solutions to problems,
and found ways to help the PCU strengthen its oversight capacity, and PIUs were given specific
attention to strengthen their technical capacity. For instance, almost half way through
implementation, the Bank team devised a detailed action plan with the PCU which included: (a)
monthly deployment from Abuja to Lagos of the PCU procurement specialist to speed up
procurement activities within each beneficiary agency; (b) monthly Video Conferencing between
the Bank team and the PCU to monitor Action Plan implementation and to keep them on their
toes; and (c) strengthening of the PCU management Team. These corrective set of actions were
taken as soon as the challenges became evident prior to Mid-Term which, as a consequence, was
not perceived as an opportunity to make major changes. The declaration of mis-procurement for
the ILS/VORE DME contract was an illustration of the Bank team’s effective supervision.

82.     Bank team reporting on implementation status was adequate. Aide memoires and
Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) were sufficiently detailed, well written and candid in their
assessments, and highlighted emerging or pressing key issues, with detailed action plans,
responsibilities and next steps. Performance ratings given in the ISRs were overall realistic and
sufficient attention was paid to the project’s likelihood to achieve its development objectives.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
83.     Bank performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory consistent with the evaluation of each
section above.
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
84.    Government performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory for the following reasons.
85.      Despite the continuous commitment of the government to the project and its objectives,
Government actions on practical matters to ensure smooth project implementation and a larger
institutional strengthening in the sector fluctuated throughout the lifespan of the project. This
caused delays during project preparation and implementation. It has to a certain extent impacted
the overall quality, scope and sustainability of the outcomes achieved.
86.    It took more than 11 months after Board approval for the project to be declared effective,
this delayed implementation activities and may have been partly responsible for the initial
extension requested, a typical challenge experienced in Nigeria due to the internal approval
processes.
87.      The Aviation Ministry experienced frequent leadership changes from the Minister,
Permanent Secretary to Directors. Every new team had different views about the project
activities and naturally wanted to re-evaluate all donor funded projects agreed upon by their
predecessors. The frequent leadership changes slowed down project implementation due to
limited understanding of the project's implementation framework, goals and objectives. Such a
high rate of turnover affected the quality of the policy and technical dialogue between the



                                               23
government and the Bank. The latter years of project implementation in particular suffered from
fading government commitment, as air transport was no longer considered a priority.
88.     Therefore, the request to implement some project activities did not receive prompt
approval or in most instances were not approved. Some examples include the processing of the
restructuring/reallocation request of about US$11 million uncommitted funds (about 25 percent
of project funds) which had to be cancelled at the end of the project. This resulted in an inability
to fully implement the procurement plan which contained some important trainings and provision
of goods and equipment for the PIUs.
89.    The Aviation Ministry was also unable to convene the Project Steering Committee (PSC),
chaired by the Permanent Secretary of the Aviation Ministry, every quarter as enshrined in the
PAD. The PSC was to have provided strategic guidance to the project and intervening where it
needed to assist the project achieve its PDOs.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
90.    The implementing agencies performance is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory.
91.      Implementing agencies’ performance was not uniform during project implementation.
NCAA was the best performing agency as it not only completed nearly all of its scheduled
activities, but also played a key role in enhancing the safety and security of Nigeria’s civil
aviation. NAMA’s performance was adequate, but the mis-procurement case undermined its
performance. FAAN and NCAT were able to implement majority of their subcomponents using
government funding.
92.    The project design took into account the risks concerning implementation capacity by the
beneficiary agencies PIUs. This led to the creation of a single PCU charged with procurement
and financial management on the project. The PCU was to also have overall oversight functions
and provide quality control over the output of the PIUs. From the beginning, the capacity of the
PCU and PIUs was weak.
93.     Through the recruitment of additional expertise, the trainings of existent staff, the
capacity of the project was greatly improved. This led to the overcoming of the initial challenges
experienced on the project. Once these hiccups were overcome the project was implemented at a
satisfactory pace.
94.     Due to the initial challenges experienced in getting the project effective and the attendant
time loss, an extension of almost two years was requested to implement the remaining activities
on the procurement plan, but only a year’s extension was granted. These activities were agreed
by the client and the Bank to still be relevant to the PDO. However, project implementation
started to suffer after the first closing extension was granted in June 2011 due to the previously
stated lack of interest in the project’s priorities and objectives as shown by the ministry.
95.     In December 2011, the GON requested a 2nd extension of the project arguing that the
remaining activities could not be completed within the 1 year period granted by the Bank. The
air crash that occurred June 3, 2012 involving a Nigerian registered aircraft operated by Dana Air
provided additional justification for the request for an extension. Against this background, both
the Government and the Bank discussed concrete actions aimed at using the remaining funds to
strengthen aviation safety in Nigeria. The submission of the proposal for reallocation was
delayed by the Ministry of Aviation, based on its differing views about project activities. The
PCU was unable to secure timely Ministerial approval for the submission of the restructuring


                                                24
request and the necessary permissions to commence on the outstanding procurements and
trainings. While the Bank team and the PCU continued to work on the proposed new activities to
be financed by the remaining funds, the Ministry of Aviation did not officially respond to the
PCUs proposal to restructure the project until May 2013. Given that the project closed in May
2013, the reallocation was not finalized and the proposed activities were not achieved. Finally,
in relation to Dana air crash mentioned above, the PCU lost two of its key principal staff whom
where on Bank mission - the Project Accountant and the Procurement Officer.
96.     At project closure a total of about XDR8.8 million was canceled from the project, made
up of XDR1.5 million due to mis-procurement and XDR7.3 million due to unutilized funds. This
represented about 28 percent of the total project credit but did not significantly impact the PDOs’
achievement since the activities carried out under the project’s implementation already
contributed to this, as explained in the pertinent section above. However, the completion of the
dropped activities (especially the additional training) subsequent to the incompletion of the
project’s restructuring would have increased the number of qualified staff and would have
allowed the project bridge the 2% and 5% shortfalls of its targets for both safety and security
areas and further contributed to a more satisfactory achievement of those PDOs.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
97.    Rating: Borrower performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory consistent with the
evaluation of each section above
6. Lessons Learned
98.       Lessons learned in relation to project preparation and design are the following:
      •   Need to adequately address in project design the lack of managerial autonomy of
          beneficiary entities. The project management structure was designed to give the
          implementing agencies some independence but in reality their activities can impacted by
          political factors outside their control. Therefore, deliberate provisions should be made for
          greater and constant advocacy of projects and their intended outcomes so that policy
          makers and political actors are adequately briefed and carried along. For example, an
          onboarding program for new political actors implementing donor assisted programs can
          be designed and anchored in the Federal Ministry of Finance to facilitate implementation.
      •   Political economy context. The transformation of the air transport sector is a very
          challenging endeavor because of the nature of the sector itself due to vested interests and
          political interference. These need to be taken into account when shaping a reform agenda
          in this sector.
      •   Flexibility in a dynamic environment. Given that working with the federal government
          in Nigeria is dynamic and fluid, the project design should be flexible enough to adapt to
          changing requirements over implementation. These changes could arise due to an
          inadequate design, inadequate client commitment, and sudden change in client priorities.
      •   Do not underestimate bureaucratic processing timeline. The delays experienced in
          getting the required government approvals were quite severe be it the effectiveness time
          lag or the inability to formalize project restructuring before project closing, which almost
          jeopardized the achievement of the development objective. This needs to be mitigated


                                                  25
       with clear commitments in advance and realistic project preparation and implementation
       schedule. As this is an issue that affects nearly all Bank-funded projects in Nigeria, it is
       necessary for World Bank and GON to address this structural issue in a systemic manner.
   •   Need for robust procurement assessments and technical assistance to ensure that
       project activities can be procured efficiently and in a timely fashion. This should also
       help develop in already established entities, such as the ones that benefited from the
       project, internal organizational capacity for project implementation regardless of the
       funding sources.
   •   Need to simplify project design in a complex and challenging implementation
       environment. The issues meant to be addressed by the WCAATSS Program are complex,
       and despite significant project design simplification, WCAATSSP remained relatively
       sophisticated for the implementing entities especially for regional countries with weaker
       institutions. It is therefore suggested that despite its horizontal regional approach,
       programs of this nature should attempt to have simple project design depending on the
       implementation environment and the level of sector governance in the particular country.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
99.     A summary of the Borrower’s ICR has been provided in Annex 7. Technical comments
on the draft ICR were received from the PCU and PIUs and have been reflected in accordingly.
(b) Cofinanciers
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not applicable.




                                               26
                                   Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

      (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD million equivalent)


                     Components                           Original      Actual/ Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Appraisal       Estimate        Appraisal
                                                          Estimate      USD million
                                                            USD
                                                           million
Aviation Safety Improvements                               29.29            23.14             79
Aviation Security Improvements                             10.06             5.16             51
Project Management and Governance Oversight                 8.76             5.59             64
Total Baseline Cost                                        46.65            33.89             73
Total Project Costs                                        49.76            37.00             74

      (b) Financing (in USD million equivalent)

                           Original
                                              Actual/Latest
                           Appraisal                                  Percentage of
   Source of Funds                              Estimate
                           Estimate                                    Appraisal
                                              USD million
                          USD million
Borrower                    3.11*                  3.11**
IDA                           46.65               33.89                   73%
Total                         49.76               37.00                   74%
* Represents government in-kind contribution to component 3 – Management and Governance Oversight of the Project in terms
of manpower and office space
** Actual figures not available




                                                            27
                                            Annex 2. Outputs by Component

                                    Table 2.1: Achievements by Component
Agency   Component 1 Aviation safety improvements                           Component 2 Aviation security Improvements
         • Replacement of basic communications and inspections              • Installation of a security system and an access control system at
         equipment (e.g., VHF radios, IT network at headquarters,           headquarters; NOT ACHIEVED
         etc.); ACHIEVED
         • Purchase of technical library equipment (e.g., relevant          • Training of civil aviation staff in the area of civil aviation
         ICAO’s manuals, directives, online library, training materials,    security; ACHIEVED
         etc.); ACHIEVED
 NCAA    • Training of civil aviation staff in the area of civil aviation
         safety oversight; and ACHIEVED
         • Establishment of an in-house personnel training center;
         PARTIALLY ACHIEVED
         Note: Training Center equipment were purchased by the
         project, while NCAA constructed the training center through
         government funds

         • Acquisition of firefighting equipment; and ACHIEVED              • Acquisition of basic communications and inspections equipment
                                                                            for airport personnel (e.g., VHF radios, IT network at
                                                                            headquarters, etc.); ACHIEVED
         • Training of airport safety personnel; ACHIEVED                   • Strengthening of airport security (design of airport emergency
                                                                            plans and installation of airport personnel identification
                                                                            equipment, security cameras and, communications systems);
                                                                            NOT ACHIEVED
                                                                            • Construction, within each airport’s operational perimeters of a
                                                                            single aircraft remote parking zone in the event of a crisis; NOT
 FAAN                                                                       ACHIEVED
                                                                            • Rehabilitation and/or construction within existing airport
                                                                            buildings of crisis centers, including acquisition of necessary
                                                                            communication and surveillance tools to equip these centers;
                                                                            NOT ACHIEVED
                                                                            • Improvement of airport security through the acquisition of
                                                                            passengers and cargo X-ray machines, as well as an explosive
                                                                            material tracer; NOT ACHIEVED
                                                                            • Training of airport security personnel; ACHIEVED

Agency   Component 1 Aviation safety improvements                           Component 2 Aviation security Improvements
         • Replacement of the satellite communication system and
         extension of VHF coverage pending the results of a prior
         exploratory study of satellite communication system needs;
         ACHIEVED
         • Acquisition of resource software and information and
         document management system as identified by the
         institutional study financed under Nigeria’s ERGP;
         PARTIALLY ACHIEVED
 NAMA    Note: Enterprise Resource Software design was achieved
         while the information and document management systems
         was not achieved due to the delay of approval of the activity
         launch at the Ministry level.
         • Installation of a local area network at tower controls of
         Lagos, Abuja, Port Harcourt and Kano airports; and
         ACHIEVED
         • Training for air traffic control personnel based on a prior
         needs’ assessment study. ACHIEVED
Agency   Component 1 Aviation safety improvements                           Component 2 Aviation security Improvements
         • Acquisition of two basic flight simulators; NOT
         ACHIEVED
         Note: Replaced with the refurbishment and re-commissioning
         of existing NCAT simulators, contract was awarded but
         cancelled due to challenges in establishing letters of credit
 NCAT
         • Purchase and Installation of runway lights, Instrument
         Landing System (ILS) and VHF Omnidirectional Range
         navigation System (VOR) for the School’s airport to enable
         night flight operations training; NOT ACHIEVED
         • Construction/Expansion of a non-destructive testing,




                                                                   28
Agency   Component 1 Aviation safety improvements                          Component 2 Aviation security Improvements
         cartography and a ATN/AFTN/AHMS laboratories within
         NCAT’s premises; NOT ACHIEVED
         • Purchase and Installation of Fire Fighting training
         equipment based on a prior needs’ assessment study and a
         Memorandum of Understanding16 with the involved
         agencies; ACHIEVED
         • Personnel training based on a prior needs’ assessment study;
         ACHIEVED
         Supply of Upper Air Consumable and other spare parts for
NIMET    Automated Weather Observing System; NOT ACHIEVED
         Training of Weather Forecasters; ACHIEVED


                     Table 2.2: Status of Unachieved Project Sub-Components
Agency   Activity                                                      Comment                                Component

         Re-certification of Airlines operating in Nigeria             1st phase completed using project      Component 1 Aviation safety
                                                                       funding and other phases funded        improvements
                                                                       using NCAA IGR
  NCAA   Construction and equipping of training center in Lagos        Construction was carried using         Component 1 Aviation safety
                                                                       NCAA IGR; equipment and library        improvements
                                                                       materials were funded under the
                                                                       project

         X-Ray machines, Walk Through Scanners, Body and               Purchased by FAAN using IGR and Component 2 Aviation security
         baggage Scanners                                              deployed at the major international Improvements
                                                                       airports
         ID Badge System Consultancy and Equipment                     Bank funded consultancy                Component 2 Aviation security
                                                                       recommendations have been              Improvements
                                                                       implemented at only MM
                                                                       International Airport Lagos using
                                                                       FAAN IGR
         CCTV System Consultancy and Equipment                         Implemented using FAAN IGR             Component 2 Aviation security
                                                                                                              Improvements
         Rehabilitation and/or construction within existing airport    Using IGR Abuja Center has been        Component 2 Aviation security
         buildings of crisis centers, including acquisition of         built and is in use, while Lagos has   Improvements
         necessary communication and surveillance tools to equip       been built but usage is yet to
  FAAN   these centers                                                 commence
         Acquisition of firefighting equipment                     28 fire tenders were purchased by     Component 1 Aviation safety
                                                                   FAAN using IGR and have been          improvements
                                                                   deployed nationwide. These 28 are in
                                                                   addition to the 10 procured under the
                                                                   project which were mainly deployed
                                                                   to the 4 main international airports
                                                                   and NCAT
         Airport wailer- bird deterrent equipment                  Purchased by FAAN using IGR and Component 1 Aviation safety
                                                                   deployed at the major international improvements
                                                                   airports. However wild life
                                                                   department has now been
                                                                   transferred to NAMA (inclusive of
                                                                   equipment and personnel)
         Replacement of the satellite communication system and      Consultancy was funded by the        Component 1 Aviation safety
         extension of VHF coverage pending the results of a prior project and total VHF coverage of      improvements
         exploratory study of satellite communication system needs the Nigerian airspace was achieved
                                                                   using NAMA IGR

         Acquisition of resource software and information and          Not achieved but design has been       Component 1 Aviation safety
  NAMA   document management system as identified by the               completed and financed by the          improvements
         institutional study financed under Nigeria’s ERGP             project


         ILS/VOR/DME Systems                                           System procured using NAMA IGR Component 1 Aviation safety
                                                                       and is operational in Abuja airport improvements




                                                                  29
Agency   Activity                                                   Comment                             Component

         Acquisition of two basic flight simulators                 NCAT purchased two (2) Nos          Component 1 Aviation safety
                                                                    ALSIM ALX Flight simulators .       improvements

         Purchase and Installation of runway lights for NCAT        Contract under implementation and   Component 1 Aviation safety
  NCAT   Aerodrome,                                                 will be concluded July 2014         improvements

         ILS/DMW/VOR                                                Procurement programmed under the Component 1 Aviation safety
                                                                    college's medium term expenditure improvements
                                                                    framework 2013 - 2015

                                                                                                         Component 1 Aviation safety
                                                                    Installed at the 4 major airports as
                                                                                                         improvements
                                                                    envisaged by the project. Now being
NIMET    Low Level Windshear Alert System
                                                                    extended to other airports in the
                                                                    country




                                                               30
                                      Table 2.3: Project Development Objective Indicators
Project Development Objective Indicators
Main Project Output      Activities                Target                   Actual          Outcome/Comments
Indicators
Key Performance Indicator 1: Improve CAAs’ compliance with ICAO’s safety standards
Compliance rate with                               >90%                     88%             Results from an
ICAO’s safety standards • Equipment and                                                     Independent ICAO
                              training for “Search                                          safety oversight audit
                              and Rescue”                                                   conducted in May 2013
                              activities;
                         • Installation and
                              upgrade of local
                              area networks at
                              control tower of
                              targeted airports;
                         • Purchase of technical
                              library equipment
                              (e.g. relevant
                              ICAO’s manuals,
                              directives, online
                              library, training
                              materials, etc.);
                         • Recertification of the
                              Aviation Industry.

Percentage of technical   •   Training of civil        >90%                 88%             Results from an
personnel in compliance       aviation staff in the                                         Independent ICAO
with ICAO’s safety            area of civil aviation                                        safety oversight audit
standards                     safety oversight;                                             conducted in May 2013
                              based on a prior
                              needs assessment
                              study.


                                                              31
Total NCAA budget                                    US$42 million             US$61 million              Achieved
level
Key Performance Indicator 2: Increase CAA’s compliance with ICAO’s security standards
Compliance rate with     • Improvement of            >90%                      85%                        Results from an
ICAO’s security               airport security                                                            Independent ICAO
standards                     through the                                                                 safety oversight audit
                              acquisition of                                                              conducted in May 2013
                              passengers and cargo
                              x-ray machines as
                              well as an explosive
                              material tracer;
                         • Acquisition of
                              airport personnel
                              identification
                              equipment, security
                              cameras,
                              communications
                              systems, and
                              inspection
                              equipment;
Percentage of NCAA       • Training of civil         >90%                      90%                        Results from an
ICAO’s certified              aviation staff in the                                                       Independent ICAO
security inspectors           area of civil aviation                                                      safety oversight audit
trained during the last       security;                                                                   conducted in May 2013
three years              • Training of airport
                              security personnel.
Level of NCAA budget                                 US$1.5 million            US$0.8 million             Not Achieved. Figures
dedicated to security                                                                                     from NCAA budget
Key Performance Indicator 3: Enhance main international airports’ compliance with ICAO’s security standards
Percentage of airport                                >90%                      82%                        Results from an
security personnel with                                                                                   Independent ICAO
three or more years of                                                                                    safety oversight audit
experience                                                                                                conducted in May 2013


                                                               32
Number of serious           <3/airport        <4/airport   Results from an
problems recorded                                          Independent ICAO
during annual airport                                      safety oversight audit
crisis exercise                                            conducted in May 2013
Percentage of embarking     <2%               3%           Results from an
passengers stopped in                                      Independent ICAO
possession of illegal                                      safety oversight audit
objects as defined by the                                  conducted in May 2013
ICAO by private airlines
security personnel.




                                         33
                          Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1.      The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) recognized that measuring the economic benefits
of the project (and the regional program as whole) would require forecast data about the
quantitative impact of putting in place measures that would strengthen safety and security of air
transport in the country (and the region as a whole). No such information is available, however,
and no cost-related data can be obtained to make relevant computations. Furthermore, the nature
of the investments financed (i.e. airport security infrastructure and equipment, safety and security
training) make any quantification of these benefits difficult as these investments are among many
others necessary to strengthen the aviation sector’s growth potential. The PAD therefore
highlighted the impact, at the time of appraisal, on the aviation sector globally in Sub-Saharan
Africa based on available studies and surveys. More specifically, the PAD highlighted the major
impacts that the project would have on tourism, travel fares, trade and investment in Africa.

2.      The Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) confirms the PAD’s view that
the assessment of the project’s direct economic impacts would be complex and the uncertainty of
the assumptions that would need to be made for such an analysis would weaken its validity. The
ICR’s rating of efficiency as Satisfactory is therefore based on a review of how air transport has
performed in recent years in Nigeria and how the key agencies have performed from a financial
stand-point. The ICR also reviewed recent literature of the economic impact of air transport on
Nigeria’s economy. The assumption is that the project’s focus on safety and security, with
reasonable costs by industry standards, was instrumental in supporting the development of air
transport market in Nigeria. This assumption is reasonable, for example in neighboring countries
where the issues of safety and security were not addressed in a similar manner, such as in the
Democratic Republic of Congo, air transport has failed to develop despite the huge potential
demand.

3.      During project implementation, demand for air transport dramatically increased in
Nigeria (Figure 1). According to Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) figures,
passenger traffic across all airports in Nigeria (domestic and international) has increased by an
annual average of more than 15 percent per year, and therefore more than doubled during project
life. The statistics show that airport passenger traffic has increased from 8.4 million passengers
in 2007 to 15.1 million in 2011 and 14.4 million in 2012, hence more than 10 percent annual
increase during the course of project implementation. Reduced passengers number in 2012 over
2011 reflects bankruptcy of a many large airlines in 2012 in Nigeria and the impact of this
phenomenon on domestic demand. With regard to the various agencies’ financial performance,
audited financial statements show that FAAN revenues increased from N17.52 billion in 2006 to
N28.04 billion in 2010; NCAA N5.85 billion in 2007 to N8.94 billion in 2011; and NAMA N6.2
billion in 2007 to N13.6 billion to 2011; all this with relatively stable operating costs especially
for NCAA.




                                                34
         Figure 1: Evolution of Airport Traffic and Sector Revenues (2007=100%)

                                Traffic        Revenues (NCAA, FAAN, NAMA)          Inflation

                  200%



                  180%



                  160%



                  140%



                  120%



                  100%



                   80%
                      2007   2007     2008   2008   2009     2009    2010    2010     2011      2011   2012



4.      As for the quantification of the economic impacts of air transport in Nigeria, the most
comprehensive assessment to date in Nigeria was undertaken by the research firm Oxford
Economics in 2012 using 2010 data, and the results are available in the report “Economic
Benefits from Air Transport in Nigeria”, published in 2012. The key findings of the research
were that in 2010 the civil aviation sector contributed 0.4 percent of Growth Domestic Product
(GDP) to Nigeria’s economy, and it supported 159,000 jobs or 0.3 percent of the Nigerian
workforce. When the sector’s contribution as an enabler of the tourism industry is included, these
figures rise to 0.6 percent of Nigeria’s GDP and 289,000 jobs, or 0.5 percent of the workforce. It
is significant to note that these are high productivity jobs. The annual estimated value added or
Gross Value Added by each employee in air transport services in Nigeria in 2010 was N3.5
million, nearly seven times higher than the Nigerian average.

5.     Consumer benefits of air transport were also estimated. It was estimated that passengers
pay N866 billion (inclusive of tax), and that the value of the benefit to travelers from flying in
excess of their expenditure is worth N785 billion a year. Similarly, freight shippers pay airlines
N89 billion annually, and the benefits to shippers in excess of this expenditure was estimated at
N37 billion.

6.      In addition to its economic impacts, the civil aviation sector’s tax base in Nigeria is large
and the tax revenues derived from it are substantial. Nigerian-based aviation companies paid an
estimated N8.5 billion annually in direct taxes and social security payments. Passengers paid a
further N17.0 billion in Value Added Taxes on domestic and international flights originating in
Nigeria. It is estimated that an additional N8.9 billion of government revenue is raised via the
aviation sector’s supply chain and N7.1 billion through taxation of the activities supported by the
spending of employees of both the aviation sector and its supply chain, this leads to a total of
N41.5 billion or about $256 million estimated for 2010.




                                                             35
         Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                            Responsibility/
             Names                            Title                Unit
                                                                              Specialty
Lending
Pierre Pozzo di Borgo         Principal Investment Officer        CN2SI   Sector Specialist
Justing Runji                 Senior Transport Specialist         AFTTR   Transport
Warren Waters                 Consultant                          AFTEN   Environment
Sameena Dost                  Senior Legal Counsel                LEGES   Legal
Chau-Ching Shen               Senior Finance Officer              CTRLN   Disbursement
                                                                          Environmental
Africa Eshogba Olojoba        Sr Environmental Specialist         MNSEE
                                                                          Safeguards
Christopher Cozzone           Temporary                           AFTTR   ACS
                                                                          Financial
Akinrinmola Oyenuga Akinyele Sr Financial Management Specialist   AFTMW
                                                                          Management
Bayo Awosemusi                Lead Procurement Specialist         AFTPW   Procurement
Sariette Jene M. C. Jippe     Program Assistant                   AFTHW   ACS
Antoine Lema                  Sr. Social Development Specialist   AFTCS   Social Safeguards
Sariette Jene M. C. Jippe     Program Assistant                   AFTHW   ACS
Supervision/ICR
Noroarisoa Rabefaniraka       Senior Transport Specialist         AFTTR   Task Management
Mohammed Aliyu                ET Consultant/ICR Primary Author    AFTTR   Sector Specialist
Bertrand Murguet              Consultant                          AFTTR   Sector Specialist
Sunday Achile Acheneje        Procurement Specialist              AFTPE   Procurement
                              Senior Financial Management                 Financial
Akinrinmola Oyenuga Akinyele                                      AFTMW
                              Specialist                                  Management
Mary Asanato-Adiwu            Senior Procurement Specialist       AFTPW   Procurement
Bayo Awosemusi                Lead Procurement Specialist         AFTPW   Procurement
Roukaya El Houda              Temporary                           AFTTR   ACS
Sariette Jene M. C. Jippe     Program Assistant                   AFTHW   ACS
Aisha Donald Kaga             Senior Executive Assistant          AFCW2   ACS
Ms. Miakukila-Kubauka         Procurement Assistant               AFTTR   Procurement
Regina Oritshetemeyin Nesiama Senior Program Assistant            ECSSD   ACS
Anne Njuguna                  Country Program Assistant           MNCA2   ACS
Wycliffe Okoth                Temporary                           AFTA1   ACS
                                                                          Environmental
Africa Eshogba Olojoba        Senior Environmental Specialist     MNSEE
                                                                          Safeguards
                                                                          Environmental
Joseph Ese Akpokodje          Senior Environmental Specialist     AFTN1
                                                                          Safeguards
Justin Runji                  Senior Transport. Spec.             AFTTR   Sector Specialist
Olatunji Ahmed                Transport Specialist                AFTTR   Sector Specialist
Ismail Sentissi El Idrissi    Temporary                           AFTTR   ACS
Rafael Treibich               Temporary                           AFTTR   ACS
Schlumberger Charles E        Lead Air Transport Specialist       TWITR   Sector Specialist


                                                36
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY07                                   15.64                          82.49
  FY08                                    5.19                          22.03

                          Total:         20.83                         104.52
Supervision/ICR
  FY07                                    0                              0.00
  FY08                                    8.7                           98.97
 FY09                                    14.13                          85.53
 FY10                                    14.98                          91.34
 FY11                                    15.81                          53.05
 FY12                                    12.09                          54.52
 FY13                                    13.76                          77.52
 FY14                                     6.87                          11.19
                          Total:         86.34                         472.12




                                       37
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

               (N/A)




                38
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

                     (N/A)




                      39
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




  FEDERAL MINISTRY OF AVIATION



         EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
REPORT ON IMPLEMENTATION OF THE WORLD
        BANK ASSISTED PROJECT



 WEST AND CENTRAL AFRICA AIR TRANSPORT
SAFETY AND SECURITY PROGRAM (WCAATSSP)




                    FEBRUARY, 2014




                                40
                                EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

     INTRODUCTION

1.   The West and Central Africa Air Transport Safety and Security Programme
     (WCAATSSP) is a “Regional Programme” designed by the World Bank to partner with
     and assist the 23 West and Central African Countries (WCA) to improve safety and
     security standards.
     Any of the WCA countries can join the project and obtain the credit after meeting some
     criterion set by the bank as follows:

         (i)    The creation of an administratively and financially autonomous National Civil
                Aviation Agency.
         (ii)   The use of aviation security and/or safety taxes for the purpose of financing its
                Civil Aviation Agency.
         (iii) The attainment of definite percentage of compliance level with ICAO’s
               Standard in the area of aviation security and safety, as well as improves airport
               security.
2.   The Federal Government of Nigeria through the Federal Ministry of Finance requested to
     join the WCAATSSP on the 3rd November, 2006 which was approved by the Board of
     the International Development Association (IDA) using procedures already approved by
     the Board as Nigeria met the eligibility criterion of the project.
3.   The Bank hoped that Nigeria’s participation in the project would help to meet the
     following challenges:-

        (i) To quickly address serious lapses in aviation security and safety following the
             three fatal crashes of passenger airliners between October, 2005 and 2006 that
             have claimed more than three hundred lives.
        (ii) To motivate other countries of the region to join the project since Nigeria is, by
             far the largest aviation market in WCA.


4.   The Project Development Objectives (PDO) are as follow:-
        a) To improve CAA’s compliance with ICAO’s Safety Standards
        b) To increase CAA’s compliance with ICAO’s Security Standards
        c) To enhance main international airport’s compliance with ICAO’s security
           standards.


     The objective of the project was to improve the Aviation Safety and Security aspects of
     operation. In this respect, some critical infrastructural facilities that border on Security
     and Safety aspects were earmarked in the Aviation Agencies, namely FAAN, NCAT,



                                              41
     NAMA and NCAA for immediate provision and installation, as well as capacity building
     that cut across the Board.

5.   The cost of Nigeria component of the project to be financed by the Bank was estimated at
     $46.65 million and four parastatals of the Ministry benefited from the project financing as
     follows:
     (i)     Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria(FAAN)          -       $13.70M
     (ii)    Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) -                $ 9.40M
     (iii)   Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA)            -       $11.00M
     (iv)    Nigeria College of Aviation technology(NCAT)        -       $10.00M
             UNALLOCATED                                         -       $2.55M

             Total                                               -       $46.65M

6.   There were no sensitive environmental issues to be raised by the project implementation
     as construction activities were limited in nature that could only cover the rehabilitation
     and/or construction of crisis centers and aircraft remote parking within existing airport’s
     operational perimeters which were not encumbered by non-aviation related activities.
     The environmental impacts were expected to be small-scale and site specific, thus easily
     remediable. As due diligence, an Environmental and social Management Frame work
     (ESMF) has been prepared and disclosed both in Nigeria and in the World Bank’s
     Infoshop prior to project appraisal
7.   The Project, in accordance with the agreed Credit Terms was implemented by the Federal
     Ministry of Aviation through a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) established on
     February 13th, 2007 by the Honorable Minister of Aviation. The PCU was composed of
     Federal Ministry of Aviation’s personnel and included a Project Coordinator, an
     Accountant, two Procurement Officers and an Auditor. These personnel have been
     detached from the Ministry to work full time as members of the PCU.

     The PCU was empowered and accountable for implementation of the project on a day-to-
     day basis in line with procedures governing project preparation and implementation
     particularly the Project Implementation Manual. The performances of the PCU were
     reviewed jointly by the Federal Ministries of Finance and Aviation on a regular basis and
     during the Bank’s supervision missions at least twice a year.

8.   The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was also established at each of the benefitting
     agencies namely FAAN, NAMA, NCAA& NCAT to facilitate implementation of project
     in the respective agency.

9.   The Project Steering Committee (PSC) was set up with the supervisory role and policy
     oversight functions over the Project Coordination Unit (PCU).



                                             42
      The PSC was expected to meet at least quarterly in order to discharge its responsibilities.

10.   From inception to closure of the project, a total of eleven [11] Supervision Missions were
      received from the Bank. In this regard, the PCU and the Bank were provided with all
      necessary guidance and advice to ensure that Procurement of Works, Goods and
      Consultancy Services were done in accordance with the Bank’s rules and procedures.
      These Missions assisted the Project Coordination Unit [PCU] and Project Implementation
      Units [PIUs] and the Bank in the successful implementation of the Project activities.

11.   The Procurement activities related to goods, works and consultants and these were
      subjected to both prior and post review accordingly. All procurement activities under this
      project were governed by the guidelines detailed out in the procurement manual that has
      been put together in accordance with the IDA’s procurement guidelines. In this regard,
      works and goods were procured in accordance with provision of the “Guidelines”;
      Procurement under IBRD Loan and IDA Credits. In the same vein, all Consultants’
      Services were procured in accordance with of the guidelines: - Selection and
      Employment of Consultant by World Bank Borrowers (the Consultant Guidelines).
      As part of the efforts to ensure that the overall responsibility of the PCU to control and
      coordinate the procurement process under this project was achieved, a procurement
      specialist was engaged. The procurement specialist handled the procurement work load
      of the PCU, reviewed the procurement process proposed under the annual
      plan/procurement plans, as well as provided assistance to PIU’s on interpretation and
      application of procurement guidelines. The procurement staffs were given on-the-job
      training which enhanced their capacities in carrying out procurement activities.
12.   Consistent with the financial arrangement and procedures as detailed in the Financial
      Procedure Manual, the PCU had developed and maintained an effective and flexible
      financial management system in order to maintain efficiency and effectiveness in the
      delivery of activities under this project.
      In order to enforce compliance with the Financial Management of the Bank and indeed
      the government, the PCU forwarded quarterly Financial Management Report (FMR) and
      Audited annual financial statement to the Bank. Adequate arrangements were put in place
      to support the deployment of project resources in an economic, efficient and effective
      manner to achieve the Project Development Objectives.
      In this regard, all accounts personnel were sufficiently trained in the Bank procedures,
      which included disbursements, financial management requirements among others. The
      PCU complied with the credit covenant by maintaining financial management system
      including records and account and prepared financial statement in a format acceptable to
      the Bank. More so, the accounts and financial statement were audited each financial year
      and sent to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the period end. A quarterly
      financial monitoring report which included the financial procurement and progress report
      was prepared and forwarded to the Bank after the end of each quarter.
13.   The actual disbursement was broadly in line with the implementation of project activities.
      The Credit amount of USD46.65m as at appraisal was to be fully disbursed within the


                                              43
        given period of four [4] years from 2008 to 2011. However, the project activities could
        not be completed within the initial period of four [4] years due to some emerging
        challenges experienced in the course of implementing the project. Therefore, the project
        closing date was extended to 31st May, 2013.
14.     At the end of the project, the total sum of US$33,879,400.00 was disbursed, while the sum
        of US$11,126,037.11 was undisbursed.
        The overall objective of the Project is to support the Nigerian Aviation Sector to improve
        compliance of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) and principal international
        airports with International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) safety and security
        standards.

15.       This intervention has resulted in substantial compliance by the Aviation Sector Agencies,
      especially, Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) and the four principal International
      Airports with International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) safety and Security
      standards.

         (i)        Aviation Safety

                •   Compliance rate with ICAO safety standards was expected to exceed 90 percent
                    at project end. The compliance rate with ICAO safety standard was 88 percent at
                    the project end.
                •   The number of technical personnel would exceed 90 percent. This has reached 88
                    percent.
                •   NCAA’s total budget level would stand at or above US$47 million. The budget
                    of NCAA stood at US$61m.
         (ii)       Aviation Security

                •
                The compliance rate with ICAO’s security standard will exceed 90 percent. The
                compliance rate with ICAO Security standard was 85 percent at the project
                end.
              • The number of certified security inspectors that received training during the
                period will exceed 90 percent. The certified security inspectors that receive
                training reached 90 percent.
              • The percentage of NCAA’s budget dedicated to Security will approximate
                US$1.4million. The percentage of NCAA’ budget dedicated to security has
                approximately reached USD0.8m
         (iii) Airport Security

                •    The percentage of airport Security Personnel with three or more years of
                     experience would exceed 90 percent. This has reached 82 percent.
                •    The recorded cases of serious problems during annual airport crises exercise is
                     expected to be lower than ten [10] per airport in Nigeria. The recorded cases of
                     serious problems per airport were four (4).




                                                   44
             •    The percentage of embarking passengers stopped in possession of illegal objects
                  by private security personnel would drop below 4 percent. The percentage has
                  dropped to 3 percent.

16.   The PCU established a system of M & E having considered its importance in insuring
      that the project development objective was achieved. Therefore, the M&E teams were set
      up for both the PCU and PIU Officers. The PCU and PIU M & E officers periodically
      assessed the performance, efficiency and the impacts of the project in relation to its stated
      objectives. The process consisted of data generation, analysis of data and report
      production for decisions makers, donor agencies and other stake holders.


17.   The evaluation of project outcomes during the course of the project was done primary by
      the data collected by the NCAA from independent operators like the airlines. However, in
      order to validate the results, an ICAO certified safety consultant was engaged to carry out
      follow-up audits. The result of the audit was submitted on the 31st of May, 2013. The
      final results of the key performance indicators were based on the report of the consultant.
      The full report contains further recommendations on other areas of concern that also
      needs to be addressed by the NCAA and the other civil aviation agencies.

18.    The key achievements recorded to date by the project for the beneficiary
      parastatals had tremendous impact on the Nigeria Aviation Industry and indeed the
      beneficiary agencies. The impact assessment of the project on each agency was carried
      out based on the project activities executed for each agency and it revealed that the
      project has positively assisted the beneficiary agencies in different dimensions. The
      project has enhanced their statutory operational activities thereby improving safety and
      security in the Industry.

19.   The Project team was confronted with a lot of challenges in the course of
      implementation of the project activities. These challenges led to non-utilization or
      disbursement of the total credit sum of US$46.65 Million at the project closing date of
      31st May, 2013. The sum of US$10.18 Million was unspent and returned to the World
      Bank. The major challenges experienced during project implementation included among
      others, the following:-
      i.         Lack of Adequate Capacity at the commencement of the project.
      ii.        Delay in extension of project closing date, restructuring and re-allocation of
                 remaining funds.
      iii.       Frequent leadership Change/Administrative Interference
      iv.        Irregular meeting of Project Steering Committee
      v.         Late submission of Annual Audit Report by parastatals.
      vi.        Lack of Counterpart funding for project closure.
      vii.       Death of three (3) staff members.



                                                45
20.   In the course of project implementation, the various lessons learnt further revealed as
      follows:-
      (i)     That Project design and implementation must involve Beneficiaries and
              Stakeholders.

              Participation of beneficiary agencies in the design and implementation of the
              project activities facilitated ownership of the projects executed in order to
              guarantee sustainability.

      (ii)    That Project management team must involve staff with experience in
              implementing World Bank Projects.

              This affected the pace of implementation and made the team to rely solely on
              consultants at high costs. The Aviation Ministry now has capacity in-house for
              implementation of Bank projects which should always be used for procurement
              and project management leadership. This will eliminate the use of consultants and
              save costs which can be channeled to other areas of need. The use of experienced
              staff will fast track implementation.

      (iii)   That Management commitment to international agreements and statutes.

              The project management structures were agreed at project negotiations and
              management oversight was clearly defined. Changes in leadership should not
              affect the project management structures as the same structures can be used to re-
              align project objectives with government priorities at any given time. Efficient
              and robust project implementation and management require strong support from
              the supervisory agencies. The non-adherence to procurement procedures of the
              World Bank led to declaration of mis-procurement and cancellation of part of the
              credit.

      (iv)    That Project design must emphasize capacity building of project agencies.
              Capacity building as an investment in the project implementation will enhance the
              proficiency and capability of personnel’s to perform their functions. It is also
              important to note that the sustainability and extension of operational life of heavy
              investments in equipment/infrastructure to ensure maximum benefits will depend
              on the ability of the personnel utilizing them.


21.   Following the lesson learnt during the implementation of the project, the PCU and PIU
      would use their diverse experiences to champion the course of advocating for due
      diligence in the coordination and management of future projects and maintenance of
      infrastructural facilities acquired under this project to ensure their sustainability.
      Therefore, the policy frame work of Government is to continue upgrading and
      maintaining the facilities to improve safety and security in the Aviation Industry.
      Consequently, the Federal Government of Nigeria has evolved workable strategic policy


                                               46
       to ensure sustainability of the remarkable achievements recorded under this project. Such
       strategic policy includes among others the following:
        i.     Training & Re-training: Sufficient attention to be given to developing the human
               resources capacity. Therefore, the government and other stakeholders should pay
               close attention to training courses that will enable staff perform their duties
               efficiently and effectively to enhance safety and security of operations in the
               industry.

       ii.     Maintenance of equipment and operational facilities should receive the required
               full support: The beneficiary agencies must maintain new and existing facilities
               through annual budgetary provision in addition to development of workable and
               realistic maintenance culture. Towards this end, the agencies will make efforts to
               raise fund through their Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) for improvement and
               maintenance of equipment and facilities.

      iii.     Re-modeling, Upgrading& Maintenance of Infrastructural facilities: The
               government policy of transforming the aviation sector is to continue to remodel,
               upgrade and maintain the infrastructural facilities in the four [4] major
               International Airports among others to improve safety and security.

      iv.      Policy & fiscal measures: Therefore, appropriate policy and fiscal measures will
               be adopted to raise resources that will be sufficient to keep infrastructural
               facilities, that are critical for safety and security operations and make them
               functional at all times.

22.    Conclusion
       The project’s greatest achievement was the provision of equipment, infrastructural
       facilities, as well as capacity building earmarked for the enhancement of safety and
       security in the Aviation Sector in Nigeria.
       (i)     This has resulted to the attainment of FAA Category I Certification of the
               Nigerian Aviation Industry and improvement in compliance with ICAO Safety
               and Security Standards.
       (ii)    The project had equally provided much needed capacities into the Industry as lots
               of gaps that existed prior to the unfortunate calamities that befell the country were
               virtually closed through acquired trainings provided by the Project.
       (iii)   The culture of due diligence on the provision of needed and required items,
               services and equipment were further enhanced through this project, as all the
               members of the PCU and PIU Staff numbering fifty two [52] were trained on the
               global trend of due diligence.
       (iv)    Above all, the project has helped significantly in supporting the Aviation Sector
               of Nigeria Government to improve compliance of its Civil Aviation Authority and



                                                47
              Principal International Airports with International Civil Aviation Organization
              (ICAO) safety and security standards.
      (v)     There were many challenges experienced in the process of implementing the
              projects, which ranged from lack of adequate capacity at the start -up of the
              project, delay by the borrower and supervisory entity to respond to request by the
              PCU, and cumbersome process by the Bank to extend the project closing date and
              restructuring/re-allocation of remaining funds amongst other adversely affected
              the project implementation. However, the PCU and PIUs have accomplished to a
              large extent, the Project Developmental Objectives (PDO) to enhance safety and
              security in Aviation industry. Given the required and needed environment, the
              units would have much more in the course of the implementation of the project.
23.   Recommendations
       There is need for the government and indeed the beneficiary agencies to evolve
      proactive modalities to ensure that the equipment and infrastructures provided are
      preserved and their functionality improved and sustained. In this regard therefore, and
      considering the renewed effort by the government to transform the industry, it is further
      recommended as follows:-
      (i)     To ensure the sustenance of the compliance of NCAA with ICAO safety standards
              achieved during the course of the implementation of this Project.

      (ii)    To ensure compliance the sustenance of the NCAA’s with regards to ICAO’s
              security standards achieved with the provision of the two operational areas
              Perimeter Fences for Port-Harcourt and Abuja Internal Airports. FAAN to ensure
              continues maintenance and safeguarding the Fences for obvious reasons against
              intruders etc.

      (iii)   The International Security compliance with ICAO standards achieved through the
              various safeguards put in place should be maintained. For obvious reasons the
              returns of ceasures on prohibited items should be intensified as that would
              continue to put all our International outlets to be on their toes in ensuring no
              illegal items gets on board any Aircraft out of the Country.

      (iv)    We should also continue on the issues of simulation exercises undertaken under
              the project Implementation.

      (v)     The necessity to complete crises Emergency centers is of paramount importance
              for all our International Airports.

      (vi)    The government and other stakeholders should pay close attention to training that
              will empower individuals on civil aviation which will enable them perform their
              duties efficiently and effectively to enhance safety and security of operations in
              the industry.




                                              48
(vii)   The beneficiary agencies should develop a workable and realistic maintenance
        culture to sustain operational capacity of equipment and facilities available at
        their disposals.

(viii) Appropriate policy and fiscal measures should be adopted by Government to
       raise resources that will be sufficient to keep infrastructural facilities that are
       critical for safety and security operations and make them functional at all times in
       the four (4) major International Airport among others.

(ix)    The experience acquired by the PCU and PIU members in implementing the
        World Bank project should be used in managing and implementing government
        projects and programmes.

(x)     The reports submitted by the consultants under this Project; ICAO Safety Audit
        update of NCAA, Report on Exploratory Studies of NCAT, Report on
        Recertification of Aviation Industry of NCAA should be reviewed by
        government and used as the template for carrying out major reforms in the
        aviation industry.

(xi)    The Government is to also ensure sustainability of the provisions of all the
        infrastructures, equipment’s, capacity building etc. of all the different activities in
        order to maintain proper safety and security through enhancement of the NCAA’s
        operations and compliance with best global practices.

(xii)   Future projects of this magnitude are provided with dedicated staff to operate.

(xiii) The staff that served on the project is given letters of commendation for their
       dedication.

(xiv)   Those that died in active service through this project are to be immortalized.

(xv)    Proper understanding of such projects is understood by all and the operators be
        regarded as staff on an ad hoc assignment.

(xvi)   The sustenance of the Project Coordination unit in the Ministry is strongly
        recommended for future handling of the World Bank Assisted Projects or other
        projects funded by External Donors for the Ministry, where the Ministry comes
        across such opportunities in the future. The unit which may be maintained in the
        Department of Planning Research and Statistics (PRS) and will be headed by an
        Assistant Director or a Deputy Director. This can be extended to the Parastatals
        since a similar outfit exists at the moment.




                                          49
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

                              (N/A)




                               50
                         Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Project Documentation
• Regional Operations Committee - Decision Package Review for West and Central Africa Air
   Transport Security and Safety Project April 18, 2007
• Project Appraisal Document
• Negotiated Financing Agreement July 25, 2007
• Environmental Safeguards Audit (ESA) September, 2012
• Project Restructuring Paper West and Central Africa Air Transport Safety and Security
   Project - June 23, 2011
• Project Restructuring Paper West and Central Africa Air Transport Safety and Security
   Project - June 21, 2012

Mission Aide-Memoires and Implementation Status Reports
• West and Central Africa Air Transport Safety and Security Program: P100785-
   Implementation Status Results Report 1, December 29, 2007
• West and Central Africa Air Transport Safety and Security Program: P100785-
   Implementation Status Results Report 2, May 30, 2008
• West and Central Africa Air Transport Safety and Security Program: P100785-
   Implementation Status Results Report 3, September 09, 2008
• West and Central Africa Air Transport Safety and Security Program: P100785-
   Implementation Status Results Report 4, February 21, 2009
• West and Central Africa Air Transport Safety and Security Program: P100785-
   Implementation Status Results Report 5, August 27, 2009
• West and Central Africa Air Transport Safety and Security Program: P100785-
   Implementation Status Results Report 6, March 05, 2010
• West and Central Africa Air Transport Safety and Security Program: P100785-
   Implementation Status Results Report 7, September 11, 2010
• West and Central Africa Air Transport Safety and Security Program: P100785-
   Implementation Status Results Report 8, March 28, 2011
• West and Central Africa Air Transport Safety and Security Program: P100785-
   Implementation Status Results Report 9, September 24, 2011
• West and Central Africa Air Transport Safety and Security Program: P100785-
   Implementation Status Results Report 10, April 11, 2012
• West and Central Africa Air Transport Safety and Security Program: P100785-
   Implementation Status Results Report 11, November 07, 2012
• West and Central Africa Air Transport Safety and Security Program: P100785-
   Implementation Status Results Report 12, April 28, 2013
• West and Central Africa Air Transport Safety and Security Program: P100785-
   Implementation Status Results Report 13, May 27, 2013

Other documents and reports
• Economic Benefits from Air Transport in Nigeria, Oxford Economics 2012



                                            51
                                                                               To Tahoua                                                                       To Agadez                                    To Nguigmi
                                                                                                                                                                                                10°E                                                                                               15°E

                                                                                           Illela                                                                                                                          NIGER                                                              1963 Level

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          e                             1973 Level
                         NIGER                                                SOKOTO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ob
                                                    To                                                                                                                                                                                                                Y
                                                   Kandi                                   Sokoto                                                  Katsina                                                                                                                                                    2001 Level
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Nguru                             be                Oamasak
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Yob
                                                                       ma                                               Kaura
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Lake Chad
                                                                  Ri                                          S        Namoda                              S        a        h          e       l Hadejia                               Gan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           a




                                                                                                              ok
                                                                                                                   o                      K AT S I N A                                                                               gu




                                                                                                                ot
                                                     Birnin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          B ORN O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BORNO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              u
                                                                                                                                                                              J I G AWA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            d
                                                     Kebbi




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 i
                                                                                                                                                                                                             aar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           O BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Y OB E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ma
                                                                                                                  Gusau
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CHAD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ko
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Jam
                                                                                                     Z A M FAR
                                                                                                           FA R A                                            Kano                                                                                                     Maiduguri
                                                       KEBBI
                                                       KEB                                                                                                                              Dutse                               Pokiskum             Damaturu
                                     To               Nig
                                    Kandi                 er
                                                                                                                                                                 ANO
                                                                                                                                                               K AN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ngola




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .
                                                                                                                                             Zaria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Go




                                                                                                                                                                                        Bunga




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OMBE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      G OM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              M
                                                                                                                                                                                   BAUCHI
                                                                                                                                                 Kaduna                                                                                                     Biu
                 BENIN                                  Kainji
                                                                                              Kontagora
                                                                                                                                                                                                Bauchi
                                                       Reservoir                                                                                 KADUNA                                                                                  Gombe
                                                                                                                                a




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ra
                                                                                                                          dun
             10°N                                          Wawa              NIGER
                                                                                                                        Ka                  B a u c h i                                                                                                                                                                    10°N
                                                                                                                                                                            Jos
                To
                                                                                                                                           P l a t e a u




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      da
                Bori
                                                                                                                            Minna




                                                                                                                                                                            Jos




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Man
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     e




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                nu
                                                                                                                                                                                        P L AT E A U




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AW
                                                                                        N ig                                                 ABUJA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Yola




                                                                                                                                                                              Plat
                                                                                            er
                                                                       K WA R A                                                FEDERAL                                                      Shendam




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AM
                                                                                                                               CAPITAL                                                                                                   Jalingo




                                                                                                                                                                                  eau
                                                                                                                         Baro TERRITORY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NIGERIA
                                                                            Ilorin




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AD
                                                                                                                                                                    Lafia
                                                                                                                                               A S AR
                                                                                                                                             N AS  A R AWA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ta
                                               OYO                                                                                                                                                                    ab
                                                                                                                                                 Benue




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Bali
                                                       Oshogbo                         EKITI
                                                                                       EKI                                       Lokoja                                                         Wukari
                                                                                            Ado-Ekiti                                                    Makurdi                                           TA R A B A
                                                                                                                       KOGI
                                              Ibadan
                                                               OSUN                     Akure                                                                BENUE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                s.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Mt
                              Abeokuta                                                                                                                                                                                 Chappal Waddi
                                                                                 ONDO                                                                        Udi Hills                                                     (2,419 m )
                                  OGUN                                                                                                                                                                                       Go                                                        NIGERIA
                                                                                                         EDO                                                                                                                             th
              To
                                                                                                                                          ENUGU
                                                                                                                                                 Enugu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WEST AND C ENTR AL AFR I C A
                                              LAGOS
                                                                                                                                ANA




             Lomé
                                             Lagos
                                                                                        Benin
                                                                                         City
                                                                                                                                                           Abakaliki
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AI R TR ANSP ORT SEC UR I TY
                                                                                                                  Asaba
                                                                                                                                    MBR




                                                                                                                                          Awka       EBONYI                                                                                                        AND SAFETY P R OJEC T
                                                                                                                                     A




                                                                                         Sapete
                                                                                                                            r




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          P 100785
                                                                                                                       Nige




                                                                                                                                                              CROSS
                                                                                                    D E LTA                         Owerri        Umuahia     RIVER
                                                                                                                                                                                                CAMEROON
                                                                                                      Warri
                                                                                                                                    IMO ABIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PHASE 2 OF P083751
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
             5°N                                                                                                          RIVERS             Aba       Uyo                                                                                                          5°N
                                                                                                    Yenogoa                                       AKWA-         Calabar        To                                                                                                    PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                Port
                            Gulf            of        Guinea                                        BAYELSA Harcourt                               IBOM                       Doula
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                        N
                                                                                           ig




                                                                                                 er                                                                                     0       50       100          150            200 Kilometers                                  RIVERS
                                                                                                       Delta                                                                                                                                                                         MAIN ROADS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 35376
             This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                        0             50               100                      150 Miles
MARCH 2007




             The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                                                                                                                                         RAILROADS
             shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
             Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                   Bioko I.                                                                                                                             PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
             endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                 5°E                                                      (EQ. GUINEA)                                          10°E                                                                                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
