Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
RepIt No. 12414
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NORTHERN GRID EXTENSION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1759-GH)
OCTOBER 19, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 12414
Type: PCR
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department IV
Africa Regional Office
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used b recipients only in tbe performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Units       =      Cedi (¢)
1986 US$1            =      152
1987 US$1            5      176
1988 US$1            =     230
1989 US$1            =     303
1990 US$1                  345
1991 US$1            =     390
1992 US$1            5     442
FISAL_ YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABEVMTFIONS AND kCRONYMS
AfDB   =    African Development Bank
CDC    =    Commonwealth Development Corporation
CEB    =    Communaute Electrique du Benin
CIDA   5    Canadian International Development Agency
ECG    =    Electricity Corporation of Ghana
EECI   =    Energie Electrique de la Cote d'Ivoire
EB      =    European Investment Bank
GOG    =    Government of Ghana
VALCO         Volta Aluminum Company
VRA    =    Volta River Authority



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Efice of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
October 19, 1993
MEMORANDMt TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Ghana
Northern Grid Extensiog Proiect (Credit 1759-GH)
Attached is the report entitled "Project Completion Report on Ghana -
Northern Grid Extension Project (Credit 1759-GH)" prepared by the Africa Regional
Office.  Part II conta:.ns detailea data and comments by the Borrowers.
Project objectives were to reinforce the transmission grid, extend
electricity supply in the northern region, and lay the basis fc  interconnection
with Burkina Faso.
IDA financed about 52 of the project cost and had a catalytic role
in obtaining financing by the African Development Bank, CDC, CIDA and EIB.
Implementation of the project was achieved without delays. A small cost overrun
caused by increase in the scope cf the power distribution component was financed
by the Saudi Fund for Development and the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic
Development.
Whereas the outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory and
institutional development as substantial, the sustainability of its benefits is
uncertain because of the financial losses of power distribution operations in the
northern region which are now absorbed by the Volts River Authority (VRA)
generation and transmission operations. Sustainability could be achieved if
subsidies to final users were discontinued.
The PCR is generally informative but lacks a detailed account of
economic benefits and comments by the co-lenders. An audit is;planned.
Robert Picciotto
by Hans-Eberhard Kapp
This doecment has a resitricted distribution and my be used by recipients only in the performance of
thefr official duties. Its contents may not otherwaise be diselosed without Wortd Bark authorization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
NORTHERNTGRMA ERY                                            . i
PROJECT CREIFOMTHI    PER              E1
1.  ProjectIdentityn."
2.  Backgro.ind  ~~~~                           ~a N.1
PrEACE .................................................  i
EV A1ATON S^MWAARY  ............................................ ai
PART L  ]PROJECT REVIEW  FROM TBDEIDA's  ESEIVE  ...............................   I
1.  Project Idety  ............    ......             :.....   :.................. 
2.    EBackgound  ..................................1
3%.  PoectObjectves ad DeNrption  ....................................    3
4.  ProjecttDesignad         ion .andOrganiza.....................              4
S.  Project mplementation  .........        .................. .                4
6.  Project Results .......................................   S
7.  ProjectSustaiwbiity ...................................   7
8. BankPerformance ....................                                         7
9.  Borrwer Performance ..................................   8
10. ProjecdRelationship ....................                                    9
11. ConsltingServices                           ..                              9
12. Poject Documentationand Data ............................   9
13. Iessons Laomed  .....................................  10
PART 4-PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S FESPCIVE ...... 11
1.  Introduction  ........................................   11
2.  GeneralDesclptionoftheProject ..........................  11
3.  Tending and AwardofContacts  ..........................  13
4.  Dealed Descrpton oofthe Projec  ..........................  15
5.  Froject Cost ........................................  27
6.  Assssment of the Ptoject and Experience Gained .................  28
PART IIL  STATITICAL  INFORMATION  ......... ..                     ...............  30
1.  Reated Bank Ls  and/or Credits in the Power Subsector ....         .......  30
2.  Project Timetable ...............        ...                .     .       31
3. Loan..sbursem. en..                                     ............ 32
4.  Project Costs and Fnmancing  .............................   38
S.  Status of Covenans ................................   34
6.  Use of Bank Resources  ................................   35
Annex 1    - Summary of Award of Contract                                              36
Annex 2    - Summary of Award of Contrc and Change Orders                              37
Anne 3    - Summary of Project Cost                                                    39
This document has a restricted distribution and may be   d by rcipients only in the peornmance
of their offica duties, Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizton.



- I. -
S0}| ~GRII) EXSO                H=OJC
Kht 17S9)M
lhis is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Northern Grid Extension
Project in Ghana, for which Credit 1759-GH in the amount of SDR 5.2 (US$6.3 million
equ ent) million was approved on Februay 17, 1987. The credit was dosed on schedule
on June 30, 1992. It was folly disbursed, the last disbursement being made on June 11,
1992.
The PCR was prepared joindy by the Industry and Energy Operations Division
of the Western Africa Department, Africa Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary,
Pars  I and I), and by the Volta River Authority (Par 11).
Preparation of this PCR was sted during the Banks final supervision mission
of the project In February 1992, and is based, inter all on the Staff Appraisal Report; the
Credit and Project Agreements; supervision reports; progress reports; correspondence between
the Association and the Borrower; and intnal Bank memoranda.



- ii -
NQRTHERN GRD EQN 1PPQiJECT
ff:redit 1759GHM
EVhLUATINMhR
1.    Objectives. The objectives of the project were to: strengthen the capacity of the
southern transmission grid, extend the electricity supply to the three northern re, ions, free
ECO from the task of handling the distribution in these regions, and to lay the base for a
futuire interconnection with Burkina Faso. These objectives translated into the physical goals
of building 742 km of 161 kV lines, 173 km of 33 kV lines, building 13 transformer
substions, establishing the necessary distribution facilities, and the distribution organization
over the regions.
2.    Implementaion experience. The project was well prepared and implemented with
commendable efficiency. The facilities included in the original scope of the project were
completed below budget and on schedule. Ihe scope was expanded to cover additional works
and modifications and to include a large distribution component. This expansion accounted
for a 12 percent increase in the total investment and for the construction work extending into
1993. The part financed by the Association, which covered approximately 5 percent of the
project cost, was disbursed within the original deadline of June 1992 and was utlized for the
agreed purposes.
3.    Results. The reinforcement of the southern grid improved the power supply to
southwestern Ghana and increased the export capacity to Cote d'Ivoire from 60MW to
90MW. In the three northern regions the quality of supply was greatly improved for all users
and supply was extended to 16,888 new users; the infrastructure is in place to add fiurher
users in substmtial numbers, and so is the organization for operation, maintenance and service
of the new facilities. The availability of grid supply made it possible to shut down eleven of
the diesel generating plants that supplied Sunyani, Berekum, Techiman, Wenchi, Tamale,
Pong Tamale, Bolgatanga, Navrongo and Bawku under the VRA/Saudi Fund funded project,
and Dorma Ahenkro and Vendi under the VRA/Kuwaiti Fund funded project. A substantial
reduction in supply cost was achieved.
4.    Sustainablity. The economic benefits to the region were somewhat lower than
originally calculated but are still adequate to justify the project. Financially the project is not
yet self supporting, though the annual losses have been significanty reduced. For the
foreseeable future this part of VRA's operations will require yearly subsidies from the VRA's
core operation unless the electricity tariffs are substantially increased from their present
levels. In a subsequent distribution project, the Government has agreed to set tariffs to
achieve long run marginal cost by 1996. The organization of the Northern Electricity
Department, as the new distribution utility is called, i3 set up and ready to handle any future
expansion of electricity consumptiot. in the region, and thus to contribte to its economic
development.



- iii -
S.    llMQion. A new and unusual technology was introduced wih this project. The
shield wires of the high voltage transmssion line were adapted to carry electric power for a
distribution circuit; this was used to supply electricity to villages along the line which could
not have been supplied at an acceptable cost by conventional means.
6.    Lon  lane.The fPllowing lessons can be drawn from the successful experience
on the implemention of this project: (i) advance planning and engineering is essential for
tinely implementation; (ii) technical innovations in shicidwire distribution and the use of
lightly loaded high voltage transmission lines were possible because the VRA gave importance
to both the study and design of thoeir construction; (iii) capacity building and transfer of
studies can be achieved during project execution through well established and close interaction
of the utlity and consultant teams and (iv) upfront financial planning played a key role in
ensuring adherence to the execution of project timetable.



GHANA
NORHRN RI   NIO UDJf
tCredit 1251MG
ERQJEC COARMP= M
PART 1: Project Review From thb - IDA's, Perspgctli
1.    PoetIee
Project Name :      Northen Grid Extension Project
Credit No.    :     1759-GH
RVP Unit            Africa Region
Country             Ghava
Sector              Energy
Subsector           Power
1.1   The Northern Grid Extension Project consists of the construction of high voltage (161
k)V transmission lines and substations, and of mnedium voltage (33 kV) distribution lines
together with their ancillary insIlations to supply electric power to thirty-five towns in the
Northern Region of Ghana.
1.2   The Borrower is the Republic of Ghana and the implementing agency of the project is
the Volta River Authority, VRA, a parastatal corporation established in 1961 to operate and
manage the Akosombo hydro-plant.VRA is a well managed efficient utility which has
maintained the autonomous necessary to enable it to carry out its mandate effectively.
2.    B&Ck=nd
2.1      t developme  QWjeyes: The policy objective of the electricity sector is to
make available a reliable and economic supply of electricity to all of the country.
2.2  EPoicy Context: It was Government policy to have VRA produce, transmit and sell
the power in bulk, while the distribution of electricity at the retail level was the task of the
Electricity Corporation of Ghana, ECO. The VRA has become a very successful operator
and manager of the two large hydro-plants that produce the bulk of the power, and of the
Ghanaian Higb Voltage transmission system. The ECO, entrusted wit the momnmental task
of bringing electricity to the whole of Ghana, has run into serious difficulties, and a program
of rehabilitation and reform is under way. Under these circumstances it was considered
appropriate that ECG should be relieved of part of its problems until such time as other
arrangements could be made. As of January 1987 the responsibility for electricity supply to
the three northern regions (Brong Ahafo, Northern, and Upper Region) was transferred to
VRA, along with the ownership of the existing facilities. With it went the task of
implementing this project and assuming its debt service. The three regions together account
for 30 percent of the population of Ghana and for more than half of its area. It is recognized
that the provision of electricity is an essential component for the development of this large
part of the country.
2.3    With this decision electricity sector policy has adapted to reality. ECG relinquished
its concession in those geographical areas it would have been unable to serve in the



-2-
foreseeable future. One of the reasons was the poor financial condition of ECG. VRA, on
the other hand, is in good financial shape with steady sources of Income In foreign exchange
from exports of electricity to CEB, EEC as well as its sales to VALCO, and It can withstand
the fincial losses expected from the Northern Regions distribution business.
2.4   Linkage:  The objective of spreading the benefits of electricity was to be coupled
with a responsible finacial policy and tariff for the two utilities. Both VRA and ECG were
to generate internally at least 25 percent of the resources needed for their investment projects;
and VRA, whose investments are substantial, also agreed to produce an 8 percent return on
investment on its revalued average net fixed assets in operation.
2.5   Participation by other Agencies. The foreign exchange costs of the project,amounting
to $'01.5 million, financed almost totally by six international financing agencies, whUe the
local costs, estimated at $29 million equivalent, were supplied by VRA. The agencies were
the AfDB, EIB, CDC, CIDA, the Japanese Export-Import Bank, the Saudi and Kuwait Funds
and I)A. The concessionary external financing from IDA and CIDA were on-lent at
commercial rates to VRA. The financing plan was set up as follows in Table No. 1.
' ' .   .         .  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....     
x,,ssX(US.  mi, in equisaet   <.
Plan" a                 '
IDA                      ~~~~~~~~6.3                 6
38.3                       383
>C:C and EIB                      36.7                       37.6
IIDA                             7.5                        98
-:1a-tiz4mBak                       5.0                            1
Suau  Fii or leve opmnnt                                    :47
- :und for Arab          . -  .                    .     ;...    ; 1
A.,                                77 2   ,                -130
S         '-               .,    '.f.>og.;101.5  i219
VRA                           29.0~~~ .. . .. 
9"~~~~~~~4.



-3-
3.    Project Oblecie #ad Descriton
3.1          P         The general objectives of the project were to:
(a) reiforce the southern transmission grid, so as to improve the reliability of the
electricity supply, reduce system losses, and increase Ghana's electricity export
poential;
(b) extend the electricity system to cover the main centers of the three northern
regions, to accelerate their economic development;
(c) improve the institutional arrangements of the electricity sector, by assigning to
VRA the task of implementing this project and to distribute electricity in the
northern regions, thus leaving ECG free to concentrate its resources on the
rehabilitation of the southern system; and
(d) lay the base for an interconnection with Burkina Faso, a possible future customer
for hydropower from Ghana.
32     Cp= mts.. The objectives of the project were to be achieved by:
(a) Transmisnsio
(i) Adding two sections of High Voltage lines (161 kV), total length 161 kin, in
order to strengthen the link between the Akosombo power plant and New
Obuasi (southern transmission);
(Ii)  Building a new High Voltage line, 581 km long, from Kumasi in the
south to Bolgatanga near the northern border of Ghana, with a spur to
Sunyani in the west:
(lii)  Adding four new 161 kV substations, and expanding five existing ones
to accommodate the new lines:
(iv)  Extending the Sunyani 161 kV spur to Mim, but operate it initially at
33 kV.
0) Subtransmission and Distribution
(0    Building 173 km of 33 kV lines, and four transformer substations;
(ii)  Rehabilitating the primary (11 kV) and secondary distribution
facilities, and increasing the transformer capacity by 30 MVA in ten
northern towns;
(iii)  Supplying electricity to several smaller villages by using the shield
wires of the 161 kV lines;



-4-
(c) Consulting SMeces
Providing engineering and management services, and staff training for the project.
4.    1r3ctg     g Lig  QcnI
4.1   The project was appropriately designed and rirganized. Engineering studies had been
prepared well ahead of Implementation and this proceeded without difficulties. A salient
characteristic of the project was that it was designed with concern for an efficient
implementation. VRA was appointed the owner of the facilities and the manager of the
project precisely because it had the resources to do it successfullly. This concept was
understood and agreed to by all parties including ECO which had no difficulty In
relinquishing the northern regions to be supplied by VRA.
4.2   From the institutional viewpoint it was an innovative decision by the Govermment to
take the pragmatic approach, that is to hand the implementation of the project. to the agency
which was best placed to do it rather than to the agency vwhich by policy and custom should
have undertaken it, but lacked the means at the time.
4.3    On the technical side VRA management and Its consultants pioneered an interestng
innovation in the technology of rural distribution. The shield wires of the high voltage
transmission line (which form part of the normal design as protection against lightning
strokes) were adapted to serve also as power circuits for the rural distribution. This made it
possible to bring electricity to villages along i ,d with a modest investment; and it replaced
the conventional approach which is to install high voltage transfbrmer stations, which would
have been prohibitively expensive for the small loads of the villages. Both the technical and
the institional innovaion deserve to be stressed because they were both umsual and very
successful. It is to be expected that they will find applications in other projects and countries.
4.4   The main recognition for the success of the project must be given to VRA, its staff
and the organization. Management and staff had acquired experience in project
implementation over the past twenty years when Akosombo, and Kpong power stations and
their transmission lines were built. Familiarity with the use of consultants, with procurement
procedures, and with international lending agencies stood VRA in good stead. The strong
financial position of VRA, and its access to foreign exchange avoided the difficulties that can
affect projects when cash flow is uncertain. The Government and VRA managed to interest
several large lending agencies in the project and thus covered all foreign exchange needs with
external financing, some at concessional terms. These agencies were probably encouraged to
participate by the good results of previous operations.
4.5   The availability of secure fimancing, well prepared tender documents, reputation of the
VRA as a sound utility promoted fierce competiion among suppliers with the result that the
cost of the project came close to estimates.
S.    ProJect Implementation
5.1   The implementation proceeded on schedule and close to budget as the project
experienced only minor variations.



'.5--
5.2   The total cost of the project, which had been appraised at US$130.5 million
equivalent, turfned out to be US$148.1 million equivalent partly owing to an expanded project
scope. Approximately half of this apparent 12 percent cost increase can be ascribed to the
variation of thie rate of exchange of the US doliar toward the currencies in which the
expenditures were made, and in which the other loans were denominated. Ibus the cost of
the proJect ean be said to have come in within 6 percent of the estimate.
5.3 The execution schedule followed the plans made at thie time of appraisal, and some
times were even shortened. Most of the 161 kV lines and substations were commissioned in
1989, with only the northernmost section (Bolgatanga) being completed in 1990.
5.4   The planned and actual project costs are given in Table 2 below.
.'f                                .                                   ..-
appasatepore, Ah otg  oto  rbes pere noAxeiecdappropri ctate
transmission lne, tesubstations and    75e 7usamsio8ie3er  ul s lne  n



- 6 -
without changes or problems. The distribution facilities were built as planned in all the
towAs.
6.2   The appraisal report did not specify definite quantities of distribution work, and It is
therefore nuo possible to determine if and to what extent these were exceeded using the
resources of the loan. In any case, a substantial amount of distribution work was carried out,
both within the project and through an expansion of the original project financed by the
Kuwaiti Fund.
6.3   It is noteworthy to record that the technical innovation of using the shield wires of the
HV lines for rural electrification worked as planed. Thus it was possible to supply 13
villages and 3055 users who could not have been connected under conventional electrification
schemes. The villages are Jema, Kintamnpo, Soronuasi, Buipe, Yapei, Savelugu, Pong
Tamale, Diari, Nasia, Walewale, Wulugu, and Pwalugu under the VRAlSaudi Fund funded
project, and Akomadan under the VRAIKuwait Fund fimded project.
6.4   The number of users supplied by the electricity system in the three Northern Regions
grew from 17,940 at the end of 1987, the year of the VRA take-over, to 33,282 in 1992. Of
these 9616 were connected using the resources of the project, and 5957 using the resources of
the K:iwaiti Fund.
6.5   The success of the electrification project is also apparent from the kWh billings which
more than tripled from 1987 to 1992. The energy billed during the half year 1987 was 17.2
GWh (VRA took over the Northern Districts on July 1, 1987). The energy billed duing the
whole year 1992 was 118.4 GWh.
6.6   The extension of the grid to the northern regions made it possible to shut down eleven
isolated diesel plants. In addition to achieving a substantial saving, the grid connection
provided the region with an abundant, continuous and reliable supply of electricity. This in
turn induced more consumers to apply for service, to share the benefits of the new supply and
to take advantage of the new opporunities for productive uses of electricity.
6.7   The distribution organization was set up and appears to be operating smootdy. Ihe
ratio of users to employees, 92 at the end of 1992, is not as high as would be desirable, but
compares favorably with that of other African utilities. The collection rate has improved from
65 percent in 1987 to 86 percent in 1992.
6.8    With the high voltage grid having reached the town of Bolgatanga in the far north of
Ghana, the foundation has been laid for an extension of the line to Ouagadougou, when
Burkina Faso decides that an interconnection is in its interest.
6.9   The economic rate of return of the project is now calculated to be 14 percent on the
basis of the data available, and using the same assumption about willingness to pay as at
apprais (US$0. 14/kWh). The willingness to pay under the recendy approved National
Electrification Project, however, ranged from US$0.15c/kWh to 0.25 kWh for different
consumption levels. Ihis rate is acceptable, although it is less than the rate of return of 17.9
percent calculated at appraisal. he main reasons for the difference between the two
calculations are that both the investment costs and the operating costs were greater than
anticipated the former owing to an expansion of the project scope particularly in the
distribution component where service was extended to rural communities. The investments



- 7 -
were greater because more funds were obtained from donors; the Kuwaiti Fund contributed
$12 million, and the equivalent dollar amounts of the amounts obtained from the other loans
were higher than assumed due to changes in the exchange rate. The additional resources were
used to increase the volume of the distribution facilities built; this is reflected in the rapid
increase in the number of users. The cost of operation and maintenance of the system turned
out to be approximately $4 million per year as compared with the $1.5 million estimated at
appraisal. A small part of the difference may be due to overstaffing (see paragraph 6.7
above), but part may well be due to having a low user density on lob distribution lines. The
greater than expected increase in electricity demand improved the rate of return of the project
but this means that the limit of the transmission capacity of the 161 kV line will be reached
two years earlier than expected.
6.10   The financial rate of return of the project is negative, if the Northern Electricity
Department is considered as an individual profit centre or as a freestanding operation
financially separate from the remainder of VRA. This is not necessarily a weakness of the
project; rather it reflects the fact that the government regulated rates which the NED must
charge, at US$0.039 equivalent per kWh, are insufficient to cover costs, even if VRA sells it
electricity at a transfer price of US$0.01 equivalent per kWh. The result is that the NED
operation has burdened VRA with an annual loss which has decreased from about US$6
million in 1989 to US$1.7 million in 1992, including depreciation but excluding the hidden
loss implicit in the transfer price. VRA is, therefore, subsidizing the development of the
three regions with electricity sold below cost.
7.    ProJect Sustainabilitl
7.1    Despite the financial losses incurred by the NED, VRA has been able to withsand
and support these financial costs from its profits from its core operations of electricity
generation. The net profits of VRA for 1991 and 1992 were US$46 million and US$43
million equivalent, respectively. This represents a rate a reurn on revalued average net
fixed assets in operation of 8.3 and 6.7 in each of these years. As long as this healthy
condition persists, the NED project can be sustained. The profitability of the project in
unlikely to improve substantially only with load growth. The operational limit of the
transport capacity of the high voltage lines will be reached by the year 2000. New major
investments wiUl be needed at that time if the load continues to grow even at the modest S
percent rate which is being assumed at present. In a subsequent distribution project the
Government has agreed to achieve long run marginal costs by 1996.
7.2   It had been hoped that the transmission lines could be used to sell electricity to
Burkina Faso, but to date that country has not shown interest. Since the export price would
have been similar to the price charged to Benin and Cote d'Ivoire, i.e. of the order of
US$ 0.05 kWh, the foreign exchange earnings from such a transaction would have contributed
in no small measure to pay for the lines.
8.    Bank Per
8.1   The performance of the Bank was appropriate for the project. While the Bank's
share of the financing amounted to approximately five percent of the total cost, its main
contribution was in preparing the project, acting as a catalyst for cofinancing and coordinating
the co-lenders, and in maintaining an adequate level of supervision.



- 8 -
8.2   The Bank has had a long relationship with VRA. Since 1961 VRA had received four
loans and credits (see 1 ot Part IHl), and In the twenty-six years to 1987 It built up a
relationship of successfull coopention with the Bank that made it possible to handle smoothly
this project and subsequent loans.
8.3   The process of project identification was an offshoot of the Bank's involvement with
the distribution programs of the Electricity Corporatiop of Ghana. Tbe Bank encouraged the
Government's decision to assign the project to VRA for implementation. The project
preparation was very good as a result of the advance completion of the planning and
engineering work. The engineering work had been Initiated three years before appraisal, and
most of the tender documents were ready when the loan was approved.
8.4   Ihe Bank carried out its supervision with visits of appropriate frequency. Two
missions per year were carried out during the first three years of project execution, and one
mission per year in subsequent years, when the implementation was proceeding regularly. No
major problems interfered with the process.
9.    BorrowerPeomae
9.1   The resources of the credit were on-lent by the government on commercial terms to
the VRA, which was both the implementing agency of the project, and the owner of the
facilities that were built.
9.2   The VRA is an autonomous entity established in 1961 and charged with the
development of the Volta River resources. Its main assets, the two hydroelectric plants and
the high voltage transmission grid over all of Ghana, have been built with extern  financing
over the past 30 years, and the entity is well used to deal with its foreign lenders. As part of
its production is sold for foreign currency, it has sufficient resources both to meet its debt
service and to procure the goods and services needed for its operation.
9.3 The weak point of VRA's financial performance has been the difficulty of collecting
some of the receivables in local currency. Approximately 30 percent of VRA's electricity
sales in 1991 were to the Electricity Corporation of Ghana, ECG, which distibutes power all
over Ghana, except for the Northern District, which is now VRA's responsibility. ECO has
financial difficulties of its own and has been slow in paying for the electricity purchased from
VRA, with the consequence that VRA's financial position was adversely affected, especilly
so when internal inflation kept eroding the rea value of accounts receivable denominated in
Cedis. In 1989, a mechanism was set up, the Cross-Debt Clearing House System, which has
the capability of solving this problem. The accounts receivable from ECO, which were the
equivalent of almost 6 months billings in 1986, were to have been reduced to the equivalent
of 30 days. During the early years of the project the Cross-Debt Clearing System proved to
be an effective means for timely settlement of the mutual obligations of the Utilities and the
Government. However, the receivables position of VRA and ECG began to show some
deterioration in 1990-91. The overall accounts receivable for power sales amounted to 62
days in 1990 and to 67 days for 1991. Improvements in the timeliness of payments by the
Government to the Cross-Debt Clearing System are being addressed under a recent project.
9.4    VRA has complied conscientiously with the other financial covenants of the credit
a e e accounts have been delivered on time and have been audited without
qualification; an annual review of VRA's five year capital expenditure program has been



- 9
carried out; VRA has complied with the rate of return covenant of 8 percent in 1990 and in
1991 (9.9 and 8.3 percent respectively). However, the rate of return was 6.7% in 1992,
mainly due to high cedi devaluation which translated to higher revaluation on fixed assets.
Ite rate of return is expected to improve gradually in the future; in foreign exchange the
limits on short term and on long term borrowings have been respected, and the contingency
fund against future debt service obligations (mandated in the Project Agreementi has been
established.
9.6   For the management of its new distribution areas in the Northem Regions, VRA has
set up an appropriate management organization, and has been keeping separate accounts for
the NED, the Northern Electricity Department. As indicated in section 7 above, the financW
results of the NED operation have closed with a loss in each of the past three years of
operation. In part this is a normal pattern for a rural electrfication operation, which begins
with few customers and with large sunk costs, but in large part it Is a reflection of having to
supply power at rates which do not cover the cost of supply.
9.7   For the implementation of the project VRA set up an efficient management
organization in its Engineering Department which deserves the credit for keeping the
Implementation schedule and for controlling the costs. Quarterly progress reports were
produced and delivered punctually to all lenders.
9.8    Overall, the performance of VRA and of the borrower was commendable.
10.   Projet Relatonship
10.1  The relationship of the Bank with the borrower and with the implementing agency was
satisfactory, as is evidenced by the fact that no difficulties of any importance appeared during
the implementation period.
11.   Consulinr &aim
11.1 Engineering consulting firms had prepared the feasibility studies for the project; they
were then employed to prepare the designs and bid documents both for the high voltage
tramsmission lines, and for the distribution facilities. VRA continued to retain a highly
competent electrical systems consultant who had worked with them for a number of years; he
provided quality assurance and a trusted second opinion for important technical questions.
11.2 The engineering department of VRA was reinforced with six individual consultants to
assist in various aspects of establishing a distribution organization. It is difficult to assess at
this stage how much each party contributed to the success of the project; but the favorable
results can certainly be ascribed in good measure to the competence of the VRA staff, and to
their ability to select and cooperate with good outside consultants.
12. ProJect Doeumentation and Data
12.1  The legal agreements were of the standard type and were adequate for the project.
12.2 The Appraisal Report did not include a framework of mandatory guidelines for
reporting by the borrower. While this did not prevent the project from being implemented



- 10 -
successfully, it would have been useful to have a system of reporting to suit the Bank's needs
for the supervision during project implementation, and as a data base for later evaluation.
13   sons L^d
13.1 Project objectives have been met completely by the successful execution of all project
components. There are several lessons to be drawn in the areas of (i) project preparation; (ii)
technical innovations; (iii) capacity building and transfer of skills; and (iv) project financing.
13.2 VRA's investment in advanced planning and engineering of project components made
it possible to prepare and implement the project quickly and efficiendy.
13.3 The successful completion of the shield wire schemes makes VRA a worldwide leader
in this technology for which its experience is sought after by visits of foreign delegations and
through correspondence and other contacts. Additionally, the design and construction of the
transmission system is another credit to VRA through the innovative application of variable
reactors. This success is reflected in the excellent and reliable operation experience to date.
13.4   Capacity building and transfer of skills were achieved during project execution
through close interaction of utility - consultant teams. VRA developed engineering expertise
in system studies, planning, design and supervision of construction of high voltage
transmission systems. It is noteworthy that VRA provides assistance to neighboring utilities
which hold VRA's capabilities in high esteem.
13.5 Project financing was complex however, VRA, was able through up-front planning to
have a financing plan in place at an early stage of implementation. It also showed its
capabilities in managing successfilly the procuremelt, quality control, materials management
of large amounts of materials and equipment, that were financed by six different cofinancing
sources.
13.6   With this project, VRA also started its role as a distribution utility, and has achieved
very satisfactory results in this new area of operations. Its role in this new activity has since
been expanded under the National Electrification Project.
13.7   Overall VRA met all these challenges and took timely and mature decisions to hire the
best available expertise in the transmission business, or to develop the expertise needed for
the successful execution and operaion of this project.



- 11 -
NORTHiN ORMz2ammNIONPRO.lECT
PART II-PRO.E    REVIEW FROM  =IE BORROWER'S PERSPECTX
1.    Introduction
1. 
The Northern Electrification and System Reinforcement Project (NESRP) involved the
constuction of transmission and subtransmission lines, substations, reiMircement of existing
substations, transmission and distribution networks in Brong Ahafo Region and northern
Ghana.
The implementation of the project started in September 1987 and although the works
as per original scope covering the major extensions were completed in January 1991, the
extended scope of work shall only be completed by the end of 1993.
2.    Genel Desaiption of the Project
-2.1   Poect Packging
,he implementation of the project was complex. This was because financing was by
several lending agencies, and the execution involved many contractors. The project was
divided into three (3) main phases as follows:
Phase 1  -   System Reinforcement and Supply to Brong Ahafo Region.
Phase 2  -   Supply to Upper and Northern Regions.
Phase P6 -   Distribution, Expansion and Refurbishment in Brong Ahafo, Northern
and Upper Regions.
The project included the following works:
phase 1 (AMDB) Loan)
- Rehabilitation of six (6) existing substations
- Construction of 335km of 161kV transmission lines
-  Construction of two (2) 161/34.5/11.5kV substations
- Construction of 66km of 34.5kV subtransmission lines
-  Constuction of two (2) 34.5111.5kV substations
- Housing schemes
Works not included in the original scope of work:
- Accra - Kumasi Back-up radio Link
Phase 2 (EIB/CDC loan and CIDA Grant)
- Construction of 410km of 161kV transmission lines
- Construction of 140km of 161kV Light transmission lines
- Construction of 29km of 34.5kV subtransmission line
- Construction of two (2) 161134.5/11.5kV substations



- 12 -
- Construction of two (2) 34.5111.5kV substations
- Housing schemes
Works not included in the original scope of work:
- Construction of 63km of 161kV Light Transmission Line to Togo.
- Construction of 34.5 kV/2OkV/5.SkV Substation In Togo
- Distribution network in eleven (11) towns in Ghana
Project KA and P6B (Saud Fund Loan. Japanese Exim Bank Credit and MMA)
- Distribution network in Brong-Ahafo Region
- Distribution network In Norther and Upper Regions
Project P6C and P6D fKuwait Fund Loan and VRA)
- Construction of lOOkm of 161kV Light Transmission Line
- Construction of 248km of 34.5kV Subtransmission Lines
- Construction of a SOOkVA Diesel Generating Station
-  Distribution networks, Expansion and Refurbishment in the Brong-Ahafi Region
- Distribution networks, Expansion and Refurbishment in the Northern and Upper
Regions.
2.2 Engineering Services and Management
Phase 1 and 2 (AfDB loan and IDA Credit)
Engineering services for this component of the project were provided by VRA and
Acres International Limited of Canada.
VRA provided:
- Preliminary design and topographical survey
- Management of the project
-  Construction supervision
Acres International Limited provided:
-  Preparation of Tender Documents
-  Publication of Tenders
- Tenders evaluation
-  Preparation of conformed contract documents
-  Design and constuction co-ordinators
- Factory inspection
Project N (Kuwait Fund Loan and VRAM
Engineering services for this component of the project were provided by VRA and
Merz & McLellan of England.



- 13 -
VRA provided:
-  Preliminay design and topographical survey
-  Registration of Potential Consumers
- Management of the project
- Construction Supervision
Merz and McLellan provided:
- Preparation of Tender Documents
- Publication of Tenders
- Tender evaluation
- Preparation of Conformed Contract Documents
- Joint Construction Supervision
- Factory Inspection
3.    Tendeing and Award of Contracts
'he tenders for projects P1 and P2 were called in December 1986 and received in
March 1988. The tenders for the project P6 were called in July 1988 and received in
September 1988. Following the evaluation and approval by Goverment of Ghana and
Lending Agencies the contracts were awarded to the following companies.
P1-1   161kV Conductors, Insulators and Line Accessories - Coutinho Caro & Co.
of Hamburg, Germany.
P1-2   Transformers - Nuova Industrie Eletriche De Legnano (now ABB
Transformator) of Legnano, Italy.
P1-3   161kV Circuit Breakers - Nuova Magrini Galileo of Bergamo, Italy.
P1-4   Power Line Cardier Equipment - Brown Boveri (now ABB Infocom) of
Turgi, Switzerland.
Pl-SA   161134.5/11.5kV Substations - SICOM S.p.a. of Mllano, Italy
P1-SB/C 161kV Transmission Lines, 34.5kV Subtrasion Lines and 34.5kV
Substations - Sadelmi-Cogepi (now ABB SAE Sadelmi) of Milano, taly.
hasZe 2
P2-1   161kV Conductors, Insulators and Line Accessories - Reynolds Metal of
Caada.
P2-2 Transformers and Reactors - Nuova Industrie Elettriche De Legnano (now
ABB Transformatori) of Legnano, Italy.
P2-3 161kV Circuit Breakers - Nuova Magrini Galileo of Bergamo, Italy



- 14 -
P2-4   Power Line Carrier Equipment - Brown Boveri (now ABB Infocom) of
Turgi, Switzerland.
P2-SA  161J34.5/1 1.SkV Substations - SICOM S.p.a. of Milano, Itly.
P2-SB/C 161kV Transmission Lines, 34.5kV Subtransmission Lines and 34.5kV
Substations - Sadelmi Cogepi (now ABB SAE Sadlemi) of Milano, Italy.
P6A     Supply and Erection of Distribution Equipment - SAE Sadelmi (now ABB
SAE Sadelmi) of Milano, Italy
P6B     Supply only of Distribution Equipment - Marubeni Corporation of Tokyo,
Japan
P6C     Supply and Erection of Distribution Equipment - SAE Sadelmi (now ABB
SAE Sadelmi) of Milano, Italy
P6D     Supply of distribution Network Equipment - EBOMAC of Safat, Kuwait.
Summary of the awarded contract prices in US$ are presented in Annex 1.
-Pha,se I                           YS$
contract Pl-I                   3,750,028
Contract P1-2                     830,999
Contract P1-3                     888,629
Contract P14                    2,003,949
Contract P1-SA                  5,388,953
Contract P1-5B/C                9,661.060
Subtotal                 22,496,619
R 2                                     m
Contract P2-1                   7,054,395
Contact P2-2                    1,971,587
Contract P2-3                     506,716
Contract P2-4                   1,772,865
Contract P2-SA                  4,767,293
Contrac P2-5B/C                13,349241l
Subtotal                 29,422,273



Ps15 -
Contract P6A                     7,572,382
Contract P6B                     1,485,066
Contract P6C                    11,313,309
Contract P6D                       497.
Total - Project P6              20.35Q
Total Phase 1, 2 and P6         72,787,251
The total estimated cost of the project as given in the Staff Appraisal Report for the
transmission, substations, subtransmission and distribution projects (Phase 1, Phase 2 and
Phase P6) was US$96.9 million. However this estimate included physical and price
contingencies of about US$25 million which were not included in the contract prices.
Therefore the comparable estimated price to the contract price was approximately US$72
million.
It may be noted that the cost at the completion of the project with the improvements
to the original design, modifications and necessary additions was within the budget price and
financing provided by the Lending Agencies (see Annex 2).
4.    Detailed Desaription of the Project
4.1   Phase I: System Reinforcement and Spoly to Bronf-Ahafb Region
(1)     Rehabilitation and Reinforcement of the existing substations in
southern Ghana, and construction of 161kV trmission lines form
Akosombo to Tafo and from Akwatia to New Obuasi to reinforce the
southern grid.
(ii)     Construction of 161kV transmission lines from Kumasi to Techiman
and from Techiman to Sunyani.
Construction of 161kV/34.5kV/ll.5kV substations in Techiman and
Sunyani, 34.5kV subtransmission lines from Techiman to Wenchi and
from Sunyani to Berekum as well as 34.5kV/1 1.SkV substations in
Wenchi and Berekum.
(iii)    Construction of Housing Schemes in Techiman and Sunyani.
(iv)     Provision of Back-up Radio Link from Akuse to Kumasi.
(v)     Provision of Data transmission and Telefax facilities in Techiman an
Sunyani.
(vi)     Provision of Computer Aided Revenue Telemetering System.
(vii)     Various improvements, modifications and additions to the original
design and scope. For example, welding of tower bolts as protection
against theft of tower members was added to the original scope, for all
lattice structures of the transmission lines.



- 16 -
4.1.1  161kV Transmission Lines
The transmission line works were covered in Contract P1-I for the supply of
Conductors, Insulators and Line Accessories and Contract P1-SB/C for the supply of
Towers and construction of the lines.
Akosombo - Tafo Line
The 161kV Single Circuit line (59.5km) with twin bundle ACSR 265.74mm2
Conductors and 10mm diameter Galvanised Steel Shieldwire was completed and
energized in December 1990. Minor diversions to the original route did not require
additional towers.
Alkwtia - New Obuasi Line
The 161kV Single Circuit line (97.55km) with Single ACSR 400mm2 conductor and
10mm diameter Gaivanlsed Steel Shieldwire was completed and energized in October
1990. The diversion of the original route to avoid Gold Mining areas did not require
additional towers.
Kumasi - T_c1iman Line
The 161kV Single Circuit line (122.6km) was constructed on lattice steel towers with
twin bundle ACSR 265.74mm2 conductors and with approximately 81km of ACSR
76.9w' n2 conductor suspended on rigid string insulators used as shieldwire and as
20kV single phase transmission line to supply power to villages and towns along the
line. On the remaining 41km, 10mm diameter Galvanised Steel Shieldwire was
Installed. The line was completed and energized in June 1989. In Kumasi town, the
line was diverted from the original route to avoid densely populated areas. This
resulted in the addition of four (4) towers.
Techiman - Sunyani Line
The 161kV Single Circuit line (55km) was constructed on lattice steel towers with
single ACSR 400mm2 conductor and 10mm diameter Galvanised Steel Shieldwires.
The line was completed and energized in June 1989. Minor diversions to the origina
route did not require additional towers.
4.1.2  1.5-kV Submission-Lines
The subtransmission line works were covered in Contract P1-SB/C for the supply of
all materials and construction.
Techiman - WenchiLine
Ihe 34.5kV line (28.76km) on galvanized lattice steel towers with Single AAAC
120mm2 Conductor and 8 mm diameter Galvanised Steel Shieldwire was completed
and energized in July 1990.



- 17 -
Sunyai - Berekum Line
The Sunyani-Berekum line (38.7bn) on Galvanised lattice steel towers with single
AAAC 120mm2 Conductor and 8mm diameter Galvanised Steel Shieldwire was
completed and energized in May 1990.
4.1.3  I6IkV34.5/lk  substations
The substations works were included in the following contracts:
-     Contract P1-2       For supply of transformers and erection supevision
-     Contract P1-3       For supply of circuit breakers and erection supenrision
-     Contract P1-4       For supply of Power Line Carrier Equipment, Erecti
and commissioning
-     Contract Pl-SA      For supply of equipment and materials, erection,
testing and commissioning.
161m34a511n5kV Techiman Substation
Techigni  Substion which provides switching facilities for 161kV tramsmission lines
and step down transformation to 34.5kV and 11.5kV for outgoing snmisson
lnes and Techiman township respectively was completed anid energized in June 1989.
The step down transformation was provided by one (1) three (3) windings
161/34.51Il.5kV, SOHz, 16/20 MVA power transformer and the switchgear were
equipped with six (6) 34.5kV and six (6)11.5kV outgoing feeders. Provision was also
made for a bay to accommodate future switching facilities for the 161kV transmission
line to WA. For voltage control on 161kV side one variable 8.5 - 17MVAR, 50 Hz
reactor was installed.
The 2-story Control Building was constructed with offices on the top floor. In the
cours of detail design and construction several improvements, modifications and
additions were introduced such as 34.5kV and 11.5kV Metalclad Switchgear, in place
of masory type, additional lighting protection, computer aided revenue meteig
system, drainage sysem, slope protection, etc.
Three (3) 161kV transmission lines were connected to Techiman Substation, one (1)
incoming line from Kumasi and tow (2) outgoing lines, one to Sunyani and the other
to Tamale. The outgoing 34.5kV Subtransmission lines were to Wenchi and to
Atebubu through Nkoranza and Ejura. The insulated shieldwires on 161kV line to
Kumasi on the section Techiman - Abofour and on the 161kV line to Tamale on the
section Techiman - Soroi=asi were fed from the 34.5kV Switcbgear.
l6Lky/34|.kV=I .5kV Sunyani Substation
Sunyani Substation which provides step down transformation to 34.SkV and Il.5kV
for outgoing subtransmission lines and Sunyani township respectively was completed
and enegized in June 1989. The step down transformation was provided by two (2)
three (3) windings 161/34.5/11.5kV, 50Hz, 16/20 MVA Power Transformers.
Provision has been made for a bay to accommodate the future switching facilities for



- 18 -
the 161kV line to Mim which is now operating at 34.5kV. 'he 2-story Control
Building was constructed, with offices on the top floor.
In the course of detail design and construction several improvements, modifications
and additions were introduced such as 34.5kV and 11.5kV Metalclad Switchgear in
place of masonry type, additional lightning protection, computer aided revenue
telemetering system, drainage system, slope protection, etc. The incoming 161kV
transmission line terminates in Sunyani.
The two (2) outgoing 34.5kV Subtransmission lines were to Dormaa Ahenkro through
Berekum and to Bechem through Duayaw-Nkwanta. The outgoing 161kV light line to
Mim is at present operating at 34.5kV and serving Goaso as well.
K=Xasi Substation
The extension to Kumasi Substation to accommodate the 161kV transmission line to
the Upper and Northern Regions was completed in June 1989. The extension
consisted of the addition of two (2) 161kV Circuit Breakers, Control Panel and other
associated equipment.
The extension to Akosombo Substation to acco-I nodate the outgoing 161kV
uransmission line to Tafo was completed in r . .>iber 1990. The extension consisted
of the addition of two (2) 161kV Circuit Breakers, Control Panel and other associated
equipment.
Taf Substatin
The extension of Tafo Substation to accommodate the incoming 161kV transmission
line from Akosombo was completed and energized in January 1991. The extension
consisted of the addition of two (2) 161kV Circuit Breakers, Control Panel and other
associated equipment.
Akwatia Substto
The extension of Akwatia Substation to accommodate the 161kV line to New Obuasi
was completed in October 1990. The extension consisted of the addition of two (2)
161kV Circuit Breakers, Control Panel and other associated equipment.
New -ObI Substation
The rearrangement of the New Obuasi Substation to accommodate the 161kV line
from Akwatda and provide more reliable supply to the mining industry was completed
and energized in October 1990. The rearrangement involved a change of the original
Single Bus Scheme to a Ring Bus one and the addition of two (2) Circuit Breakers,
Control Panel and other associated equipment.



* 19 -
Winneba Substation
Ihe two (2) Oil Circuit Breakers, which after rehabilitation were installed at Tafo
Substation, were replaced with two (2) SF6 161kV Circuit Breakers.
4.1.4 Housng
Construction of houses in Sunyani and Techiman was awarded to ABB SAE Sadelmi
as a Variation Order to Contract PI-SB/C.
4.1.5  Additional Woijc - Varaion Orders
The additional works, modifications and changes to the scope of works not included in
the original contracts amounted to US$9.32 million (foreign) and US$2.54 million
(ocal) for the total of US$11.87 million or about 55% of the Phase 1 of the original
contracted price. All these works were ordered by respective Variation Orders
tabulated in Table 2.
Contract Pl-I - 161kV Conductors. Insulator and Line Accessories
The cost of additional Conductors and Line Accessories amounted to US$302,157.
The quantities in the contract were estimated quantities only, based on the length of
the line route but as a result of ground surveys and tower spotting the length of the
lines as well as number and types of towers changed to meet acual requirements.
Contract P1-2 - Transformers
The cost of training was offset by deletion of short circuit test of the grounding
transformers and price reduction for bushings. Tne net red-ction of the contract pdce
was US$379.
Contract P1-3 - 161kV Circuit Breakers
The major additional works were:
-     Supply of two (2) additional Circuit Breakers for Kumasi and Akwatia
Substations
-     Rehabilitation of two (2) bulk oil Circuit Breakers installed at Tafo Subst4tion
-     Supply of additional spare parts.
The total cost of the additional works amounted to US$283,886.
Contract Pl4 - Power Line Carrier Equipment
The major additional works not included in the scope of the original contract were:
Provision of wenty four (24) channels radio link between Kumasi and Accra
as a back up to PLC system.
Provision of additional Voice and Computer Communication PLC links.
Provision of telephone and telefax facilities.



- 20 -
Installation of new Mimic Board in the system Control Centre at Tema to
accommodate new substations and additions to existing substions.
ITe total cost of the additional works amounted to US$2,377,440.
Aptract Pi-SA - 161kV Substations
Ile major additional works not included in the scope of original contract as were as
modifications were:
-     Upgrading of Control Building at Techiman Substation.
-     Provision of drainage system, transformer pits and slope protection.
-     Installation of additional Circuit Breakers at Kumasi Substation.
-     Provision of 161kV, 34.5kV and 11.5kV additional disconnect switches.
-     Provision of 34.5kV and 11.5kV Metalclad Switchgear rather than masonry
type Switchgear.
-     Provision of synchrocheck relays.
-     Provision of Computer Aided Revenue Metering System.
-     Supply of spare parts.
The toad cost of additional works amounted to US$3,098,761 (foreign) and
US$642,315 Oocal) for the total of US$3,741,076.
Contract Pl-SB/C - 161kV Transmission Lines. 34 5kV Subtransmission Lines and
34.5krV/11.5kV Substaions
The major additional works not included in the scope of original contract were:
-     Additional towers and foundations
-     Submersible foundations
-     Provision of Computer Aided Revenue Metering System
-     Provision of 34.5kV and I1.5kV Metalclad Switchgear in place of masonry
type switchgear.
The total cost of additional works amounted to US$2,756,681 (foreign) and
US$397,142 Oocal) for the total of US$3,153,823.
4.2   Phase 2 - Supply to Northern and Upper Regions
(i)    Extension of the 161/34.5/11.5kV substation at Techiman to accommodate the
extension of supply to Northern and Upper Regions, construction of
161t34.51l1.5kV Subsations at Tamale and Bolgatanga.
(it)   Construction of 161kV transmission lines from Techiman to Tamale and from
Tamale to Bolgatanga, 161kV Light transmission lines from Sunyani to Mim
and from Bolgatanga to Bawku, 34.5kV subtransmission line VmU fluat
to Navrongo as well as 34.5kV/1l.5kV substations at Narongo and Bawku.



- 21 -
(ii)  Provision of data Transmission and Telefax facilites in Tamale and
Bolgatanga.
(lv)   Provision of Computer Aided Revenue Telemetering System.
(v)   Various improvements, modifications and additions to the Original Design and
Scope.
4.2.1  161kV Transmission Lines
The Transmission Line works were covered in Contract P2-1 for the supply of
Conductors, Insulators and Line Accessories and Contract P2-SB/C for the supply of
towers and construction of lines.
Techiman - Tamale Line
Tbe 161kV single circuit line (249kn) was constructed on lattice steel towers with
bundle ACSR 265.74mm2 conductors and ACSR 76.9mm2 conductor suspended on
rigid string insulators used as shieldwire and as 20kV single-phase line to supply
towns and villages along the line from Tamale to Soronuasi and as 30kV 3-phase line
to supply towns and villages along the line from Tamale to Buipe. The line was
completed and energized in December 1989. Minor diversions to the original route
did not require additional towers.
Tamale - Bolgatanga Line
Ihe 161kV single circuit line (160km) was constrcted on lattice steel towers with
single ACSR 400mm2 conductors and ACSR 76.9mm2 conductor suspended on rigid
string insulators used as shieldwire and as 20kV single-phase line to supply towns and
villages along the line from Tamale to Diari and as 30kV 3-phase line to supply towns
and villages along the line from Bolgatanga to Nasia. The line was completed and
energized in March 1990. Minor diversions to the original route did not require
additional towers.
4.2.2 161kV Light and 34.5 kV Subtransmission Lines
The 161kV light and 34.5kV subtransmission line works were covered in Conta P2-
SB/C for the supply and constrmction of the lines.
Sunyani - Mim Line
The 161kV light line (60km) was constructed on lattice steel towers with single ACSR
265.74mm2 and 10mm diameter Galvanised Steel Shieldwires to be operated initly
at 34.5kV. The line was completed and energized in December 1990. Minor
diversions to the original route did not require additional towers.
Bolatanga - Bawku Line
The 161kV light line (80km) was constructed on lattice steel towers with single ACSR
265.74mm2 and ACSR 59.6mm2 conductor suspended on Rigid String Insuators and



- 22 -
used as a 20kV single phase line to supply power to villages along the line. 'he line
is being operated at 34.5kV. The line was completed and energized in December
1990. Minor diversions to the original route did not require additional towers.
Bawku - Dapaong Line
The 16lkV light line (63km and to be operated at 34.5kV initally) was constructed on
lattice stel towers with single ACSR 265.74mm2 and ACSR 59.6mme conductor
suspended on Rigid String Insulators and used as 20kV single phase line to supply
power to villages along the line. The line was completed and energized in December
1992.
Bolgatanga - Novrongo Line
lhe 34.5kV line (29km) on Galvanised lattice steel towers with single AAAC 120mm2
conductor and 8mm diameter Glavanised Steel Shieldwire was completed and
energized in August 1990.
4.2.3  161/34.5/11 .kV Substations
The substation works were included in the following contracts
Contract P2-2      for Supply of Transformers and Reactors and Erection
Supervision.
Cotact P2-3        for Supply of Circuit Breakers and Erection Supervision.
Contract P2-4      for Supply of Power Line Carrier Equipment, Erection and
Commissioning.
Contract P2-SA     for Supply of Equipment and Mat s, Erection, Testing and
Commissioning.
161/34.5/11.5kV Tamae Subaion
The Tamale Substation which provides switching facilities for 161kV Transmission
Lines and Step-down transformation to 34.5 kV and 11.5kV for outgoing transmission
lines and the Tamale township respectively was completed and energized in Decmber
1989. The step-down transformation was provided by two (2) three (3) windings
161/34.5/11.5kV, SOHz, 16/20MVA Power Transformers and the Switchgear were
equipped with six (6) 34.5kV and twelve (12) 11.5kV outgoing feeders. Provision
has been made for a bay to accommodate the future switching facilities for the 161kV
line to Yendi now operating at 34.5kV. For voltage control on the 161kV side, two
(2) variable 8.5 - 17 MVAR, 50Hz reactors have been installed.
The 2-story Control Building was constructed, with of 1ces on the top floor. In the
course of detail design and construction, several improvements, modifications and
additions were introduced such as 34.5kV and 11.5kV Metalclad Switchgear in place
of Masonry type, additional lightning protection, Computer Aided Revenue
Telemetering system, drainage system and slope protection etc. Two (2) 161kV
transmission lines were connected to the Tamale Substation were connected from
Techiman and an outgoing line to Bolgatanga.



- 23 -
The outgoing 161kV light line to Yendi is at present being operated at 34.5kV.
Insulated Shieldwires on the 161kV line from Techiman on the section of Tamale -
Buipe and on the 161kV line to Bolgatanga on the section Tamale - Diarl were fed
from the 34.5kV Switchgear.
161/34.5/11.5kV Bolgatanga Substation
The Bolgatanga Substation which provides step-down transformation to 34.5kV and
11.5kV for the outgoing subtransmission line to Navrongo and the Bo}gatanga
township respectively was completed and energized in March 1990. The stepdown
transformation is provided by one (1) three (3) windings 161134.5/11.5kV, 50Hz,
16/20MVA Power transformer and Switchgear equipped with six (6) 34.5kV and six
(6) 11.5kV outgoing feeders.
Provision has been made for a bay to accommodate the future switching facilities for
the 161kV line to Bawku, which now operates at 34.5kV. The 2-story control
Building was constructed with offices on the top floor. In the course of detail design
and construction several improvements, modifications and additions were introduced
such as 34.5kV and 11.5kV Metalclad Switchgear in place of masonry type,
additional lightning protection, computer aided revenue metering system, drainage
system slope protection etc. The Insulated Shieldwires on the 161kV line from
Tamale on the section Bolgatanga - Nasia were fed from the 34.5kV Switchgear.
4.2.4 Additional Works - Variation Orders
The Additional works, modifications and changes to the scope of work not included in
the contracts amounted to US$18.4 million (foreign) and US$4.3 million (ocal) for a
total of US$22.7 million or 77% of the original contracted price. All these works
were covered 'fi respective Variation Orders tabulated in Table 2.
Contract P2-x - 161kV Conductors. Insulators an Line A
The quantities in the contract were estimated values only but as a result of the ground
survey and tower spotting, the length of the lines as well as number and types of
towers changed. Also the conductor size for the shieldwire increased from 59.6mmrn
to 76.9mm2 and additional conductors were purchased. the total cost of the additional
conductors and line accessories amounted to US$649,695.
Contract P2-2 - Transformers and Reactors
Owing to change in the shieldwire scheme from 1-phase to 3-phase scheme,
interposing transformers had to be purchased at a cost of US$102,375.
Contract P2-3 - 16l kV Circuit Breakers
The additional cost of erection supervision and spare parts amounted to US$19,093.



- 24 -
Contract P2-4 - Power Line Carfier Equipment
The major additional works were:
-     Capacitor voltage transformers
-     Provision of Additional Voice and Computer comicaton PLC link.
-     Supply of PLC equipment for 34.5kV existing substations.
-     Supply of PLC equipment for Dapaong Substation in Togo.
The total cost of additional works amounted to US$2,158,462.
Contract P2-SA - 161kV Substation
The major additional works not included in the scope of the original contract as well
as moications were:
-     Provision of drainage system, transformer pits and slope protection.
-     Provision of 161kV and 34.5kV Disconnect Switches.
-     Provision of 34.5kV and 1 l.SkV Metalclad switchgear in place of mauory
type switchgear.
-     Provision of Computed Aided Revenue Metering System.
-     installation of Interposing transformers and associated equipment for 3-phase
shieldwire scheme.
-     Provision of substation lightning protection.
-     Supply of spare parts.
The totl cost of additional works and modifications amounted to US$2,158,462 and
Cedis 397,408 for a total of US$2,555,870.
Contract P2-SB/C - 161kV Transmission Lines. 34.5kV subtrl smission Lin  and
34.5kV Sx
The major additional works not included in the scope of original contract were:
-     Addition of tower, towers modifications, welding of tower bolts.
-     Addition of submersible foundations.
-     Provision of 34.5kV and 11.5kV metalclad switchgear in place of masonry
type switchgear.
-     Construction of 161kV light transmission line from Bawku to Dapaong
('ogo).
-     Distribution networks in Satellite towns.
-     distribution networks in Additional towns
The total cost of additional works amounted to US$12,326,461 (foreign) and Cedis
2,806,513 (local) for a total of US$15,132,974.
4.3 Polect P6 - Distribution Network Expansion and RefurbishnMent
Ithe distribution Expansion and Refurbishment Project (P6 Project) covered Iis
expansion and refurbishment of the existing power supply networks in twelve (12)



- 25 -
towns (not ten (10) as nentioned in the Appraisal Report) and establishment of
subtrnsmission and distribution network giving new supplies to twenty-thr  (23)
other towns. All thirty-five (35) towns are situated in the Brong-Ahafo, Northern and
Upper Regions.
During the Inplementation of the Phases 1 and 2 of the project, 380.5km of
shieldwire on the 161kV transmission lines. This enabled towns along the
transmission line route to be supplied relatively inexpensively by the P6 project.
The shieldwire supply scheme required the energisation of the two (2) shieldwires on
the 161kV transmission line and a third path through the ground. The 30kV
shieldwire feeders can supply conventional three-phase loads. This was made possible
by the installation of interposing transformers, compensating resistor; at the supplying
grid substations (Tamale and Bolgatanga).
The shiedwires form five (5) subtransmission feeders: thr3e (3) 20kV feeders -
Techim_/Akomadan, Techiman/TemalKintampo/Soronuasi and Tamalel
Savelugu/Pong Tamale/Diari, and two (2) 30kV feeders - Tamale/YapeVBuipe and
BolgatangalPwalugulWulugu/Walewale/Nasia. These emanate from Techiman,
Tamale and Bolgatanga.
4.3.1  Proect P6A - Supply and Erection of Distribution New
i)    Rehabilitation/Reinforcement and the expansion of existing medium and low
voltage distribution networks in nine (9) towns in the Brong-Ahafo, Northern
and Upper Regions.
(i)   Construction of medium and low voltage distribution networks in twelve (12)
towns/villages in the Brong-Ahafo, Northern and Upper Regions.
(Hii)   Connection of eleven thousand, six hundred and fiftyone (11,651) single-
phase consumers and ninety-six (96) three-phase consumers to the system.
(iv)   Various improvements, modifications and additions to the original design and
scope.
The construction of the distribution networks was undertaken to improve the quality of
electricity supply in the following towns: Sunyani, Berekum, Mini, Techiman,
Wenchi, Tamale, Bolgatanga, Navrongo and Bawku. New distribution networks were
constucted in the following towns which were supplied from the use of insulated
shieldwires as medium voltage lines: Kintampo-Jema, Soronuasi, Savelugu, Pong
Tamale, Diar, Nasia, Walewale, Wulugu, Pwalugu, Buipe and Yapei. These
involved the construction of one hundred and four (104) km of 11.5kV, sixteea (16)
km of 20kV, eighteen (18) km of 30kV and three (3) km of 34.5kV medium voltapg
lines. The total length of low voltage lines was five hundred and six (506) km.
The number of distribution transformers erected was one hundred and eighty-five
(185) with a total instlled capacity of 24,820KVA.



- 26 -
4.3.2 Project P6B - Supply of Distribution Network Equipment
Tbis Involved the supply of transformers, switchgear and distribution boards. The
type of transformers supplied were in two categories: ground mounted type which
range from 200KVA to 800KVA and pole mounted type which range from 25KVA to
200KVA. There were nineteen (19) units of the first category and one hundred and
five (105) units of the second category.
Three (3) units of 11.5kV switcbgear were supplied with six (6) units of 11.5kV
ringmain and switch fuses. Eight (8) low voltage distribution boards and ten (10)
units of package substations complete with transformers ringmains and distribution
boards were also supplied.
4.3.3 Project P6C - Supply and Erection of Distribution Network$
OI)    Construction of medium and low voltage distribution networks in twelve (12)
towns/villages in the Brong-Ahafo, Northern and Upper Regions.
(ii)  Installation of a Diesel Generating Station and the construction of medium
voltage and low voltage distribution networks in Salaga.
(lii)   Connection of five thousands, three hundred and fifty-eight (5,358) single-
phase consumers and ninety-five (95) three-phase consumers to the system.
(iv)   Various improvements, modifications and additions to the original design and
scope.
New networks were constructed in the following towns which were supplied from
conventional three-phase circuits: Ejura, Amanten, Atebubu, Bechem, Dormaa,
Ahenlao, Goaso, Nkoranza, Yendi, Chichuliga, Sandema and Tono. Akomadan was
the only town supplied from the use of Insulated shieldwire as a medium voltage line
under the contract.
These involved the construction of eleven (11) km of 11.5kV wood pole lines, five (5)
km of 20kV wood pole lines, two hundred and forty-eight (248) km of 34.5kV lattice
steel tower lines, one hundred and eight (108) km of 34.5kV wood pole lines and one
hundred (100) km of 161kV lattice steel tower line. The total length of low voltage
lines was two hundred and forty-three (243) kn. The number of distribution
transformers erected was seventy-nine (79) with a total installed capacity of
7,26SkVA.
4.3.4 1roect P6D - Supply of Distribution Network Equipment
This involved the supply of low voltage distribution boards and service cut-outs. The
number of low voltage distribution boards that were supplied was two (2). There
were two (2) types of service cut-outs supplied single-phase types and three-phase
types. There were seven thousand, one hundred and fy units of the single-phase
type and two hundred and thirty (230) units of the three-phase type.



- 27-
s. rTeLQeSt cs
Project Costs are Tabulated in Annex 3.
5.1   Project Cost as contracted
The project cost as contrced, including additions, changes and modifications
conveated to US$ was as follows:
Tmsnit by S~the  IE/Di  oooamlnitiuio  ewrsi Adtoa n
Satelt onneentytcmltddh aha ott  aecvr h  eitt
en1 d Pof                74p29il2 1993,4 ony7Tecotdffrnc24wenth2otrcetpoec osn
thet ?0a pr,oject0 cost,~ was due to.
-htf~ Cureny 3ch*nert  aitosa h  }eo  amn
-  Esctation on4R97 locat1                                l0monw  22u ntful)
-~ ~ ~ ~~~3.9 Addition an434fiaisasgve0boe



- 28 -
6.    Assessnent gf the Poject and Experienge Gained
The objective of the project as defined in the Staff Appraisal Report of Januay 8,
1987, has been fidly met. The project was well executed under the administration and
supervision of engineers, professionals of other disciplines and technicians from the
Volta River Authority, with Consultancy Services being provided by Acres
International Limited, Niagara Falls, Canada and Mlenz and McLellan, Newcasdte-
Upon-Tyne, England. The project was implemented within the scheduled time frme.
The project personnel accepted the challenges posed by the enormity and complexity
of the project, even though this was the fist time In the history of the World Bank
that a project of this nature was being managed in-house. The project implementation
team went through thick and thin to accomplish the set goals.
The experience gained in the execution of the project included:
(i) Quality Control and Assurance
(i) Cost Control and Financial Management
Qiii) Project Control and Scheduling
The VRA personnel gained a lot of experience in planning, design and construction of
transmission lines and distribution networks and project management by working with
the foreign consultants. This experience was gained through project meetings, one-to-
one discussions and group discussions. The VRA personnel were thus able to
continue the implementation from where the foreign consultants left off, and brought
the project to a successful completion.
It should be noted that the VRA is currently embarking on the implementation of
161kV transmission line project from Techiman to Wa a distance of about 320nm.
From the planning stage through to tender evaluation stage were all carried out by
Enginering. Supervision including Contract Administration would be the sole
responsibility of the VRA. Funding of the project is by Caisse Francaise de
Development.
The project covered an extensive area from the southern part to the northern part of
ihe country. This necessitated the setting up of a field office in Kumasi to see to the
constuction activities and a project office in Akuse to see to the Contracts
Administration and Engineering of the project.
There were a variety of customers made up of single-phase consumers and three-phase
consumers scatred over an expansive area. Apart from the VRA/NED, there were
major customers such as Mim Tunber Company and Scanstyle Ltd. at Mimn. The
number of funding agencies were eight (8) and loans and grants given were in varous
currencies such as Pounds Sterling, ECU, US$, Yen, Unit of Account, SDR, Kuwait
Dinars, Saudi Riyals, etc.
The above facts made the disbursements and reporting very complex as Certificates
for Payment from Contractors and Suppliers had to be converted from Currencies of
the Funding Agencies at the prevailing exchange rates when Certificates were
submitted. The novelty of using the Insulated Shieldwire for the provision of



- 29 -
electricity to villages along the line routes made the Engies and Techniciams gain a
most unique experience. Hitherto the provision of electricity to the villages by the
conventional method of supply from transformer stations and building separate
medium voltage lines had been found to be uneconomical.
The Yumasi-Techiman-Tamale-Bolgatanga 161kV line which is approximately SlOkm
radial line gave rise to switching problems as the load at the receiving end was small
and thereby called for the introduction of Reactors into the Ghana) Power System for
the first time. The problem resulted from the fact that for a lightly loaded line, the
charging capacity of the line gave rise to higher receiving end voltage. Without any
load at the receiving end and with the transformers not in service, a transmission
voltage of 161kV would give rise to a receiving end voltage of about 200kV. There
were two (2) ways of offsetting this problem either (i) by the injection of another
generation into the system from the receiving end or (ii) by employing Inductive
Reactance. The Inductive Reactance option was chosen and installed. It was less
expensive and took much shorter time to implement. The type of Reactor employed
had tappings that permitted the applied inductive reactance to be varied between
8.5MVAR and 17MVAR. The injection of the inductive reactance into the system
offsets the capacitive reactance on the long lightly loaded line, thus maintaining the
voltage level. The total installed reactive inductance was 68MVAR. The use of the
Reactors provided an insight into the construction and operation of long lightly loaded
line without any technical problems.
tihe VRA as an electric utility corporation was established in 1961 by an Act of
Parliament (Act 46) with the duties of generating electricity and supplying through a
tnsmission system to bulk customers like VALCO, ECG and the Mines. Owing to
the implementation of the project, the VRA Act of 1961 had to be modified by the
Government of Ghana. This gave the VRA authority to take over from the activities
including distribution of electricity in the project area. The VRA therefore established
the Northern Electricity Department to oversee its new role. Ihis was to ensure that
the project was successful and was completed on schedule. The establishment of the
NED was also to considerable strengthen the distribution arrangements in the project
area. Plant and machinery were provided for under the IDA loan to the tune of
US$3,782,034.00 (SDR2,846,310.00). Mobile Plant and Machinery were provided
for under the Japanese Exim Bank Supplier's credit facility to the tune of
US$2,120,810.20 (Yen 277,054,760). Consulting Services were provided by
personnel from Ontario Hydro, Canada during the setting up of the Department.
Ihe project has resulted in the establishment of a good foundation for a sound
distribution system north of Kumasi, which can be expanded and reinforced by VRA's
Northern Electricity Department to match the load demand as it grows in future.



- 30 -
Nam= RI  ENISION IROJEC
PROJECI COMPLTON REPORT
Part m. Si         nfmain
1. Related Bank Loam andler Credits in the  er     e
Project Title/                                             Year of
.Credit Ngo                       Putp SablsI
Volta River Autoity (La.     Development of the power sector.     161        Complet
0310-O)
Power Distribution (Cr. 0118 -   Expansion of ECG's distribution  1968       Complded
G)                           system.
Volta River Autumrity Electic   Development of the power sectr.   1969       Completed
Power (Lu. 0618)
Second Power Distrbution     Expansion of ECO's distibution       1971       Completed
(Cr 0256-OH)                 system.
Volta River Authority Kpong    To add 160 MW to the system's      1977       Completed
Hydroelectrc (Lu 1380-GH)    instaled capacity; extend the ework
to tie in Kpong with the VRA grid;
extend power lines to the southwest;
reinforce and expand capacity between
Toma and Accra; provide actitional
recive power compensaion for th
system's 161 kV grid; and ssis in the
resettlement of 7,000 residents of the
reservoir area.
Electcity Corpration of      Development of the distribution system    1977  Completed
Ghas (Lu. 1381-OH)           thrugh the provision of new
subtnsHission lines, new suibstations,
expansion of existing substations, and
improvement of the distribution
network, particularly in Tema
rehabilitation of the existing
transmission and distrbution system;
replacement and expansion of the
vehicle fleet; engineering svices for
ECOG; and a power sector study
focussing on a tariff strctur to
reflect the margia cost of power.



- 31 -
Prqject ritid                                            Year of
C-edit No.                        Pr Ao g             StANw
Electricity Corpoation of    To help establish ECO as a          1989       ongoing.
Ghana Power V Project (Cr.    commerially-oriented entity, capable
2061-G}                      of delivering a reliable and economic
supply of electricity to its customera
and also to assist the Govement to
develop a comprehensive sector
development stategy and long-term
electAification program.
Volta River Authority Power    To main n the high standard of    1990       Ongoing
VI Project (Cr. 2109-GH)     reliability of the country's electricity
supply; meet projected domestic and
export demand through the year 1995
including an inteconnectdon with
Burkina Faso; and implement its
ongoing progrnm of institutional
development.
VRA/ECG National             To provide electricity frovm the    1993       Ongoig
Electrification Project      national power grid to sm- i f an
(Cr. 2467-H)                 centers, district capitals an. -al
areas through a systmatic
electrification program.
2.     Frab iII12Mn0abl
'Sd.    .v  -          ..
CrtCIOsingDit~ '                                              046318/9 6
Cighit CoI mplet.                                             06/A0/92 .
Comments
lhe ten months elapsed between Appraisal and Board Approval were many spent in arraging for the
institutional chges necessary to have VRA take over the distribution in the Northern Regions fom ECO.



- 32 -
3* baqlisbimsmen#0
.'.......... ..? *.
_            - ......... ......  T.b1e  ANE{   AUW..  $                 S... ....
S-.*S2;.'l.j,As.TI';.,;,:>z  A&VL(1A.t&
~~~~~~~~~-                                                                     x..... ..:
:~~~A o i                                        2SY: O              '. -~.                       N. * 
.i:.l,: :. :".~~~~iim..at::''  :  ..  o ".'':....':;j.-..  .-



- 33 -
4.    Irt"t Ca  and Fnacing
A.  Is
A=g
(As of Decenmbe r989,
~~ **w...,,,',:,:'-    .    . .,'    ,'" . .:  .y   :



34 -
S.status of Covenants
6ectku> 207   & 2.08         Repay interest and principal                 Not -yet due
Complied
:.*a $.02(a)                 Hire consultants acceptable to Bank          Complied
.teou  .2 .)          Hire oonsutants to set up Gas Unit          Complied
,{ct*on 3.02(6),(t) and .       tablish a core group for project          Complied
.i  :execution
Sectt~n 3.01(a)       iFurish specifications and documents         Complied
M'    ,: .  ')Maintain records                                             Co',,.ed
WOU 3.,0S(b)) aso -    Afford access to sites and records                  Complied
,,.,,,X ,.N,,i .', ,c -.t
~4~3 05(8)          Submit iis~i report                          Ctle
tion 4.01                 Audited statements within six mouths         Satisfactory
9Sotl- 402                    from FY 1987, VRA to earm at least 8          omied except
rate of tern on average revalued net        iii .1992 when the
f.-ed ass  in operation.                    ratea f return was
.a ... ... .         t ? 5         . :  :d
so..  WVic coerageminimum I1.511nme       aaWco
4iS ;:.-           -          .: : :.:Ioss  in projectarea to be covered by  CompLed see 4.02
:RAup to 1990.                        .       ove
"~a 4S       Sttlemen( -of iinvoices "by VRAtoi a  et
Clearing House
;                                                - -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~agrteent.-
, --t ffi 5...... ...                                                           ... ...:...:.?   B   -  .   -    :    : .  .   ...  .  :
.-, -{.l) tog;'      
: *Ut-I_VAiev.,.
zj~~~~~~~' -NN~~a~ U41W#
XX,~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Ivsinn  rga



- 35 -
6.    Use of Bank BSesur
A.      Staff Inpts
Through Appraisl                                                      32.9                 1980 to 1986
Through Board Approval                                                62.0                    1986-987
Board Approval through Effectiveness                                  00.0                           1987
Supervision                                                           32.8                 1987 to 1992
Total                                                       127.7                  1980 to 1992
B.
Idnficaiion                          03186           1          1            OPE            N.A.         NA.
AhMai" lEough Board
041A6           S        20                2           N.A.         N.A.
OPE,ENG,FIN,
BCo
Pot Appaisa                          06/86           2          1          2 BCO            N.A          N.A.
Pos Appral                           0716            2          4       OPE,ECO             N.A.         N.A.
Pot Approsa                          12186           1          1            OPE            NA            NA
Board Anoroval Throwb
Supevis  1                           0Sf87           2          S       OPE, ECO               1         N A.
Supetvido2                           07187           2          S       OPE, ECO               I         NA
Supenwisl=3                          11187           2         20     ECO, CONS                I    ECO Dek
Sapavs4                              11f88           2         is       OPE, ENO               1         N.
SupervisionS                         07t89           1          3            OPE             N.A
Sup e,v8lo6                          12/89           1         12             FIN           N.A.
Supervsion7                          07190           1          S            ENG            N.A.         NA.
Supenbvisoa                          07191           3          S      ENG, OPE,               I         N.A.
Supervision9                         02/92           1          1             FIN           N.A.
ENO
gI Speclilatlon Acronymm: OPE-Opealo  Oficer, ENO-Evlor, ECO-Economit, FIN-Fnanoil Analys, CONS- Coauit.
h/ Raing ray:          I-Poject Sau Satistory
g/ Problem:            T,e only anm persia  problem  as tie unpaid debt of ECO.



NORI=IIN )  EO
SUAMIBR OF AAB OF MM=
SOURCE: VRA
,~_____                                                                    _   _      .v . --._  .           o.  
0rw Ca&t fAce                     .ghm ae O&  om d
.____                               _____                    m X    La-'  _,                   L               In___ 
Pl-I                  DM6,709,706.00              C 0.00   1,789      154       $3,750,028.54         $0.00   3.750,028.54
P1-2                  DMI,419,726.00       C 1,620000.00   1,789      154         793,479.33       10,519.48    803,998.8t
P1-3                    $ 888,629.00              C 0.00    1,000     154         888,629.0            0.00     888,629.00
Pl-4                  SPt2,968,651.00      C 4,soo,000.00    1,503    1S8        1,975,468.14      28,481.01   2,003,949.15
PI-SA                 SPF7,194,711.00      C96,2S4,011.00   1,150     154        4,763,926.50     625,026.05   5,388,952.54
P1-SB/C                 $2,833,953.00       C       0.00    1,000     154        2,833,953.00          0.00   2,833,953.00
P1-SB/C               DM9,842,347.00      C204,243,760.00   1,789     IS4        S,500,849.39   1,326,258.18   6,827,10757
Sub-Total                                                              $20,506,333.90    $1,990,284.712 $22,496,618.62
P2-1                  C$ 9,390,412.00             C 0.00    1,331     154       $7,054,394.57    S    0.00  $7,054,394.s7
P2-2                 DM 3,491,883.00       C 3,078,000.00    1,789    154        1,951,599.80      19,987.01   1,971,586.82
P2-3                  US$ 506,716.00              CO.00   1,000       154         506,716.00           0.00    506,716.00
P24                  SPr 2,627,095.00      C 3,900,000.00    1,503    158        1,748,182.08      24,683.54   1,772,865.62
P2-SA                SFr 6,249,296.00     C 96,922,393.00   1,510     154        4,137,926.71     629,366.19   4,767,292.90
P2-5BIC             DM 21,306,675.00     C 221,944,816.00   1,789     154       11,908,217.64    1,441,200.10  13,349,417.7S
Sub-Total _ _                                                                  $27,301,036.81   2,IIS,236.85  29,422,273.66
|Gand otal PI & P2 __                _       _       _   _$47,813,370.71    $4,105,521.57 $51,918,892.28
P6A                 DM 12,377,506.00     C 128,425,639.00     1,797   188      $ 6,889,267.17    $683,115.10  $7,57,382.27
KB                YEN 192,546,470.00                         129.66   188        1,485,065.86          0.00   1,485,065.86
P6C                 DM 18,654,161.60     C 174,930,703.00     1,797    188      10,32826.97       930,482.46  11,313,309.43
P6D                    KD 14S,946.80                         0.2933    188        497,602.45           0.00     497,602.45
_______________  __________________    __________________  _________  ________  $19,254,762.45  $1,613,597.56  $20,868,360.02
| Gnd Total P1, P2 & P6                                         ,-             $67,068,133.16    $5,719,119.13 $72,787,25230



nmmAt P    A=WASD to4 rucr AW           a 0
eotcm VSA
oMtoNA  c4WnMwr re"                                                              YANIAlMNOUSU                                                             lOAL
Omn    W         own     AM a       S                  ftwosmogki             PUwma 1A?4                fnwawdSMP Ak              am wsnot             Iwa 11011m             faonmE 11*            dm~ dl1 On
C""tfc-ftw               VW                            vS                                               VW S                     VS                   ",vl        aW go
"-I8              wme&.1010                        SWINS                                            OM $OA"                      Mika4535.  SIOJUM111amD @14.15.12                                    14s.i*,5441.
"'?          a~me 1,4091.Mn                      M3.161                         616.1WN3                                      0295)                     #410)       as 1,439A.fl                   13.311             $7S.1
934              SrLA$                               .93IMPh                      )%54.5           WI122,3)                     .271.419                  Z26.ma16       Mf4JI"55                      4A)"XWMIGPJ
toISA             S  .9.0*4.7^1.0&2                                                4"I'M5          SVC 4,619A34                 X*km.163.35                 964m.2      Sr1543. 11j"051.3                                4.iU."l
U.UIOTAL               )4.UflP        1355.~~~s 44"131.1                                                           woo405    As.5416          4.u          c __________   1535351                            06.13.
913              DuCs 9..41343                     $ 7*4.9u145o                       1,3           go $1301".ft                16495.1                  14113.4U       Cm 3.15110.1                 93.M4114            %3"O.1
Mn                   $mesIrn                           3.15si  ft16.2*m'h                              a *.M."s                   395)16                    39513           S S2500 25                  111.31             515555
P136     I       N. 1*417.14                         3.13.803                      391,252         5. I20"J4 38                 .83a3                     U13.0959,      S# 5*3.241.                   15.644            41.14
VISA             SF*45.310549                       43319339                       4293114         S.4.066A.M7                 1.124.4571                               we w"Jua5l'303.0                                 tolsm3 ll
ft,-W5"C                                            Om                             a             1.12,133)   I 1.7                     S  11.2740                      135.27.1      313)                            f117.11A
P2.MC           o"21554."4211 _____                 11830"743                     3131.20         5512"1..16745   M36.101398                6)M"                        PM.1  1  2441?.157.9  24M.38.6                   3.ISUI6
11,31.3130       ______________    ~~~~~~~~~ 1   7        ~     ~     7 $   W  3 6I9              '~~~anas                      9
Om 0~ a*1*                      Fw    5 Ad..                  Ad. a DIM"   $"4.9J       am tw* ~31w           lm   553114. ass9 %Mt"                           amE =AM" ng 5531,1d                         1ama *9
______________           V S_________1AN              4VS                 C u m .q5 C a                (5                        VS                                          VS                     VS     A  . 
PEKA            33321.6                             15.011101,4P3O .42 @.33.1                                                  '331,939                 SI4%.8655       W   4355133)59939
to<  M"                                  No I,"  ,#"_
t6t  M  doM        .                 I        gm      .5 " 1.15                                          VO                           OS 75    V
IQ I'   me" $.M> 0   I'm    vm A x"  ,^^ 
60tV              lC 34945*   _______  IaS 10,054                                    53.8*                kilO                       095n 05                               6044*41,14                               _______ 
I    #0  sh 1.5m~                                                                                                 T                                                                                                            -.
*       gmSa                                   j 41     .4                       9 .9 1n.ff) IA U D                                         tJ/_                                  _                     #1 7,
n."e >_zzzLzn,n _                                                                                                                                         _                                            __     _XI U," 4,D n
Om ..01           .              _0   ~ 
we a -W                      Tw Oml   old4
S    3*000              S   8*~~~Il   Va 30um
atr_ }wSX I.SO W,t                 t^$ e3  IU  43* 
v.*,aJl        S  8* 0          , ,*4 ,6*o,sls$7s cuo77Z1n
bX~~~~~~ DUh nwI.,o xlSu33495l,n". XS X#
ns ~      ~~~ ~~~               Inso  5       n.                             nl853ht"wn7                                                                          sSID£_
FU   w 1,714   8,^187.     17ZDI           5t b7 U                           >                   Su^X            , 7Vn                         S7                7J# I



a00w I MA
01119   VSe 16               tIral    WI  IN
mS~l,                      - £ nsupq
vr  t> "l X #e s~~1.   t
$WI$0    WI 
awcnl An _
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U    WI  S   _                                                                                      .I    11   WI  _   sri   
ax~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e                                                               _w    _ _____*w _I J  
Y   tn   >g^^   e         eJe                 am*^u               Wswast          ee                    TDbGS                    eb tSX         :WI  SWeIb   U
wuwswa               a                at  o wl e t so 
£WIWI        N6I~I*1,I  OLSrWI                                      iflW_ $?V  w tsWa  Wt t4 zI  1 S    w?_19         - t                               ZFW    "
T_:1"  ^-__                      L-                                             L^ -" -  ____ _ T                                                                        -_
we tw                   e7e        en            we        *7e                 en       mAu               e                    waa  se                                      weta
It-SIft        W.aImtfI                          II,g1It0                                #I'IU           Ewes                  *ruw6                    USa'OAS             3
en Wn                               e MO  MO     a"                                                                            We f                                          am
*    l11WW         0rtS o VW             wlwIt        04645w              10#0IWL            4tOwaI           K1M'IK                WISWI"                   640wtIK              a"
we                ew                             Me r we                                                 we             a       "                       we                   as
4wgwsu                       "'U0aWo51 -             Ir40I oI            *0o 5 4 40011"I           tfINVes                350611:1                W4WIMK              VW
go                      wocivot   w                         weat                           U v  we       we w,e                                         we  1}                m
91S                      tit'US     74V4aL4MXt^    Xttt                                                             bYMI                      tt 
waVeJ          watL~S              a uiuru,      u-Myt eriw           tWaaa #11(4                                                                       63t' t te 
WO            II1                  we                      so wO eU'a"t U                tmr
wI enwO                            64           6 en tre e70                                                                  60o  t                      U,
tfetn         04041                0353 W       00                   We tW el"U.a *en,01110,06t                                                                              tUd
we         w~~~~~we            MAmu                    we                            MO              we                    MO                       QDea
.ew.(s           aWUU    £111191               *4511W1                   9110454    9,14(51    5.09,0',        UWfWJ                     wiozaw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MO  a  11
"Won41                   UaWao'( elWtVa                    £09.1m              oSIt 'WI  e.Wsg*14tt                                           U35IWS   W3a(0(IE1
weJ                       e        we     n     o                    ere                          e     0                                               weJeee
1835AS         wsu(                w35Et3        US0'4                        talirw    WW)1u1ae         4811(0                615411                   W WMVl's          *Wi
"VW           eUV. .w39                          (W,"  c_t4I1                           463511 wJNs w,w                                                 Woo%" ,  a
coo           we                   we            we                  w                  we               an                    we                       W*                   s
main         peas's               WOWI          we                  we w*                                 61 -eg  _  . _. _,                   _ __           .  ,
-iv' T --t a,!  aw~   ,.     _ a~              E    _ .,         _    va  _e             .y*u 1p.__.    . g _s e._,              .         .1      _     _ . _ ,
o o m m i r p - W  ? Ao A p                                    5 5W W2 3 9 90aw o -   M O U V I U V A   W9               3991 11 F O "  t s0 UW1 3P 1  w . 4 0 h 1 0W M I P
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



NORTIIERN CRID) FX_RNSION
SU4MARY OF PROJ:T COST
SOURt VRA
44189 T.y .4 Lip. C4....44.            wa,gas             LOC~AL             TOTAL            pFmtOjK              WACAL              rOYAL           ?EIEFIdN          fOC'AL           WUTA          880632G          L1CAL           TOTAL
RM I                                    1.1.n2nn            174.07114         1.495.3mo0e       6.51,65.692          ts.254 19         6.$65.951is     2.21,14001        164.16549     2,292.70s 55     1.421,1t629      150.140 n    2,746.31106
r_  1.91.30976     59.55765          2.04.S1711        2,449.,161           124.13120         2.174.13411     S.S67,10659       471.170es     6,031.nl at      1,022.o 451      49.n 10      s.sss.,m.54
1.212.s9s.49       163.21919         1.191.62744       9,023.413 0          409,1.M           9.411,215.ss    7.09.2419O        %S5.741 1Ss   I.1o.9u49        7.300.71300s     ati21e so    &.32.75O9
5                                   996.751 26                            909.71126        2.993.68102                           2.99.63.482       251,094 9                       21.944 39          7j.0so                        7.06600
k "_ 2                                  3*2.311.0260 e.3877,02140 c                              .02,.i6s 206                          1.2.50126         96 .s) 54                       91.15214        431.20007                     4n2.20907
2.450,45.26         143.2n.37        2.190.112263      0.0"801..00                0*b          0.s.eS14         356.096 S1s          000  OC4.001                41920691            000       419.204,96
mt SAllY    W
m                                              ooo ao0 co                    ,000    00n 2.501.M.3                   537.2135s         2.261.05 9      s,712,4sl 00      314.102       6.0S5.67 16      3.302.19606      046.44420    3.70..611 
_2                                             000               0.00                000        5.19.850241           59.79144         S.012.16526    s,140.7$121       261.613 72     s.604.58s9       2.4s9.si315      5151.41.44    2.841.0332
s_* I                     2.400.34129         14.2177 1          .126.8ne63       3.408.42660          517.02329         1,40.09959     1.0513,2020        c02.7s474   15.01,1763         6.2S1.13234      291.92S14    6."41.6s 5l
s_.
000               000                0oo 0oc                               000                0.o0 o    .999.9s01         35.0763,    2,02891]43         1.001.62306?      11.4 14    5.,47.46 70
e000              bo                 000                0oo                000                000      2.e1e.91740         6.40046      2,in S4.   ss     69,294t6        S1.62333      141.953 IS
10061                            0 00              000                 Go0oo             000 0,00                              000      4.541.4217          34.s46S4     4,401.2606       3.736.916 2      837.41530    5.66  "4fl/
5200i(?9A a                                    0ooe             0o0                  000               000           22,37141           228.313.46      05,.7100         333,27909     1.n2,12.s90      1.7,sss.t        274.112443    66 59.
E s(i5  rt           * (RC&                                                                                                                            5,212,1642        11.25064       3.974.2120       5,504049        45405,taU 2.21,..2)
s_0ww                            000c               0.00               0oo               0.00          2231.71 43         22t8s.141      2.73,512 02     5.01.437n        ,27.132371      7135.6762        009t.16  o    40.479.4
5*5                                       315.7103s          41,957 95         424,69s37          s12,384 so         21S,10f9           741.39540       350,.213.03      MASSIS         4 4s0,9n449      59.2n90e        255.14244     40.71di44
8                                        ,014,6341 11        30.05536         5.044.919 24        07t.2n10           tcosto4s49        .419.21.5        302,2.1        ?.X9.51         2.,33.91996       55,47301       s10,31 92       eos.tto99
S3ssml.                                                                                                                                                 239,0n 17         If.650        2110.2467         76.,2696        71.08105      541,920 0
1.<913.440          76.51241         3.449.6?265       1.211515.49         5.011."7100        2.2471.41        95.11,741306   2.303.21107     1.3.0 2            ss.79           6151.301   1,241.3u1t2
e-
mm                                                                                   oo 00Oo                                                   00        54,616.74       21.549           36.08733       466A68179        11.306463     9142
S_26_                                                                               ooo)                                                    0ooe 00t0 16                  02.62 31        21.n06ss         2.84530        2.3S1s0        0.114
_.60"               Go5               0.00                009               000                000                0.00        St1f2192        525.91200      250,506.          49,13121         .SS11121    oe.4
T    5e_c_c.a                 9.414.0345             ,.            5942.121e         10.304.04 .00.09047   5.15.4020       2.315.49447    26,504.09.I       4.91,2.2363    35.4206.123.9    26.o7ss.02.52    2.B41.40 t    26       .
PAN 8m60in                                  0.00                000                             43s6s22.72         4n.s322n                       4.1.01 .75      6.101.1 12                     5116.12S,96 4$5    11.54.34.9
Tl     C     cft         9.043400of          35111034.73      80.0a2.5:4        20.304,0te47        2.30,92692         n2.114.01719    26,100.06097     6 .11.43       3I.2M7.450to     24.091.s2is    7,t07.m2so  n1o2.0.20.
go        is                                                    It Doe~            I2AJ.              St z D    2OAem
USS     F OMCI14 1.550                 3                  sn1                                                     5271               527_
Un    *A            I gos             1.m S"             Ic                 1.1                1.ss                1.2 sn               m e|ss
u.sl. *18 4        111 24            13.10              5171              III                     6 t434.SI        .2n s               m 2
31815 *d              516 tS            215                30                 341                Ise                 33                40
tlSY            5219              5)0.9              5403              53300o              24.50             02050                362
UotI        t     .11,             3.101              5 602              5910                5356               5.334              I s t
U515   go2 0263                                                            02s               0e4                0.1103             0 30o4



- 40 -               
-  - -                                   --                     ____
t  18   8        e8   E e       : j : | e    8 $       *  :a  _    S 
I $3 Se3  e e3 e   E                                           8 3          
_ _               i   Is8       81 ,  2l 5  !   -        8            5
_       8 3          38  N    I 2w    i  NR e    2 x S3   33  4 $X  
0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~c  8                   ;8 "   8,$ |tR 8wgH ;s agti :    
U  R    8    8  8     g a8  8    8 3X   S                t 81   S, 8  g
11 fi001 0      8 # :a2i  4 4EEi§        0Q|| t8             3
]~~~~~~  -- E22iI I



