Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Ci oxS1- OY
Report No. P-4370-CH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 5.2 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CHANA
FOR A
NORTHERN GRID EXTENSION PROJECT
January 15, 1987
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRE1NCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   Calendar 1985   From Jonunry 1986   From September 1986
US$1          054.054             ?90.O                 0128-154
Cedi (¢) 1      US$0.0lA5          US$0.01t           1IS$O.0073-O.0066
Second Window
Auction Rate
FISCAL. YEAR
Januarv 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB        =    African Development Bank
AKOTEX      =    Akosombo Textile Company
CDC         =    Commonwealth Development Corporation
CEB         =    Communaute Electrique du Benin
CIDA        =    Canadian International Development Agency
ECG         =    Electricity Corporation of Ghana
EECI        =    Energie Electrique de la Cote d'lvoire
EIB         =    European Investment Bank
ESB               Electricity Supply Board of Ireland
COG         =    Government of Chana
MFP         =    Ministry of Fuel and Power
NEB               N National Energy Board
PNDC        =    Provisional National Defence Council
SONABEL          Societe Nationale d'Electricite du Burkina
UNDP        =    United Nations Development Programme
VALCO       =    Volta Aluminum Company
VRA         =    Volta River Authority



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GHANA
NORTHERN GRID EXTENSION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Republic of Ghana
Beneficiary:   Volta River Authority
Amount:        SDR 5.2 million (US$6.3 million equivalent)
Terms:         Standard
Relending      The Government would relend the full amount of the
Terms:         Credit to VRA at the prevailing (currently 8.23Z) Bank
interest rate for 20 years including 5 years of grace.
VRA would bear the foreign exchange risk on the Credit.
Project        The proposed project would assist Ghana to provide a
Description:   reliable anti economical electricity supply by reinforcing
the southern grid, by extending the transmission system
to economically important northern areas of the country,
and by reinforcing and expanding distribution facilities
in these areas. The proposed project consists of:
(a) construction of 161 km of single circuit 161 kV
transmission lines on the southern grid (Akosombo-Tafo
and Akwatia-New Obuasi) to alleviate load shedding,
increase transfer capabilities to Cote d'Ivoire and
reduce system losses;
(b) construction of 581 km of single-circuit 161 kV
transmission lines (Kumasi-Techiman-Tamale-
Bolgatanga, with a spur to Sunyani) to extend
the grid to the north;
(c) construction of 161 kV substations at Sunyani,
Techiman, Tamale and Bolgatanga with provision at the
Bolgatanga substation for a possible future line to
Ouagadougou in Burkina Faso;
(d) construction of 60 km of single-circuit 161 kV light
transmission lines (Sunyani-Mim) for initial 33 kV
operation;
(e) construction of 33 kV subtransmission lines and
s.epdown substations to connect presently isolated
diesel systems to the grid;
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(f) installation of distribution facilities and associated
equipment to expand supply in 10 towns; and
(g) associated engineering and project managemoent services.
Project        The main benefit of the project would be the Tirovisioa of
Benefits       reliable power supply at lower cost to ten agricultural and
and Risks:     commercial centers in the northern areas, thus significantly
reducing present infrastructural bottlenecks ig growth.
There are no unusual risks associated with the proposed
project.
Estimated Cost: -                                          (US$ million)
Local     Foreign      Total
161 kV Transmission Lines                      7.3       38.4        45.7
161 kV Substations                             1.0        16.4       17.4
33 and 11 kV Subtransmission                   1.9        10.7       12.6
iL kV and LV Distribution                      2.9        9.5        12.4
Engineering, Management Services and
Training                                    4.2         2.8        7.0
Housing                                        3.0         2.1        5.1
Total Base Cost       20.3       79.9       100.2
Contingencies: Physical                        2.1        8.0        10.1
Price                          6.6        13.6       20.2
Total Project Cost       29.0       101.5      130.5
Interest during Construction                    -         17.4       17.4
Total Financing Required       29.0       118.9       1479
Financing Plan:
AfDB                                            -         38.3       38.3
CDC/EIB                                         -        36.7        36.7
CIDA                                                       7.5        7.5
TDA                                             -         6.3         6.3
Japanese Ex-Im Bank                             -          5.0        5.0
VRA                                           29.0        25.1       54.1
Total     29.0       118.9      147.9
af   VRA is exempt from all taxes and duties.
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY            87         88         89        90         91         92
Annual          0.16       1.16      2.21       1.92       0.79       0.06
Cumulative      0.16       1.32       3.53      5.45       6.24       6.30
Rzte of Return: 18%
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 6301-GH
Map: Ghana - Power Sector Installations IBRD 19767



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA FOR A
NORTHERN GRID EXTENSION PROJECT
1.        T submit the following report and recomuendation on a proposed
development credit for the equivalent of SDR 5.2 million (US$6.3 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms to the Republic of Ghana to help finance
the Northern Grid Extension Project. Additional external financing for the
project would be provided by the African Development Bank (AfDB)
US$38.3 million equivalent, the European Investment Bank (EIB) jointly with
the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) US$36.7 million equivalent,
the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) US$7.5 million
equivalent, and the Japanese Export-Import Bank US$5 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report entitled "Ghana: Towards Structural Adjust-
ment" was distributed to the Executive Directors in October 1985. A
summary of the economic situation is presented in this section. Basic
economic data are summarized in Annex I.
3.        Ghana once enjoyed a fairly high standard of living compared with
most other West African nations. However, the poor economic policies,
combined with droughts and the increase in oil prices, contributed in the
1970s and early 1980s to a decline in gross domestic product. Given the
population growth rate of about 3% per annum, real per capita income has
eroded significantly to its present level of $400 (1985). As a result,
about half the population is estimated to live in absolute poverty. The
country's basic needs indicators, once the best in Africa, are now no
better than those of other Sub-Sahara African countries with comparable per
capita incomes. Modern health services are available to only about a third
of the people, and only 47% have access to safe water. Although the
education system is well established and primary schooling has been free
since 1962, 50% of adult men and 70% of adult women have had no formal
education.
1/   This Part is the same as Part I of the President's Report for the
Education Sector Adjustment Credit which was approved by the Executive
Directors on December 9, 1986.



-2-
Structure
4.        Ghana is comparatively well endowed with natural and human
resources. The country has a good supply of land suitable for growing tree
crops, most importantly cocoa; cereals and starchy staples; and consider-
able fishing and forestry resources. The economy is based primarily on
small-scale agriculture production. Agriculture accounts for half of GDP
and provides incomre for about 701 of the population. Productivity Is
generally low becarabe of inadequate support services, lack of fertilizers
and other inputs, and poor transport. Ghana is the world's third largest
producer of cocoa, which accounts for about two-thirds of the country's
export earnings.
5.        The country has valuable mineral deposits, particularly gold, but
also diamonds, bauxite, manganese and offshore oil. Ghana still imports
most of its petroleum, mainly in the form of crude oil, which is refined
domestically and used chiefly for transport fuel. Hydropower generates
most of Ghana's electricity, some of which is exported to neighboring
countries.
6.        Manufacturing output in Ghana increased substantially after
Independence in 1957 due to government policies which encouraged import
substitution behind high protection. As a result, Ghana's manufacturing
capacity is relatively large, diverse and long established compared to most
other African countries. In spite of some recent improvement, however,
capacity utilization is relatively low for lack of sufficient domestic and
imported raw materials and poor management, particularly in the public
sector. Services, which account for 40Z of GDP, are dominated by wholesale
and retail trade. The country's transport infrastructure was once rela-
tively well developed, with railways in the more populous south and a
reasonable road network throughout. However, years of neglected main-
tenance have significantly eroded the value of this investment.
Past Economic Developments - The Inheritance
7.        Throughout the 1970s, Ghana's economy was poorly managed.  Large
budget deficits, necessitated partly to support a sprawling, inefficient
public sector, led to a marked acceleration in domestic inflation. Given
the reluctance to move the exchange rate, the fixed nominal rate became
grossly overvalued, shifting relative incentives away from exports
(including cocoa) into import trade. The resulting deterioration in export
performance, combined with a growing disenchantment on the part of aid
donors with Ghana's performance, caused a perpetual foreign exchange crisis
that pushed successive Governments into increasingly restrictive import
regimes. What was once an economy with ample imports became one starved of
the main fuel for its growth. The erosion of the tax base due to declining
exports and imports, and the related drop in economic activity forced
severe cutbacks in Government operations and maintenance and capital
expenditures. There was a marked deterioration in what was once fairly
well developed economic and social infrastructure. This, in turn, further
reduced the country's productive capacity.



8.        A tendency to respond to shortages with controls and rationing
worsened the problem by eroding the incentives to produce and save, dimin-
ishing the capacity of public sector entities to maintain the level and
quality of services, and creating a vast parallel black market with its
related corruption, smuggling and tax evasion. Declining real wages,
political instability and reduced economic opportunities led talented and
skilled Ghanaians to leave the country, depriving it of scarce managerial,
administrative and technical resources.
9.        To add to all its difficulties, Ghana was subjected in the early
1980s to three other problems. First, a prolonged and severe drought
created the worst food shortages since Independence. Second, the external
terms of trade sharply deteriorated following the increase in petroleum
prices, and a softening in prices of Ghana's major exports (cocoa and
gold). Third, the sudden return of over one million Ghanaians from Nigeria
severely strained the food and employment situation. The cumulative effect
of the downward economic spiral and these most recent "shocks" to the
system can be seen in the trends in key economic indicators between 1970
and 1982: per capita real income declined by 30%; import volumes dropped by
a third; real export earnings fell 52%; domestic savings and investment
declined from 12% and 14% of GDP, respectively, in 1970 to almost
insignificant levels; inflation ran at 44% per annum over the period.
The Economic Recovery Program, 1984-86
10.       A Provisional National Defense Council (PNDC) was constituted
when Flight Lieutenant Rawlings took power on December 31, 1981. The PNDC
introduced an economic recovery program which was developed in close
consultation with the IMF and the World Bank. The program was formally
presented at the November 1983 meeting of the Ghana Consultative Group, the
first in 13 years. The IMF has supported the program with two successive
Standby Arrangements, totaling SDR 419 million, covering the period
July 1983 - December 1985, and a further SDR 179 million from the
Compensatory Financing Facility. A third stand-by arrangement totaling
SDR 81.8 million and covering the period from October 1986 to September
1987 was approved by the IMF in October 1986. IDA has supported the
program with an Export Rehabilitation Credit and two Reconstruction Import
Credits, in all totaling SDR 212.7 million. Total assistance from members
and observers of the Consultative Group, including IDA, has risen sharply,
with commitments totaling $416 million in 1984 and $495 million in 1985.
11.       The Economic Recovery Program's major objectives have been:
(a) to raise relative prices in favor of exports and production; (b) to
restore fiscal and monetary discipline; (c) to initiate the rehabilitation
of the country's productive base and economic and social infrastructure;
and (d) to encourage private investments. The most important measure taken
was the movement towards a more realistic exchange rate. The cedi depre-
ciated from ¢2.75 - US$1.00 in April 1983 to ¢60 - US$1.00 by October 1985.
In January 1986 the Government made significant progress towards reaching
an equilibrium exchange rate by moving to e90 - US$1.00. On September 19,
1986, tne Government began a foreign exchange auction covering



- 4 -
approximately two-thirds of the transactions. Cocoa, petroleum, public
debt service, and a limited amount of essential drugs have been excluded
temporarily.  Capital transactions and imports under the special import
license (SIL) system are also still excluded, though the latter will be
progressively phased into the auction market. The rote set in the auction
has ranged between a128-151 - US$1.00. Administered prices have been
adjusted to reduce the distortions arising from the overvalued exchange
rate, the most critical being a near doubling of the cocos producer price
announced in May 1985, followed by a 50% increase in May 1986. Petroleum
prices have been raised in line with changes in the exchange rate. In
addition, price controls are being dismantled. Interest rates have been
adjusted in stages to the point that they became positive in real terms in
1965. As part of the Government's policy of trying to maintain positive
interest rates, in August 1986 deposit rates were increased across the
board by 2 percentage points, with the exception of 24-month deposit rates
which were increased by 3 percentage points. The rates on 12-month time
deposits have more than doubled since October 1983 to the present level of
20%. Lending rates were increased on average by 2-3% by unifying them at
the maximum rate of 232. In spite of the increase, interest rates are
slightly negative in real terms against current price performance. In the
area of fiscal policy, the Government's efforts have concentrated on elimi-
nating subsidies; resource mobilization through improved tax collection and
selective increases in consumption taxes and charges; and more adequate
provision for maintenance and capital expenditures. In addition, public
sector salaries and wages, and statutory minimum wages have been raised to
offset partially the drastic erosion in real income. In 1986, after some
initial uncertainties and confusion over implementation were sorted out,
the Government implemented a wage increase which reversed in a substantial
way the severe decompression in salary level differentials between the
highest and lowest paid workers in the civil service.
Response of the Economy
12.       The initial response of the economy to the policy reforms was
temporarily crippled by the severe drought in 1983 and insufficient aid in-
flows. Nevertheless, the Government continued and even broadened the
reform program. After a real decline in output in 1983, economic perfor-
mance sharply improved on several counts in 1984, benefitting to a large
degree from the return to normal rainfall, but also from better policies.
The economy grew by nearly 11%, led by a sharp expansion in foodcrops.
Cocoa production (crop year 1984/85) rose by only 8% from the historical
low of the previous crop year. Wholesale and retail trade, and manu-
facturing output increased in line with overall growth, reflecting higher
import levels and the restoration of power supplies. Preliminary estimates
for 1985 indicate a growth in GDP of about 6%, spurred primarily by higher
output in mining, manufacturing, and construction. Given the higher base,
growth in agriculture was only 3% but cocoa output is likely to rise to
220,000 tons in the 1985/86 season, an increase of 28% over 1984/85
reflecting the improvement in the producer price and more favorable
weather.



The Budget
13.       The Government's fiscal position has improved markedly.  Revenues
as a share of GDP rose from 5% In 1983 to 11% in 1985. The gain primarily
reflected the impact of the depreciation of the exchango rate on taxes on
international transactions, higlher oxcise taxes, and increased license and
registration fees. Recurrent expenditures have risen from 7% of GDP in
1983 to It% of GDP in 1985. There was a much needed increase in capital
expenditures, which rose from negligible levels to 3Z of GDP In 1985. The
overall budget deficit has been contained at about 2% of GDP. Foreign
financing has increased so that domestic bank financing has dropped to 0.6%
of GDP.
Money and Credit
14.       Growth of the money supply was severely curbed in 1983 and 1984
to around 40% per year, but picked up considerably In 1985 when broad money
(112) grew by 58%. Net foreign assets declined, but the expansion in
domestic credit in 1985 (69%) was double the level of the previous year. A
sharp rise in cocoa financing accounted for about half of the increase.
reflecting the early start of the season and higher purchases. The growth
in bank credit to the public sector was slightly under 9%, about the same
as in 1984. Credit to the private sector continued to expand sharply
reflecting the higher demand for cedi credit for imports and the recovery
of economic activity in mrnufacturing and construction.
Prices
15.       Improved food supplies and the resulting sharp drop in prices was
a major reason for the deceleration in inflation, from an annual average
increase of 122% in 1983 to 40% in 1984. This trend continued in 1985 with
an average increase in the consumer price index of only 10%, despite an
exchange rate depreciation of about 50% in this period. The consumer price
index is expected to increase to about 20-25% in 1986, partially because
food prices will resume a more normal pattern, but is still moderate given
the large devaluation of the exchange rate which occurred in January and
September.
Balance of Payments
16.       The current account deficit of the balance of payments widened in
1985 to 4.6% of GDP as imports continued to recover. Export earnings also
rose by 12%, reflecting higher volumes of cocoa, timber, and electricity
exports. On the capital account, preliminary estimates indicate that aid
disbursements were lower than the levels in 1984. This was a result of
several factors, including a shift in the structure of aid commitments away
from quick disbursing programs and commodity assistance, and processing and
implementation delays on the part of both donors and the Government.  Thus
net aid is estimated to have fallen slightly from 3.4% of GDP in 1984 to 3%
of GDP in 1985. After taking into account other official and private
capital movements, the overall deficit in 1985 amounted to US$98 million.



- 6 -
This was financed by net IMF purchases of US$122 million. There was also a
further reduction in external payment arrears. The balance of payments
position in 1986 will benefit from the large increase expected in cocoa
exporto and lower prices for crude oil imports. As a result, the currant
account deficit is projected to increase only slightly in nominal terms. A
sharp rise in aid disbursements is expected in 1986, which would permit a
further reduction in the overall deficit.
Devwlopment Program
17.       In addition to achieving an appropriate incentive framework,
public expenditure policy is an equally important component of the Govern-
ment's development strategy. The neglected state of Ghana's economic and
social infrastructure had become a critical bottleneck to the reform
program's efforts to generate a strong supply response. Recognizing this
weakness, the Government's Economic Recovery Program for 1984-86 initiated
rehabilitation programs in key sectors - cocoa, timber, gold mining, and
transport infrastructure. Results are beginning to show, particularly in
railway transport which had been constrainiing evacuations of cocoa and
mineral exports. At the same time, the Government has begun to prepare a
three-year rolling development program, beginning in 1986, based on a
review of public expenditures conducted Jointly with the Bank in the spring
of 1985. The highest priorities in the area of recurrent expenditures are
to restore the viability and efficiency of public administration and to
expand significantly support to health and education. In addition, ade-
quate allocations need to be provided for operations and maintenance. To
meet these needs, annual average recurrent expenditures during 1986-88
would have to be about 202 higher in real terms than the levels budgeted in
1985. The initial work on the capital side indicates substantial rehabili-
tation needs of the strategic economic sectors -- agriculture, mining, and
economic infrastructure. Consequently, there is a large number of projects
with high returns on incremental investments. The only area where signifi-
cant new investments have been identified is oil exploration, which would
be financed primarily by foreign investors.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
18.       Ghana's medium- and long-term external public debt outstanding
and disbursed at end-1984 amounted to US$1.1 billion, about 20% of GDP.
Bilateral creditors account for slightly less than half of the total,
multilateral sources for about 402 (Bank loans and IDA credits comprise 2BZ
of total debt), and suppliers credits for only 10%. Despite the predomi-
nance of soft loans, Ghana's debt service burden in the coming years is
likely to be very heavy, for severa] reasons: first, amortization of
previously rescheduled debt began in 1983; second, there is a relatively
large amount of short-term debt, including US$195 million of payment
arrears at June 1985 which are to be cleared by 1990; and third, the
reported debt excludes the use of Fund credit under the recent Standby
Arrangements. Preliminary estimates indicate that by the end of 1985
medium- and long-tenm external public debt, outstanding and disbursed was
roughly US$1.5 billion. The debt service ratio on medium- and long-tenm



- 7 -
public external debt increased Erom 29% in 1984 to 44% in 1985. Including
IMF charges and arrears payments, the share was 60%. In 1.986 the debt
service ratio is expected to be larginall lower because of improved export
performance. There is little scope for rescheduling since most debt is
short-term oil financing, payments to the IMF and other preferred
creditors, and already reuchedulod debt.
19.       In spite of the considerable gains which have been made, Ghana's
economic situation remains difficult. That consideration plus the
country's dependence on, and hence vulnerability to, fluctuations in cocoa
earnings, make it desirable that future debt service obligations be kept as
low as possible. In addition, Ghana's per capita Income Is relatively low
(US$400). Consequently, Ghana will have to depend on IDA resources for
Bank Group borrowlng over the next few years. In order to help ensure an
adequate flow of foreign exchange into Ghana and to supplement the
country's resource mobilization efforts, it also would be appropriate for
donors to provide assistance on highly concessional terms and to finance a
significant portion of local project costs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GHANA 2/
20.       Until March 1983 when lending was resumed after 18 months' hiatus
the Bank Group's assistance to Ghana was project oriented with a strong
emphasis on export promotion and rehabilitation of basic infrastructure.
The acuteness of the economic crisis of the past several years and the
magnitude of structural distortions led the Government to develop a program
of far-reaching economic reform which was announced in April 1983, anld
these factors have resulted in a major shift in our strategy which is
summarized as follows:
(a) to assist the Government, supported where appropriate through
technical assistance and program lending, to improve incentives
for production, to increase the efficiency of economic management
and to restore in the medium term a sound financial basis for
growth;
(b) to promote the long-term growth and development of the economy by
underpinning structural adjustment lending with infrastructure
rehabilitation and sector adjustment operations within a frame-
work of appropriate sectoral policies, the latter encompassing
industry, agriculture, education, and public enterprise;
2/   This Part is the same as Part II of the President's Report for the
Education Sector Adjustment Credit which was approved by the Executive
Directors on December 9, 1986.



(c)  to improve the Bank'" knowledge of tho couintry'ti 1incentive
structure, expenditure policies, nnd intittitlonnl processes 1o
an to lmnrove the Hank's contribution to the fturther devolopment
of the Ftonomic Recovory ProRrnm nnd mo Chnr the Bank'H recom-
mendations nro consistont with the cnuntry'" lmplmmentntlnn
capacity; aind
(d)  to contribute tn improved aid effectiveness in Chnnai by ncting aR
the focal point for old co"rdlnat1on between donorN and Ghana As
the Government strengthens its own planning and Mid coordination
nbility.
21.       Based on the strategy as outlined above, a strtcturnl ndl]ustment
credit is now at an advanced stage of preparntion as the first In a series
of such operations to support changes in incentive policy and improvements
in economic management. A public expenditure review, an agricultural
sector review, and industrial qeCtor study have been completed and an
energy assessment has been substantially completed, all of whieh aire
contributing to forming the basis of preparing a SAL operation.  An
economic memorandum (Report No. 5884-GH dated October 7, 1985) has been
distributed, and another is being prepared. As part of the preparation for
SAI., a 1986-88 development plan and 1987 import program are beir; zeviewed
in close coordination with IMF. Over the medium-term IDA 'ending will also
include sector operations and complementary, mainly infrastructural,
project lending which will be increasingly policy oriented, focusing on
sectoral strategies, Investment programs, public sector reforms and insti-
tutional improvements. Finally, as described below, the on-going project
portfolio also supports the development of sound economic growth in the
productive sectors as well as the rehabilitation of infrastructure.
22.       In response to the Government's announcement of a major economic
reform program in April 1983, the Bank approved a series of program credits
designed to provide critically needed imports, particularly to export
sectors and supporting economic infrastructure such as transportation.
These included two credits for export rehabilitation and related technical
assistance, and two reconstruction imports credits. The credits also laid
the base for policy reforms in critical areas such as cocoa producer prices
and marketing, price and distribution controls, and public expenditures.
Since 1962, when the Bank Group financed its first operation in Ghana, the
Bank has made 10 loans totalling US$189.7 million and 35 credits totalling
US$688.2 million (including three African Facility Credits for US$62
million. In addition, Ghana participated in a Bank-financed regional
clinker project covering three countries (Togo, Ivory Coast and Ghana). An
IFC investment of US$55.0 million in Ashanti Goldfields Corporation in
Ghana was approved in June 1984. Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans and IDA credits as of September 30, 19B6.
23.       Energy has been a major focus of Bank Group lending to Ghana
(20.1% of commitments). Projects financed in this sector include three
hydropower generation and three power distribution projects, and a power
system rehabilitation project. A project aimed at strengthening Ghana's



- 9 -
technical capacity to accelerate petroleum exploration was approved in
May 1983. Another project providos technical assistance and financing of
immediate requirements for rehabilitation of Ghana's sole refinery. A
follow up project with a component of improving petroleum products
distribution system is being prepared. The next most important sector in
the Bank Group's program in Ghana is transportation (19.5Z of commitments)
with four road projects, a railway rehabilitation project, and a ports
rehabilitation project. The two reconstruction import credits and export
rehabilitation project also provided emergency imports to the road
transport and port subsectors. The Accra District rehabilitation project
supports the transport subsector in the Accra area as well as the
strengthening of the administrative and financial basis of the Accra City
Council and the improvement of a poorer section of the city.
24.       In agriculture (14.9% of commitments), the main thrust of the
Bank Group's operations has been to assist the country in achieving greater
self-sufficiency in agricultural production, particularly food and raw
materials for agro-industries, and rehabilitating the cocoa subsector. An
agriculture rehabilitation project under preparation will focus on
strengthening the Ministry of Agriculture, food security issues, and
pricing policy for crops other than cocoa. A third cocoa project is being
prepared, the main components of which are research, input supply, and
disease control as well as support to policy reforms which are being
addre. -I in the SAL. In the field of water supply, three projects hav,y
increased and improved water supply in the Accra-Tema metropolitan area and
adjacent rural areas, with the most recent one helping to carry out emer-
gency repairs and maintenance on main water pipelines. Two credits have
financed investments in manufacturing and agro-industry undertaken by
small- and medium-sized enterprises. The recent industrial sector adjust-
ment credit aims to improve capacity utilization through provision of
imported inputs and sectorwide adjustment measures, including trade libera-
lization which will be carried through in the SAL. While most Bank Group
lending has focused on financing supporting economic infrastructure and
rehabilitation, there is recognition of the need to support the social
sectors. A credit to meet rehabilitation needs mainly in health with an
emergency import component for education is ongoing, and a project aimed at
supporting the Government's education reform effort was recently submitted
to the Executive Directors. In addition, a project to support the
Government's state-owned enterprise reform program, following the actions
to be taken in this area under the SAL, is under preparation.
25.       The country's past economic difficulties adversely affected
performance of a number of Bank Grclp-financed projects as described in
greater detail in the Project Performance Audit Reports. Delays in imple-
mentation caused disbursement performance to lag behind appraisal
estimates. Annual gross disbursements over the four-year period FYB1-84
averaged about 21Z of outstanding loan/credit commitments.   However, the
Government and the Bank have taken measures to improve implementation and
disbursement records. First, a Central Project Monitoring Unit (CPMU)
established within the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning in October
1985, has proved to be very effective. Second, quarterly rather th..n



- 10 -
semi-annual comprehensive project implementation reviews with CPMU have
improved project lmplementation. Third, seminars and training on the
Bank's procurement and disbursement procedures not only for the Ghanaian
authorities concerned but also for some suppliers represented in Ghana have
been productive. Fourth, improved coordination between suppliers,
commercial banks and procurement agents has also helped to accelerate
disbursements. These actions, along with increased project implementation
experience and general progress of the economy, are reflected in improved
disbursement performance in FY86 of 38Z of outstanding commitments, which
is expected to improve further in FY87.
26.       Given the need to focus Ghana's public expenditures on high-
priority rehabilitation and maintenance and on adequate provision for non-
salary recurrent costs, improved aid coordination is now assuming increased
importance. In this connection, the Bank has chaired the Ghana Consul-
tative Group meetings annually since 1983, organized an industrial sector
aid coordination meeting in May 1986, and co-sponsored with UNICEF a
similar meeting for the social sectors for interested donors in September
1986. During the first half of 1987, a.LOther Consultative Group meeting is
scheduled, and aid coordination sessions are planned for telecommunications,
water supply, transport and agriculture.
PART III - ENERGY AND POWER SECTURS
Energy Resources and Consumption
27.       Ghana has substantial energy resources, of which fuelw-od and
hydropower are the most important. Forests cover about 8.8 million
heztares, three quarters of the country's land area, and are concentrated
in the high forest zone in the southwest, where most of the timber industry
is located. Ghana's total technically exploitable hydroelectric potential
is estimated at 10,000 GWh annually (2,000 MW), derived mainly from three
major river systems (Volta, Tano, Pra) in the central and western regions.
The currently installed hydro plant capacity is 1,072 NW, based on two dams
on the Volta River. Proven reserves of petroleum are less than 2.5 million
barrels; offshore deposits of both crude oil and natural gas have been
identified at Saltpond, Tano and Cape Three Points, but their size remains
to be confirmed. Further field evaluation work is being carried out under
the ongoing Energy Project (Credit 1373-GH, May 1983). Ghana has no known
deposits of solid hydrocarbons. Solar energy is plentiful with most
regions receiving in excess of 1,900 hours of annual sunshine. This
potential has not yet been exploited to any extent. Wind regimes are
moderate, and insufficient for energy purposes based on existing tech-
nology.
28.       Net energy consumption in 1985 is estimated at 3.1 million tons
oil equivalent, the bulk of which is fuelwood (70 percent) followed by
petroleum products (22 percent), agricultural residues (5 perceut) and
electricity (3 percent). Commercial energy consumption increased steadily



- 11 -
throughout the 1970s and early 1980s despite the deteriorating economy,
spurred by subsidized petroleum products and low real prices for
electricity. However, consumption declined sharply after 1982 because of
shortages of both petroleum and electricity, but recovered as supply
conditions normalized in 1985. The transport (43 percent), industry and
mining (20 percent) and household (18 percent) sectors account for most
commercial energy consumption. Energy sector issues have been examined in
considerable detail as part of the UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector Assessment
Program.
Energy Sector Organization
29.       The Hinistry of Fuel and Power (MFP) has principal responsibility
for petroleum and electricity. It supervises the state-owned Ghana
National Petroleum Corporation (GNPC), Ghana Oil Corporation (GOIL), and
the refining company, Ghanaian Italian Petroleum Corporation (GHAIP), which
deal with the full range of oil related activities, as well as the two
power sector entities -- the Volta River Authority (VRA) and the
Electricity Corporation of Ghana (ECG). VRA supplies electricity in bulk
to ECG, the Volta Aluminum Company (VALCO), several mines, the Akosombo
Textile Company (AKOTEX), and Akosombo Township. VRA also exports
electricity to Communaute Electrique du Benin (CEB) and Energie Electrique
de la Cote d'Ivoire (EECI). ECG distributes the electricity lit receives
from VRA, and also operates 19 isolated diesel stations. To strengthen
overall energy sector planning, GOG has recently created the National
Energy Board (NEB). MFP is responsible for establishing and supervising
implementation of overall policy for the power sector and is currently
preparing a statement of sectoral development policy for inclusion in the
proposed structural adjustment program. MFP has recently submitted to IDA
a preliminary statement of financial objectives for the power sector which
will provide the basis for regulating the future performance of ECG and VRA
(para. 51).
30.       Since its foundation in 1961, VRA has operated as a quasi-enclave
within Ghana, and is a well managed entity. ECG, set up in 1967, with more
complex responsibilities than those of VRA, has suffered from ineffective
management anid has failed to perform satisfactorily in recent years. In an
effort to improve overall sector effectiveness, the Electricity Supply
Board of Ireland (ESB), acting as consultant to GOG under the ongoing Power
System Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1628-GH, September 1985) studied the
situation and concluded that a merger of VRA and ECG offered the best
prospect for the future development of the sector. COG, with the
concurrence of IDA, considered this to be premature, but retained it as a
long-term objective. In the short term, attention will be focussed upon
improving the efficiency of ECC.
31.       To enhance cooperation between ECG and VRA, GOG announced the
setting up of joint committees covering the use of services and facilities
in areas such as computing, transportation, procurement and training. A
mechanism whereby ECG could purchase foreign exchange from VRA has also
been established. ESB has also carried out a complete diagnostic study of



- 12 -
ECG's problems and provides the basis for improving ECG's performance.
Following discussions with IDA in July 1986, ESB is assisting ECG in
implementing the agreed recommendations.
32.       In order for the proposed project to be successful, substantial
distribution investment is needed in the project area. Traditionally, this
would be undertaken by ECG. However, as ECG is about to embark upon a
major rehabilitation of its existing system and improvement to its internal
management, the involvement of ECG in the proposed project would risk both
deflecting ECG from these tasks and the timely implementation of the
proposed project. Although the project area (Brong Ahafo, Northern and
Upper Regions) is geographically large and diverse, its electricity
consumers comprise less than 2 percent of ECG's present market. The timely
realization of the benefits of electrification will require considerable
strengthening of the present distribution arrangements in the project area.
Furthermore, considerable skill and resources will be required to maintain
the existing diesel-based service through 1990, including investment in new
diesel generating units.
33.       Consequently, COG, VRA and ECG have agreed that the project will
be implemented by VRA and that VRA will take over from ECG the
responsibility for all power sector activities in the project area from
January 1, 1987. As it will not be possible for VRA to take physical
charge of all power operations in the project area on this date the
transfer will be phased over the first half of 1987, using ECG's services
on an agency basis. VRA is establishing a separate department or "profit
centre" for its new responsibilities to which will be transferred the
existing fixed assets of ECG in the project area, at an agreed valuation.
This transfer would not prejudice the longer-term organization of the power
sector and would be reviewed by GOG, VRA and ECG after 3 years (i.e. during
1990). In staffing the new department VRA is giving priority to ECG staff
in the project area; satisfactory arrangements would be made for staff not
so recruited, either by transfer within ECG, preferential consideration by
contractors involved in project construction, or by severance. Some
redundancies are accepted as inevitable but explicit local cost provision
could not be made in the proposed project as the exact numbers and their
entitlements to severance pay are not yet known. It was agreed at
negotiations that this matter would be addressed in the context of ongoing
structural adjustment discussions. VRA's consultants have already carried
out a survey of ECG's installation in the project area as a basis for their
valuation and to determine the resources required to maintain power supply
in the project area till completion of the proposed project. Cost
estimates will be available by December 1986 and VRA will then present a
satisfactory proposal for their financing to the Kuwait Fund for
Development which has already agreed in principle to finance these
investments. At negotiations GOG submitted a satisfactory program and
timetable to implement the transfer of responsibility, including drafts of
the minor legal amendments to the VRA and ECG Acts.



- 13 -
Energy Policy and Pricing
34.       Government energy policy is designed to: (i) reduce the cost of
energy supplies to the economy in the short term through rehabilitation of
installations in the petroleum and electricity sub-sectors; (ii) reduce
dependence on petroleum imports; and (iii) improve forestry management to
provide an adequate long-term supply of fuelwood. Other sector objectives
include promotion of more efficient energy use through demand management
and strengthening of institutions and the planning process in the sector.
35.       Prices of petroleum products and electricity fell sharply in real
terms from the mid 1970s till 1983, as a result of high domestic inflation
and over-valued exchange rates during that period. After the major
devaluation of the cedi in 1983, domestic energy prices were increased very
sharply to bring them back into line with their international equivalents.
Subsequent increases have generally kept up with the successive
devaluations since then. Electricity pricing policy and tariffs are
discussed in paras. 50-52.
Existing Electricity Supply Facilities
36.       Ghana's total installed public generating capacity is about
1,122 MW. Two stations on the Volta River, owned by VRA, at Akosombo
(912 MW), and Kpong (160 MW), comprise 95 percent of installed capacity,
and are capable of providing firm energy of 4,792 GWh/year. The remainder
consists of diesel units in 19 isolated centers that are generally in poor
condition, anu! the 30 MW Temn diesel plant being rehabilitated under
Credit 1628-GH.
37.       VRA's transmission system is shown on Map 19767, and comprises
over 1,300 km of 161 kV lines connecting the Akosombo and Kpong hydro
plants to the VALCO smelter, other industrial loads at Tema, to ECG and to
the mines in southern Ghana. A 161 kV interconnection with CEB links
Akosombo to Lome, Togo. The Cote d'Ivoire is also interconnected to the
VRA system through a 225 kV transmission line.
38.       ECG distributes power in the urban centers supplied from an
interconnected grid in the southern part of Ghana, and operates the
isolated diesel plants. In recent years service within the interconnected
grid has deteriorated due largely to poor maintenance and inadequate
reinforcement of the distribution system, resulting in an unsatisfactory
level of losses (over 15 percent). The isolated systems in small towns
have even more serious problems, arising from the age of the generating
units and lack of fuel and spare parts. Most of these centers do not have
24-hour supply and there is a high level of suppressed demand (para. 76).
39.       Total captive generation capacity is estimated at about 30 MW,
mostly in the mining and timber industries, hospitals, the Ghana Water and
Sewerage Corporation and some commercial enterprises. With the exception
of the sawmills, it is mainly used for standby purposes.



- 14 -
Access to Service and Consumption Trends
40.       ECG hae about 240,000 customer connections of which about 70
percent are concentrated in the five cities of Accra, Kumasi, Tema,
Takoradi and Cape Coast. There are about 20,000 customers in the towns
north of Kumasi which are not connected to the VRA grid. Only about 15
percent of the population has access to electricity. ECG's peak sales of
1,018 GWh were achieved in 1978, but have since declined. Sales fell
sharply in the period 1982-84, mainly because of the severe drought that
necessitated a program of load shedding for almost nine months during
1983-84, but have since recovered following the lifting of restrictions on
consumption in September 1984. However, ECG's 1985 sales of 946 GWh were
still below their all-time peak.
Electricity Exports
41.       Ghana exports over 70 percent of its electricity production to
its neighbors and to the enclave aluminum smelter owned by VALCO that was
set up to take advantage of the plentiful hydropower from Akosombo. VRA's
sales to VALCO which peaked at 3,300 GWh/year in 1980 and 1981 were halted
by the unprecedented drought of 1982-83 that forced a complete shutdown of
the smelter for over 18 months. Supplies to CEB were maintained, albeit at
a sharply reduced level. These were restored to their normal level of
around 500 GWh per year in late 1984. After completion of a tie-line in
1983, Ghana was able to start exporting to Cote d'Tvoire, which was also
suffering power shortages arising from the drought.
Sector Development
42.       Ongoing Rehabilitation.  Rehabilitation of the power sector is an
essential element of the overall economic recovery in Ghana. This is
being tackled under the ongoing power project (Credit 1628-GH), and the
process will be further reinforced by the proposed project. The
rehabilitation of ECG's distribution system is under way and a satis-
factory package of technical assistance and training to improve ECG's
overall management has been agreed (para. 31). The problem of interpublic
enterprise indebtedness is being tackled with the assistance of the Bank of
Ghana and will also be addressed under the forthcoming structural
adjustment program and public enterprise reform project.
43.       Future Sector Needs.  Now that the decline in the economy has
been reversed, attention has turned to the medium term, and priorities are
being adjusted to promote expansion of the power system. In 1984, VRA's
consultants (Acres International, Canada), carried out a comprehensive
20-year system expansion planning study to define a medium term investment
program for the power sector. In 1985, the Bank also undertook a review of
VRA's investment options for the period 1986-1995. Briefly, these studies
confirmed (i) the adequacy of present generating capacity, with some
thermal complementation required in the 1990s as the domestic load grows,
and (ii) the need to reinforce the existing grid and extend it northwards
to supply towns now on diesel-based supply.



- 15 -
44.       VRA is discussing with SONABEL (Burkina Faso) the possibility of
interconnecting the VRA and SONABEL systems by extending the 161 kV system
from Bolgatanga to Ouagadougou, a distance of 200 km including 25 km within
Ghana. SONABEL is currently developing the 15 MW Rompienga hydro project,
and is considering development of the 16 MW Bagre hydrosite. Even with
these projects, Ouagadougou could still absorb 10 MW (80 GWh annually) of
electricity from Ghana, starting in the mid-1990s. Preliminary studies
indicate that Ghanaian hydropower would be more economic than the present
diesel generation in Ouagadougou. From Ghana's perspective such a line
would not only increase export revenues, but also the returns to the
proposed project b: increasing capacity utilization in the early years.
VRA - The Implementing Agency
45.       VRA is governed by a Board appointed by the Head of State, and is
composed of a Chairman and seven other members, including VRA's Chief
Executive, the Managing Directors of ECG and VALCO, and a VRA staff member.
VRA's organization and management is satisfactory. At the end of 1985, VRA
had about 1,600 employees directly engaged in electricity operations. VRA
has been able to build up and retain good staff in spite of low salaries
because of its financial and managerial independence, and relatively good
working conditions. It has an active program of staff training at its own
school, and staff are also sent on management programs both in Ghana and
abroad. In addition it has recently started sending younger professional
staff for longer periods of on-the-job training with a Canadian utility.
VRA's Financial Position
46.       Accounting and Audit.  VRA's accounting and budgeting systems are
generally satisfactory and provide timely and reliable financial
information. VRA's electricity operations are financially separate from
the other operations (lake transport, resettlement and other lake
activities) for which it is respons_ble and for which separate accounts are
kept. VRA maintains its accounts in accordance with appropriate inter-
national standards. It also undertakes an annual revaluation of fixed
assets using an indexation formula agreed with the Bank Group; VRA has
adjusted satisfactorily the cedi value of its long-term foreign debt,
following recent devaluations. VRA's accounts have always been audited
without qualification and the audited accounts have been submitted to the
Bank Group within the agreed 6 months of the fiscal year end; VRA would
continue to do this under the proposed project. VRA's present auditors
(Coopers and Lybrand, Accra) are satisfactory.
47.       Past Financial Performance.  VRA's financial performance from the
start of operations in 1968 through 1981 was generally satisfactory with
rates of return on average equity in the range of 5-6 percent, slightiy
below the level agreed with the Bank Group at that time. Since 1981, VRA's
sales have been adversely affected by the deteriorating economy and
prolonged drought, while the impact on VRA's operations of substantial cedi
devaluations were not offset by timely and adequate rate increases. The
drought forced VRA to cut off supplies to VALCO for 18 months from



- 16 -
June 1983, to reduce exports to Communaute El ctrique du Benin (CEB) and to
introduce domestic rationing. Consequently, VRA's rate of return in 1983
was negative. Subsequently, VRA was able to raise rates charged to
domestic consumers and CEB. and to renegotiate its contract with VALCO in
such a way as to raise the rate to at least USdl/kWh while giving priority
to the domestic market. Following these rate increases and improved
rainfall, VRA's rate of return on average equity rose to about 3 percent in
1984 and 6 percent in 1985, with similar rates of return on revalued net
fixed assets.
48.       As of December 31, 1985, VRA's capitalization was US$369 million
equivalent; the debt/equity ratio was satisfactory at 32/68 but liquidity
(the current ratio was 1.1) needed to be improved. Accounts receivable
were excessive, at almost 6 months' billings, and much of the problem rests
with ECG. Under the power supply agreement between VYA and ECG, the latter
should settle its bills within 30 days of receipt. Moreover under the
ongoing power project (Credit 1628-GHl), ECG agreed to clear its overdue
bills to VRA and an action plan has been formulated to achieve this in
1987. The plan will require ECG to substantially improve its collection
perfornance, particularly from the private sector.  A major revenue
collection drive has already begun. This is expected to recover ¢ 900
million (US$6 million) in arrears in the first half of 1987. Furthermore,
the Water and Sewerage Corporation, ECG's major public sector debtor, is
expected to clear its overdues during the first quarter of 1987, enabling
these to be passed on to VRA.  VRA agreed during negotiations to ensure that
future billings to all its customers are settled in accordance with the
respective power supply agreements.
49.       VRA is permitted to operate a US dollar account in New York, into
which are paid dollar revenues from VALCO and from exports, and from which
VRA services its foreign debt and finances operational and capital foreign
exchange requirements. Following a poor year in 1983, VRA had to obtain a
US$6 million short-term loan from its US bankers to meet foreign exchange
commitments. Given average rainfall from L986 onwards, this account is
forecast to be in surplus. Under adverse hydrological conditions, on the
other hand, VRA could again be faced with a shortage of foreign exchange to
cover debt service. Consequently, VRA has agreed to set aside funds (a
contingency fund) in foreign exchange, equivalent to not less than its future
annual foreign debt service obligations. This fund would be built up
initially by annual appropriations from VRA's earnings through 1990 to an
amount equivalent to about US$35 million and would then be adjusted in
accordance with the level of VRA's debt service obligations.
50.       Tariffs and Financial Objectives.  VRA's average rate is expected
to be about ¢ 1.7/kWh (USU1.9/kWh) in 1986 following substantial domestic
tariff increases from April 1986. Current average prices to Ghanaian
consumers range from ¢ 2.7/kWh for ECG and the mines, to i 4.1/kWh for
AKOTEX.  VRA's domestic bulk supply rates include the recovery of the cost
of diesel generation in provincial centers, which VRA reimburses to EGG so
that the burden of these costs is spread amongst all domestic consumers.
VRA's supplies to VALCO are presently billed at slightly over USdl/kWh.



- 17 -
The price of sales to CEB is USA4/kWh until March 31, 1988 when the
contract is due for renegotiation. Up to October 1985 supplies to Cote
d'Ivoire were billed at USd4/kWh, but a new long-term contract remains to
be negotiated. ECG's average rate in 1986 is expected to be ¢ 5/kWh
(USt5.6/kWh).
51.        The need to ensure an adequate level of financial resources,
including foreign exchange, to meet the operational, maintenance and
developmental needs of the power sector as a whole, led to an agreement
under the ongoing power project (Credit 1628-OH) to undertake a tariff
study. The study would also examine t.he extent and the method of "taxing"
the consumer surplus enjoyed as a result of the low economic and financial
cost of electricity in Ghana, so as to enhance COG's resource mobilization
efforts and assist broader national developmental objectives. Based on the
study, an agreement should have been reached with the Bank Group by
June 30, 1986 on appropriate financial objectives and earnings requirements
for VRA and ECG. However, delays in appointing consultants to undertake
the tariff study meant that work did not start until October 1986. Pending
the outcome of the tariff study Government has, however, identified a
number of broad but satisfactory measures that will form the basis for
formulating objectives consistent with the aim of providing an efficient,
economic and affordable national supply of electricity: the highest
priority will be given to resource mobilization by charging a national
tariff that covers supply costs and a reasonable contribution to the
sector's investment requirements and that also produces a dividend on
equity; the present 102 tax on residential electricity consumption will be
extended to all Ghanaian customers and VRA's foreign currency earnings will
be subject to power sector priorities - VRA debt servicing and ECG's and
VRA's operation and maintenance requirements.  As part of its current
review of public enterprises, Government would also establish performance
targets for VRA and ECG.
52.       Under the ongoing power project (Credit 1628-OH), and pending the
outcome of the tariff study, both VRA and ECG are required to generate at
least a 25 percent internal contribution to investment. However, for VRA a
better measure of the efficiency with which it manages its large
currently-valued fixed asset base would be a rate of return on such assets.
In order to ensure adequate liquidity over the project period (1986-90),
VRA has agreed to earn a rate of return of at least 8 percent annually on
its currently valued net fixed assets in operation. The appropriateness of
this level of earnings would be re-examined following completion of the
tariff study.
53.       Future Financial Position.  VRA's estimated capital requirements
during the implementation period of the proposed project (1986-90) amount
to US$253 million equivalent, of which about 67 percent consists of the
ongoing project (Credit 1628-GH) and the proposed project. Of the amount
required, about 48% would be raised from donors, including IDA. At current
tariff levels and assuming average hydrological conditions, VRA should be
able to generate the remaining 52 percent from internal funds after
providing for debt service, an annual dividend to GOG, working capital, and
contributions to the proposed contingency fund.



- 18 -
54.       VRA has several projects in the capital program for water supply
and housing. While they are not dir ct power expenditures, VRA considers
them vital for continued efficient operations. The costs of these works
include foreign exchange components to be financed from VRA's foreign
exchange account. VRA may also wish to embark upon further projects, as
yet undefined, before 1990. Therefore, during negotiations VRtA agreed to
review with IDA, 3 months before the commencement of each fiscal year until
the project is completed, the composition of its capital expenditure
program for the following five years, together with a related financing
plan.
55.       Under average hydrological conditions, VRA's future financial
position should be satisfactory. VRA's current tariffs are adequate, under
present inflation and exchange rate assumptions, to produce an annual rate
of return on currently valued net fixed assets of at least 8 percent
through 1990. VRA's debt/equity ratio should improve from 27/73 in 1986 to
25/75 in 1990 as a result of a continuing level of earnings and fixed asset
revaluation. Liquidity indicators (debt service coverage, current ratio)
should also be satisfactory through 1990. However, to protect its future
viability, VRA has agreed not to incur: (a) future long-term borrowings
without IDA agreement, unless future debt service is estimated to be
covered at least 1.5 times by future net revenues; and (b) short-term
borrowings in excess of 10 percent of cash operating expenses.
56.       Project Area Finances.  Following the proposed transfer of
generation and distribution responsibility in the project area to VRA, the
latter would maintain separate accounts for the project area. Prior to
1991, operating losses are unavoidable, given the high cost of diesel-based
supply and the uniform national tariff. While some reduction in losses is
expected as a result of more efficient operation, VRA would meet these
losses through 1990. On completion of the project there should be a
progressive improvement In project area finances. However, an increase in
tariffs will be necessary to achieve an acceptable rate of return on the
project area investment, and this is being addressed in the ongoing tariff
study.
Bank Group Role in the Power Sector
57.       History of Involvement.  The Bank Group has been closely involved
in the development of Ghana's power sector for nearly 30 years. The first
of three Bank loans to VRA was made in 1962 to assist in the financing of
the Akosombo dam and power plant. Lending to ECG began soon after its
formation in 1967 and the ongoing power system rehabilitation project
(Credit 1628-GH) is the seventh operation in the sector. The amount of
Bank group lending for power projects in Ghana to date (US$150 million)
exceeds that for any other sector and has helped finance virtually all the
major power sector investments since Ghana's independence. The Bank's
participation in the Akosombo and Kpong hydro generation projects was
especially important in mobilizing the large amounts of cofinancing needed
for these ambitious projects.



- 19 -
58.       Two Project Performance Audit Reports (PPAR) have been prepared
on Ghanaian power projects. An early PPAR covered the first four projects.
The second PPAR of June 6, 1985, covering the fifth - VRA's Kpong
hydroelectric project (Loan 1380-GH), and sixth - ECG's Third Power project
(Loan 1381-CH and Credit 689-GH), emphasized the need to fully utilize
existing facilities before lnvesting in additional capacity; this is a
major objective of the ongoing power project.
59.       Strategy and Rationale for Involvement.  The Bank's continued
association with the sector is essential to secure the implementation of
the necessary institutional reforms and financial strengthening started
under the ongoing power project (Credit 1628-Gi). Bank Group participation
in the proposed project is important to the success of the Economic
Recovery Program in the northern areas of Ghana, and would help to remove
infrastructure bottlenecks in that region. Furthermore, Bank Group
participation would assist COG to obtain timely funding for the sector's
1986-90 investment program. As the proposed project would lay the basis
for an eventual interconnection with Burkina Faso, it is also consistent
with the Bank's efforts to promote regional cooperation In the electricity
s ctor.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
60.       The project was prepared by VRA, and was appraised by IDA staff
in April/May 1986. Negotiations were held in Washington in October 1986.
The Ghanaian delegation was headed by the PNDC Secretary for Fuel and
Power, Mr. E. Appiah Korang. Supplementary data on the project are
presented in Annex III.
Project Objectives
61.       The proposed project would assist Ghana to:
(i)  improve the reliability of the country's electricity supply,
reduce system losses and increase its electricity export
potential by reinforcing the southern transmission grid;
(ii)  accelerate the economic development of the north by bringing
hydro-based grid supply to the main centers in the three
northern regions, which at present have only limited supply
from diesels;
(iii)  strengthen the sector's institutional arrangements by con-
solidating in VRA responsibility for implementation and
operation of all aspects, including distribution, of the
northern grid extension project, leaving ECG free to concen-
trate on the rehabilitationi of the southern system; and,



- 20 -
(iv) lay the basis for an eventual interconnection with Burkina
Faso that would permit the export of additional Chanaian
hydro-onergy.
Project Description
62.       The proposed project consists of the following components at
locations shown on Map 19767:
(a) Transmission
(M) construction of 161 km of single circuit 161 kV transmission
lines between Akosombo and Tafo and Akwatia and New Obuasi
to reinforce the southern transmission system;
(iI)  construction of 581 km of single circuit 161 kV transmission
lines to extend grid supply to the north including the
following line sections: Kumasi to Techiman, Techiman to
Sunyani, Techiman to Tamale, Tamale to Bolgatanga;
(iii) installation of 161 kV substation facilities including: line
connections at the existing Akosombo, TWao, Akwatia, New
Obuasi and Kumasi stations; and new stations at Sunyani,
Tamale, Techiman and Bolgatanga, including variable reactors
to provide voltage control; and
(iv) Construction of 60 km of single circuit 161 kV light
transmission line (for initial 33 kV operation) between
Sunyani and Mim and installation of associated 33/11/0.4 kV
substations in the Mim area.
(b) Subtransmission and Distribution
(i) construction of 173 km of 33 kV lines, and installation of
33/11 kV substations to connect four isolated systems to the
central grid;
(ii) rehabilitation of the existing 11 kV and LV distribution
facilities and addition of new facilities to increase by
about 30 MVA the distribution system capacity in ten
northern towns -- Techiman, Sunyani, Berekum, Wenchi, Him,
Tamale. Pong Tamale, Bolgatanga, Navrongo and Bawku; and
(iii) adaptation of the shield wires on the 161 kV transmission
lines for 33 kV use so as to supply various smaller urban
centers.
(c) Engineering, Management and Consulting Services
provision of consulting engineering and management services
and training for the project.



- 21 -
Project Coat
63.       The total project cost in antimnted at US$130.5 mIllion
equivalent of which 78 percent (US$101.5 mlllion) IR the foreign component.
The estimate is based on 1986 prices and includes a physilcal contingency of
10 percent and price escalation averaging 7 parcent and 10 percont annually
for foreign nnd local costs, respectively. VRA is exempt from all tnxoe
and duties.
Project Financing
64.       The IDA Credit of US$6.3 million would finance the foreign costs
of engineering and management services and a part of the distribution
component, amounting to about 5 percent of the project cost. The ITA
Credit would be onlent by COG to VRA for 20 years including 5 years of
grace at the prevailing (presently 8.23 percent) IBRD interest rate. COG
would be repaid in US dollars, and VRA would be responsible for the foreign
exchange risk on the IDA Credit. VRA would also be responsible for meeting
any cost overruns, including any extra costs incurred if the 4-year
Implementation schedule is not achieved. The execution of a satisfactory
subsidiary financing agreement between COG and VRA is a condition of Credit
effectiveness.
65.       Cofinancing amounting to US$87.5 million equivalent is available
for the proposed project. An AfDB loan to VRA of US$38.3 million
equivalent (at 9.75 per cent for 20 years including 5 years grace) for the
first phase of the project (grid reinforcement and extension to Techiman
and Sunyani) was approved in June 1986. CDC and EIB (jointly US$36.7
million equivalent) and CIDA (US$7.5 million equivalent) would finance
other transmission and subtransmission components. The CDC and EIB loans
to VRA would be repayable over 17 years with 5 years grace with interest at
8.5 percent and 5 percent respectively. The CIDA grant to the Government
would be onlent to VRA. The Japanese Export-Import Bank would finance US$5
million equivalent of the distribution component of the project at 6.4
percent with 10 years repayment period including three years grace. VRA
would finance all local costs (US$29 million equivalent) of the project,
the rest (US$7.7 million equivalent) of the foreign cost and interest
during construction (US$17.4 million equivalent). However, the Saudi Fund
maintains its interest in cofinancing this project and may provide up to
US$5 million equivalent to finance a part of the distribution work. It is,
therefore, likely that a substantial portion of VRA's foreign exchange
financing requirement may be met by other donors. The effectiveness of the
cofinancing agreements is a condition of credit effectiveness.
Project Implementation
66.       Status of Preparation and Execution.  The transmission and
subtransmission components of the proposed project are fully designed,
based on over three years of studies covering the technical and economic
feasibility of extending grid supply to northern Ghana. Substation sites
have already been selected and no problems are foreseen in arranging line



- 27 -
rights-of-way which parallel existing ronds between the towns on land
largely controlled by the Government.  Preparation of the distribution
component by VRA with assistance of consultants is underway.  However, as
che required lead time ror distribution works is less than for
transmission, tharn is adequate time for VRA to complete the proparation of
the distribution component.
67.       VRA, which would be the executing agency for the entire project,
has proven to be effectivo nt meeting schedules on past Bank projects. VRA
has assigned responsibility for project execution to its Engineering
Department, whose staffing and resources are adequate for this ta6k. The
department comprises about 20 engineers supported by an expatriate
consultant. VRA has engaged Acres International (Canada) to assist in bid
evaluation1 monitor procurement, and provide consulting services as
required during project execution. VRA is engaging consultants to assist
in the preparation of the distribution component. The VRA implementation
schedule covers slightly more thatn 4 years for the overall project.
68.       Procurement.  VRA intends to base the procurement for the project
as much as possible on supply and erect contracts to shorten the sehedule,
minimize unit costs, and lessen the need for external consultants. VRA
recently advertised the following 161 kV transmission bidding packages:
line conductors and accessories; towers including line erection; trens-
formers and reactors; breakers; and the remaining substation equipment
including installation material. The 33 kV transmission work has also been
advertised on a supply and erect basis. Bids are to be submitted by
February 3, 1987 in accordance with ICB guidelines, dividing the work into
two phases - system reinforcement and Brong Ahafo region, to be financed by
AfDB; and Northern and Upper regions to financed by CDCfEIB and CIDA.
69.       Distribution materials and equipment will be procured through a
combination of ICB, international shopping and tied Japanese bidding.
Distribution installations in new areas will be made by contractors
appointed following LCB procedures while VRA staff will bc responsible for
the rehabilitation of existing facilities and connection of customers.
Housing would also be erected by local contractors and financed by VRA.
Foreign engineering and management services would be provided in accordance
with IDA guidelines.



- 23 -
70.       Procurement arrangements are summarized in the following table:
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Milllon)
Inter.
Project Component            ICB   Shopping    LCB        Other a/   Total
Transmission
Substations                 96.9        -        -          -        96.9
Subtransmission
Distribution                 6.3 b/   1.0       2.3        8.0 s/    17.6
(1.8)    (1.0)      -          -         (2.8)
Engineering, Management                                    9.5        9.5
and Training                -         -        -        (3.5)      (3.5)
Housing                       -         -       6.5         -         6.5
Total                  103.2      1.0      8.8       17.5      130.5
4AM-JI-.§    SL22_   ..S;L..
a/ Including VRA force account.
b/ Including US$4.5 million VRA-financed.
Ct Including US$5.7 million Japanese tied procurement.
Note: Figures in parentheses denote IDA Credit.
71.       Disbursements.  The proposed Credit would be disbursed against
100 percent of foreign expenditures for vehicles, equipment and supplies to
establish VRA's distribution arrangements in the project area, and for
consultant engineering and manavement services and training. A provision
has been made for up to US$0.6 million retroactive financing of consultant
services for project preparation since May 1, 1986. As there is no
standard profile for West Africa power projects, the disbursement schedule
for the Credit has been based on a standard East Africa Power Specific
Investment profile, which is appropriate for this project. Disbursements
are expected to be completed by end-1991.
72.       Monitoring and Reporting.  VRA has established a Project
Execution Unit within its Engineering Department, reporting to the
Director, Engineering. VRA is familiar with the Bank's reporting require-
ments, from earlier and ongoing projects. VRA will submit standardized
project progress reports satisfactory to all cofinanciers, and during
project implementation IDA would liaise as appropriate with cofinanciers.
73.       Environmental Aspects.  The proposed project would not have any
major adverse environmental effects. Most of the 161 kV and 33 kV trans-
mission lines will traverse relatively sparsely populated areas. It is
expected that sawmillers will utilize any larger logs cleared from
transmission rights-of-way. Provision of grid supply will eliminate air
and noise pollution caused by diesel generation in the 10 towns now served
only by diesels.



- 24 -
Project Justification, Benefits and Risks
74.       Justification - Grid Reinforcement.  Demand growth in the western
and southern areas of VRA's existing grid and the interconnection with
Energie Electrique de la Cote d'Ivoire (EECI) have nearly fully loaded the
present grid and reinforcement of some sections is necessary to meet demand
reliably in the late 1980s. Due to the indivsibility of transmission
projects, these AfDB investments wlll significantly raise the capacity of
the network, giving VPA the means to reliably transmit additional energy to
both its domestic and export markets.
75.       Grid Extension.  The project would serve economically important
urban centers in the Brong Ahafo, Northern and Upper Regions of the country
with combined populations of over 2 million people. These are the fastest
growing urban areas in Ghana, accounting for 27 percent of the urban
population outside Accra. Brong Ahafo is a major timber and cocoa
producing region of the country, while the Northern and Upper Regions are
important food producing areas. The urban centers in all three regions are
expected to experience significant economic growth under the influence of
the Government's economic recovery program, since they are the major
marketing and processing centers for agricultural products and the supply
centers for a wide range of goods and commercial services.
76.       At present, electricity supply in the project area is provided by
diesel powered generating stations owned and operated by ECG. Supply is
unreliable and costly: many generators are over 20 years old; only
one-third of the potential peak load is served; service is generally 12-18
hours per day, sometimes less, excluding unplan;.ed interruptions which are
frequent; and there is widespread use of autogeneration. The present cost
of this unsatisfactory and inefficient supply is about US#20/kWh, of which
fuel accounts for almost USi15/kWh, compared to a generation cost of
US1-4/kWh for hydro power from the grid (depending on water conditions),
and a USt4-6/kWh fuel cost using new diesels. Forecast demand for the
project area is about 25-30 MW by 1992, growing at 8 percent per year. In
several major centers (Tamale, Bolgatanga and Sunyani) there is a 5-year
backlog in new consumer connections, due to ECG not having the generation
capacity to meet demand.
77.       Benefits.  Using the cost savings achieved under this project as
opposed to the diesel alternative as a partial measure of the consumer
surplus from reliable grid supplied electricity in the project area, the
average willingness to pay, after adjusting for the impact of higher costs
on effective demand, was estimated at US414/kWh. On this basis, the IERR
of the overall project would be about 18 percent. This would rise should
exports to Burkina Faso take place in the early 1990s. The highest return
component of the proposed project is the extension to Techiman/Sunyani (24
percent), while the lowest is Tamale/Bolgatanga (14 percent).
78.       A 10 percent increase in project costs would reduce the IERR to
about 16.5 percent; a 10 percent higher than forecast load at
commissioning would raise the IERR to 19 percent, while a 10 percent lower



- 25 -
load would reduce it to 11 percent. A two-year delay in completion reduces
the IERR to 15 percent. These returns understate the true returns to the
proposed project, as they do not include benefits arising from the provi-
sion of piped water supply that is presently unobtainable in Tamale, and
extremely inadequate in Bolgatanga, because of power blhortages.
79.       Risks are normal for this type of project.  A satisfactory
solution (the installation of variable reactors) has been proposed by VRA's
consultants to deal with the technical problems of voltage control arising
on a long lightly-loaded transmission line. The coordination of project
implementation and the maintenance of satisfactory future service in the
project area require improved institutional and operational arrangements,
which would be introduced under the project.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
80.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
January 15, 1987



ANNEX I
- 26 -                                Page 1 of 2
GHANA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1985:  USS400 1/
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1984 1/                                                     ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
Ct Constant Price.)
Cedis Mil.              %                     1979-84
GDP at Market Prices                            279,000             100.0                       -2.0
Gross Domeatic Investment                        16,661               6.0                        -5.9
Gross National Saving                             8,860                3.2                     -14.7
Current Account Balance                           7,801                2.8                       --
Export of Goods, NFS                             18,767               6.7                      -10.4
Import of Goods, NFS                             21,027               7.5                       -8.7
OUTPUT AND LABOR FORCE
Output in 1984                             Labor Force, 1983
Cedis Nil.                             xMil. 
Agriculture                                     141,904               51.3            2.584           57.2
Industry                                         23,434                8.5            0.691           15.3
Services                                       1111150                40.2            1.242           27.5
GDP at Factor Cost                              276,488              100.0            4.517          100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1984                                 1985
Cedis Nil.        a of GDP 2/        Cedis Mil.      S of GDP 2/
Total Revenue and Grants                  22,641               7.9               40,311            11.5
Total Expenditure and Net Lending         27,485               9.6               47,891            13.6
Overall Deficit (-)                       -4,844              -1.7               -7,580            -2.1
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1977    1978   1979   1980      1981     1982     1983      1984     1985
Money and Quasi-money           3,044   5,131  5,942  7,949   12,029   14,837   20,497   28,552   44,987
Bank Credit to Government       3,203   5,636  4,903  6,518   10,649   11,057   21,059   22,819   24,825
Bank Credit to Private Sector    560      739    796    940    1,342    1,558    2,841    6,104   10,517
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi-money as
% of CDP                        27.3    24.4   21.1   19.4      15.7     16.7      10.7     10.2     12.8
General Price Index
(1977-100)                     100.0   173.1  267.3  401.2    868.6  1,062.4  2,357.4  3,304.2  3,647.2
11 Atlas Methodology.
2/ Ratios are calculated on a recently revised GDP series.



ANNEX I
- 27-                                Page 2 of 2
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                       MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1981-85)
1984       1985 l1
CUSS Million)                                     USS Million       S
Trade Balance                     -102        -112        Cocoa Beans & Products         382           64.5
Exports f.o.b.                   566        633         Cold                           114           19.3
Imports c.i.f.                   668         745        Residual Oil                    31            5.3
Timber                          23            3.9
Invisibles (Net)                  -113        -190        Electricity                     18            3.1
Services                        -186        -250        Manganese                        7            1.2
Transfers                         73          60        Diamond                          5            0.8
All Other Goods                 it           1.9
Current Balance                   -215        -302
Total                          591          100.0
Capital Account
Grants                           141          87
Official Capital (Net)            88          33        EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 1985
Private Capital (Net)            -12           6
Capital n.e.s. 2/                -12         -78                                               US$ Bil.
Overall Balance                   -121         -98        Total Outstanding and
Disbursed N&LT                         1.5
Net IMF                            214         122
Arrears Payments                   -61         -57
Other                                           33
Gross International
Reserves (End of Period) 3,    199           126
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1985 4/                S
February 1973 - June 18, 1978                             Total Outstanding and
USs1 - 01.15                                       Disbursed MKLT                            51.6
Total Outstanding and
Since Aug. 26, 1978,   US$1   - e 2.75                    Disbursed inc. payment arrears               60.0
Since April 21, 1983,  US$1   - 024.69
Since Oct. 10, 1983,   US$1   - 030.00                    IBRDtIDA LENDING (December 31. 1985)
Since March 25, 1984, US$1   - 035.00
Since August 25, 1984, US$1   - 038.50                                                    IBRD          IDA
Since December 3, 1984,US$l   - 050.00
Since April 19, 1985,  US$1   - 053.00                    Outstanding & Disbursed        122.87      252.76
Since August 12, 1985, USS1   - 057.00                    Undisbursed                      0.01      337.74
Since Oct. 7, 1985,    USS1   - ¢60.00                    Outstanding, incl.
Since Jan. 11, 1986    US$1   - #90.00                    Undisbursed                    122.58      590.50
Since Sept. 19, 1986
Second Window Auction US$1   - ¢128-151
1/ Estimates.
Z/ Includes errors and omissions.
1 Including gold at national valuation.
4/ As t of exports of goods and non-f;._tor services (includes IMF debt).



ANNEX II
-28-                           Par Iofi
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GHANA 1/
STATEMENT OP BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of September 30, 1986)
Loan or                                                                     Amount (USSMillion)2/
Credit    Fiscal                                                             Lear Cancellation
Number    Year          Borrower                  Purpose              Bank     IDA    Undimbursed 3/
Ten loans and thirteen credits fully disbursed                        189.7    107.4
901-GH   1979     Republic of Ghana   Second NIB                               19.0        0.19
1009-GM   1980     Republic of Ghana   Volta Region Ag.Dev.                     29.5       18.46
1029-GH   1980     Republic of Ghana   Third Highway                            25.0        0.23
1170-GH   1981     Republic of Ghana   Railway                                  29.0        5.99
1327-GH   1983     Republic of Ghana   Reconstruction CIMAO                      9.3       10.44
1342-GH   1983     Republic of Ghana   Water Supply                             13.0         4.3
1373-GH   1983     Republic of Ghana   Energy Project                           11.0        8.29
1393-GH   1933     Republic of Ghana   Reconstruction Import Cr.                40.0        3.26
1435-GH   1934     Republic of Ghana   Export Rehabilitation                    40.1       17.03
P009-GH   1984     Republic of Ghana   Export Rehabilitation                    35.9        22.01
1436-GH   1984     Republic of Ghana   Export Rehabilitation
Technical Assistance                  17.1         8.65
1446-GH   1984     Republic of Ghana   Petroleum Refinery Rehab.
and Technical Assistance               6.9         5.19
1498-GH   1984     Republic of Ghana   Second Oil Palm                          25.0       22.56
1564-GH   1985     Republic of Ghana   Accra District Rehab.                    22.0       20.73
1573-GH   1985     Republic of Ghana   Second Reconstruction
Imports Credit                        60.0        29.45
A003-GH   1985     Republic of Ghana   Second Reconstruction
Imports Credit                        27.0         25.6
1601-CH   1985     Republic of Ghana   Road Rehabilitation and
Maintenance                           40.0        44.02
AOOI-GH   1985     Republic of Ghana   Road Rehabilitation and
Maintenance                           10.0         9.83
1628-GH   1986     Republic of Ghana   Power System
Rehabilitation                        28.0        31.04
1653-GH   1986     Republic of Ghana   Health and Education
Rehabilitation                        15.0        13.45
1672-GH   1986     Republic of Ghana   Industrial Sector
Adjustment Credit                     28.5        23.21
A013-GH   1986     Republic of Ghana   Industrial Sector
Adjustment Credit                     25.0        18.08
1674-GH   1986     Republic of Ghana   Ports Rehabilitation 4/                  24.5       27.8
Total                        189.7    688.2       369.19
of which has been paid        74.4      5.4
Total now outstanding       1i5.    U')3
Amount sold                    0.4
of which has been repaid      0.4      0.0
Total now held by Bank
& IDA                       119.3    682.8
Total undisbursed                0   369.19        369.19
11   The status of the project listed in this part is described in a separate report on all Bank/
IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the
Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
2/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
3/   Calculated at the exchange rate applicable on September 30, 1986.
4/   Not yet effective as at September 30, 1986.



- 29 -                         ANNEX III
GHANA
NORTHERN GRID EXTENSION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project  :    Nine months
(b)  Project prepared by                  .   VRA
(c)  First presented to IDA                    September 1985
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission            April 1986
(e)  Negotiations                         .    October 1986
(f)  Effectiveness (planned)              .   May 1987
Section II:  Special IDA Implementation Actions
NONE
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Transfer to VRA of power sector activities in the area to
begin January 1, 1987 (para. 33);
(b) VRA to ensure that billings to all customers are settled
in accordance with respective power supply agreements
(para. 48);
(c) VRA to set up contingency fund to cover foreign debt
service obligations (para. 49);
(d) VRA to earn a rate of return of 82 on currently valued
assets (para. 52); and
(e) VRA to annually review with IDA its five-year capital
expenditure and related financing plan during the project
period (para. 54).



B U  R K I N  A        F A    S 0vtw@a B ovSdwvJt .,2i A  Ar /
/  / ~~ r j U p p em / ^ >ufrG                                                                                                    H  A  N   A  '¢n 
Sl\g,   U ~~~~~~~~~p p eM rr      f~°Gm=                                                                                ^              _
i   a   R  e  g  i o  n   /           x        >      i{Uble*=le                           gi n      COE D ORE 
U  pV    pt e  r7 e s                                                                                       ,-1                                  t4w
~~~~~~Reg !    n                                 t-   w a
{r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i Pong Tamalet  
) i - x-- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TAMALE                                    -           ndi *~)
2   f  ~ ~ ~ ~~~  OBDS mil     <                 C,                     )         5=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sbor  S 
p      <to~~le         Domongoo-,'              ,.;terno                     Palbe                       t       <        
<   s       AX        r       h       rQ)                               'g /c   nI                   / 
C O  T E          \ %                       t/!ii                                                            j/--' 
\ \^ } sG~~~~~~ovwornpn     
D' I V O  I R E       i      \'                  >    /(- h /'\x                                                        .    
j   0  Bombo  /SOrOnuOSr            / Yelt F@~~~~~~~~y  .   _-8?   q   - J      O        r~~N
rOooUll<, </ Z \ / /; _ v; , . . 9 * ~~~T    O G   O
J             O                            4 >§K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..1iet Krirr chi ji
J                   ~~~~~~~~Wenchi /                        Atebubu-.       1                       - 
j   B r o n g                           /J^    . a f                            .r^C> _  eDdppasoe
i : ~~~~~~~Techirm ;,'- ,'*- |
ra Ab#Kodian-  SUNYA' Z    >~ }  >_



ToAbud/as   5. *,§^ ,j                                   - U Y i*   3 9\ .                                                                                  -     F   
Darmooa-     SUNYANla! . -                                       -                                  r                             t  o
Ahankro                                           boU                                                                             -Nr I"tice
? OgaWdjy t  _ >N suut kOm                                         F      mo          a Sef  roe  cr
Agana      Moon                                .-                      s?Aburmpo             7a
Barekese  rilnsa      -      XKmw                                                  27 t 
'-l                     Anwirikw    a           Dnw nr n
G,b so 7,.j    -. 
iAwwIflv  :~~~~~~~~T I  ObuasiflKav
w ..              Nyanwm t                                                                                Aaw  Aas
6'                                                                                             * Wes    es
Ends~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s
0AsaonkrIaAnwwo         rnwt
~~5arnreba  B6goso                 M~~~Bekani      Asisku uma SwedrL.
-                           .-Elroino                                                                 GH -  AN
A         A        t         Asiekp
Kde-               iv .
_  _          _flIiv (0Vf~D
*              Q-5E O21ATN 3ATE!E
w  r   n                                                                           KOFORI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  YBOPWE AT
S  IhuUOADS
--    f0  Su'OAS
--    IHNU1SAflONAL OUNDAfS
p      20     *0      00     tO      Ix           _
C                                                                                                                                                                                                      0e;er  
m@                                                                         I. 'sew.-oTfr- r Acc ra  7, s
5-mebo gMnso As                         - _W .rb , f-w Sws -d r
Kwominal(i    OAs  RAS. -ewan                                                      nw  



I



