Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6909-MLI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 41.6 MILLION (US$60 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MALI
FOR AN
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT CREDIT
JUNE 4, 1996
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         =            CFAF
US$ 1.00              =            CFAF 499.4
SDR I                 =            CFAF 739.6
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                             US Equivalent
I meter (m)           =            3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)      =            0.62 miles (mi)
I square kilometer (km2) =         0.39 square miles (sq. mi)
I metric ton (t)      =            2,205 pounds (lb)
I kilogram (kg)       =            2.2046 pounds (lb)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ACRONYMS
AEF        African Enterprise Fund
AfDB       African Development Bank
BOAM       Bank of Africa Mali
BCEAO    Banque Centrale des Etats de I 'Afrique de I 'Ouest (West African Central Bank Zone)
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CFA        Communaute Financiere Africaine (African Financial Community)
CFAF       CFA Franc
CIDA       Canadian Intemational Development Agency
DNAE       Direction Nationale des Affaires Economiques (National Economic Affairs Directorate)
DNTP       Direction Nationale des Travaux Publics (National Public Works Directorate)
DRS        Debt Reporting System
ESAF       Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ESW        Economic and Sector Work
EU         European Union
FAD        Fiscal Affairs Department
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GGG        Groupement des Grands Garages de Bamako (Association of Large Garages of Bamako)
GNFS       Goods and non-factor services
GNP        Gross National Product
IBRD       Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
IDA        Intemational Development Association
IEC        Information, Education and Communication
IFC        Intemational Finance Corporation
IMF        Intemafional Monetary Fund
MIGA       Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
NFS        Non-factor services
NGO        Non-Govemmental Organization
PAGE       Projet d 'Appui a la Gestion Economique (Economic Management Operation)
PER        Public Expenditure Review
PESAP    Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Operation
PFP        Policy Framework Paper
OECD       Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
OED        Operations Evaluation Department
ONAP       Office National des Produits Petroliers (National Office of Petroleum Products)
SAL        Structural Adjustment Loan
SDR        Special Drawing Right
SGS        Societe Generale de Surveillance (Pre-shipment Inspection Agency)
SOMAM   Societe des Minoteries du Mali (Flour Mill Company of Mali)
SPA        Special Program of Assistance for Africa
SSA        Sub-Saharan Africa
UNDP       United Nations Development Program
USAID      United States Agency for Intemational Development
VAT        Value-Added Tax
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






REPUBLIC OF MALI
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT CREDIT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Credit and Program  Summary .....................                  ........................................         i
L. THE ECONOMY
A.  Past Adjustment Efforts ..............................            .......................        I
B.  Recent Developments ......................                ...............................        2
C.  Poverty under Adjustment ..................................           ...................        4
D.  Medium  Term  Prospects and Financing Requirements .....................                         4
IL BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A.  Bank Assistance Strategy .              ....................................................     6
B.  Lessons Learned from  Past Adjustment Operations .........................                       7
C.  IFC and MIGA  .....................................................                              7
D.  Collaboration with IMF and Other Donors .....................              .................     8
111. MALI'S MEDIUM TERM REFORM PROGRAM
A.  Redressing Fiscal Imbalances   .....................................................             8
B.  Addressing Gender Issues ....................................................                    12
C.  Education and Health Reforms .....................................................               13
D.  Private Sector Development ....................................................                  13
E.  Civil Service Reform            ...........................   .........................          14
IV. THE PROPOSED ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT CREDIT
A.  Domestic Resource Mobilization                 ....................................................  14
B.  Expenditure Efficiency and Effectiveness ..................             ......................  16
C.  Addressing Gender Issues ..............................................................         18
D.  Budgetary Impact of Proposed Reform  Measures                          ...........................  18
V. CREDIT FEATURES AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS ...   19
VI. RECOMMENDATION ..............................................................                                  23



ANNEXES
ANNEX A. Mali at a glance
ANNEX B. Key Social Indicators
ANNEX C. Selected Economic and Financial Indicators
ANNEX D. Matrix of Policy Measures
ANNEX E. Letter of Development Policy
ANNEX F. Performance Monitoring Indicators
ANNEX G. Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
ANNEX H. Status of Bank Group Operations
This operation was prepared by a team comprising Messrs./Mmes Victoria Kwakwa (Sr. Economist
and Task Manager, AF5CO), Fabien Nsengiyumva (Economist, AF5CO), Linda McGinnis (Resident
Representative, Bamako), Roseleen Mba-Kalu (Operations Analyst) and Nanasamudd Chhim,
(Research Analyst). Ms. Atossa Shafa provided administrative support. Messrs. Birger Fredriksen
and Hasan Tuluy are respectively the Acting Department Director and the Acting Managing Division
Chief for the operation. Mr. Fran,ois Laporte is the Lead Economist.



REPUBLIC OF MALI
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT CREDIT
Credit and Program Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Mali
Beneficiary:       The Government of the Republic of Mali
Amount:            IDA Credit: SDR 41.6 million (US$60 million equivalent)
Terms:            IDA Credit: Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
Program
Description:       The proposed operation will support the Government of Mali's efforts to
deepen fiscal adjustment and provide a stable macroeconomic environment
that is conducive to sustained private sector-led growth. It will ensure
improved quality of fiscal adjustment through greater reliance on expansion
of revenues and closer coherence with long-term social development
objectives.  Its main objectives are to: (i) improve domestic resource
mobilization and reduce distortions in the existing system of direct taxation;
(ii) improve the efficiency, effectiveness, and the poverty focus of public
expenditures; and (iii) support measures to address gender-based
constraints on access to land and credit for women. The operation will
support both policy and administrative reforms, critical for achieving
needed fiscal adjustment. It is an integral part of the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) presented to the Executive Directors on January 5, 1995
and is fully consistent with the Government's Medium Term Reform
Agenda. The Government's Letter of Development Policy is attached in
Annex E.
Poverty category:  Poverty focused. The proposed Credit would support the reallocation of
expenditures to sectors where there are clear and proven links between
public expenditure and poverty alleviation, notably primary education,
health, agricultural extension and road maintenance.  The component
supporting activities to improve access to land and credit for women
should also help poverty reduction efforts given the higher incidence of
poverty amongst women in Mali.
Benefits:          The revenue measures will help Mali move closer to achieving the objective
of reducing dependence on external budgetary aid, thus ensuring that
available external aid funds can be channeled into financing investments for
longer term development. Simplification and reduction in the distortionary
impact of the system of direct taxation will help establish a more supportive



ii
environment for private sector investment. The expenditure measures will
improve the efficiency of public resource use and help expand primary
enrollment and health coverage which are important for Mali's longer term
growth. The activities to improve access to credit and to land for women
will help women participate more fully in economic activity. Overall, the
operation will help improve fiscal balance, thus promoting the stable
macroeconomic environment needed for sustained growth and poverty
reduction.
Risks:             The main risks are those of resistance to the proposed reforms by groups
likely to be affected, weak technical capacity to carry out reforms, and
excessive pre-election spending that could derail the financial program.
The first risk is mitigated by Government efforts to build consensus around
the reform program and to hold extensive discussions with key interest
groups on the specific reforms proposed under the operation. The second
risk is addressed through the components of the operation geared at
building capacity through organizational and administrative changes and
training, particularly in the customs and domestic tax departments and in
the budget unit. The third risk could be mitigated through Government and
Bank efforts to continue to include key pressure groups (notably students
and unions) in the policy dialogue and through close monitoring of the
financial program.
Estimated
Disbursements:     - SDR 14.0 million would be released at effectiveness;
- SDR 6.9 million would be released during 1997, subject to satisfactory
review of the 1996 macroeconomic program and fulfillment of the specific
conditions for the release of the second tranche;
- SDR 6.9 million would be released during 1998, subject to satisfactory
review of performance of the 1997 macroeconomic program and fulfillment
of the specific conditions for the release of the third tranche.  These
tranches will be canceled if conditions for the given year are not met;
- Two floating tranches of SDR 6.9 million each would be released upon
satisfaction of specific measures related to fiscal reform and to gender.
The latest date for the disbursement of these floating tranches would be
December 31, 1998, the closing date for the operation.
Rate of Return:    Not Applicable
Appraisal Report:  Not Applicable
Map:               Not Applicable
Product ID:        ML-PA- 1735



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALI
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Economic Management Credit to the Republic of Mali for SDR 41.6 million, the equivalent of
US$60 million. The Credit, an integral part of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), would
support adjustment efforts to increase domestic resource mobilization and reduce distortions in
the existing system of direct taxation; improve the efficiency, effectiveness and poverty focus of
public expenditures; and address gender issues, notably gender-based constraints in access to land
and to credit. It would be provided on standard IDA terms, with an amortization period of 40
years. Mali's adjustment efforts are also supported by the International Monetary Fund (IMF)
through a second three-year Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF), the first year
arrangement under which was approved by the IMF Board in April 19961, by the EU, the AfDB
and by bilateral donors.
1. THE ECONOMY
A. Past Adjustment Efforts
2.    In the early 1 980s, years of economic mismanagement, coupled with international oil price
shocks, deterioration in world prices of key exports and severe droughts, culminated in growing
macroeconomic imbalances in Mali. No longer able to service its external debts or pay its civil
servants, the Government of Mali launched a series of adjustment and stabilization programs
beginning in 1982. The underlying objective was to lay the foundations for sustained growth by
restoring macroeconomic equilibria and transforming the economy from a state-controlled to a
market based system. Key elements of this effort were market liberalization and improvements in
the incentive and regulatory framework. In addition, measures were put in place to reduce
budgetary deficits, public enterprise operating losses and public sector arrears.  Regarding
sequencing of reforms, fiscal and public enterprise issues were addressed first, followed by
financial sector reforms, internal liberalization, and finally, trade reform. Substantial progress was
made in reducing economic and financial imbalances until the pace of reforns slowed noticeably
in 1986. In 1988, the Government resumed its adjustment program deepening efforts at the
macroeconomic level and broadening the reform program to cover a wide range of sectors,
notably agriculture, transport, health and education. With the exception of slippage in late 1992
and in 1993, linked to the process of political transition, and delays in executing education sector
reforms, the program has been steadfastly executed.
A first three-year ESAF arrangement approved in August 1992, was successfully completed in December
1995.



2
3.    Until 1994, internal adjustment was the sole instrument for achieving an appropriate real
exchange rate given the fixed nominal exchange rate policy of the CFA zone. This strategy was
designed to reduce domestic cost structure and prices below those of competitor countries
through the pursuit of stringent anti-inflationary fiscal and monetary policies. Internal adjustment
proved ineffective in achieving the needed real exchange rate depreciation, due in part to the
significant nominal devaluation of the currencies of competitor countries, the depreciation after
1985, of the US dollar vis-a-vis the French Franc to which the CFA was tied, and declining terms
of trade. By end 1993, estimates indicated that the real exchange rate was overvalued by as much
as 30 percent in domestic currency terms. The devaluation of the CFA franc by 50 percent in
foreign currency terms in early 1994 was a recognition of the limits of the internal adjustment
strategy and a bold step to effect the realignment of the real exchange rate needed to improve
overall competitiveness.
4.    The adjustment effort has succeeded in moving Mali closer to a market based economy.
Factor and product markets have been liberalized, extensive trade reforms have been put in place2,
and Government participation in economic activity has been significantly scaled back, creating
room for private sector growth. Further structural reforms are needed particularly to: (i) improve
the functioning of the financial sector; (ii) enhance the efficiency of the civil service; (iii) increase
the level of domestic resource mobilization while reducing the distortionary impact of the existing
system of direct taxation; (iv) increase efficiency in the allocation, the use and the poverty impact
of public expenditures; (v) address gender-based constraints to the participation of women in
economic activity (notably constraints in access to land and to credit); and (vi) rapidly expand
access to basic education and health services to a greater segment of the population while
improving quality of service provision. As discussed in paras. 22-34 below, reforms under points
(i) and (ii) will be supported under IDA financed operations currently under preparation, reforms
under points (iii), (iv) and (v) are supported under the proposed operation, while reforms and
investments to rapidly increase the provision of basic social services are being supported under
ongoing and planned future operations (para. 32).
B. Recent Developments
5.    Political Developments. Over the last 5 years, Mali has made a remarkable transition
from a repressive military regime to a multi-party democracy. During the last year and a half, the
Government has succeeded in firming up its authority, initially weakened in the face of growing
political clout of labor unions and student groups. This has helped regain the momentum of the
reform process and a concerted effort is being made to build broad consensus around key national
issues including the reform program. An active communication campaign in the aftermath of the
devaluation, coupled with intense consultations with labor unions, helped ensure relative social
calm and success in the implementation of accompanying measures.  In August 1994, the
Government conducted a series of nationwide town meetings on pressing issues facing the
country, including reforms in the education sector. Continued success in explaining the reform
strategy will be critical in neutralizing remaining pockets of resistance, winning broad support for
deeper reforms, and ensuring their effective implementation.  As part of the process of
2   The exchange rate system is however not market based.



3
democratization, the Government plans to implement a program of political and administrative
decentralization which will be put in place over the next few years. As the country prepares for
presidential and legislative elections in 1997, the challenge for the Government will be to stay the
course of reform and ensure that the financial program is not derailed by excessive election
spending.
6.    Economic Developments 1988-1993. Significant progress was made on the stabilization
front over the period. Inflation was contained at under 3 percent per annum, from a high of over
10 percent in the pre-reform era. The overall fiscal deficit (commitment basis and excluding
grants), declined from 10.5 percent in 1988 to 8.5 percent in 1990, and from 12.1 percent in 1991
to 9.6 percent in 1993. Despite declining terms of trade, the external current account deficit
(excluding official transfers) improved marginally to 12.9 percent of GDP in 1993 from 14.4
percent of GDP in 1989. Growth performance also improved, averaging about 3 percent
annually. However, this was lower than projected and barely sufficient to keep up with rapid
population growth estimated at about 3.1 percent annually.
7.    Post-devaluation Developments 1994-1995. Mali has successfully managed its post-
devaluation stabilization performance. Given the high import content of consumption, in the
aftermath of the devaluation, macroeconomic balances worsened relative to their 1993 levels.
The overall fiscal deficit and the current account deficit increased to 13.7 percent and to 18.2
percent of GDP respectively and inflation rose to 33.2 percent. However, considerable ground
was regained in 1995. Budgetary revenues exceeded projected levels by about 12 percent,
allowing a decline in the fiscal deficit to 10.5 percent of GDP, compared to the program target of
12.4 percent. The current account deficit declined to 15.2 percent of GDP and inflation as
measured by the GDP deflator was reduced to 12.7 percent. A table of selected economic and
financial indicators is provided in Annex C.
8.    The improved competitiveness has already provided a boost to economic activity in Mali
and signs of recovery are noticeable across key sectors of the economy. A few industries that had
been closed prior to the devaluation, have now resumed operations, creating an estimated 600
new jobs. The financial viability of the key cotton sector has been restored and gross sector
profits amounted to CFAF 32 billion and CFAF 42 billion respectively in the 1994 and 1995 crop
years, allowing payments to cotton farmers over and above the floor price received of about
CFAF 23 billion3. Local rice is now able to compete on the local market with imports from Asia
without recourse to high levels of protection and Malian livestock is also competitive on sub-
regional markets with imports from the European Union and Latin America. Export performance
has been impressive with volumes increasing on average 12.4 percent annually over 1994 and
1995. Much of this increase came from traditional exports (cotton, livestock and gold) but non-
traditional exports such as fruits and vegetables are also experiencing some growth. Overall
growth of the economy, which was a low 2.3 percent in 1994, increased to 6 percent in 1995, due
mainly to the improved competitive position of the agriculture and the mining sectors,
After the devaluation, the floor price of cotton was increased to CFAF 125 per kilogram from CFAF 85 per
kilogram and farmers' share of sector profits was increased to 35 percent from 25 percent.



4
strengthened domestic demand resulting from a shift of consumption patterns in favor of locally
produced substitution goods, and favorable rainfall during the 1994/95 crop season.
C. Poverty under Adjustment
9.    Data from  a 1989 household budget survey indicate that about 73 percent of the
population live below the poverty line4. The bulk (90 percent) of the poor live in rural areas, but
there is evidence of increasing urban poverty. With limited growth, progress in reducing poverty
over the adjustment period has also been limited. Key reforms in agriculture have benefited
segments of the rural population, notably cotton and rice farmers. The organization of farmers in
the rice and cotton producing zones has given these groups a much stronger voice in decision
making in their respective sub-sectors. This augurs well for future incomes. In the rice sector,
the liberalization of produce marketing and processing and the restructuring of the rice parastatal
has given farmers the opportunity to mill their rice paddy with private millers, adding value and
thus attracting larger margins than was the case in the pre-reform period. In the cotton sector, for
several years, the impact of sector efficiency improvements on farmer incomes was offset by
falling world market prices. However, recent producer price increases allowed by the devaluation
and recovery in world market prices have boosted producer incomes.
10.   The Government's divestiture program and its withdrawal from distribution, trade and
retailing have given more opportunity for a larger segment of the population to enter the
production and retail trade. On the other hand, other aspects of the program have had a less
positive impact on urban employment. Close to 9,000 workers lost jobs through the
Government's public and parapublic sector reform programs between 1988 and 1994. Due to the
stagnation in the economy and poor implementation of reinsertion programs, a large number of
this group was not successfully reintegrated into the private sector, swelling up the ranks of the
urban unemployed and underemployed. The ongoing Public Sector Employment And Capacity
Building Project has helped provide short-term employment for unskilled urban poor through
labor intensive public works programs, but addresses only a small fraction of total employment
needs.
D. Medium Term Prospects and Financing Requirements
11.   Improvements in competitiveness following the devaluation (real depreciation is estimated
at about 32 percent in domestic currency terms since the devaluation) has improved Mali's
medium-term growth prospects. Good progress in addressing the reform issues outlined below
and in implementing reforms already spelt out in the Sixth Year PFP and supported by this
operation should help Mali consolidate these competitiveness gains. Real GDP growth is
projected to average 4 to 5 percent annually over 1996-1998, allowing per capita income growth
of at least 1.5 percent per annum. This would be a notable improvement over performance during
the last five years, but cannot be expected to make a significant impact on poverty reduction
efforts. It will have to be complemented by policies to ensure that the poor can benefit from
Defined as average level of income allowing daily intake of 2450 calories.



5
growth, e.g. policies to improve access to credit, to education, and training for the poor, as well
as targeted interventions to meet the needs of the most disadvantaged in society.
12.   Agriculture will continue to be the main sector of economic activity and further increases
in cotton, cereals, and livestock production are both technically and economically feasible.
Significant growth is also expected in non-traditional areas such as high value fruits and
vegetables. Growth in agriculture is projected to average about 4.5 percent over 1996-1998.
With the recent opening of the Sadiola Hill gold venture, mining sector growth is projected to
average about 20 percent over the period. Industrial growth linked to agro-processing and to
textiles should allow growth of industry (outside of mining) of about 6 percent annually.
Construction is expected to continue to show strong growth as overall economic activity
strengthens. Projected increases in tourism should also provide a boost to service sector growth.
Given the small size of the domestic market, increased opportunities for intra-regional trade in the
context of the recently created West African Economic and Monetary Union will be important for
achieving the projected overall growth rates.
13.   Under the PFP scenario, gross investment would be maintained at about 26 percent of
GDP, with the share of private investment slowly increasing in response to continued
improvement in the policy environment. Domestic savings would rise to about 14.1 percent of
GDP by 1998 from the current level of 8.8 percent. The current budget surplus would increase
from 1.8 percent in 1995 to about 3.6 percent of GDP by 1998 and inflation would be brought
down to the pre-devaluation level of around 3 percent per annum. The current account deficit
(excluding official transfers) is projected to decline to 10.6 percent of GDP by 1998. The
Government intends to achieve external viability (i.e. eliminate the need for external budgetary
aid) over the medium-term but although domestic savings are projected to increase, Mali will
continue to depend heavily on external financing for implementation of its investment program.
About 85 percent of projected investment is expected to be financed from external sources.
14.   Total external financing requirements are estimated to be in the order of about US$1.5
billion over 1996-98 (Table 1). The current account deficit, excluding grants, accounts for
roughly 68 percent of this requirement, debt amortization 22 percent, and reserves build up 10
percent. Disbursements from already identified grants and loans resources (non-adjustment) and
private capital flows, are projected to provide about 74 percent of the required external financing.
The remaining gap will need to be financed by bilateral debt relief, and new quick-disbursing non-
project aid, including IDA and IMF adjustment lending. In total, approximately US$380 million
of quick disbursing assistance is required for the 1996-98 period. The proposed credit would
provide about 16 percent of this amount. Projected debt relief, existing commitments and IMF
resources cover an additional 77 percent. The remaining 7 percent is expected to be covered by
new cofinancing under the Special Program of Assistance for Africa (SPA).
15.   Based on the medium-term balance of payments projections and subject to Mali's pursuit
of a prudent external debt management policy and receipt of debt relief on Naples terms for all of
its eligible bilateral debt, including that to the People's Republic of China and the Russian
Federation, the burden of Mali's debt should be reduced substantially and debt service should be
sustainable. After debt relief, the debt service ratio would decrease from 14.4 percent of exports
of goods and services in 1995 to 12.6 percent in 2005 and 11.7 percent by 2015 --or the



6
equivalent of 14.5 percent of government revenue and grants in 1995 and 13.2 percent in 2015--
levels compatible with Mali's projected repayment capacity.
Table 1. Mali - External Financing Requirements and Resources. 1993-98
(In millions of US$)
1993   1994   1995       1996   1997    1998         Total
Est.            Program             1996-98
Requirements                        459.4  598.9  629.9      548.1  455.1   460.4        1463.6
Current account deficit, excluding   344.6  337.5  374.0  350.2  329.7   316.7         996.6
official transfers
Debt amortization 1/             133.8  130.2  135.4       130.4   85.5    97.8        313.7
Changes in external payments     -17.6   35.7   --          --     --       --          --
arrears (net accumulation -)
Changes in net foreign assets     28.6  118.7   97.7       67.5   39.9    45.9         153.3
(increase +) 2/
Other 3/                         -30.3  -22.8   22.9        --     --       --          --
Resources                          459.4  598.9  629.9       548.1  455.1   460.4        1463.6
Non-adjustment grants and loans   296.2  284.4  327.9      336.4  347.1   350.7        1034.2
of which: World Bank           44.0   45.0   56.0        55.0   57.0    58.0         170.0
Private capital (net)              -6.7    45.0   30.0       10.0   19.7    19.4         49.1
Required quick-disbursing financing   169.9  269.5  272.0   201.7   88.3    90.3        380.3
and debt relief
of which: existing commitments 4/   48.8  134.2  138.2    54.0    0.0      0.0         54.0
IMF                     13.0   42.0   44.0        31.0   31.0    30.0          92.0
Debt relief 5/          108.1   93.3   89.8       81.1   28.7    36.2         146.0
Proposed operation       --      --      --       20.0   20.0    20.0          60.0
Residual gap             --      --      --        15.6    8.6      4.1        28.3
Source: Sixth Year Policy Framework Paper, 1996-98.
1/ Including IMF repurchases.
2/ Excluding the change in the net position vis-a-vis the IMF.
3/ Including revaluation adjustnent and errors and omissions.
4/ Excluding IMF.
5/ Including debt rescheduling, debt moratoria and debt under renegotiation (Russian Fed., China), and debt cancellation.
H. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A. Bank Assistance Strategy
16.    This project is consistent with the Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy for Mali
discussed by the Board of Executive Directors on January 5, 1995. The main blocks of this
strategy are to support the Government's efforts to: (i) achieve sustained broad-based growth; (ii)
develop human resources and improve the quality of education and health services; and (iii)
address the needs of most vulnerable groups through a strengthened social safety net system.
These objectives will be achieved largely through investment lending, with adjustment lending
declining as a share of the portfolio over the FY96-98 period. This will be complemented by a
program of Economic and Sector Work (ESW) geared towards promoting national debate and



7
increased awareness of and consensus on key development issues. The approach seeks greater
consultation and participation by clients and beneficiaries in the preparation and execution of
operations, and several operations under preparation systematically include consultation with
beneficiaries in their definition and preparation. It also foresees continued close coordination with
other donors in an effort to ensure coherence in donor support to Government, and avoid
duplication of effort.
17.   The lending program emanating from this strategy envisages a significant increase in the
lending envelop to Mali as well as a shift in lending in favor of education and health over the
FY97-99 period. The increase in lending is justified by Mali's good performance in pursuing its
economic reform agenda culminating in the 1994 parity change, and the country's overwhelming
needs. Although the emphasis will be on the social sectors, interventions are planned in several
other sectors. The ongoing Private Sector Assistance Operation, the Transport Sector Investment
Operation, the planned Financial Sector Reform Operation, and the legal reform component of the
Institutional Development Project under preparation all support key elements of the
Government's private sector and competitiveness strategy. The Population, Health and Rural
Water Supply Operation is the main vehicle for Bank support to Government's efforts to expand
basic health services. In education, the first step of the Government's sector strategy was
supported through the Education Sector Adjustment Operation with cofinancing from Japan, the
Netherlands and Belgium. The second step will be supported by a multi donor-financed sector
investment operation programmed for FY97. A Pilot Participation Project aimed at addressing
the needs of vulnerable groups through closer collaboration with NGOs is scheduled for appraisal
in June 1996. Other key operations in the program include a Rural Infrastructure Operation (with
rural roads and water components), and a follow-up Health Sector Investment Operation.
B. Lessons Learned from Past Adjustment Operations
18.   The Bank has financed one structural adjustment, two sector adjustment (education and
public enterprise sectors), and two hybrid credits (one in agriculture and one in education) to Mali
since 1988. In addition, a single tranche Economic Recovery Credit was prepared as an
emergency response to the parity change of January 1994. An OED evaluation report has been
prepared for the Public Enterprise Operation (PESAP), and an ICR for the SAL I has recently
been completed. In both operations, implementation wavered partly as a result of social
discontent and political changes. Programs designed to address short-term adverse impacts were
poorly executed and monitored. They were also affected by a lack of distinction between
reinsertion programs and payment of employment severances, creating unrealistic expectations on
the part of laid-off staff. Key lessons from these two operations include the importance of
ensuring: (i) Government ownership and a strong constituency in support of reforms; (ii)
institutional capacity to implement and monitor reforms; and (iii) clear objectives and effective
monitoring of programs to address short-term social impacts of reforms.
C. ILFC and MIGA
19.   As of April 30, 1996, the IFC had made 6 investments totaling about US$95.5 million to
Mali. The IFC's Board has also approved three operations that are yet to be committed (AEF-
GGG for US$770,000 in equity, AEF-BOAM for US$230,000 in equity and AEF-SOMAM for



8
US$1.5 million in loan). IFC's investments in Mali cover food, agro-business, tourism, financial
intermediation, and mining operations. IFC will continue to focus on the development of small-
and medium-scale enterprises through the African Project Development Facility and the African
Enterprise Fund. Mali became a member of MIGA in October 1992.
D. Collaboration with IMF and Other Donors
20.   Mali's adjustment and overall development agenda is being implemented with strong
support of several bilateral and multilateral donors. The effective coordination of this multi-
sourced assistance is critical for ensuring its improved effectiveness. IDA staff work closely with
the IMiF on macroeconomic program discussions and on the preparation of the PFP. A first year
arrangement under a second three-year ESAF program was approved by the EMF's Board on
April 10, 1996. Donor coordination occurs in various fora: the semi-annual SPA donors'
meetings and sectoral donor Round tables, the UNDP Roundtable process (a successful
Roundtable meeting was held in Geneva, September 13-14, 1994), as well as informal and formal
contacts during field missions. IDA staff, both in the field and at headquarters, have and will
continue to maintain an active dialogue with key donors in Mali on sectoral and macropolicy
reform issues, seeking closer collaboration and joint financing of various development projects.
IH. MALI'S MEDIUM TERM REFORM PROGRAM
21.   Key elements of the Government's medium term reform agenda include the following:
A. Redressing Fiscal Imbalances
22.   Mali's fiscal adjustment since 1988 has achieved some reductions in fiscal imbalances.
The overall fiscal deficit (commitment basis and excluding grants) fell by 2 percent of GDP
between 1988 and 1990, by about 2.5 percent of GDP between 1991 and 1993 (para. 6) and by
an additional 3 percent of GDP between 1994 and 19955. Until 1993, the improvements in fiscal
balance, which were needed, relied more on expenditure contraction than on improvements in
revenue performance. The reductions in public spending reflect the elimination of high levels of
government subsidies to the parapublic sector and other wasteful elements of public resource use,
which was warranted. However, expenditures in areas such as primary education and health,
which should have grown, also suffered. The quality of fiscal adjustment could clearly have been
improved through greater reliance on revenue expansion6, by ensuring that social sector spending
was not put at risk and through greater intrasectoral expenditure efficiency. The speed of the
reductions in the fiscal deficit may also have been too fast. However, given the inability to use
nominal exchange rate depreciation as a policy tool, fiscal stringency was a key instrument for
achieving the needed real exchange rate depreciation (para. 3) and had to be used much more
5  Fiscal data from 1988 to 1990 are not directly comparable to data from 1991 due to the integration of several
special accounts in the budget in 1991. Similarly, the devaluation of 1994 makes it difficult to compare pre-
1994 to post-1994 fiscal data.
6  This could have been achieved without raising tax rates, by addressing fiscal fraud more aggressively and
removing distortions in existing direct tax regime.



9
aggressively than perhaps would have been desirable from the perspective of growth and the short
term well-being of the population. Strict monetary rules of the West African Central Bank Zone
to which Mali belongs have ensured that monetary financing of the deficit has been limited.
Deficits have been financed largely through extemal borrowing7 and to some extent through the
accumulation of domestic arrears. However, since 1994, the quality of fiscal adjustment has
inproved, with increases in spending for education and health and greater intrasectoral efficiency
in the use of education sector resources.
23.    Despite progress made, further fiscal adjustment is essential in Mali. Given an average
overall fiscal deficit including grants of 3.8 percent of GDP (see Table 2) over the last three years,
Mali's fiscal stance can be rated as somewhat poor8. Furthermore, the estimated sustainable
primary deficit of about 3.3 percent of GDP is significantly lower than the actual level of 9.1
percent of GDP in 1995. The need for further adjustment is also evident in the continued high
level of dependence on extemal budgetary aid (over 1994 and 1995, total budgetary aid
represented about 61 percent of domestic revenues and about 62 percent of current spending9).
However, Mali is now at the point where continued disproportionate reliance on expenditure
reductions to achieve fiscal balance goals are not sustainable, from the point of view of overall
growth of the economy as well as from the point of view of achieving key development objectives
in the social sectors and helping to reduce poverty. These objectives must increasingly be
achieved through revenue expansion and improved management, poverty targeting and efficiency
of expenditures. The macroeconomic framework projects a reversal of the past trend over the
medium term, with expansion in domestic revenues contributing a growing part of projected fiscal
balance gains. Table 2 below shows the key fiscal balance outcomes over 1993-1995, and the
targets for the 1996-98 period.
Table 2. Mali - Key Fiscal Balance Indicators. 1993-98
(In percent of GDP) 11
1993      1994      1995      1996      1997      1998
Overall fiscal balance, including grants    -4.1  -4.2   -3.0       -5.2     -4.5       -3.9
Overall fiscal balance, excluding grants    -9.6  -13.7  -10.5     -10.1     -9.1       -8.1
Primary fiscal balance               -8.0      -11.4     -9.1      -8.7      -7.5       -6.6
Current fiscal balance               -0.7      -1.2       1.8       1.7       2.6       3.6
I/ A negative number indicates a deficit.
24.    Domestic Resource Mobilization. Over the last two years, Mali has maintained a good
track record in meeting overall revenue targets, but has not made fundamental improvement in the
7   Large share of grants and concessional loans in Mali's external aid inflows has helped debt management.
8   Using rating guidelines provided in "Adjustment in Africa: Reforms. Results and the Road Ahead", World
Bank, 1994, p. 48. Poor rating indicates deficit of 3.6 to 7.0 percent of GDP.
9   In 1996, total budgetary aid is projected to decline to about 33 percent of total revenues and 37 percent of
current expenditures, almost half in both cases.



10
domestic resource mobilization effort. Targets have been achieved with the help of high levels of
exceptional revenues, such as payments by parastatals of debt obligations to Government, and
income from the sale of public enterprises, which cannot be sustained over time. This further
highlights the fragility of fiscal balance gains and their vulnerability to external factors such as
world market cotton price trends and climatic factors affecting cotton production. Revenue
effort, currently at about 13 percent of GDP (see Table 3 below), is considerably lower than the
SSA average of about 18 percent and the 17 percent recorded in 1990. In parallel, expenditure
requirements to meet even the most basic objectives in the social sectors are overwhelming, given
current low service coverage (primary enrollment is estimated at barely 35 percent, and only 17
percent of the population live within a 15 kilometer radius of a health facility), and are increasing
rapidly in the face of high population growth.
Table 3. Mali - Revenue Performance Indicators. 1992-95
1992        1993          1994          1995
Budgetary revenues
CFAF billions                    89.1        94.0          126.0         160.7
As % of GDP                      12.1        12.0           12.2          13.1
Composition (% of total):
Tax Revenues                     88          89             82           79
of which:
taxes on international trade  55           50            44            45
taxes on income and profits 1/  16         18            17            17
Non-taxrevenues2/                12          11             18           21
Source: 6th Policy Framework Paper, March, 1996.
1/ Including taxes on net income and profits, payroll tax, and property taxes.
2/ Including payment by parastatals of debts owned to Government, and income form the sale of public enterprises.
25.   This background provides a strong case for the urgency of major improvements in Mali's
domestic revenue performance. Furthermore, revenue sources need to be diversified to reduce
dependence on trade taxation (currently accounting for about 45 percent of budgetary revenues)
and on cotton revenues. Key constraints on improving revenue performance include weak tax
administration compounded by tax fraud, particularly in the use of exonerations, and a
complicated and burdensome system  of income taxation.  The Government has outlined a
program to strengthen tax administration and help reduce fraud. Customs fraud is particularly
prevalent in the collection of petroleum revenues, current yields of which are estimated to be at
least 20 percent lower than potential. A major source of difficulty is the practice of declaring a
petroleum product that is subject to lower taxes than what is actually imported. The Govemment,
in collaboration with an intemational pre-shipment inspection agency (SGS), has already put in
place several measures to try to address petroleum fraud more effectively. In particular, SGS has
began using non-falsifiable stickers on all import declaration forms at the point of import, but
much more needs to be done to make a significant impact on fraud.



I1
26.   While important reforms of indirect taxation were implemented under SAL I, direct
taxation is still complicated, lacks transparency, and is highly inefficientl'. There is a high degree
of cascading and cumulative tax rates reach as high as 75 percent, imposing a heavy burden on the
small formal sector. The 1994 Private Sector Assessment identified high levels of direct taxation
as a key constraint to private sector growth. There is no specific tax on corporate profits.
Businesses are subject to: (i) a schedular tax levied on industrial and commercial profits; (ii) a
lump sum minimum tax; (iii) a tax on capital income; (iv) a tax on real estate income; and (v) an
employment tax. Industrial and commercial profits as well as non-commercial incomes are also
included in income subject to the general income tax. This structure is cumbersome and hard to
interpret even for tax officials. Furthermore, there are several loopholes stemming from a poorly
defined system  of deductions which contribute to further distortionary effects.  As regards
personal income tax, there is no schedular tax on salary income which is included as part of
taxable income under the general income tax and normally deducted at source. Personal income
is also subject to schedular taxes on real estate, on non-commercial and on capital income. The
current system of family deductions on personal income also favors higher income earners and
thus adds to the inequity of the system. Direct taxation currently contributes about 18 percent of
total tax receipts but could contribute much more if appropriate reforms were put in place.
Reforms are also needed to reduce the level of distortions in the current structure and promote
private sector growth.
27.   Public Expenditure Management and Efficiency.  Under the adjustment program,
progress has been made in improving public expenditure management. Expenditures have been
reined in, falling from about 28.2 percent of GDP in 1991 to about 25 percent in 1995, and wage
spending has fallen from about 37 percent of recurrent spending in 1991 to an estimated 31
percent in 1995. External payments arrears have been eliminated"' and most domestic arrears are
being settled. The budgetary process has also improved. A wide range of expenditures including
the operations of ten special accounts and funds, have been integrated into a single consolidated
govemment budget. Foreign-financed investment is now captured and investment budgeting has
improved with the introduction of the three-year rolling investment program. These changes
provide a more complete picture of central government financial operations, and allow better
assessment and management of overall fiscal stance. However, a multi-donor Public Expenditure
Review carried out in 1993 shows that public expenditures management and efficiency is still
weak in several areas, notably: (i) the absence of a mechanism to ensure that the budget is an
effective tool for implementing Government's stated development priorities; (ii) slow expenditure
execution and poor monitoring due in part to the structure of budgetary allocations'2 and due to
the unreliability of expenditure data; (iii) inadequate provision for maintenance of existing capital
l   SAL I envisaged the move to a unitary income tax system but this was not implemented given weaknesses in
administrative capacity and poor outcomes in other countries that had tried to institute this reform.
1  Russian and Chinese debt service is under a moratorium pending debt discussions with these two creditors.
12  For example, some of the allocations made for central ministries are passed on to the regions and executed at
the regional level, complicating the monitoring of execution of this allocation. Furthermore, the breakdown
by sector of execution of common funds, managed by the Ministry of Finance but not allocated by the
Ministry at budget time, is extremely difficult to obtain.



12
and infrastructure; and (iv) allocations for spending in social sectors that are significantly below
what would be needed to make a significant impact on Mali's poor social indicators.
28.   Poverty Focus of Public Expenditures. Expenditures in areas where empirical evidence
shows strong links between public expenditures and poverty alleviation are generally low.
Education and health outlays followed the trend in overall public expenditures, falling in real
terms between 1989 and 1992. This was clearly contrary to the Government's stated objective of
improving access to basic education and health services. The 1993 PER found that the incidence
of education and health spending on poorer groups was low with expenditures largely benefiting
more privileged groups. Over the past year, the Government has began restructuring education
expenditures to improve their efficiency and to ensure a larger share for primary education and for
quality improvements. In 1994, health expenditures represented barely 8 percent of the recurrent
budget and overall expenditures in the sector averaged less than US$3 per capita, far short of the
estimated US$12 needed to finance the cost of a minimum package of basic and preventive health
care services13. The impact of the low levels of expenditures and the inequities in its distribution
are evident in Mali's poor health indicators. To raise health spending to levels needed to provide
a minimum package of services, even assuming that the burden will be evenly split between
private and public sector, would require that sector budget at least double in absolute terms.
While some of the required increases could come through efficiency improvements, significant
additional spending is clearly called for.
B. Addressing Gender Issues
29.   There has not been a conscious effort so far to integrate gender issues into the design of
reforms. Nevertheless, a few measures have helped redress some gender-based constraints. In
particular in 1995 the Government made changes to the income tax code to ensure that women
could also benefit from child tax credits in filing their income tax returns. The revision of the
Commercial Code in 1992 removed the requirement for prior authorization from husbands before
women could engage in commercial activity. This revision and the Government's policy of
liberalization have helped achieve modest progress in the integration of women in the economy.
The share of women engaged in economic activity is estimated to have increased from about 41
percent in 1989 to about 47 percent in 1994.
30.   Key legal statutes in Mali are broadly gender neutral. The Constitution of the Third
Republic, adopted in February 1992, makes explicit reference to the promotion of the rights of
women and children. The Land Code of 1986 and the recently prepared decree on awarding
irrigated land in the rice growing region of the Office du Niger, for example, clearly ban
discrimination in the award of land on the basis of gender. Nevertheless, there are still certain
aspects regarding the implementation that effectively result in gender-biases'4. More importantly,
effective application of most legal statutes is hampered by ignorance and by strong cultural and
religious beliefs about the role of women in society. Thus, women still systematically face more
3  World Development Report 1993, p. 117.
14  For example, most female-headed households do not have the family registration information needed as a
basis for applying for land.



13
constraints than men in their access to factors of production such as credit, education and training.
For example, UNDP's human development index for women is about half that for men in the case
of Mali. To help redress this, a major public education effort on legal statutes affecting women,
closer monitoring of execution of legal provisions, and review and elimination of aspects of
application that are gender-biased is needed. This should be an integral part of the reform effort,
since it could enhance the productivity of women and thus help achieve the higher growth rates
needed to make an impact on poverty reduction. It is also important from an equity standpoint,
given the higher incidence of poverty among women. The National Commission for the
Promotion of Women has already outlined an extensive public education campaign on the issue of
gender as part of an action plan for the promotion of women that was recently adopted by the
Government. The Bank also financed a seminar on women's legal issues in Mali in 1993.
31.   The proposed Credit would provide support to the Government's efforts to address the
reform issues described above (paras. 22 to 30). Other reform issues described below will be
addressed through other operations and activities.
C. Education and Health Reforms
32.   Under the Education Sector Adjustment Operation, the Government has taken bold steps
to redress distortions in the use of sector resources. It has instituted and began application of
much more stringent criteria for award of higher education scholarships and adopted and applied
norms for per student budgetary allocations for textbooks and educational supplies. Double shift
teaching is being expanded, over 650 teachers have already been redeployed from administrative
jobs into primary teaching, and a new system of selection for access to post-primary basic
education based on academic performance and available places has been instituted. As a result of
these measures, primary school enrollment has increased by about 20 percent over the last two
years, largely financed through more effective use of existing sector resources. These reforms will
be expanded and monitored in the context of the upcoming Education Sector Investment
Operation, planned for Board presentation in FY97. Under the ongoing Population Health and
Rural Water Supply project the Government has reformed health sector management to allow
greater community involvement. It has also adopted and is implementing an essential drugs
policy. Further reforms and investments will be supported under the Health Sector Investment
Operation planned for FY98. This operation will also support Government efforts to address
Mali's high population growth rate.
D. Private Sector Development
33.   Improvements in the incentive and regulatory regime under the adjustment program have
been beneficial for the private sector. Nevertheless, private sector growth is still hampered by:
(i) a weak judicial system and difficulty in enforcing business contracts; (ii) inadequate access to
credit; (iii) poor access to and high costs of key factors of production notably transport, energy
and telecommunications; and (iv) a distortionary system of income taxation. The Institutional
Development Project (FY97) under preparation includes a component to strengthen the
functioning of the legal system and the ongoing Private Sector Assistance Project is being
restructured to include a component aimed at creating an enabling legal environment for private
sector activity. Steps are already underway to improve the functioning of commercial and



14
administrative courts. The Government is also beginning to address reform issues in the financial
sector as part of its efforts to improve private sector access to credit. It has indicated its intention
to privatize one bank and is proceeding with the restructuring of the Postal Checking and Savings
Institution. A comprehensive strategy for reform of the sector is being prepared in the context of
the proposed Banking and Financial Sector Reform Operation scheduled for presentation to the
Board in FY98. Under the ongoing Transport Sector Investment Project, Government will
rehabilitate the existing road network while expanding coverage and service. The proposed
Manantali Regional Hydro Electric Project (FY99) should also improve access to energy. The
income tax reforms proposed under this Credit are geared towards reducing distortions in the
income tax regime and reducing the tax burden on the small formal sector.
E. Civil Service Reform
34.   Under SAL I, the size of the civil service was reduced from over 41,000 to about 36,000
employees. This was an important factor in containing wage spending. The program was
however, unable to achieve any appreciable improvements in public sector efficiency, which is still
characterized by weak capacity, poor intra and intersectoral distribution of staff and between
urban centers such as Bamako and smaller towns and rural areas, and a lack of both incentives to
perform and sanctions for inappropriate behavior. The limited success of the earlier reform effort
was due in part to resistance from labor unions which gained increasing political power in the
transition to democracy and the failure to fully incorporate this group in the definition of the
reforms earlier on. The Government is currently preparing a Public Sector Management Strategy,
in broad consultation with the population as a whole and labor unions in particular. This is
expected to form the basis of a multidonor-financed Institutional Development Project planned for
FY97.
IV. THE PROPOSED ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT CREDIT
35.   The proposed operation fits within the Government's medium term reform agenda and
would support efforts to deepen and improve the quality of fiscal adjustment. It will emphasize
the importance of ensuring that long term social development objectives are not put at risk during
the process. The specific objectives are to help the Government: (i) improve domestic resource
mobilization and reduce distortions in the existing income tax system; (ii) improve the efficiency,
effectiveness, and poverty focus of public expenditures; and (iii) support measures to address
gender-based constraints in access to land and credit for women. A detailed matrix of policy
measures is provided in Annex D.
A. Domestic Resource Mobilization
36.   The credit will support a program of fiscal reforms comprising administrative as well as
policy measures to: (i) strengthen tax administration; (ii) reduce fiscal fraud; and (iii) simplify
direct taxation. The goal is to increase the level of revenue mobilization while ensuring that
revenues are raised in the least distortionary manner. These measures take into account the
recommendations of IMF technical assistance and are consistent with the actions included in the
recently-approved arrangement under the ESAF.



15
37.   Administrative Reforms. The Government has outlined a program of administrative
reforms for both customs and domestic tax departments.   The reforms draw  on the
recommendations of IMF technical assistance in these areas, provided since 1992.  In the
domestic tax department, reforms will help modernize services and improve capability for
monitoring and recovery of taxpayer obligations. Key measures include: (i) the creation of a large
taxpayer'5 unit at the national level to improve taxpayer monitoring; (ii) improvement in the
current taxpayer identification system to better detect delinquent accounts; (iii) reorientation of
audits, particularly of the VAT, to ensure they are more frequent, rapid and well-targeted; and (iv)
increased computerization of tax accounts, particularly in the large taxpayer unit. These reforms
will be implemented during 1996-98. Implementation of administrative reforms in the customs
department is already well-advanced and is beginning to bear fruit. In 1995, average monthly
customs receipts reached an unprecedented level of about CFAF 6 billion, an increase of about 33
percent from performance in 1994. However, it is widely acknowledged, even by the customs
department, that monthly receipts could easily reach as high as CFAF 10 billion. This credit will
support the completion of reforms to realize this potential. Key measures include reorganizing
Customs to enhance internal control procedures, revising employee incentive systems,
restructuring the audit units, stepping up valuation controls and redeploying personnel to cover
major international trade corridors. The Government will also ensure that essential equipment is
allocated to operational units, in particular to combat smuggling, and streamline and simplify
customs clearance and duty collection procedures, while enhancing control over import valuation
and warehousing.
38.   In addition, under the credit the Government will: (i) put in place a system for regular
cross-checking of data on declarations of petroleum imports and actual import values recorded
between SGS and the customs department to help better monitor petroleum import volumes and
values; (ii) post customs agents at all petroleum product depots to ensure permanent monitoring
of petroleum products imports; and (iii) undertake revision of the mining code (the largest source
of exonerations on petroleum imports) to remove unwarranted exonerations while ensuring a
sector environment that is competitive and attractive to investors.
39.   Policy Reforms. The Government has outlined a program of reforms to direct taxation,
aimed at expanding the tax base, simplifying the structure and introducing greater transparency.
Key elements of this package include: (i) the introduction of a single tax on larger firms at a rate
of 35 percent for stockholder companies and 25 percent for individually owned companies levied
on consolidated income (i.e. business and other incomes) and with a clearer definition of
deductible expenses (to close existing tax loopholes); (ii) the creation of a tax for small and
informal sector firms, regrouping the current tax known as patente, tax on commercial and
business income and the value-added tax; (iii) the replacement of the general income tax by a
simplified tax levied on salary income only and with the number of tax brackets reduced from the
current number of ten to a maximum of five. These reforms should also help eliminate the
cascading element of the existing structure, in which the same income source is taxed several
times.
15 Defined as taxpayers with taxable incomes above CFAF 200 million.



16
B. Expenditure Efficiency and Effectiveness
40.   Budget Preparation. Based on the recommendations of a multi-donor public expenditure
review carried out in 1993, the Government has already outlined and is implementing a program
of reforms aimed at strengthening the budget process. A fundamental objective is to move
gradually to a system of budgeting by objective over the medium term. Key elements include:
(i) establishing and implementing a single budget nomenclature for use by both the budget
department and the treasury; (ii) preparing a budget procedures manual and ensuring its regular
use by all staff involved in budget preparation; (iii) consolidating current central ministry
allocations that are passed on to regions for execution into the regional budgets;
(iv) computerizing the entire budget preparation process, currently largely done manually,
(v) improving the presentation of budget documents to ensure greater transparency and ease of
interpretation; and (vi) staff training. The credit will support this reform program. Staff training
in particular will be critical for improving capacity to prepare and implement the budget and for
making budgetary policy more consistent with Mali's overall development agenda. To facilitate
and improve the effectiveness of the investment program review process, the Government will
adopt a format for the presentation of key information on new projects over CFAF 2 billion in size
entering the investment program for review by the Bank. Information to be provided would
include a short description of the project; its fit within the overall sector development
strategy/program; economic analysis; and recurrent cost and debt service implications. These
forms will be prepared early enough in the budget cycle to allow comments to be incorporated
before presentation to the National Assembly.
41.   Monitoring Expenditure Execution. Monitoring of overall expenditures is carried out
in the context of the financial program. However, details on expenditure execution are not
monitored regularly and are extremely difficult to obtain. Under the credit, the Government will
institute a regular annual review of expenditure to feed into the next budget cycle. These reviews
will: (i) evaluate expenditure execution vis-a-vis budget allocations, explaining any shortfalls or
overruns and propose recommendations for the next budget cycle; (ii) identify expenditures
executed in violation of existing budget execution procedures and take needed corrective actions;
(iii) provide information on the regional and sectoral breakdown of expenditures; and (iv) closely
monitor expenditures in key areas with poverty links, notably primary education, health,
agricultural extension and road maintenance. A special effort will be made in monitoring the
execution of the investment budget, which is very weak. The Government is already conducting a
detailed analysis of investment expenditures over the 1993-95 period. This should provide more
reliable data on public investment spending in Mali and a firmer basis for future projections of
expenditures. The annual reviews will be discussed with the Bank and the IMF during the mid-
year program reviews.
42.   Poverty Focus of Expenditures. The credit will support measures to continue the
Government's efforts to restructure expenditures in favor of financing primary education, health
services, and agricultural extension, and away from salary spending towards increased supplies
and maintenance. The program will identify specific needs for staff and maintenance in line with
key sector development objectives and provide budgetary allocations to meet these needs. This



17
approach will also ensure that increased expenditures resulting from this restructuring embody
intrasectoral expenditure shifts that promote poverty reduction.
43.   In the education sector, targets will be set for budgetary allocations for: (i) new primary
school teacher recruitment; (ii) maintenance of educational facilities; and (iii) didactic materials
per student. To reach the targeted 50 percent primary enrollment ratio by the year 2000, it is
estimated that an average of about 925 additional primary school teachers will need to be
recruited annually over the next four fiscal years (i.e. total of 3700 new teachers)16 for the public
school system. This recruitment will be split between central government and local governments
under the Govemment's planned decentralization program. The Govemment has already made
budgetary provision for the recruitment of 600 new teachers (including 300 contractuals) in its
1996 budget.  An additional 1300 primary school teachers will be recruited by central
Government over 1997 and 1998 (600 in 1997 and 700 in 1998). Allocations for didactic
materials will be set per student at CFAF 2,500 at the primary level; CFAF 5,000 at the lower
secondary level; CFAF 21,000 at the upper secondary level; CFAF 35,000 at the technical level;
and CFAF 50,000 at the higher education level"7. Allocations for maintenance of educational
facilities will be set at about CFAF 300 million in constant terms annually.
44.   In the health sector, targets will cover new personnel recruitment and sector maintenance
spending allocations. The Government is preparing a long term health sector development
strategy which should cover sector financing, resource mobilization and staff management and
development issues. This report will be ready by early 1998 and will support preparation of the
upcoming Health Sector Investment Operation. In the meantime, the Government will aim at
recruiting about 550 additional medical and para-medical staff over 1996-98 (150 in 1996 and 200
annually in 1997 and 1998). The target for sector maintenance spending will be set at about
CFAF 2.5 billion in constant terms annually.
45.   Road maintenance targets will be CFAF 4.2 billion and CFAF 4.3 billion for 1997 and
1998 respectively, in line with needs identified under the ongoing Transport Sector Investment
Operation. The Government's objective in the area of national agricultural extension is to achieve
100 percent coverage by the year 2000. A significant part of the operating costs of the program
are currently covered by external donors. Under the second phase of the National Program for
Agricultural Extension planned to begin in 1997, the Government and IDA will agree on
appropriate Government contribution towards financing of the program's operating costs. A key
objective will be to increase Government's share from the current level of 15 percent and ensure
longer term sustainability of the program. Specific levels of budgetary allocations for 1997 and
1998 will be determined on an annual basis as a function of the operating costs of the extension
program for the given year. In addition, greater effort will be made to ensure that women farmers
get equal access to extension services notably through recruitment of more female extension
workers.
16  Assuming that an additional 280,000 children will have to be put into schools between now and the year 2000
to reach the 50 percent enrollment target, and utilization of double shift teaching in about 30 percent of all
primary school classrooms (i.e. teacher-student ratio of about 75:1).
17 These amounts are expressed in constant 1996 prices.



18
C. Addressing Gender Issues
46.   The Credit supports the integration of gender into the reform program through an
assessment of the likely gender impacts of the policy reforms to be supported under the Credit,
and activities to facilitate access to land and credit for women. An analysis of the likely gender
impacts of the proposed direct tax policy measures has been carried out. This study, funded and
conducted by CIDA, concluded that the proposed direct tax reforms would be gender neutral in
impact. Interviews conducted with women during the study suggested that the proposed
simplification of taxation, particularly for small firms, should be favorable to women because they
are on average less literate than men and therefore more subject to rent-seeking behavior by tax
officials. To facilitate access to land for women, the Government will: (i) adopt the new decree
on the award of land in the Office du Niger region and put in place a system for improved
monitoring of awards to women under this decree; and (ii) promote greater public awareness on
the legal rights of women as regards access to land, in particular, ensuring that female-headed
households are aware of and have access to any family registration documentation required to
apply for land. As regards credit, the Government has already instituted a scheme to provide
financing for small scale activities of women's cooperatives. Initial financing for this program
(about CFAF 300 million), run by the National Commission for the Promotion of Women was
provided under social safety net expenditures in the Government's budget in 1995. So far, about
CFAF 250 million has been provided in loans at a rate of interest of about 10 percent and the
recovery rate is estimated at about 97 percent. The Government intends to provide additional
financing in its budget for 1997 to allow the expansion of activities under the program,
particularly in areas outside of the Bamako region. The Government will in addition complete the
ongoing study on access to credit for women, define an action plan for addressing these
constraints and implement this action plan in accordance with a timetable agreed with IDA.
Finally, the Government intends to carry out a broad media campaign on the rights of women and
the benefits to be derived by Mali from the active participation of women in the development
process.
D. Budgetary Impact of Proposed Reform Measures
47.   Revenue Measures. The proposed measures should help increase revenues through
improved efficiency of tax collection agencies, and through a more efficient structure and
expanded tax base for direct taxation. The anticipated efficiency from administrative reforms
(paras. 37-38) is reflected in the ratio of customs duties to total imports (rising from 0.19 in 1995
to 0.27 in 1998), and in the ratio of taxes on goods and services to total imports (from 0.14 in
1995 to 0.18 in 1998), projected in the macroeconomic framework. This should allow an increase
in revenue effort from about 13 percent of GDP to about 14 percent by 1998. Preliminary
estimates carried out by the Malian Government indicate that the revenue impact of the direct
taxation reforms (para. 39) will be at worst revenue neutral in the short run and should be revenue
enhancing over the medium term. This assessment is being updated and firmed up in light of the
recently concluded IMF Fiscal Affairs Department mission. The detailed final estimates will be
discussed with the Bank and the IMF during the mid-term review of the macroeconomic program
in July/August 1996 and will be taken into account in the implementation of the reforms.



19
48.   Expenditure Measures. The additional cost of the proposed expenditure measures is
estimated at around CFAF 3.7 billion over the 1996-98 period--roughly 22 percent of the increase
in recurrent spending projected in the macroeconomic framework--and can be financed (projected
increases in interest payments account for about 29 percent of the total increase). Table 4 below
summarizes the projected impact in the education and health sectors. Overall, the share of
government recurrent budget devoted to health (currently below the WHO target of 10 percent)
would increase slightly while the share devoted to education (currently above the SSA average of
about 18 percent) would decrease slightly. As a result of the measures taken to improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of resources available in the education sector (para. 32), this slight
decrease is consistent with accelerated growth of primary education (the share of the education
budget devoted to primary education would increase from about 40 percent in 1995 to about 46
percent in 1998).
Table 4: Mali - Projected Expenditure Impact, 1996-19981s
1996       1997       1998       1996-98
A. Impact of Proposed Measures  (CFAF Million)
Education
Schools maintenance              150         10         10          170
New teacher recruitment          380        380         440        1,200
Didactic material                300        500         500        1,300
Total sector budgetary impact       830        890         950        2,670
Health
New staff recruitment             130        160        160         450
Sector maintenance                200        200        200         600
Total sector budgetary impact       330        360         360        1,050
B. Projected Expenditure Shares   (% of recurrent)
Education                           22.2       21.7       21.3         --
Health                              8.2         8.5        8.7         --
V. CREDIT FEATURES AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
49.   Credit Amount and Design of Tranching. The proposed credit in the amount of SDR
41.6 million (US$60 million equivalent) will meet the dual objectives of supporting important
policy and administrative reforms and ensuring availability of needed external funds to help Mali
fill its financing gap. The tranching of the operation thus distinguishes between two floating
tranches that would be disbursed as and when specific policy reform measures are completed and
three regular tranches that would be disbursed annually upon satisfactory execution of the
financial program, including revenue and expenditure targets. The conditionalities for the floating
tranches cover complex reforms and this design should ensure that the financial program is not
put at risk if delays in the execution of specific reform measures are experienced. The first regular
tranche of SDR 14 million (US$20 million equivalent) would be made available upon credit
18  Refers only to the impact of the specific measures described above.



20
effectiveness by August 1996. The other two tranches of SDR 6.9 million (US$10 million
equivalent) each would be released at yearly intervals. These tranches are tied to implementation
of the macroeconomic program for the 1996 and 1997 fiscal years respectively and would be
automatically canceled if targets agreed upon are not met at the time of the annual review of the
macroeconomic program (i.e., the tranches cannot be carried forward to the next fiscal year). No
dates have been set for the release of the two floating tranches (SDR 6.9 million, equivalent of
US$10 million each) in order to allow sufficient time for Government to prepare the reforms and
ensure their support within the population. However, both tranches will lapse if they are not
disbursed by December 31, 1998 (i.e., roughly two and a half years from the projected
effectiveness date of the above operation).
50.   Disbursement. The Borrower will open an account in its Central Bank (BCEAO-Mali).
Upon notification of tranche release for each tranche, proceeds of the credit will be deposited by
the Association in this account at the request of the Borrower. If after deposit in this account, the
proceeds of the credit are used for ineligible purposes, the Association will require the Borrower
to either: (a) return that amount for use for eligible purposes; or (b) refund the amount directly to
the Association, in which case the Association will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of
the Credit.
51.   Accounts and Audit. The Government will be required to submit an audit of the project
accounts within six months of the end of each fiscal year i.e. by June of the following fiscal year.
52.   Implementation and Monitoring. Implementation of the program will be coordinated
by the Ministry of Finance and Commerce. A technical committee comprising members from the
Ministries of Education, Health, and the Commission for the Promotion of Women will have
responsibility for the supervision of the program of reforms supported under the credit. This
committee will ensure overall coordination of the reforms. The program will be jointly monitored
by the Technical Committee in collaboration with the Bank. A series of performance monitoring
indicators agreed with the Government is attached in Annex F.
53.   Coordination with other donors.  The fiscal reform component was identified and
outlined in close collaboration with the IMF and fits within the framework of fiscal and budgetary
reforms agreed between donors interested in this area. It also reflects and is consistent with
ongoing fiscal administrative reforms supported by bilateral donors such as the USAID and
CIDA. The implementation of the program will be monitored in collaboration with the IMF and
key donors providing support in this area through the annual PFP and mid-year review exercises.
54.   Agreements Reached and Conditionalities. The Government has met the conditions of
negotiations by:
(i)   submitting a draft Letter of Development Policy which was finalized during
negotiations in a manner satisfactory to IDA; and by
(ii)  finalizing the terms of reference for and launching the study on constraints to
access to credit for women.



21
The Government has met the condition for Board presentation by submitting to IDA the signed
Letter of Development Policy as finalized during negotiations. Furthermore, agreements have
been reached with the Government, as summarized in Annex D, on the reform measures described
above and on the following conditions for tranche release:
Conditions for Second Tranche Release.
(i)    Revenue Mobilization. Collect during the 1996 fiscal year, domestic revenues in
an amount of at least CFAF 184.5 billion.
(ii)   Expenditure Restructuring.  Execute the following expenditure restructuring
measures agreed in the 1996 budget as specified in the Government's Letter of
Development Policy:
(a) recruit at least 600 teachers including 300 vacataires for primary schools;
(b) incur expenditures for didactic materials at the rate of CFAF 2,500 per student
at the primary level; CFAF 5,000 per student at the lower secondary level; CFAF
21,000 per student at the upper secondary level; CFAF 35,000 per student at the
technical level; and CFAF 50,000 at the higher education level;
(c) recruit at least 150 new medical and para-medical staff for health facilities
located outside Bamako.
(iii)  Expenditure Monitoring. Present to IDA a satisfactory review of the execution of
the 1996 budget with recommendations for the 1998 budget in conformity with
terms of reference agreed with IDA.
Conditions for Third Tranche Release.
(i)    Revenue Mobilization. Collect during the 1997 fiscal year, domestic revenues in an
amount of at least CFAF 200 billion;
(ii)   Expenditure Restructuring   Execute the following expenditure restructuring
measures in the 1997 fiscal year as described in the Government's Letter of
Development Policy:
(a) recruit at least 600 additional primary school teachers;
(b) incur expenditures for didactic materials at the rate of CFAF 2,500 per student
at the primary level; CFAF 5,000 per student at the lower secondary level; CFAF
21,000 per student at the upper secondary level; CFAF 35,000 per student at the
technical level; and CFAF 50,000 at the higher education level;
(c) recruit at least 200 medical and para-medical staff for health facilities located
outside Bamako;



22
(iii)  Expenditure Monitoring. Present to IDA a satisfactory review of execution of the
1997 budget with recommendations for the 1999 budget in conformity with terms
of reference agreed with IDA.
Conditions for first floating Tranche. The Government will implement the following fiscal
measures:
(i)    Amend in a manner satisfactory to IDA the relevant provisions of the Tax Code
pertaining to the taxation of corporate, small business and personal income and
enact the implementation decrees relating thereto in accordance with the details set
forth in para. 23 of the Government's Letter of Policy;
(ii)   Carry out a study of the current tax exemption system in the mining sector, adopt
such recommendations of said study, as shall have been agreed upon with IDA,
and a timetable for implementation of such recommendations satisfactory to IDA
and implement these recommendations,
(iii)   Adopt a budget preparation methodology satisfactory to IDA in accordance with
the details set forth in para. 26 of the Government's Letter of Policy; and
(iv)   Restructure the taxation and customs departments in the Ministry of Finance in
accordance with the details set forth in paras. 19 and 20 of the Government's
Letter of Policy.
Conditions for second floating Tranche. The Government will implement the following gender
related measures:
(i)    Carry out a study to identify any constraints which impede or restrict access to
credit for women, adopt such recommendations of such study, as shall have been
agreed upon with IDA, and a timetable for implementation of such
recommendations satisfactory to IDA;
(ii)   Replenish the Fund For Support of Women's Activities with an amount of CFAF
500 million for the purposes of providing small credit to women engaged in
income-generating activities;
(iii)   Carry out a media campaign aimed at sensitizing the public on women in
development and on women's rights in accordance with para. 45 of the
Government's Letter of Policy.
Benefits and Risks
55.   Benefits. The revenue measures will help Mali move closer to achieving the objective of
reducing dependence on external budgetary aid thus ensuring that available external aid funds can
be channeled into financing investments for longer term  development.  Simplification and
reduction in the distortionary impact of the system of direct taxation will help establish a more
supportive environment for private sector investment. The expenditure measures will improve the



23
efficiency of public resource use and help expand primary enrollment and health coverage which
are important for Mali's longer term growth. The activities to improve access to credit and to
land for women will help women participate more fully in economic activity and enhance their
productivity. Overall, the operation will help improve fiscal balance, thus promoting the stable
macroeconomic environment needed for sustained growth and poverty reduction.
56.   Risks. The most important risks in this operation are the following: (i) resistance to the
reforms by segments of population to be affected by reforms; (ii) weak capacity to implement
reforms; and (iii) pressure for pre-election spending related to the upcoming 1997 elections that
could derail the financial program. The first risk is being addressed through the Government's
continued efforts to build consensus around the reform agenda. The direct tax policy reform
effort is in response to private sector groups who have complained several times about the
existing structure to the Government and to the Bank and it is not expected that these reforms be
resisted by these groups. Furthermore, the details of the reform proposals will be discussed with
interested private sector groups before implementation. The implementation of the Information
Education and Communication (IEC) component of the Action Plan on women should also
reduce resistance to proposed gender measures. As regards the second risk, the operation includes
components that will improve implementation capacity. The administrative and organizational
changes that are envisaged for the customs and domestic tax departments should facilitate the
implementation of the direct taxation reforms and the staff training under the budgetary reform
program will also contribute towards building capacity in budget preparation, execution and
monitoring. Finally, the risk of pressure for increased Government spending could also be
mitigated through efforts by the Government and by Bank and IMF missions to Mali to continue
dialogue with student and labor groups. The Donor Community as a whole will also have an
important role to play in helping keep Government on course, pointing out the fragility of gains so
far and the need to persevere.
VI. RECOMMENDATION
57.   I am satisfied that the proposed Credit will comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
Association, and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 4, 1996






ANNEX A
Mali at a glance                                                         Page 1 of2
-:   :  ::   :   : :::: .   :  :  :  -   ::   :    ::  ::   :  -.:   - .-  .   - . -:  ::   .-,   -: ....   .    ..  ...
POVERTY and :SOC1AL                                         h :    LOW.    Development dlamond
Pop   k~~~~nt~~-1g94 (me)               $72    3.182 ~~~~~~Lifeo expectancy
GNP par c-a .   4 -USsv'                                       S.W: .i   
Avgae:ahnuIwa gr6wth, 1I04
W-ie:..... . . . . . . . . .... . . . .   . 1. 9 ---......--\/n
Laborforce ~~~~~)                27        27  ~~~          GNP                            Gross
per                            primary
PMost .ecent eatime 0d  .   w.                    : .y h  .e  - .        ,.::                   \ capita/
Uf expectnnay at bldh %U ewa r                        49 .   52.         63-..
Infant mtality fpe 1.0 A.hX s)    -:-               :12         82--    SB-
Chid mantjtn  (. oE .c~  t*n. -. :: .8 .Acces -s to saf wate
Acess to safe WX:d.i -% -(pdeh                       46   
llllttcr(% oppoawsf         :: -g -5+              :8           63-      38 -
Gros pmibyi enroimt 4% stchvf.g pqmallon) .     -   .. .-. 71  .  :106          -        -Mob
-Male-. 46                                                    77.:...... ...  .. 11  -Low-in .come g-o
KEY 8CONOMIC .NT..   S ... .    .- -                                             c        .-   -   -
18-     19                 1   --.onsMdW
Gros domest.: .e .ent- t6.S .- .153. 2--6.5    20..0......                  --
:=dgan-~ tosfyd s tGOP- :   10<Z-. 28  -0~                     1..il;3 22.0  .
ross do tb               .6 -.    ....... ..   . 44: -14.3                   - - -0 w82
Gros snationa Iavins/GDP              ~:-  41.      ........                   . :.  .:  .- . ....---.1.Sav*ngs  nvsnei
Cu ans cont balanos; exot  -     . .ts - - .  .19.6-   - :.431 .2 .-.........................  82.::  451- ......z 
Interest payinent)lGOP DRS data)a            0 .1-    12 - --2.1   - 1I4-            
Total dabtiDP(QR$daEe)       '      '       45.4 -: '138.9--,   150,1  .-,117.4,-,
Total debt sevleixo ets ' )RSdataW  -     .:'-:  4.0,    18.1 ::-   27.3.-'. -25.4,-          Indebbedness:
'.resenT  vluefdebGDP -- '-  '-.8 '.
Preset'd va'  '~ ds''''rt     '           "     '    '    ;     05 '';>
(avenrag,e annual gowwi)-  ' -                           - . '1' .4'.'              '   ' - ' -: ': - : '--: .  :-  --"---:-'--Low-ncome gioup
Pee  GOP   ,'''  .    '          ''      ,,14  .-,    3.4,' -  2.3  '     8 .0  4.8  -- , -     
'-- :- -   -18.3''  - 5.0                       -'--' Z. ':.'-'-'19  '' -2.S;O:'-,, ', -,''''','-':-'----',''--':-:-.:
...N ,::---::.. ...... -   -:   :-.. ................... 
STRUCTURE Y   the ECONOMY
1875    1985      1894    1886
(X or GDP at current marketprtces)                                              Orowd rdt. o output and Inveabent (%I
Primary sedtor                              61.0    47.3      40.2    4.4.0      oo
Secondarysector                             10.7    14.8      16.3    16.0       20
Manufacturing                              6.8      8.5       6.4      6.2 roj  
Terliary sector                             28.3    37.9      39.0    35.6        o
Private consumption                         94.1   100.7      81.3    80.0
General govenment consumption               10.2    13.6      12.1    11.2                -    t  -ofo
lmports o goods andnon-factor services     31.1    54.6       41.2     3.2
187644  19oC-9C      1884    199C
(average annue/ gn,wl - reai tenn)                                              Orowt rabes df epoaa and Impoits 1%1
Agriculture                                  1.1     5.1        7.5     8.5
Industhy                                     2.8     3.9        1.1     9.3 WA
Manufacturing                               ..       4.2      2.2      6.6     1S                                  /
Services                                     1.3     1.6      -2.5      1.2      tO    teD
Private  consu mption                        1    .6      1 .5   -3.7   8.2 ..  .so.          S2-i           S5
General government consumption               4.0      1.5    -10.5      1.4 -:o
Gross domestic investment                    3.5     5.7      23.7      4.0
Imports of goods and non-facor services      7.8     0.6      -7.8    16.1
Gross national product                       1.2     3.7       0.4      7.0                -ExportS  -Impo4tm
Note: 1995 data are preliminary estimates.
^The diamonds showv four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared wvith Its income-group average, lf data are missing, the diamond wvill
be incomplete.



ANNEX A
Mali at a glance                                                        Pae 2 of 2
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1986      1964    1996
Dom,nak p                                                                       befon 1%1
(% change)
Consumer prkes                                ..      ..     24.8    12.4      4 -
Implickit GOP deflator                     18.8      3.3     33.2    12.7    20                                 <
Govenment finance                                                              10-
(%ofGDP) o
Total revenue (incl. annexed budgets)        ..   15.3       13.5    14A       -.                         3          Is
Current budget balance Orcl. annexed budget   ..   -0.4      -0.5      2.2
OveraN surplusldeficH (excd. grants)         ..  -14.8    -13.7   -10.5                  -GDPdofC
TRADE
1976   166       1994    1996
(nVlwons US$)                                                                  Expolt and Inpot levels (mill. US
Total exports (fob)                                 176       333     470
Coton                                               78      150      261      ac
Gold                                                ..       50       69  
fianufactures                                        ..        .       .      am                              mi
Total imports (cii)                                 489       621     738      GMli ~IV
Food                                               141       79       91      4m                            FlI  l
Fuel andenrergy                                    80        58       66      20011 flI
Capital goods                                      105      193      235      im0
Export price index. f.o.b. (1987.100)         ..     79        90      105          so   O     l        03  94 05
Import price index, c.i.f. (1987-100)        ..      73       107      117
Merchandisetermns otrade(1987-100)           ..    107         84       90                 oEodm  flimpods
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975    1986      1994    1996
(nrllions USS)
Exports of goods and non-factor services    95      220       394     543
Imports or goods and non-factor services   239      578       763     966    Current aecount balance to GDP rato (%I
Resource balance                          -144    -38        -369    -424      a*
Net factor income                           -22     -14       -52      -46    -2 11f1h10113 
Netprivatecurrenttransferm                  12       87        83      96      4I   I    I             _
Cuffent account balance,                                                       4 IIL_           LL
before official transfers                -154    -285      -338    -374    40
-12 
Financing items (net) (ncl. ofricIal transfers)  146  244     425     435    -14.
Changes in net reserves                      8       40       -87      -61    -16
Memo:                                                                         -20 
Reserves including gold (tWil. USS)          4       29       228     326
Conversion rate (locaj4SS)                214.3   449.3    555.2   499.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS (LT + ST . IMF) (DRS data)
1976    19fB      19S3    ISS4
(millions USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       356    1,468     2,640   2.781
IBRD                                       0        0         0       0
IDA                                       41      224       656     770
Total debt service paid                      5       53        40      130     ComposIon of total debt. 1994 mill. US11
lBRD                                       0        0         0       0
IDA                                        0        3         8      12                       F G
250
Composition of net resource flows                                                                         B
Official grants (OECD data)               96      157       175     221
Ofricial creditors                        26       87        40      37
Private creditors                          2       -2         0       -1
Foreign direct Investment                  3        3       -20      45              E 
Portfolio equity                           0        0         0       0             1389                 C
World Bank program                                                                                     D
Commitments                               24       72        12      120                            462
Disbursements                             13       29        47      93
Principal repayments                       0        1         4        6      A-IBRD                     E - Bsarsa
Net flows                                 13       28        43      87       B -IDA    D - Ottr multtsterFl  - Prtb
Interest payments                          0        2         5       6       C-IMF                      G-SShart-twm
Net transfers                             13       27        39      82
International Economics Department and Country Operations Staff                                           5-Jun-96
MLI-AAGI JX1S



MALI:  KEY SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                             ANNEX B
Page 1 of 2
Iadcatgf                                     mem.d       _        70.75     1980U5       193.94        AJwee       Lme
Priority Poverty Indicators
POVERTY
Upper poverty line                          local CUrT.
Headcount index                             % d pop. 
Lowae poverty line                           local cus..
Headcount index                             % of pop.
GNPpercapita                                   USS                  130          140          250         500          390         1.670
SHORT TERM INCOME INDICATORS
Unskilled urban wages                       local curt.               ..                 ..
Unskilled ural wages
Rural ters of trade
Consumer price index                         1987-100
Lower income
Food
Urban
Rural
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditume on basic social services  % dGDP
Gross enrollment rtUios
Primary                                  % schoolagepop.             24           23           31          71           105          104
Male                                                                32           30           38           77          112         [Os
Female                                                              17           17           24           64          98           101
Mrtality
Infant mornality                       per thou. live births       203          ItO          125           92           58           36
Unda 5 mniulity                                                      ..          ..          194          161          101           47
Immiunization
Meamales                                    APegroup                 ..        11.0         40.0         51.4          62          77.4
DPT                                                                  ..        18.0         35.0         53.5         89.1         82.0
COild malnutrition (under-5)                                           ..          ..          ..           ..         38.2
Ufe expeacncy
Tose                                          yent                  39           44           49           52           63           67
Female advsnmae                                                     4.0         0.2          3.6          3.5          2.4          6.4
Toed ferility rate                       binh per -mm                6.5         6.7          7.1          5.9          3.3          2.7
Maal morality rate                     per 100.000 livs bit           ..           .        1.249
Supphemntary Poverty Indkators
Expoenditures on soci  securnty            do ttal  v't exp           ..        13.3            _.
Social ecurity coverge                  S emon. ative pop.            ..          ..            .
Acss to sfe wster tots                         of pop                 ..        16.4         48.8
Urban                                                            29.0        46.0        100.0
Rural                                                               ..        10.0        36.0
Acce= to health cam                                                   ..        20.0           ..
Population growth rate                   GNP per capita growth rate                        Devdop.t dkamondb
(averag anual percent)                                v       w;  _  , _   -)
-*T                                      lo+ inUfe expeitmy
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
2                                 0                                            per F-- 0                           -
I               ~                 .10.
1970-75     11960-I       196994              1970-75     196085       19119-94                  cwtomww
EJMaliMAN
- Low-iourns                                                                                      t li
b. Mm dI'l_t dimAi  ued  fowkr ey i,dl s sbm  tavdapd lveb I dee                    et lw ate    y
cmp -ed with its inca, pomp. So dt laxb_d.



MALI:  KEY SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                               AiNNEX B
Page 2 of 2
mom Ss_    e                          Net
L.~awsaLqlayw             ,eceri         56110                  high.
UVA  ef                                   esdms       Suarea          Law-       mc_
Indicator                                   nuaure             19lO75      1980S        19894         Aftice     income        g'wau
Resouces and Expenditures
HUMAN RESOURCES
Population (mre1994)                        thousands            5,905        7,389       9.524      571.902    3,182.221    1.096,881
Age dependency ratio                          ratio               0.94         0.97        1.01         0.94         0.66        0.63
Urban                                       % of pop.              16.2        21.0        26.4         30.6         28.3        55.9
Population growth rate                      annual %               2.0          2.4         3.1          2.8          1.7          1.3
Urban                                                             4.3          4.9         5.6          4.9          3.2         2.7
Labor force                                 thousands            3,201        4.047       5.1S0      254,250    1.590,533     4A8.647
Agriculture                              %oflaborforce              91          87           86           65          67           36
Industry                                                             I           2            2            9           14          26
Female                                                              47          47           46           41          39           40
Labor participation rates
Total                                      % of pop.               54          55           54           44          50           45
Female                                                             25          26           25          37           41           36
NATURAL RESOURCES
Area                                      thou. sq. km         1,240.19    1.240.19     1.240.19    24,273.83    40.391.42    40,594.43
Density                                  pop. per sq. km          4.76         5.96        7.45        22.90       77.44        26.66
Agricultural land                         % of land area         26.10        26.29       26.39        50.61        52.42       41.05
Change in agricultural and                  annual %              0.16         0.06        0.93         0.01         0.16        -1.38
Agricultural land under imgation               %                  0.19         0.19        0.24         0.86        17.84       11.40
Forests and woodland                       thou. sq. km             ..       132.07      121.44     5,323.14     7.632.00     5,969.25
Deforestation (net)                     % change, 1980-90            ..           ,        0.84
INCOME
Household income
Share of top 20% of households            % of income               ..          ..          ..
Share of bo(tom 40% of households                                   ..          ..          ..
Share of bottom 20% of households                                   ..          ..          ..
EXPENDITURE
Food                                        % of GDP                 ..        46.2          ..
Staples                                                            1..        1.0           ..
Meat. fish. milk. cheese, eggs                                      ..        18.9          ..
Cereal imports                         thou. metric tonnes         120         273           83       14,051       36,922      6S,936
Food aid in cereals                                                107         266           34        5.079        8,516        5,771
Food production percapita                  1987  100               107         101          102          102          115         102
Fertilizer consumption                        kg/ha                0.1          0.6         0.3          5.3         58.5        46.3
ShareofagricultureinGDP                     %ofGDP                61.0         47.4        42.4         19.5         27.6         14.0
easnigt                                     % of GDP                 ..         6.5          ..
Average household size                persons per household         ..           ..          ..
Urban
Fixed investment: housing                   % of GDP                 ..         3.9          ..
Fuel and power                              % of GDP                 ..         5.0          ..
Energy consumption per capita            kg of oil equiv.           20          25           22         251          373         1,602
Households with electricity
Urban                                   % of households             ..          ..
Rural
Transport and coammunication                % of GDP                 ..         8.2          ..
Fixed investment: transport equipment                               ..          2.2          ..
Total road length                           thou. km                15           13          15
INVESTMENT IN HUMAN CAPITAL
Health
Population per physician                     persons            42,700       25,392      19,448            ..          ..       3,064
Population per nurse                                             2,587        1,348       1,885
Population per hospital bed                                      1,400           ..          ..        1,316        1,034         592
Oral rehydyration therapy (under-5)         % ofcases               ..           ..          41           37          38
Education
Gross enrollment rauos
Secondary                              %ofschool age pop.            7           7            9          24           48           63
Female                                                              3           4            6          23           42           62
Pupil-teacher raio: primary             pupils per teacher          41          34           61          40           39
Pupil-teacher ratio: secondary                                      19          12           16           ..          20
Pupils reaching grade 4                    % of cohort              69          72            ..
Repeater rate: primary                   % of total enroll          23          30           27
Illiteracy                              % of pop. (age 15+)         ..          77           68          53           35
Female                                % of fem. (ale 15+)                      85           77          54           46
Newspaper circulation                     per thou. pop.             I            1           5           12           ..236
World Bank Internutial Economics Department. April 1996



MALI: Selected Economic and Financial Indicators                                                    ANNEX C
Page I of 2
Actoal                 Est.                 Projectd
1991    1992    1993    1994    1995      1996   1997   1998    1999   2000
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS ( % of GDP at current market prices)
GDP at m.p.                                              100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0      100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0  100.0
Primary sector at fc.                                    43.4    44.6    42.4    40.2    44.0         ..       ..
Secondary sector at fc.                                  14.8    14.7    15.4    16.3    16.0         ..       ..
Tertiary sector at fc.                                   36.4    35.9    37.3    39.0    35.6          ..      ..
Net indirect taxes                                        5.4     4.8     4.9     4.5      4.4       4.5     4.4     4A      4.3     4.3
Consumption                                               93.1    94.5    93.6    93.4    91.2       89.0    86.9    85.9    85.3    84.3
Gross domestic investment                                 22.8    21.9    21.9    26.5    26.0       26.0    26.0    26.0   26.0   26.4
Public fixed investment                                  12.1     9.5     9.3    13.0    12.5       12.0    11.8    11.8    11.6    11.4
Private fixed investment                                 10.7    12.4    12.6    13.5    13.5       14.0    14.2    14.2    14.4    15.0
Resource balance                                         -15.9   -16.4   -15.5   -19.9   -17.2      -15.0   -12.9   -11.9   -11.3   -10.7
Exports GNFS                                             17.6    14.4    15.9   21.3    22.0        21.0    21.7    22.5    22.8   23.0
Imports GNFS                                             33.4    30.8    31.4    41.2    39.2       36.0    34.6    34.4    34.1    33.8
Gross domestic savings                                     6.9     5.5     6.4     6.6      8.8      11.0    13.1    14.1    14.7    15.7
Gross national savings                                     9.6     7.8     9.0     8.3    10.8       12.9    14A     15.4    16.0    16.8
Memorandum Items:
GDP at m.p. (current USS million)                       2417.9  2846.7  2666.7  1852.8  2463.0    2675.3  2839.0  299:i.7  3169.6  3356.9
GNP per capita (current USS; Atlas method)               270.0   310.0   300.0   250.0  250.0       240.0   270.0   280.0   280.0  290.0
Average exchange rate (CFAFIUSS)                         282.1   264.7   283.2   555.2  499.1       499.4   508.6   516.2   522.6  522.3
REAL ANNUAL GROWTH RATES (1987 orkes) (%)
Gross domestic product at m.p.                            -0.9     8.4    -2.4     2.3      6.0       4.0     4.9     4.5     4.5     4.5
Gross domestic income                                     -1.9     6.5    -2.7     2.3      6.7       3A      4.3     4.9     4.6     4.6
REAL ANNUAL PER CAPITA GROWrH RATES (1987 prlces) (%)
Gross domestic product at m.p.                            -3.7     5.3    -5.2    -0.8      2.7       0.9     1.8     1.4     1.5    1.5
Total consumption                                         -5.8     5.7    -6.5    -7.6      3.9      -1.5    -0.9     0.7     0.9    0.6
Private consumption                                       -7.2     7.6    -6.1    -6.6     4.8       -1.2    -0.7     1.0     1.0    0.6
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (current USS mlllion)
Exports GNFS                                             424.7   409.9  424.2   393.9   542.1       562.9   616.5   672.8   721.4  773.1
of which: Merchandise fo.b.                             355.9   335.9   349.3   333.2   470.0     483.7   530.9   580.1   620.6  663.4
Imports GNFS                                             808.2   876.5   836.3   762.8   966.4      964.4   983.7  1029.4  1080.2  1133.1
of which: Merchandise fo.b.                             446.9   483.6   474.4   434.2   516.3      539.4   557.6   584.9   614.8  648.7
Resource balance                                        -383.5  -466.6  412.1  -368.9  -424.4    -401.4  -367.1  -356.6  -358.8  -360.0
Net factor payments                                      -25.2   -29.8  -25.7   -52.3   -45.7       -47.4   -64.6   -65.7   -68.7  -74.3
of which: Interest paid (DRS data)                       13.6    16.7    15.0   40.2    34.0        39.6    39.4    39.2    39.2   39.2
Net current transfers (official + private)               245.3   257.2  225.4  238.1   215.2        162.6   165.6   172.8   176.1   179.5
Netprivatecurrenttransfers                               88.6    94.4    93.6    83.4    95.8       98.5   101.7   105.0   109.1   113.2
Net official current transfers                          156.7   162.8   131.8   154.7   119.4       64.1    63.9    67.8    67.0   66.3
Current account balance, before official capital grants  -163.4  -239.2  -212.4  -183.1  -254.9    -286.2  -266.1  -249.5  -251.4  -254.8
(including official current transfers)
Official capital grants                                  137.5   143.6   105.9   99.1   126.2       128.2   129.8   127.9   126.3   124.9
Current account balance, after official capital grants   -25.9   -95.6  -106.5   -84.0  -128.7    -158.0  -136.3  -121.6  -125.1  -129.9
Memo: Curr asct bal. before all official transfers    -320.1  -402.0  -344.2  -337.8  -374.3    -350.3  -330.0  -317.3  -318.4  -321.1
Financing items (net)                                    168.1   101.7   129.4   170.8   189.6      202.7   153.2   148.9   143.5   148.6
Total change in reserves                                -142.2    -6.1   -22.9   -86.8   -60.9      -44.7   -16.9   -27.3   -18.4   -18.7
Net credits from the IMF                                 -9.6     7.9     4.6    31.9    36.9       23.0    23.0    18.4  -12.6  -19.1
Gross oflic.reserves change (- increase)               -128.0   -15.5   -28.6  -118.7   -97.8      -67.7   -39.9  -45.7    -5.8    0.4
Valuation adjustment                                     -4.6     1.5     1.1     0.0     0.0        0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Memorandum Items:
Resource balance as % of GDP                             -15.9   -16.4   -15.5   -19.9   -17.2      -15.0   -12.9   -11.9   -11.3  -10.7
Curr.acct.as%ofGDP(excl.allofficialtransfers)            -13.2   -14.1   -12.9   -18.2   -15.2      -13.1   -11.6   -10.6   -10.0    -9.6
Curr. acct. as % of GDP (excl. official capital           -6.8    -8.4    -8.0    -9.9   -10.3      -10.7    -9.4    -8.3    -7.9    -7.6
grants, but incl. all current transfers)



MALI: Selected Economic and Financial Indicators                                                      ANNEX c
Page 2 of 2
Actual                 Est.                  Projected
1991    1992    193    1994    1995        1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
REAL ANNUAL GROWIH RATES (1987 Dlrces) (%
Exports of goods & NFS                                      7.0     3.3      8.5    -6.3    19.8        5.9    11.4     5.1     4.7     4.7
Imports ofgoods & NFS                                      -1.8     3.8    -0.3    -7.8    16.1        -1.3     1.7     2.8     3.1      3.4
PUBLIC FINANCE ( % of GDP at current market urices)
Total revenue (excl. grants)                               16.1    13.4    13.9    13.5    14.4        13.8    14.5    15.0    15.4    15.8
Total expenditures (incl. annexed budgets & spec. funds)   28.2    24.3    23.5    27.2    25.0       23.9    23.6    23.2    22.8    22.6
Overall balance, excl. grants (commitm. basis)            -12.1   -11.0    -9.6   -13.7   -10.5      -10.1    -9.1    -8.1    -7.4    -6.8
Capital expenditure                                        10.2     8.7      8.9    12.5    12.3       11.9    11.7    11.7    11.6    11.6
Foreign financing (net)                                    14.0    11.7      9.1    18.7    16.4        9.8     9.0     8.4     6.9      6.4
(incl. all grants, debt relief; and net IMF)
MONETARY INDICATORS
Velocity (GDP/M2)                                           4.5     4.8     4.4      4.3     4.4       4.2      4.2     4.2
Growth rate of M2()                                       12.6     3.4      8.4    39.1    17.2      13.4      9.1     8.1
PRICE INDICES (1987=100)
Merchandiseexportpriceindex(US$  1987=100))               104.8    95.8    90.8    90.1   105.3      102.4   100.3   104.3   106.8   109.2
Merchandiseimportpriceindex(US$  1987=100)                108.0   112.9   109.4   106.7   116.8      118.0   118.1   120.0   122.2   124.4
Merchandise terms of trade (USS 1987=100)                  97.0    84.9    83.0    84.4    90.2       86.8    84.9    86.9    87.3    87.8
Real effective exchange rate (1987=100) (IMF data)         96.2    89.0    87.2    53.4    59.5          ..      ..
Consumerpriceindex(%growthrate)                             1.8    -6.3    -0.6    24.8    12.4        4.5      3.0     2.5     2.5     2.5
GDPdeflator (% growthrate)                                  2.1     1.9     2.6    33.2    12.7        4.5      3.0     2.5     2.5     2.5
Note: Numbers may not add up to totals due to rounding.                                                                          3-Jun-96
ECONIND.XLS



Mali: Matrix of Policy Measures
Reform issues                                            Measures to be implemented                                          Implementing agency   Timing
1. Domestic Resource
Mobilization
a. Quantitative targets  * Achieve minimum overall domestic revenues of CFAF 184.5 billion for 1996 fiscal year.                Ministry of Finance and    1996
Commerce (MFC)
* Achieve minimum overall domestic revenues of CFAF 200.0 billion for 1997 fiscal year.                 MFC                      1997
b. Administrative
measures
Modemize services and   * Create and make operational a large taxpayer unit at the national level to improve taxpayer monitoring.  MFC (Tax Department)   1996
improve capability for
monitoring and recovery   * Adopt and implement specific measures to improve the taxpayer identification system to better detect delinquent  MWC (Tax Department)   1996
of taxpayer obligations.    accounts.
* Reorganize audits, particularly of the VAT, to ensure they are more frequent, rapid, and well-targeted.  MFC (Tax Department)   1996
* Expand computerization of tax collection units, particularly that of the large taxpayer unit.         MFC (Tax Department)   1996-98
* Harmonize customs reference files (nomenclature, taxation rates) with legal texts in force, publish the official  MWC (Customs)  1996
customs tariff structure and make it available to customs administration and users of customs services.
* Update the customs and the tax codes, publish and distribute updated codes.                           MFC (Customs)           1996-98
* Institute monthly meetings chaired by the National Office of Petroleum Products (ONAP) and including the National  MWC (ONAP, DNAE,    1996-98
Economic Affairs Directorate (DNAE), the SGS, and the customs department for regular cross-checking of data on  Customs)
declarations of petroleum imports and actual import values and volumes.
* Post customs agents at all petroleum products depots to ensure permanent monitoring of petroleum imports.  MWC (Customs)      1996
* Revise the mining code, particularly to reduce existing exonerations, and adopt all needed measures to implement  MFC / Ministry of  1997
the revised code.                                                                                     Mines and Energy
* Complete  implementation  of ongoing  administrative  reforms in the customs department, including:  MFC (Customs)             1996-98
(i) reorganization and strengthening of central services; (ii) reactivation of regional directorates; (iii) strengthening
of internal controls; (iv) redeployment of staff to border areas; (v) establishment of a data base to verify import data
and combat fraud; (vi) strengthening of import verification program; (vii) optimal use of the computerized customs
clearance system; (viii) strict application of sanctions and use of performance incentives for customs personnel in the
fight against fraud; and (ix) provision of needed equipment.
P Z
0
(-h)



Mali: Matrix of Policy Measures
Reform issues                                          Measures to be implemented                                       Implementing agency   Timing
c. Policy reforms     * Adopt and implement a synthetic tax for small firms and informal sector taxpayers, regrouping the current pafente,  MFC (Tax Department)   1997-98
Reduce distortions,    tax on commercial and business income, and the value added tax.
expand the tax base,  * Adopt and implement a single tax to be levied on consolidated income of large firms, at a rate of 35% for stockholder  MFC (Tax Department)   1997-98
simplify and introduce  companies and 25% for individually owned companies, with a revised definition of deductible expenses.
greater transparency
into the direct tax   * Replace the existing General Income Tax (IGR) with a tax levied only on salary income, reduce the number of tax  MFC (Tax Department)   1997-98
system.                 brackets to a maximum of 5 and abolish the present income splitting scheme (quotientfamilial).
2. Expenditure
Management
a. Budget             * Adopt and apply required legal texts to harmonize the accounting nomenclature in use by the treasury with the new   MFC (Budget /Treasury)  1997-98
preparation          nomenclature used by the budget.
Strengthen the budget    * Prepare new budget procedures manual and ensure its regular use by staff in charge of budget preparation.  MFC (Budget /Treasury)  1997
process with aim to   * Introduce budgeting by program on a pilot basis in at least one Ministry                          MFC (Budget f/reasury)  1998
move gradually to a
system of budgeting by   * Consolidate current central ministry allocations that are passed on to regions for execution into the regional budgets.   MFC (Budget /Treasury)  1998
objective in the medium
objetive in the medium * Computerize the entire budget preparation process.                                               MFC (Budget /Treasury)  1996-98
term.
* Adopt new format for presentation of budget documents to ensure greater transparency and ease of interpretation.  MFC (Budget /Treasury)  1997
* Organize staff training on budgeting procedures and budget preparation.                          MFC (Budget /Treasury)  1996-98
* Adopt a format for the presentation of key information on new projects over CFAF 2 billion in size entering the  MFC / Planning Agency   1997-98
three year rolling investment program.
* Prepare and adopt budget laws for 1997 and 1998 fiscal years and prepare budget law for 1999 fiscal year,  MFC           1996-98
satisfactory to IDA.
b. Monitoring          * Execute annual reviews of expenditures for 1995, 1996 and 1997 fiscal years in order to: (i) evaluate expenditure  MFC   1997-98
Execution             execution vis-a-vis budget allocations; (ii) identify expenditures executed in violation of existing budget procedures
and take needed corrective action; (iii) provide information on regional and sectoral breakdown of expenditures; and
Improve the budget     (iv) monitor closely expenditures in primary education, health, road maintenance, and agricultural extension.
process and execution.   * Adopt and implement measures to strengthen the monitoring of the execution of the public investment budget and  MWC / Planning Agency   1996-98
conduct a detailed analysis of the execution of the public investment program for the period 1993-95.
oQ z
Li



Mali: Matrix of Policy Measures
Reform issues                                            Measures to be implemented                                         Implementing agency   Timing
c. Poverty Focus        Education sector
Ensure intrasectoral    * Recruit at least 600 teachers (including 300 vacataires) in the 1996 fiscal year, 600 primary school teachers in the  MFC / Ministry of  1996-98
expenditure shifts that   1997 fiscal year and 700 primary school teachers in the 1998 fiscal year. in order to reach the targeted 50%   Basic Education
promote poverty           primary enrollment ratio by the year 2000.
alleviation.            * Allocate and execute annually for didactic materials the aggregate amounts needed to achieve the following norms  MFC/ Ministries of  1996-98
per student: CFAI 2,500 at the primary level, CFAF 5,000 at the lower secondary leveL CFAF 21,000 at the upper  Basic and Higher
secondary level. CFAI 35,000 at the technical level, and CFAF 50,000 at the higher education level.  Education
* Allocate and execute about CFAF 300 million in real terms annually for school buildings maintenance in the  MWC              1996-98
education sector
I lealth sector
* Recruit at least 150 medical and paramedical personnel in 1996, at least 200 in 1997, and at least 200 in 1998 for  MFC /Ministry of  1997-98
health facilities located outside Bamako.                                                            Health
* Allocate and execute about CFAF 2.5 billion annually for operations and maintenance spending in the health  MFC / Ministry of  1997-98
sector.                                                                                              Health
Road maintenance
* Allocate and execute CFAF 4.2 billion for 1997 and CFAF 4.3 billion for 1998 for road maintenance in accordance  MFC         1997-98
with the Letter of Development Policy for the Transport Sector Investment Operation (Credit No. 2617-MLI).
Agricultural extension
* Allocate and execute expenditures for agricultural extension budgetary amounts in accordance with agreement  MFC / Ministry of  1998
between IDA and the Malian Government under the second phase of the agricultural extension program planned for  Agriculture
1997.
3. Addressing Gender
Issues
* Adopt the new decree on award of land in the Office du Niger region and put in place a system for monitoring the  MFC / Ministry of  1996
application of the decree.                                                                           Agriculture
Improve the integration  a Carry out a media campaign aimed at sensitizing the public on legal rights for women in the context of the Action  MFC / Commission for   1996
of women in economic      Plan for the Promotion of Women adopted in January 1996.                                              Promotion of Women
activities by facilitating    * Provide under the social safety net additional financing amounting to CFAF 500 million for the Support Fund for  MFC / Commission for   1997
their access to land and  Women Activities aimed at granting small credits to women involved in income generating activities.  Promotion of Women
credit                  * Carry out a study to identify constraints which impede or restrict women's access to credit and implement the  MFC / Commission for   1996-98
recommendations in accordance with a timetable agreed with IDA.                                      Promotion of Women
I)D,
0



q



ANNEX E
Page I of 9
(Translalion)
MINISTRY OF FINANCE                               REPUBLIC OF MALI
AND COMMERCE
Bamako
GENERAL                                  May 30,1996
SECRETARIAT
OFFICE OF THE MINISTER
No.0600/MFC-SG
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
World Bank Group
Washington, D. C. 20433
Subject: Letter of Development Policy: Objectives and Strategies
for Economic Management (1996-98)
Dear Sir:
1.    Please be advised that it is the intention of the Government of Mali to institute an
ambitious economic reform program for the period 1996-1998 so that the conditions essential
for sustainable social and economic development may be established.
2.    The key objectives of the program described in this Policy Statement are to reinforce
the encouraging achievements of the period just completed and, in particular, to ensure the
sustainability of the country's macroeconomic framework. The strategies underlying the
program are expected to ensure financial viability, foster lasting economic growth, reduce
poverty, with the ultimate long-term purpose of raising the standard of living of the Malian
population, and strengthen regional integration.  In addition to their focus on fiscal
consolidation, these strategies accord primary importance not only to structural reforms, which
are indispensable if the economy is to become more flexible and output and exports more
diversified, but also to human resources development, control of population growth and the
promotion of women
A.   Recent Economic Develonments
3.    Mali has made considerable progress in reducing financial imbalances, liberalizing the
economy, and laying firm foundations for lasting economic growth. The Government's



ANNEX E
Page 2 of 9
macroeconomic goals have been achieved: real growth in GDP averaged close to 3% in 1992-
94 and 6% in 1995; inflation, measured in terms of the GDP deflator, was kept to an annual
2% in 1992-93, and following devaluation to 33.2% in 1994 and 12.7% in 1995; and the
current account deficit (excluding government transfers) was held at 18.2% of GDP in 1994
and then reduced to 15.2% in 1995. Over the same period, the fiscal deficit was reduced from
13.7% to 10.5% of GDP, while credit policy remained cautious. A broad range of structural
measures were introduced as well:  price liberalization, privatization, dismantling or
restructuring of many public enterprises, and reforms throughout the agriculture sector aimed
at cutting costs and diversifying output. In the social sectors, however, although the reforms
introduced have been significant, they have not achieved as much as expected and now need to
be pursued more intensively.
B.    Key Reforms in Proeress
4.    Lasting improvement in the Government's budgetary situation will remain a key goal of
reform strategy in Mali. In view of the progress made toward stabilization over the period
1992-95, the authorities are intent on ensuring the viability of the financial operations of
government departments and agencies so as to reduce the country's dependence on external
budgetary aid. The fiscal deficit (commitment-based but excluding grants) is expected to
shrink from the 1995 figure of 10.5% of GDP to 8% in 1998, but success in achieving this goal
will require continuing revenue growth which does not put too heavy a strain on the private
sector, and continuing application of a moderate expenditure policy.
5.    Revenue growth will result from introduction of a series of measures to improve the
effectiveness of governmental collection mechanisms, broaden the tax base, curtail tax evasion,
and simplify the direct tax system.
6.    The authorities have taken major steps to limit growth in, and improve the structure of,
expenditure.  Their primary expenditure policy goal is continuing fiscal consolidation
accompanied by adequate allocation of funds for social spending, the investment program, and
maintenance outlays. The Government proposes to avoid all nonbudget expenditure and any
earmarking of revenues for specific expenditures.
7.    Application of a strict wages policy will play a crucial part in the attainment of these
objectives and is to be accompanied by continued tight public-sector payroll management.
8.    The authorities will be making a concerted effort to channel expenditure toward
priority sectors. To this end, in consultation with the World Bank, they will conduct an annual
examination of budget execution in time for the findings to be taken into account during the
annual budgeting process.
9.    In the education sector, the authorities have been engaged since 1995 in a far-reaching
reform program to rectify the distortions affecting it and to broaden access to basic education.
They have taken steps to increase enrollment rates in basic education and to improve quality of
instruction at all levels. The practice of double-shift teaching has been extended, and 300
teachers in administrative positions have been reassigned to teaching posts in the first cycle of
the basic system. A plan of action to reduce repeater rates in the basic education system has
been launched. In addition, a system of access to the second cycle of basic education, based on
pupils' scholastic results and the numbers of classroom places available, has been introduced



ANNEX E
Page 3 of 9
for the 1995-96 school year, accompanied by the associated publicity and awareness campaign
necessary for its success. In the case of higher education, a plan of action laying down the
broad outlines of the reform program needed at this level is now in the process of being
executed.
10.   Once the first phase of these reforms is completed, the Government will be very well
placed to formulate a ten-year education investment program that will allow a focus on
accelerated expansion of the basic education system, especially where the enrollment of girls is
concerned, and improvements in quality of instruction at all levels.
11.   The Government proposes to strengthen the banking and financial sector and improve
financial market intermediation. As part of its divestiture program, the Government also
intends to seek the total or partial privatization of the Malian banks and credit institutions in
which it is currently a shareholder. In addition, the Government has committed itself to joining
forces with the World Bank to organize a regional seminar on credit institutions specializing in
small-scale financing (micro-lending).
12.   In the interests of women's participation in development, the Government in January
1996 adopted and immediately began implementation of a plan of action for the promotion of
women. Set up to cover the period 1996-2000, this plan focuses on the main issues urged in
both the African platform at the Beijing Conference and the Plan of Action that was the final
product of the Conference, namely: (a) increased participation for women in economic
activity; (b) defense of women's rights and interests; (c) women's fall integration in the
economic development process; (d) promotion of girls' and women's education; (e)
improvement of women's health; and (f) support for institutions working for women's
promotion. One major goal of the plan is improved school enrollment rates among young
girls. In general terms, the plan provides the framework within which the various activities
proposed will be coordinated.
13.   The Government will intensify, through an action plan, its previous efforts to enhance
the effectiveness of the public services, reduce the cost of the public enterprises in the national
budget, and expand the role of the private sector in all areas of economic activity. This plan
specifies the reforms proposed for each of the enterprises in question, and is currently under
discussion with the World Bank.
14.   In conjunction with the World Bank and other donors, the authorities are preparing an
institutional development program designed to modernize the public administration and
strengthen its administrative and management capacities. It is planned to hold wide-ranging
consultations with the population as a whole and the social partners in particular in order to
sensitize them as to the importance of these reforms.
C.    Obiectives and Stratezies of the Economic ManaLyement Proeram (1996-98)
1.    Mobilization of domestic resources
15.   Since 1991, total tax revenue in Mali has been rising steadily. Over the period 1991-
95, there was an increase of approximately 21% in National Directorate of Taxation receipts,
with a sharp rise in 1994 compared to 1993.



ANNEX E
Page 4 of 9
16.   However, despite these encouraging results, the tax effort as a proportion of GDP is
still relatively low. Numerous difficulties still in fact exist in mobilizing public resources,
ascribable in part to:
-     shortages of equipment throughout the Tax Administration;
-     lack of training and motivation among Tax Administration personnel;
-     the narrowness of the tax base;
-     the static nature of the taxation system;
-     faulty management of tax exemptions;
-     uneven distribution of the tax burden;
-     complexity of the direct taxation system.
17.   In order to mitigate these difficulties, and with a view to improved mobilization of
budgetary resources, measures are planned in accordance with the principles set out in the
Government's  1996-1998  Economic and Financial Policy Framework Paper and its
Memorandum on Economic and Financial Policies for 1996 . These measures are designed to
ensure a minimum of CFAF 184.5 billion in total tax receipts in 1996 and 200 billion in 1997.
18.   Improvements in the flow of customs revenue are a direct outcome of overall growth in
the Malian economy and greater effectiveness on the part of the Customs Administration. The
latter is largely a matter of:
-     strictness in application of the relevant legislation and regulations;
-     organizing and equipping customs service agencies appropriately.
Customs revenue, including that earned on petroleum products, rose from CFAF 47 billion in
1993 to 55 billion in 1994, and 73 billion in 1995. Petroleum products accounted for CFAF
20.2 billion, 19.5 billion, and 21 billion as against projections of CFAF 21.5 billion for 1993
and 1994 and 24.5 billion for 1995, respectively. The improvement in recent years can be
ascribed to specific customs agent training measures, rehabilitation and reequipping of customs
border posts and the major customs clearance centers, and reorganization of customs services.
19.   To strengthen the Customs Administration, the authorities propose to: (a) continue to
organize and strengthen the central services and to reactivate the regional directorates; internal
control procedures will be strengthened and personnel redeployed in the border areas; (b)
create a data base so as to evaluate imports and combat fraud, strengthen the import inspection
program and make optimum use of the computerized customs clearance system; (c) apply
penalties rigorously and introduce incentives for customs agents in light of their performance in
fighting fraud; (d) update the Customs Code and publish it so as to make it available to the
public; (e) harmonize the basic lists of tariffs (nomenclature, charges) used by customs officials
with current legislation, publish the official tariff schedule and make it available to the customs
service and to users of the Customs Administration, and (f) provide the necessary equipment to
operating units.
20.   Planned steps to strengthen the Tax Administration consist of: (a) establishment of a
division with authority to conduct tax audits of major taxpayers throughout the country; (b)
taxpayer identification system improvements to facilitate tracking of arrears; (c) modification
of tax audit procedures to introduce a special focus on frequent, rapid, and targeted checks of
sources of VAT revenue; (d) increased use of computerization, particularly in the division



ANNEX E
Page 5 of 9
responsible for auditing major taxpayers; and (e) updating and publishing of the General Tax
Code to make it available to the public.
21.   In order to broaden the tax base, exemptions on purchases by government departments
and agencies, including those purchases financed by donors, will be replaced by procedures for
reimbursement of the customs and VAT charges they occasion. Exemptions from customs duty
at lower levels have been eliminated. The Mining Code will also be revised in order to make
the sector more competitive and create an enabling environment that will stimulate both private
investment and the development of small individual operations, as well as increasing budget
receipts from mining operations, particularly through the reduction of current exemptions.
22.   Where taxes on petroleum products are concerned, the following are some of the
measures planned to increase revenue and reduce tax evasion on their importation and
distribution: (a) audit of all petroleum products storage facilities; (b) better policing of sector
operators through closer scrutiny of importers and their operations to ensure that duties are
paid, and product safety labeling by Societ generale de surveillance (SGS) of each shipment
inspected (provided it is in compliance with Malian regulations, especially as regards validity of
import intent and the consent of the importer concerned); and (c) establishment of a Statistics
Verification Committee with a mandate for representatives of Direction nationale des affaires
economiques (DNAE), Direction g6n6rale des douanes (DGD), and Societe generale de
surveillance to meet monthly under the chairmanship of Office national des produits petroliers
for the purpose of cross-checking petroleum statistics (statements of intent, purchase orders,
shipments, declarations of stocks released for consumption, stocks under customs control, and
exemptions).
23.   In the case of Mali's direct taxation system, the authorities propose to institute reforms
that will reduce the administrative costs associated with application of the tax laws to the
private sector and broaden the tax base, but without any decline in tax receipts. It is the
Government's intention to take the following specific steps: (i) introduction and application to
all small informal-sector enterprises and taxpayers of a combination tax that incorporates the
business license tax (patente), the profits tax (BIC), and the value added tax; (ii) introduction
and application of a single tax on the total income of large enterprises, at a rate of either 35%
(stockholder corporations) or 25% (other types of corporation and individual businesses),
together with clear definition of classes of deductible expenditure; and (iii) simplification of the
taxation of salaries and wages, with elimination of the income-split system (as per number of
dependents) and reduction of the current number of income brackets to a maximum of five.
2.    Management of Public Expenditure
24.   Despite past efforts to improve budgetary procedures and administration, final
appropriations bills themselves were still not explicit enough regarding spending priorities, and
failed to harmonize the various draft budgets prepared by Directorates of Administration and
Finance and by the Regional Directorates of Budget. In addition, a very high percentage of
expenditure was accounted for by shared costs; the whole budget drafting process was
cumbersome and labor-intensive; payroll costs far outstripped spending on plant and
equipment; etc.



ANNEX E
Page 6 of 9
25.   Significant progress in improving the budgetary process was achieved as part of the
country's first structural adjustment program, carried out with IDA financing. Shared costs
are now apportioned separately, spending priorities are defined, especially for such sectors as
health, education, road maintenance, and spending on plant and equipment by government
departments and agencies. Steps have been taken to manage payroll costs and keep them
within fixed limits. A start has been made on computerizing budget preparation and the
monitoring of budget execution.
26.   Nevertheless, continuing efforts are still required to strengthen budgetary procedures in
order to arrive at program budgeting in the medium term, so as to ensure greater consistency
between the Government's development priorities and the allocation of public funds. With
assistance made available mainly through UNDP, the Canadian International Development
Agency, and the French Cooperation authorities, actions are now under way (i) to computerize
the work of all government departments (DNB, DAF, DRB, etc.) which have responsibilities in
the arena of budget preparation and execution, particularly through staff training and the
provision of software that allows analysis and audit of expenditure, and (ii) to standardize
budget preparation procedures through the use of specially designed model formats, and issue
of a handbook of instructions on government budget preparation (to be followed by another on
budget execution). In addition, measures are being put into effect to improve presentation of
the budget so as to ensure greater transparency and facilitate its interpretation. The
Government intends to introduce program budgeting on a pilot basis in at least one ministry
before the end of 1998. In addition, those allocations by ministry in the national budget that
are earmarked for the regions will be consolidated in the regional budgets. Lastly, the National
Assembly is currently debating draft legislative instruments on appropriations bills and on the
fundamental principles of public sector accounting. Their enactment will contribute to the
understandability, transparency, and predictability of the governmental budget execution
process. The resulting new budget nomenclature will be harmonized with the Treasury's
accounting nomenclature.
3.    Restructuring of Public Expenditure
Current expenditure
27.   The Government has taken steps to improve the structure of its expenditure. Since its
main objectives are to reduce poverty and spend more effectively, it proposes to focus on
ensuring that budget appropriations for health services, education, road maintenance, and
agricultural extension are adequate.
28.   In the education sector, the objective is to raise the enrollment rate in the first cycle of
basic education from the 1995 figure of 39% to 50% by the year 2000 and then to 70% by
2005, without jeopardizing the viability of government financial operations. The education
sector enjoys high priority in the budgetary allocation process, accounting for 20.12% of
current spending in 1994, 21.27% in 1995, and a projected 22.53% in 1996. The 1996 budget
allocation for teaching materials alone is CFAF 4 billion, with half this sum earmarked for basic
education. Future allocations in real terms for teaching materials will be in accordance with
the following guidelines: CFAF 2,500 for the first cycle of basic education, CFAF 5,000 for the
second cycle of basic education, CFAF 21,000 for general secondary education, CFAF 35,000
for secondary technical and CFAF 50,000 for higher education. At least CFAF 300 million will



ANNEX E
Page 7 of 9
be allocated annually to maintaining premises in the education sector. Six hundred teachers
(including 300 second-shift teachers) will be recruited for basic education in 1996. A further
600 and then 700 teachers will be recruited for the first cycle of basic education in 1997 and
1998 respectively. The Ten-Year Education Program is being drawn up by a multidisciplinary
specialist team. This group will organize the necessary dialogue and consultation with all
stakeholders in the Malian schooling system, the general aim here being to arrive at a vision of
that system which accommodates both the social purposes of education and the imperatives of
accelerated schooling development. At the same time, the group will provide information and
advice regarding the implications of ambitious school enrollment rates, resulting employment
rates and earning power, etc., on the basis of freely chosen policies and strategies.
29.   In the health sector, operating expenses accounted for 7.82% of total budgeted current
government spending in 1994, 8.01% in 1995, and a projected 8.31% in 1996. The rate of
coverage of a minimum package of activities was 27% in 1995, a figure the Government
proposes to increase to 45% in 1996 and 65% in 1997. A National Social and Health Planning
Commission has now been set up, while formulation of a Ten-Year Health and Social
Development Plan is scheduled for completion in 1997. The upward trend in budget allocations
to the health sector will continue, reaching approximately 10% of the recurrent budget. In
addition, some CFAF 2.5 billion annually will be spent on health sector equipment. In 1996
150 health and paramedical personnel will be recruited for assignment to more remote areas; a
further 200 will be recruited both in 1997 and 1998.
30.   Allocations for road maintenance, which will include coverage of commitments
associated with the Transportation Sector Credit Agreement (Credit 2617-MLI), will reach at
least CFAF 4.2 billion and 4.32 billion in 1997 and 1998, respectively. In the sphere of
agricultural extension, 76% of all farmland was covered and 86% of all farms were visited in
1995, when the target figures were 60% and 45% respectively. The Government is determined
to see that extension services reach all villages by the year 2000. Allocations of budget
resources for agricultural extension will be in accordance with: (i) the implementation of
actions included as part of the program's second phase, scheduled to start up in 1997; and (ii)
whatever constraints may be imposed by the existence of a prudent macroeconomic
framework.
Capital expenditure
31.   All decisions on public investment must be consistent with a coherent investment policy
which gives primary importance to return on capital and financial viability. The Public
Expenditure Review conducted jointly in 1993 by the Government, the World Bank, and other
donors revealed a need to improve the effectiveness of public investments. The areas calling
for particular attention were: project selection on the basis of economic criteria, sector
priorities, and counterpart funding requirements; project impact in terms of recurrent charges
and debt-servicing capacity; and monitoring of project execution.
32.   In order to ensure that project selection is consistent with the country's overall
economic framework, the Government, by the end of June each year, draws up a three-year
rolling public investment program and accompanying capital spending budget covering all
projects funded with domestic and foreign resources.



ANNEX E
Page 8 of 9
33.   Despite undoubted progress in this sphere, it has to be recognized that the public
investment programming/budgeting process still shows signs of gaps and shortcomings that
need to be rectified. These defects stem from:
-     the fact that the three-year investment program and the capital expenditure
budget are not exhaustive enough to reflect the level of public investment
accurately,
-     the unreliability of available statistical data;
-     the lack of national capacity in the spheres of investment preparation, appraisal,
selection, programming, and monitoring.
34.   In the circumstances, the Government intends to take action that will lead to the
development and introduction of a format for the presentation of key information on new
public investment program projects when they are estimated to cost over CFAF 2 billion. In
addition, steps will be taken to strengthen the monitoring of the capital expenditure budget.
4.    Monitoring and evaluation of expenditure
35.   The authorities propose to conduct annual reviews of budgetary execution performance
every July. This will provide an occasion to: take stock of budgetary execution during the
preceding fiscal year; assess the extent to which budgetary sector objectives were achieved;
identify and remove obstacles to successful budgetary execution; and draw lessons that may be
applicable to the budget being prepared for the forthcoming fiscal year. The Government will
also make available to the finance inspectorates the resources they need to perform their public
expenditure monitoring and evaluation role more effectively.
36.   Where capital spending is concerned, despite the significant progress made since Mali
introduced investment programming and budgeting in 1988, investment project monitoring
arrangements need to be reorganized and strengthened as the conditions required for effective
tracking of the investment management process are still not in place.
37.   Review of the arrangements for monitoring public development projects reveal that
such monitoring is not systematic, and that in fact there exists no coherent and comprehensive
process for monitoring and evaluating projects or programs. Nearly all effort goes into
preparing projects and seeking funding for them.
38.   Consequently the Malian authorities, in a move to ensure that execution of the capital
expenditure budget is monitored more effectively, have requested World Bank assistance in
conducting a detailed analysis of execution of the public investment program over the last three
years. This study exercise, to be completed by June 1997, is expected to generate reliable
statistics that will facilitate establishment of a more effective system of investment monitoring.
It will also provide an opportunity to evaluate current procedures for collecting and processing
data on completed public investment projects, and to formulate recommendations for better
monitoring of the three-year rolling investment program.
5.    Promotion of Women
39.   Malian women play an essential part in all sectors of the national economy. Rural
women work side by side with men in growing crops, raising livestock, and in exploiting
fishery and fuelwood resources.



ANNEX E
Page 9 of 9
40.   In urban areas, women work as salaried employees of enterprises and public services,
where they increasingly perform functions previously limited to men, although they are
generally shut out of the decision process. Women are also a large component of the work
force in commerce and utility craft production, which essentially are informal sector activities.
41.   Women's economic role would have been more significant had there not been
numerous obstacles in their path. In the rural world, women gain access to land only with
difficulty and are not free to dispose of the fruits of their labor as they see fit. Like her
counterpart in the urban world, the rural woman is often unable to read or write and will have
received no vocational training. Living in poverty and deprivation, having no personal assets
that give her access to credit, and confined for the most part to the informal sector, where the
rules of the game are not subject to regulation, she is in no position to engage in projects set
up to produce future benefits.
42.   With a view to elimination of these obstacles, the Government has instituted numerous
actions. For example: amendment of the Commercial Code to enable women to engage in
commercial activities without authorization from their husbands; creation of a Women's
Activities Support Fund; launching of two projects in support of women's promotion -
projects which offer training in how to manage a business and market its products, and how to
set up and run micro-scale income-generating ventures.
43.   Where women's access to credit is concerned, the Govcrnment proposes to complete a
study on the subject and to agree with the World Bank on a timetable for implementation of
the resulting recommendations. In addition, it will allocate CFAF 500 million of social safety
net resources in the 1997 fiscal year to the Women's Activities Support Fund.
44.   Where women's access to land is concerned, the Government proposes to adopt the
Land Management Decree of the Office du Niger, and to set up an entity to monitor
arrangements and procedures for implementation of the provisions of the Decree. This Decree
guarantees women the same access to land as men and should therefore enable them to
increase their incomes and improve their living standards.
45.   In order to sensitize the public to women's rights and the role of women in economic
development, it is the Government's intention to conduct a wide-ranging campaign as part of a
plan of action for the Promotion of Women to be launched in 1997.
46.   All the actions enumerated here, the results of which will be evaluated at regular
intervals, are to be accompanied by a massive sensitization campaign, and by measures to
strengthen the institutional capacities of the Women's Development Promotion Authority.
47.   The Malian authorities are of the firm opinion that the measures outlined in this Policy
Statement are of a nature to contribute appreciably to strengthening of the foundations for
healthy and sustainable economic growth. They intend to take steps to promote the awareness
and active participation of those concerned in program implementation.
Yours truly,
Soumaila Cisse
Minister of Finance and Commerce






ANNEX F
Page 1 of 2
Mali: Economic Management Project
Performance Monitoring Indicators
Policy and Institutional Reform   Intermediate Indicators          Outcome Indicators
Measures1
A. Fiscal Measures                                            * Increase total revenues from
about CFAF 177.3 billion in
Revenue Mobilization                                        1995 to CFAF 184.5 billion in
1996; CFAF 209.2 billion in
1997; and CFAF 232.7 billion
in 1998.
1. Reform of direct taxation  * Reduce the ratio of          * Increase direct tax revenues
"outstanding taxes to total tax  from CFAF 27.5 billion in
Reduce distortions, simplify  obligations assessed" at the end    1995 to CFAF 27.9 billion in
and increase transparency of    of each fiscal year.        1996; CFAF 32.2 billion in
system of direct taxation                                   1997; and CFAF 35.8 billion in
1998.
2. Petroleum Revenues         * Increase ratio of petroleum  * Increase total petroleum
revenues to petroleum imports    revenues from CFAF 21.2
Increase revenues and reduce    from 39.2% in 1995, to at least   billion in 1995 to at least CFAF
fraud in the importation and  43.9% in 1996, 47.3% in 1997    26.6 billion in 1996; CFAF
distribution of petroleum    and 50% in 1998.               31.2 billion in 1997; and CFAF
products                                                    36.7 billion in 1998.
3. Strengthen Customs         * Increase ratio of customs    * Increase customs revenues
administration               revenues (outside petroleum) to   (outside petroleum) from CFAF
total imports (less petroleum  51.8 billion in 1995 to at least
Modernize services and       imports) from 21.8% in 1995,   CFAF 60.0 billion in 1996;
increase tax recovery capacity   to 24.7% in 1996, 27.6% in  CFAF 71.1 billion in 1997; and
1997 in 29.7% in 1998.        CFAF 80.3 billion in 1998.
4 Strengthen Domestic tax     * Increase ratio of domestic tax    * Increase domestic tax revenues
administration.               revenues to GDP from 4.3% in    from CFAF 43.2 billion in
Modernize services and       1995 to at least 4.6% in 1996,  1995 to 62.1 billion in 1996,
increase capacity to monitor  4.9% in 1997 and 5.1 % in     CFAF 71.7 billion in 1997 and
tax payers and recover tax   1998.                          CFAF 79.2 billion in 1998.
obligations.
The policy and institutional reform measures are detailed in Annex D.



ANNEX F
Page 2 of 2
Mali: Economic Management Project
Performance Monitoring Indicators
Policy and Institutional Reform  Intermediate Indicators          Outcome Indicators
Measures2
B. Restructuring of public    * Increase the share of education   * Increase primary enrollment
expenditures                 sector in recurrent expenditures   ratio form 35% in 1995 to at
from 21.3% in 1995, to at least   least 39% in 1996, 42% in
Increase poverty focus of    22.5% in 1996; 23.5.% in 1997    1997; and 45% in 1998.
public expenditures.         and 24.5% in 1998.
a Increase the coverage for
* Increase the share of basic  minimum package of health
education in education sector  services from 27% in 1995 to
recurrent expenditures from   45% in 1996, 65% in 1997 and
55.4% in 1995 to at least     85% in 1998.
57.7% in 1996, 59.2% in 1997,
and 60.7% in 1998.
* Increase share of health sector
in recurrent expenditures from
8% in 1995, to at least 8.3% in
1996; 9% in 1997; and 10% in
1998.
C. Promotion of Women                                     * Number of women who have
* Number of applications for land   benefited from loans under the
Promote the integration of  by women                       Fund for Support of Women's
women into economic activity                               Activities (FSWA);
by facilitating their access to                           * Volume of loans granted under
land and credit.                                           FSWA;
* Number of women outside
Bamako region benefiting from
the FSWA;
* Repayment rate on FSWA
loans;
* Ratio of awards of land to
women to requests for land by
women. (in the Office du Niger
Region).
2   The policy and institutional reform measures are detailed in Annex D.



ANNEX G
Mali: Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
(a) Time taken to prepare Credit       14 months
(b)  Prepared by:                     Government with IDA assistance
(c)  First IDA mission:                February 1995
(d) Pre- appraisal                    February 1996
(e)  Appraisal':                       April 1996
(f)  Date of Negotiations:            May 16-20, 1996
(g)  Board Presentation:              June 27, 1996
(h)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:   July 1996
(i) Expected Project Completion:      December 31, 1998
Appraisal was done through the Resident Mission in Bamako. There was no formal appraisal mission from
headquarters.






ANNEX H
Page 1 of 3
MALI: Status of Bank Group Operations
IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
(As of April 30, 1996)
Original amount in USS                Difference
Project        Loan or  Fiscal                                      millions                      between actual
ID          Credit No. Year            Purpose                 IDA         Cancel-    Undis-    and expected
lations    bursed    disbursenents"
No. of Closed Credits:   44
Credits
ML-PA-1718        C19060   1988 OfficeduNigerll                          39.80                7.86            2.53
ML-PA-1723        C19980   1989 Power II                                33,00                 16.81           15.06
ML-PA-1725        C22350   1991  Agric. Services                        24.40                10.91             8.90
ML-PA-1727        C22170   1991  Health/Pop/Rural Water                 26.60                 12.30            5.94
ML-PA-1730        C26170   1994 Transport Sector                        65.00                65.70             9.06
ML-PA-1744        C21630   1990 Agric. SECAL                             53.00                13.61            7.75
ML-PA-1745        C23700   1992 Natural Resource Mgt.                   20.40                 16.50            9.12
ML-PA-1747        C24320   1993 Private Sector Assistance                12.00                8.20             1.34
ML-PA-1751        C25570   1994 Ag. Research                            20.00                 15.99           2.66
ML-PA-1752        C23710   1992 Public Works & Cap. Buildg.             20.00                 0.44            -8.72
ML-PA-1752        C23711   1995 Public Works & Cap. Buildg.              10.00                6.62            2.61
ML-PA-1755        C27370   1995 Agro-Processing & Trading                 6.00                5.63             0.64
ML-PA-1756        C23900   1992 Mining Capacity                           6.00                5.25            4.20
ML-PA-35662       C26730   1995 Education SECAL                          50.00                 2.35            0.83
ML-PA-1746        C28280   1996 Vocational Education & Trg.              13.40                13.00            0.00
ML-PA-34617       C28500   1996 Selingue Rehab.                          27.30                26.72            0.00
TOTAL         16 credits                                             426.90      0.00     227.89           61.92
Active Loans     Closed Loans    Total
Total disbursed (IBRD and IDA)                             218.32           634.18   852.50
Of which repaid                                            0.00            33,31    33.31
Total now held by IBRD and IDA                             426.90           560.16   987.06
Amount sold                                                  0.00             0.00      0.00
Of which repaid                                            0.00             0.00     0.00
Total undisbursed                                          227.89              1.07   228.96
a. Intended disbursements as projected at appraisal minus actual disbursements to date.
Note: Disbursement data are updated at the end of the first week of the month.



ANNEX H
Page 2 of 3
MALI: STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of April 30, 1996
(in USS millions)
Original Gross Commitments
Held by
Fiscal                                                     IFC   IFC  Partici-       Held by Partici-  Undisb. incl.
Year              Obligor              Type of Business    Loan Equity pants  Totals  IFC    pants   Participants
1978 a/ Societe Mamadou Sada Diallo
et Freres SARL (SOMACI)     Manufacturing           0.64                 0.64
1982 a/ Societe Industrielle de Karite
du Mali, S.A.               Food and Agribusiness    1.84  0.45          2.29
1992 a/ Labo-Mali                   Industrial & Consumer
Services               0.10                0.10
1994   Grand Hotel de Bamako        Hotels and Tourism      1.02                1.02   0.97
1994   Societe Miniere de Syama     Mining & Extraction
of Metals/Other Ores    25.35   1.41      26.76  26.76                 0.31
1995   Socidte d'Exploitation des   Mining & Extraction
Mines d'Or de Sadiola S.A.   of Metals/Other Ores    35.00  4.80  25.00  64.80  39.80   25.00       12.99
Total gross commitments b/                         63.95  6.66  25.00  95.61
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                                2.63  0.45   0.00   3.08
Total comnuitments now held c/                     61.32  6.21  25.00  92.53  67.53   25.00         13.30
Pending Commitments
AEF GGG                                                    0.77          0.77
AEF-BOAM                                                   0.23          0.23
AEF-SOMAM                                            1.54                1.54
Total pending commitments                            1.54  1.00   0.00   2.54
Total commitments held and pending commitments     62.86  7.21  25.00  95.07
Total undisbursed commitments                       7.89  0.00   5.41  13.30
a/ Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off, sold, redeemed or repaid.
b/ Gross commitments consist of approved and signed projects.
c/ Held commitments consist of disbursed and undisbursed investment.



ANNEX H
Page 3 of 3
Mali: Status of Bank Group Operations
Portfolio Implementation Issues
1.    Overall portfolio performance is satisfactory and is expected to improve further following the Country
Portfolio Performance Review held in Bamako in November 1995. Action plans were agreed between the Bank
and the Government for addressing generic as well as project specific implementation issues. Two follow-up
committees (with membership from all key ministries and Departments as well as the Resident Mission) have been
set up to monitor execution of these plans. One of these committees is under the Prime Minister's Chairmanship.
2.    As of April 30, 1996, IDA had approved credits in support of 60 operations in Mali. Forty-four (44) of
these operations had closed, leaving the current portfolio with 16 credits. The undisbursed balance as of April 30,
1996 was US$227.89 million.  Two projects (Vocational Education &  Training and Selingue Power
Rehabilitation) totalling US$40.7 million were approved in March 1996 and April 1996 respectively.
3.    Of the 16 credits in the current portfolio, there are no over-aged operations. With the exception of the
two recently approved projects, all credits approved by the Board within the last 12 months have been declared
effective. However, three credits show disbursement lags of 50% or more. The characteristics of these operations
are noted below:
Natural Resource Management (Cr. 2370-ML). Disbursement lag: about 64%. Disbursements to date:
US$5.16 million out of an approved amount of US$20.4 million. The credit became effective on
February 11, 1993, about seven months after signing. The disbursement lag is due partly to overly
optimistic projections on the start of village level investments, which form the bulk of the project at the
time of project appraisal. Village level investments were only able to begin three years into the project
instead of the two years projected at appraisal. Since these investments were largely local expenditures,
this lag was further aggravated by the January 1994 devaluation of the CFA franc which doubled local
currency equivalent of project funds. The start of village level activities and the increase in the number of
villages to be covered under the project, agreed after the mid-term review in November 1995, should
result in a significant reduction in the disbursement lag.
Mining Capacity (Cr. 2390-ML). Disbursement lag: about 75%. Disbursements to date: US$1.13
million out of an approved amount of US$6 million. This credit became effective on March 22, 1993,
about eight months after signing. Disbursements have been slow due mainly to long delays on the part of
the Government in finalizing contracts concluded with consultants for the execution of two studies that
are critical for defining project activities. For this reason, the project was suspended in July 1995. Since
then, the Government has renegotiated and signed the contracts with the consulting firms, and the
suspension was lifted on May 24, 1996. With consultants starting work in June 1996, disbursements
should soon improve.
Transport Sector Project (Cr. 2617-ML). Disbursement lag: 90%. Disbursements to date: US$0.91
million out of an approved amount of US$65 million. This credit became effective on April 3, 1995,
about nine months after signing. Disbursements have been slow due mainly to severe procurement delays
by the implementing agency, the Direction National des Travaux Publics (DNTP). Procurement
difficulties encountered by DNTP and other project implementing agencies are being addressed through
Bank's assistance in strengthening the Government's procurement management capacity. With this
assistance and a number of recently processed contracts (valued at about $25 million), disbursements are
expected to pick up by September 1996, reducing the disbursement lag.
4.    There are no outstanding audit reports.



























Ai
IMAGING
Report No: F-   6909 MLI
Type: PR



