Report No. PIC3243
Project                        Mali-Economic Management Operation
Region                         Africa
Sector                         Non-Sectoral
ID Number                      MLPA1735
Borrower                       Government of Mali
Implementing Agency            Ministry of Finance
H.E. Mr. Soumaila Cisse, Minister of
Finance & Commerce
Telephone: (223) 23-16-75;
Fax: (223) 22-88-53
Date PID Prepared              February 13, 1996
Projected Appraisal Date       April 1996
Projected Board Date           June 1996
Background
1.   Since initiated in 1988, structural reforms have gradually
transformed the Malian economy from a closed, heavily controlled system,
to one that is relatively open and liberal. Macroeconomic balances have
improved but domestic revenue performance has stagnated. Fiscal balance
gains have thus come largely through expenditure contraction which
cannot be sustained over the longer term without adverse consequences
for growth and for achieving key social sector objectives. In addition,
the impact on improving competitiveness has been insufficient. Although
strong in some sectors, overall the supply response has been
insufficient, and the progress made towards the objective of achieving
sustained rapid growth remains very fragile.
2.   The Government is keenly aware of the need to deepen its adjustment
efforts to achieve growth and poverty reduction, and is fully committed
to achieving stronger results as it pursues its medium term reform
program. Consolidating and expanding competitiveness gains from the
1994 parity change will be important for stimulating the strong supply
response needed for growth. Achieving low and sustainable fiscal
deficits through increased domestic revenues, will be a central part of
this effort. This will also be important for reducing Mali's high level
of aid dependence and for reaching the Government's goal of external
financial viability over the medium term. Efforts to address gender
based biases in access to key factors of production in order to ensure
that women can participate more fully in economic activity will be
equally important not only for growth but for achieving poverty
reduction objectives. Finally, public expenditure policy will have to
be made more consistent with poverty reduction. The proposed operation
will support a package of measures that will help Government meet these
objectives.
Objectives



3.   The principal objective of the proposed operation is to support the
continuation of the Government's efforts to increase revenue
mobilization, restructure public expenditures to improve their
efficiency and poverty reduction impact, and reduce key constraints
hampering the participation of women in economic activity.
Description
4.   This operation is an adjustment credit with four main components as
follows:
(i) Increase Domestic Resource Mobilization through a program of
fiscal reforms comprising administrative as well as policy
reform measures to increase domestic resource mobilization.
The credit will also support revision of the mining code to
remove unneeded exoneration while ensuring a sector
environment that is competitive and attractive to investors.
(ii) Improve Expenditure Management and Efficiency through a
program of measures to improve monitoring of expenditure
execution; reduce and eventually eliminate public transfers to
the pension system; and clarify fiscal situation between
Government and the energy sector and clear up any net
Government obligations.
(iii)Enhance Participation of Women in Economic Activity through
implementation of key elements of the action plan prepared by
the National Commission for the Promotion of Women following
the Beijing Conference, including reducing constraints on
women's access to land. Other measures include national public
education campaigns on female education, traditional practices
with adverse effects on women's health, and legal rights of
women. Under the Credit, targets will also be set for the
recruitment of female primary teachers given the empirical
evidence on the positive correlation between number of female
teachers and female enrolent.
(iv) Enhance Poverty Impact of Restructuring Expenditures through
measures to achieve sustained increase in financing of basic
health, education and agricultural extension services,
especially outside of the Bamako district where the needs are
greatest and poverty impact is likely to be greatest.
Financing
5.   The total amount of the operation, net of taxes and duties, is
estimated at US$60 million equivalent. Funds would be released through
three regular tranches linked to progress on the overall macro program
and two floating tranches that would be linked to the completion of
specific reform measures. Co-financing will be sought from interested
donors, particularly to finance activities relating to promoting women
in economic activity.
Implementation
-2-



6.   Implementation of the program will be coordinated by the Ministry
of Finance and Commerce. A technical committee comprising members from
the Ministries of Education, Health, and Civil Service and the
Commission for the Promotion of Women will have responsibility for the
supervision of the program of reforms supported under the credit. This
committee will ensure overall coordination of the reforms. The program
will be jointly monitored by the Technical Committee in collaboration
with the Bank.
Sustainability
7.   The project preparation process is participatory and places the
burden of responsibility for developing and monitoring the program on
the Government itself. This is intended to build greater ownership of
the program, and therefore would increase the likelihood of producing
sustainable benefits.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
8.   Key lessons from the Operations Evaluation Department's evaluation
of the public enterprise adjustment program (PESAP) and the recently
completed Implementation Completion Report for the structural adjustment
operation (SAL I) include the importance of : (i) Government ownership
and a strong constituency in support of reforms; (ii) institutional
capacity to implement and monitor reforms; and (iii) clear objectives
and effective monitoring of programs to address short term social
impacts of reforms.
9.   In both operations (PESAP and SAL I), implementation wavered partly
as a result of social discontent and political changes. More effort
should have been made to involve groups that were likely to be impacted
by the reforms in the preparation of the program and to ensure that the
reasons for reform were clearly articulated and understood.     The
political context prevailing at the time of preparation of both
operations limited the ability to engage in such a consultative process,
and the situation has drastically improved since then. In both
operations, the programs designed to address short term adverse impacts
were poorly executed and monitored and also affected by lack of
distinction between reinsertion programs and payment of employment
severance, creating unrealistic expectations on the part of laid-off
workers. In particular, the linkage of the privatization of enterprises
to tranche releases complicated some of the privatization plans and led
to failure to carry out financial restructuring prior to privatization
in cases where this would have been useful to clean up liabilities and
set enterprise values more realistically.
Poverty Category
10. This is a poverty-focused adjustment operation (see paragraph 4 (i)
through (iv) above). The program will address poverty reduction by (a)
improving public expenditure management; (b) supporting targeted
programs; (c) developing poverty reduction measures for basic health
care services. Under the credit, the Government will institute annual
reviews of expenditure to feed into the next budget cycle. These
reviews will evaluate expenditure execution vis-e-vis budget
- 3 -



allocations, explaining any shortfalls or overruns and propose
recommendations for the next budget cycle. These reviews will be
discussed with the Bank and the IMF during the mid-year program review.
Under the credit, the Government will also set up legal assistance
centers for women, operationalize mobile legal clinics, translate into
local languages and disseminate all texts pertaining to the legal status
of women, organize workshops on setting up micro-enterprises, and create
apprenticeship centers for micro-enterprises. In addition, specific
needs for staff, maintenance, etc., will be identified in areas such as
health, education, agricultural extension in line with sector
development objectives and provide budgetary allocations to meet these
needs, instead of simply setting targets for sector shares in overall
expenditures. This will ensure that increased expenditure resulting
from the restructuring (Expenditure Restructuring) embody intrasectoral
expenditure shifts that promote poverty reduction. Primary teachers and
basic health staff will be recruited and assigned to posts where the
needs are most visible and poverty impact is likely to be greatest.
Environmental Aspects
11. This is a Category "C" operation; environmental analysis is not
required.
Benefits and Risks
12. The proposed operation is expected to help the Government of Mali
implement appropriate policies to strengthen fiscal stabilization
gains, improve poverty impact of public expenditures and reduce
constraints to the participation of women in economic activity. These
policies will in turn help foster growth. The main risk centers around
the Government's ability to implement measures to increase revenues and
limit tax frauds, and to reallocate public expenditures for health and
education in favor of primary education and basic health care. There
may also be strong opposition to efforts to improve women's
participation in economic activity, particularly efforts to improve
their access to land. These risks would be reduced through extensive
IEC campaigns to explain the reasons for the proposed policy reforms.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 4 -



