Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2894 MLI
                        Development Credit Agreement
                       (Economic Management Credit)
                                  between
                             REPUBLIC OF MALI
                                   and
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                            Dated July 24, 1996
                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2894 MLI
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July 24, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF MALI (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter dated May 30,
1996, (the Policy Letter), from the Borrower describing a program of
actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve improvement in
the management of public expenditures, and increase the domestic tax
base and savings (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting
assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the
execution thereof; and
     (B)  on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association
has decided, in support of the Program, to provide such assistance to
the Borrower by making the Credit in five Tranches as hereinafter
provided;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
                    General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) con-
stitute an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
Page  2
          "Project" means the Program, referred to in the Preamble
          to the Development Credit Agreement, in support of which
          the Credit is made;
     (b)  the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
     (c)  Section 4.01 is modified to read:
          "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
          agree, withdrawals from the Development Credit Account shall
          be made in the currency of the deposit account specified in
          Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement.";
     (d)  Section 5.01 is modified to read:
          "The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds
          of the Credit from the Credit Account in accordance with
          the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement and of
          these General Conditions. Except as the Association and
          the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall
          be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories
          of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for
          goods produced in such territories; or (b) for the purpose
          of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
          goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
          Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United
          Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the
          Charter of the United Nations.";
     (e)  The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
     (f)  Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
          "(c) Not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or
          such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
          Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and
          furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in
          such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on
          the execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble to
          the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the
          Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
          under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment
          of the purposes of the Credit."; and
     (g)  Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified
above), 9.07 and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05,
9.06 and 9.07.
     Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "FY" means the Borrower's fiscal year which begins January 1
and ends December 31 of the same year;
     (c)  "Mining Code" means Ordonnance No. 91-065-P-CTSP dated
September 19, 1991, of the Borrower relating to the carrying out of
mining operations in the Borrower's territory;
     (d)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an
exchange of letters dated May 17, 1995 and May 30, 1995, between the
Borrower and the Association;
     (e)  "Tax Code" means Ordonnance No. 6-CMLN dated February 27,
1970, of the Borrower relating to taxation within the Borrower's
territory;
Page  3
     (f)  "Tranche" means any of the following: the First Tranche, the
Second Tranche, the Third Tranche, the First Floating Tranche, and the
Second Floating Tranche defined in this Section;
     (g)  "First Tranche" means the Tranche referred to in Category (1)
of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to be released by the
Association on or after the Effective Date;
     (h)  "Second Tranche" means the Tranche referred to in Category (2)
of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to be released by the
Association on or after the date on which the conditions referred to in
paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement have been met;
     (i)  "Third Tranche" means the Tranche referred to in Category (3)
of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to be released by the
Association on or after the date on which the conditions referred to
in paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement have been met;
     (j)  "First Floating Tranche" means the Tranche referred to in
Category (4) of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to be
released by the Association on or after the date on which the conditions
referred to in paragraph 4 (a) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement have been
met;
     (k)  "Second Floating Tranche" means the Tranche referred to in
Category (4) of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to be
released by the Association on or after the date on which the conditions
referred to in paragraph 4 (b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement have been
met;
     (l)  "FAAF " means the Fond d'Appui aux Activit s des Femmes
established by the Borrower pursuant to the Convention dated January
27, 1995, between the Borrower's Ministry of Finances and Commissariat
la Promotion Fminine, respectively; and
     (m)  FCFA means the currency of the Borrower.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
     Section 2.01.  The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies that shall have an
aggregate value equivalent to forty-one million six hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 41,600,000), being the sum of withdrawals
of the proceeds of the Credit, with each withdrawal valued by the
Association as of the date of such withdrawal.
     Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b), (c),
and (d) of this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the
proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account in support of the
Program and accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Associa-
tion the first request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and
thereafter maintain in its central bank, a deposit account in CFAF on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals
from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the
Deposit Account.
     (c)  Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to
pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the
authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be
canceled.
     (d)  The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall
Page  4
not be used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions
of paragraph 2 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the Association shall
have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Credit shall have
been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or, (ii)
if the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Asso-
ciation. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be
credited to the Credit Account for cancellation.
     Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998, or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph
(a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied
from the next payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of
this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant
to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
     Section 2.06.  Commitment and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07.  (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual
installments payable on each May 15 and November 15, commencing
November 15, 2006 and ending May 15, 2036. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on May 15, 2015 shall be one percent
(1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall
be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in
constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by
them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms
of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due
until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so
requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed
with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
Page  5
     (c)  If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may,
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment
to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph
(a) above.
     Section 2.08.  The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE III
                           Particular Covenants
     Section 3.01.  (a)  The Borrower and the Association shall from
time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the requirements and
actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association, for its review and comment, a report on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request.
     (c)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association
on any proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Credit
which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of
the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any
requirement or action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02.  Upon the Association's request, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
     (b)  furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six (6) months after the date of the Association's
request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
     (c)  furnish to the Association such other information concerning
the Deposit Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have
reasonably requested.
                                ARTICLE IV
                      Additional Event of Suspension
     Section 4.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program,
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
                                ARTICLE V
                               Termination
     Section 5.01  The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                              ARTICLE VI
               Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01.  The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
Page  6
     Section 6.02.  The following addresses are specified for the pur-
poses of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministre des Finances et du Commerce
          BP 234
          Bamako
          Mali
                                         Telex:
                                         2559 MJ
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, NW
          Washington, DC 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                 Telex:
               INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
               Washington, DC             82987 (FTCC)
                                          64145 (WUI) or
                                         197688 (TRT)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                    REPUBLIC OF MALI
                    By /s/ Cheick Oumar Diarrah
                                               Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Callisto Madavo
                                                 Regional Vice President
                                                                  Africa
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                       Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the
                       Credit and Excluded Expenditures
1.  Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule,
the table below sets forth the amounts allocated to specific Tranches to
be withdrawn from the Credit Account:
                      Amount of the Credit         % of
                     Allocated (Expressed in   Expenditures
     Categories          SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  First Tranche         13,600,000         100%
(2)  Second Tranche         6,900,000         100%
Page  7
(3)  Third Tranche          6,900,000         100%
(4)  First Floating         6,900,000         100%
     Tranche
(5)  Second Floating        6,900,000         100%
     Tranche
(6)    Refunding of the       400,000         Amounts due pursuant
       Project Preparation                    to Section 2.02 (c) of
       Advance                                this Agreement
                           __________
     Total                 41,600,000
                           ==========
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, and for
purposes of Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the
Credit shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
     (a)  expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods
supplied from the territory of the Borrower, excluding, if the
currency of the Borrower is also that of another country, expenditures
in such currency for goods supplied from the territory of such other
country;
     (b)  expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract
which any national or international financing institution or agency or
the Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another
credit;
     (c)  expenditures for goods included in the following groups or
sub-groups of the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision
3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers,
Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or
sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the
Association by notice to the Borrower:
     Group          Sub-group      Description of Items
     112               -           Alcoholic beverages
     121               -           Tobacco, unmanufactured,
                                   tobacco refuse
     122               -           Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                   or not containing tobacco
                                   substitutes)
     525               -           Radioactive and associated
                                   materials
     667               -           Pearls, precious and semi-
                                   precious stones, unworked or
                                   worked
     718            718.7          Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                   thereof; fuel elements (cart-
                                   ridges), non-irradiated, for
                                   nuclear reactors
     728.43            -           Tobacco processing machinery
     897            897.3          Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                   platinum group metals (except
                                   watches and watch cases) and
                                   goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
                                   wares (including set gems)
Page  8
     971               -           Gold, non-monetary (excluding
                                   gold ores and concentrates);
     (d)  expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption;
     (e)  expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for
purposes of this paragraph, the term "environmentally hazardous
goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agree-
ments to which the Borrower is a party, and any other goods
designated as environmentally hazardous by agreement between the
Borrower and the Association); and
     (f)  in furtherance of the purposes of Section 5.01 of the
General Conditions, expenditures: (a) in the territories of any
country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods procured
in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on account
of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods,
if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the
Charter of the United Nations.
3.   No withdrawal shall be made from the Credit Account under:
     (a)  Category (2) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule
unless the amount specified in Category (1) has been withdrawn by
the Borrower and the Association shall be satisfied after an
exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement
based on evidence satisfactory to the Association:
          (i)  with the fulfillment of the requirements of Part A
               of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
         (ii)  that the actions described in Part B of Schedule 2
               to this Agreement have been taken in form and
               substance satisfactory to the Association; and
     (b)  Category (3) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule
unless the amounts specified in Categories (1) and (2) have been
withdrawn by the Borrower and the Association shall be satisfied
after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association:
          (i)  with the fulfillment of the requirements of Part A
               of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
         (ii)  that the actions described in Part C of Schedule 2
               to this Agreement have been taken in form and
               substance satisfactory to the Association.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 above, with-
drawals may be made by the Borrower in respect of Categories (4)
and (5) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule at any time
when the Association shall be satisfied after an exchange of
views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, based on
evidence satisfactory to the Association, that the requirements
of Part A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement have been fulfilled,
and in addition:
     (a)  with respect to said Category (4), the actions described in
Part D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement have been taken in form and
substance satisfactory to the Association; and
     (b)  with respect to said Category (5), the actions described in
Part E of Schedule 2 to this Agreement have been taken.
5.   If, after any of the exchange of views referred to in paragraphs
3 and 4 above, the Association shall have given notice to the Borrower
that the requirements of Part A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, or
the actions taken under Parts B, C, D or E of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, as the case may be, are not satisfactory and, within ninety
Page  9
(90) days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have met the
requirements of Part A of said Schedule 2 or taken the actions under
Parts B, C, D, or E of said Schedule 2, as the case may be, then
the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn
amount of the Credit or any part thereof.
                              SCHEDULE 2
          Requirements and Actions referred to in Paragraphs 3
                   and 4 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
Part A:
1.   The Borrower has achieved progress satisfactory to the Association
in the carrying out of the Program.
2.   The macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent
with the objectives of the Program.
Part B:   (Conditions for the release of the Second Tranche)
     The Borrower has:
1.   collected during FY 1996 domestic revenues in an amount of at least
CFAF 184.5 billion;
2.   recruited, during FY 1996, at least 300 additional teachers and 300
additional vacataires for primary schools;
3.   made a budgetary allocation in its FY 1996 budget, and incurred
corresponding expenditures, in respect of didactic materials at the
rate of CFAF 2,500 per student in primary schools; CFAF 5,000 per
student at the lower level of  secondary schools; CFAF 21,000 per
student at the upper level of secondary schools; CFAF 35,000 per
student of technical secondary schools; and CFAF 50,000 per student
at the university level;
4.   recruited, during FY 1996, at least 150 additional medical and
para-medical staff for health facilities located outside Bamako; and
5.   submitted to the Association a report of such scope and details
agreed upon with the Association on the execution of its FY 1996 budget.
Part C:   (Conditions for the release of the Third Tranche)
     The Borrower has:
1.   collected domestic revenues during FY 1997 in an amount of at
least CFAF 200 billion in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
17 of the Policy Letter;
2.   recruited, during FY 1997, at least 600 additional primary schools
teachers;
3.   made a budgetary allocation in its FY 1997 budget, and incurred
corresponding expenditures, in respect of didactic materials at the
rate of CFAF 2,500 per student in primary schools; CFAF 5,000 per
student at the lower level of  secondary schools; CFAF 21,000 per
student  at the upper level of secondary schools; CFAF 35,000 per
student of technical secondary schools; and CFAF 50,000 per student
at the university level;
4.   recruited, during FY 1997, at least 200 additional medical staff
for health facilities located outside Bamako; and
5.   submitted to the Association a report of such scope and details
agreed upon with the Association on the execution of its FY 1997 budget.
Part D:   (Conditions for the release of the First Floating Tranche)
     The Borrower has:
Page  10
1.   amended in a manner satisfactory to the Association the relevant
provisions of the Tax Code pertaining to the taxation of corporate,
small businesses and personal income and has enacted the implementation
decrees relating thereto in accordance with the details set forth in
paragraph 23 of the Policy Letter;
2.   (a)  carried out a study of its current tax exemption system in
the mining sector; (b) adopted such recommendations of said study, as
shall have been agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association,
and a timetable for implementation of such recommendations satisfactory
to the Association; and (c) implemented the recommendations referred to
in paragraph (b) above;
3.   adopted a budget preparation methodology satisfactory to the
Association in accordance with the details set forth in paragraph 26 of
the Policy Letter; and
4.   restructured the taxation and customs departments of the Ministry
of Finance in accordance with the details set forth in paragraphs 19
and 20 of the Policy Letter.
Part E:     (Conditions for the release of the Second Floating Tranche)
     The Borrower has:
1.   (a)  carried out a study to identify any constraints which impede
or restrict women's access to credit; and (b) adopted such recommenda-
tions of said study, as shall have been agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Association, and a timetable for implementation of
such recommendations satisfactory to the Association;
2.   replenished FAAF, with an amount of CFAF 500 million, for the
purposes of providing small credit to women engaged in income-
generating activities; and
3.   carried out a media campaign aimed at sensitizing the public on
women's rights under the Borrower's laws and regulations, in
accordance with paragraph 45 of the Policy Letter.
