Document of
The World Bank    
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2842-LA
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
April 18, 1980
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = New Kip (NK1)
NK 1.00         = $0.10
$1.00          = NK 10
NK 1.0 million = $100,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 kilogram (kg)              =  2.20 lb
1 metric ton (1,000 kg)      =  0.98 long tons
1 kilometer (km)             =  0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)               =  2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS AN» ACRONYMS
DIC   - Department of Industry and Commerce (Province?
DLI   - Department of Light Industry (MIC)
DOA   - Department of Agriculture (MOA and Province)
DOC   - Department of Cooperatives and State Farms (MDA and Province)
DOE   -  Department of Equipment (MPW)
DOI   - Department of Irrigation (MOA)
DPW   - Department of Public Works (Province)
EDL   - Electricity Department of Laos (MIC)
MIC   -  Ministry of Industry and Commerce
MOA   - Ministry of Agriculture
lIPW   - Ministry of Public Works
PEC   -  Provincial Executive Committee
ADB   -  Asian Development Bank
FAO   - Food and Agriculture Organization
SIDA  -  Swedish International Development Authority
UNCDF - United Nations Capital Development Fund
UNDP  - United Nations Development Program
LAO DESIGNATIONS
Khoueng    -  Province
Muong      - District
Tasseng    -  Subdistrict
Ban        - Village
Houei      -  River
GOVERNMENT OF LAO PDR
FISCAL YFAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
1.  BACKGROUND   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     1
Project Background   .i..  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  1
Agricultural Sector  .i..  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  1
General   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  1
Agricultural Production  ....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  1
Government Policy  ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  3
Governnent Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   3
Government Strategies  ....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  3
Bank Group Involvement in the Sector   . . . . . . . . . .                   5
Experience with Past Lending   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   5
2. PROJECT AREAS.                                                                     6
Location.                                                                      6
Agricultural Background.                                                       7
Soils .                                                                        7
Climate  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   8
3. THE PROJECT.                                                                       8
Project Objectives   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   8
Brief Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   9
Detailed Features  ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  10
Rice-Milling Rehabilitation and Development  . . . . . . .                  10
Background   ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  10
Rehabilitation of Existing Mills   . . . . . . . . . . .    il
Electricity Supply to Mills  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 12
Spare Parts for Existing Mills.  . . . . . . . . . . . .                 12
New Rice Mills   ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  13
Storage Facilities   ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  13
Transport Facilities   ....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  15
Training and Fellowships   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 16
Coffee Processing Development  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  16
Background.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  16
Location of the New Mill.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  17
Civil Works/Buildings  ....  .            .  .  .  .   ........   .         18
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited the
LAO People's Democratic Republic in September/October 1979, consisting of
Messrs. J.P. Delsalle, M. Tarafdar and R. Southworth (Bank), and U. Kokolay
(Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
Equipment ........................                                  18
Transport . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    18
Training and Fellowships  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    18
Workshop Rehabilitation and Development . . . . . . . . . .    18
Background  . . .  . . . .  . .          .          . . . . .      18
Civil Works/Buildings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  e           19
Equipment and Spare Parts . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . a .    19
Training     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  19
Cooperative Farm Development  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
Background   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  19
Training and Fellowships  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    21
DOA Equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    21
Provision of Agricultural Inputs  .          .  .  .  . . . . * . . .    21
Technical Assistance  . .. . ... .. ... . .. . .. .    21
Rural Electrification Study . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    23
Implementation Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .    23
Project Costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    24
F inancing   * . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    26
Procurement   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  27
Disbursement  . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . .  .    27
4.  PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT . . . . . . . . . . . . .    28
Institutional Background       . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . .       28
Project Organization and Management Concept . . . . . .    . .    28
Annual Work Programs  . ..  .. .       .  .  .  .    . ..  .... .. .    29
Accounting and Auditing .  .   . . . .    . . . . . . . . .           29
Monitoring and Evaluation .             . . . . . . . .               30
5.  TECHNICAL ASSUMPTIONS               . . . . . . . . . .                 31
Rice Milling and Storage Technical Specifications and
Expected Outputs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    31
Coffee Picking, Drying and Processing - Technical Speci-
fications and Expected Outputs          . . . . . . . . .   .    33
Workshop Technical Specifications and Expected outputs. . .    34
Cooperative Farm Technical Specifications and Expected
Yields         . . . . . . . . .          . . . . . . . . .*.    34
6.  MARKETS, PRICES AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS  . . . . . . . . . . .    35
Collection, Marketing and Prices  . . . . . . . .          . . .      35
Paddy Procurement ...  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  35
Coffee Procurement       .    . . .  .  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    35
Price Review  ...  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ............  35
Impact of Rice Mills on Farm Budgets  .           .  .  .  .  .      35
Impact of Coffee Processing on Farm Budgets . . . . . . . .          36
Cooperative Farm Budgets  . . .   . .   .  . .  .  .  .  .            36
Cost Recovery ...  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .......  .   .    37



- iii -
Page No.
7.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATIONS AND RISKS  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    38
Benefits, Justifications.  .---.-.------.--- 38
Rice Milling Rehabilitation and Development . . . . . . .    38
Coffee Processing Development . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    39
Workshop Rehabilitation.. . . . . . . . . . .                    39
Cooperative Farm Development  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    39
Risks    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  39
8.  AGREEMENTS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    41
ANNEXES
1. Implementation Schedule
Tables
1 - Project Item Phasing                                           43
2 - Implementation Schedule for Rice Milling,
Storage and Transport Facilities                            45
3 - Implementation Schedule for Km 42 Coffee Processing
Plant                                                       47
4 - Implementation Schedule for Vientiane, Savannakhet and
Pakse Workshops                                             48
5 - Cooperative Farm Development Tentative Phasing                 49
2. Project Cost Phasing
Tables
1 - Project Cost Phasing Per Component                             50
2 - Project Cost Phasing Per Province                              51
3. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Tables
1 - Schedule of Disbursements                                      52
2 - Proposed Allocation of Proceeds of the Credit                  53
4.  Additional Staffing Requirements for the Rice-Milling, Coffee
Processing and Workshop Components                                 54
5. Estimated Incremental Production or Quality Gain at Full
Development                                                        55
6. Financial Analysis and Cost Recovery
Tables
1 - Impact of Milling on Average Rice Farm Budget                  56
2 - Cooperative Farm Unit Budgets                                  57
3 - Proposed Rice Milling Charges                                  58
4 - Rice Milling Rent and Cost Recovery                            59
5 - Proposed Coffee Processing Charges                             60
6 - Cooperative Farm Rent and Cost Recovery                        61
7.  Economic Analysis                                                    62
Tables
1 - Rates of Return                                                64
2 - Sensitivity Analysis                                           65
3 - Commodity Econonic Price Projections                           66
4 - Total Project Incremental Costs and Benefits                   67
8.  List of Documents in Project File                                    70



- iv -
Page No.
MAPS
IBRD 13979R1 - Lao People's Democratic Republic
IBRD 14763   -  Project Location - Vientiane Province
IBRD 14764   -  Project Location - Savannakhet and Champassak Province
Table Annexed to Maps IBRD 14763 and IBRD 14764            69
CHARTS
-  Provincial Executive Committee Organization                    68
IBRD 20512  -  Domestic Movement of Paddy and Rice                             68a
IBRD 21029  -  Organization Chart of Ministry of Industry and Commerce   68b
IBRD 21028  -  Project Organization Chart                                      68c
IBRD 19167  -  Organization Chart for Procurement Procedures (ICB)             68d



1. BACKGROUND
A.  Project Background
1.01      The Government of the Lao People's Democratic Republic (LAO PDR) lias
requested an IDA credit to help finance an agricultural rehabilitation and
development project in its three provinces of Vientiane, Savannakhet and
Champassak. The proposed project would support the food self-sufficiency
policy of the Government and follow up on the agricultural development goals
of the first two IDA Credits (Credits 760-LA and 924-LA), through (i) rehabi-
litation and development of the rice milling industry, including storage and
transport, in the major paddy producing provinces of Vientiane, Savannakhet
and Champassak; (ii) development of coffee processing facilities, including
storage and transport, in Champassak; (iii) rehabilitation and development
of provincial workshops in Vientiane, Savannakhet and Champassak; (iv)
provision of agricultural extension and support services to cooperative
farms in Savannakhet and Champassak; and (v) provision of technical assis-
tance. IDA assistance would be focussed mainly on providing additional
funds to enable the Government to implement the project, and building the
technical and administrative capability of the central and provincial
agencies.
1.02      The Government and IDA were responsible for preparation of the
proposed Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Project III.
B. Agricultural Sector
General
1.03      Laos, with a per capita GNP of $90, is one of the poorest nations in
the world. The Lao economy is basically agricultural. The great majority of
the rural population, accounting for about 400,000 families and 85% of the
population, rely on agriculture for their livelihood and most live at a
subsistence level. Agriculture, including forestry, directly accounts for
more than 60% of GDP, and in recent years has generated about 60% of the
country's export earnings in the form of coffee and timber. Because of the
country's sparse population and the availability of cultivable land,
cultivation techniques have been traditionally extensive. MIoreover, cropping
intensity is low, fertilizer use very limited and average yields obtained for
all major crops are low. The average cropped area per family is about 2 ha.
Agricultural Production
1.04      Glutinous Rice.  The staple food throughout the country is
glutinous rice. It accounts for 70% of the total cultivated area, or about
680,000 ha. About 40% of the rice area consists of rainfed uplands where
paddy yields are very low (about 1 ton/ha). In the lowlands, there is little
controlled irrigation, and excessive flooding, interspersed with periodic
drought, results in widely fluctuating paddy yields from year to year. The



1977 and 1978 paddy harvests fell by more than 30% below the plan targets of
790,000 tons and 910,000 tons due to disastrous drought and severe flooding,
respectively. Rice availability, including imports, was estiriated to be
120-130 kg per capita in 1978, considerably below the average requirement of
160-180 kg per capita. Additional losses occur in milling and storage due
to inadequate, obsolete and poorly maintained facilities.  Moreover, poor
roads and shortages of trucks and cargo-boats add to the probLems of
transporting adequate food supplies to the deficit areas from the few
provinces which produce surpluses. This general picture was ulntil recently
further complicated by a pricing policy which impaired incentives to rice
farmers.  But the situation should improve with the recent increase of more
than 150% in the official price of rice.
1.05      Paddy is processed mainly at the village level, using labor-
intensive handpounding or small private huller mills. The Government's
policy is to channel paddy increasingly through larger rice mills which are
located at the district level and generally managed by the prDvincial
authorities. A number of mills in this category remain idle or operate far
below their capacity due to lack of spare parts, and absence of trained
technicians and efficient management. The paddy supply for these mills
comes mainly from an agricultural tax collected in the form of paddy, and
from direct purchase or barter against basic consumer goods valued at
official prices.
1.06      Feedgrains and Livestock.  Apart from rice, general shortages also
exist in feed grain and therefore meat production. Maize, the most impor-
tant feed crop, is grown on only about 25,000 ha. Expansion is limited by
inadequate price incentive and farmers' unfamiliarity with the crop. Only
about 5% of production is procured by the Government and used for animal
feed; the balance is used for human consumption or fed to backyard
livestock.
1.07      Much of the livestock, buffalo in particular, were destroyed or
eaten during the war. Each farm family has on average 1 or 2 pigs or cattle,
and less than 10 poultry. Livestock weaning rates are low, cLue to low
availability and poor quality of feed, and the presence of debilitating
diseases. Supply of pork (a favorite in the local diet) is far below the
demand, particularly in the urban areas.
1.08      Coffee.  The crop was first introduced in Laos during the colonial
period.  Before 1970, about 7,000 ha were planted, almost all concentrated
on the Boloven Plateau in the south. During the war, much oi the coffee
area was destroyed or abandoned. Attempts are now being made to rehabilitate
plantations, but despite the above-average soil fertility, y:Lelds are low
(about 600 kg/ha) as many of the stands are over-aged or have not been
pruned correctly. Only one existing mill located in Pakse provides hulling/
peeling, polishing and grading facilities, but due to insuffLcient equipment
and lack of spare parts and managerial skills, the mill operates well below



- 3 -
capacity. Consequently, handpounding is widely practiced, which, along
with defective drying techniques and poor storage facilities, results in
damaged beans, and therefore poor quality coffee and low export prices. In
1977, coffee (primarily Robusta) production was about 3,100 tons, of which
about 1,500 tons were exported to convertible currency areas /1 at a value of
$3.7 million (or 50% of the country's 1977 agricultural export earnings).
1.09      Forests are one of the Lao PDR's main sources of wealth.  They
cover about 40-50% of the country's total area, but their potential is still
not known precisely in the absence of an accurate national forest inventory.
Between 1974 and 1979, timber production significantly decreased and export
earnings (logs and sawn timber) declined from $13 million to less than $8 mil-
lion p.a. Lack of equipment and fuel, weak management of wood processing
industries, internal marketing difficulties and border problems with Thailand
contributed to the decline. The Government, with assistance from Sweden and
ADB, among others, is providing sound forest management and export earnings
are improving gradually.
C. Government Policy
Government Objectives
1.10      The Government's primary objectives in the agricultural sector are:
(a) Self-sufficiency in Food Production. Historically, Laos has been
self sufficient in staple food production, but recently due to
political upheavals, organization and marketing problems inadequate
price incentives and bad weather, food production has failed to
keep up with demand. Consequently, imports of rice have steadily
increased since 1976 and were about 100,000 tons in 1978. The
Government's objective is to reverse this trend.
(b) Increased Foreign Exchange from Timber and Coffee. Laos has a
chronic trade deficit and extremely low export earnings, which
have stagnated at about $10-15 million p.a. in recent years.
Increased exports earnings are required to reduce the trade
deficit and to help finance development investment.
Government Strategies
1.11      The strategies proposed for attaining these objectives are as
follows:
(a) Cooperative Farm Development. The Government intends to promote
cooperatives and to develop state farms for the production of
/1 An undetermined amount was reportedly traded with socialist countries in
exchange for other goods.



- 4 -
industrial crops and livestock.  The authorities envisage three
stages in the development of cooperatives. In the first stage,
joint farming is to be promoted by establishing "farmers
associations" or work brigades to facilitate the exchange of labor
and the sharing of tools and draught power. In the second stage,
arrangements will be made to cultivate the land collectively and to
share the crop in proportion to the days worked by each farmer. In
this stage land would be rented from members. The final stage is
to conv-ert these farmers' groups into formal cooperatives operating
as collective farms. However, members may retain part of their
land and some animals for themselves. Since 1978, the pace of
implementation of this strategy has been progressively adjusted
according to circumstances.
(b) Improved Technology for Food Production. The Government's
efforts to achieve food self-sufficiency focus on: (i) expanding
the area of rice land under irrigation, (ii) increasing rice and
feed grain yields on cooperatives by using improve.d seeds,
fertilizers, pesticides and on-farm practices, and by strengthen-
ing extension services, (iii) decreasing paddy losses by estab-
lishing appropriate storage, transport and milling facilities, and
(iv) increasing meat production by developing livE!stock
multiplication units that can supply animals to cooperatives
and state farms for fattening. Priority has been given to Vientiane
province where about 17% of the country's population live.
(c)  Export Development.  Foreign assistance has recently been received,
inter alia, from the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and Swedish
bilateral aid (SIDA) for the rehabilitation of thE forest
industries. With regard to coffee, the Government: has a two step
approach: (i) in the short term, improving coffee processing
techniques and rehabilitating the Pakse coffee mill in Champassak
province; and (ii) in the medium term, increasing production
through developing research and re/new planting with high-yielding
material, and rehabilitating existing mature areas.
(d)  Infrastructure Development.  The Government is concentrating on
improving road and river transport and on developing rural
electrification schemes to remove transportation constraints to
increased production, processing and exports.
1.12      The major constraint the Government faces in implementing these
strategies lies in the severe shortage of qualified and experienced staff to
prepare and manage development projects. Until recently, irnadequate price
incentives were also a major constraint. But with the new procurement price
for rice, farmers appear to have an adequate incentive to increase production.



- 5 -
1.13      Even with the present shortage of trained manpower, however, con-
siderable scope exists for improving production through increased low-level
technical support to farmers, arrangements for distributing improved seeds,
fertilizers and pesticides, and through rehabilitation of milling, storage
and transport facilities.
Bank Group Involvement in the Sector
1.14      The first two IDA-assisted projects support the food self-suffi-
ciency objective of the Government by helping to: (i) increase the produc-
tion of rice and feedgrain8 by expanding rice land under irrigation,
increasing seed production, and developine çoppezotive farming ustng appro-
priate agronomic packages, and (ii) tncrease mçet production through the
establishment of a large feed grain farm and of pig multiplication unit9.
About 70% of the proceeds of the first credit (760-LA) are for expanding the
rice area under irrigation, and 10% for improved seed production. About 45%
of the proceeds of the second credit (924-LA) are also for seed production
and for cooperative farm development in Vientiane province. Moreover, the
first IDA credit aims at establishing several pig multiplication units and
the second credit provides further support with the development of a 3,000
ha feedgrain farm.
1.15      Including additional irrigation or flood control components in the
third IDA project was not feasible since the absorptive capacity of the
Irrigation Department is already strained with the implementation of two IDA
and one ADB project and various other bilaterally assisted programs. Like-
wise, the Se Bang Fai flood control and irrigation development, initially
identified in December 1977 as a possible main component for the second
IDA-assisted project, and again later as a possible future IDA-assisted
project, was ultimately reformulated into a UNDP-funded three-year technical
assistance project signed in February 1979 for which the Bank is Executing
Agency. The Bank has subcontracted the Mekong Secretariat to conduct the
studies and execute the pilot works that may pave the way for a large
integrated flood control and irrigation project.
1.16      The proposed third IDA-assisted project would follow up the objec-
tives of the first two projects, with the emphasis still on the food self-
sufficiency goal of the Government. The technical and institutional achieve-
ments of the first two projects would be strengthened and complemented in
Vientiane Province, and assistance for rice production would be extended to
the major producing provinces of Savannakhet and Champassak. A coffee-
processing component would increase foreign exchange earnings while further
supporting the technical and administrative structures of agro-based indus-
tries.
Experience With Past Lending
1.17      The first IDA credit to the Lao PDR was signed on January 5, 1978
and became effective April 5, 1978. The second IDA credit was signed on



-6-
June 15, 1979 and became effective October 17, 1979. Both these projects are
A4irected towards assisting the Ministry of  g      'urc       i   Ir t o
years since effectiveness of the first project, disbursements have amounted to
only 40% of the appraisal estimates. The initial delays resulted mainly from
the Government's -unfamiliarity with the Bank Group's procedures and the late
arrival of specialists. The pace of project irnplementation is now improving
and current corimitments to reimburse are expected to increase disbursement
to about 55% of the appraisal estimates, by end-June 1980. The second project
deals mainly with the Ministry's Department of Agriculture md does not add
heavy additional work for the Department of Irrigation which is responsible
for implementing the largest element of the first project. The pace of
implementation for this project is satisfactory as the firsi: two bids,
totalling $2.5 million, have recently been awarded.
2. PROJECT AREAS
A. Location
2.01      The proposed project would be located in the major paddy
producing provinces of Vientiane, Savannakhet and Champassak (see Maps IBRD
14763 and 14764). These provinces account for more than 30% of the
country's total population. Each of them has an outlet for trade with
neighboring Thailand:
- Tha Deua/Nong Khai for Vientiane Province (river crossing);
- Savannakhet/Mukdahan for Savannakhet Province(river crossing); and
- Ban Vang Tao/Chong Mok for Champassak Province (landi crossing).
The two latter outlets can now be used more easily than in the past few years,
when they were opened only intermittently. In Vientiane province, the project
would focus on rehabilitation of existing rice mills in urban centers,
construction of a new mill in the more isolated district of Sanakham, and the
provision of associated storage and transport facilities.  A new provincial
workshop would also be built in the vicinity of Vientiane City. In
Savannakhet, most project activities would center on urban ,listricts where
rice milling and workshop facilities would be rehabilitated or developed. In
two rural districts, the project would provide technical services and
agricultural inputs to farmers in pilot cooperative schemes. In Champassak,
the project would provide for construction of a new coffee inill in the major
coffee producing district and the rehabilitation of worksho? facilities in
Pakse. It would also assist pilot cooperative schemes in four rural
districts.



2.02      Over 50% of the country's manufacturing enterprises are concentrated
in Vientiane province, for which the availability of power from the Nam Ngum
dam provides a favorable basis for industrial expansion. Savannakhet province
*wpQrts its power from Thailand and is currently consuming less than 30% of
the first-st.e ceiling (5,000 kWh) agreed upon between the two countries.
Pakse district, in Champassak province, is supplied by a small hydro power
station.
B. Agricultural Background
Lowland rice covers about 91,000 ha of Vientiane, 109,500 ha of
Sovannakhet and 82,500 ha of Champassak province, while upland rice is grown
on about 13,000, 19,000 and 14,000 ha, respectively. Traditionally, the
province of Savannakhet has been self-sufficient in rice and the province of
Champassak has been a surplus region. Only very small amounts of maize,
groundnuts and soybeans are grown. Glutinous rice is the staple and is
supplemented in the diet with vegetables, and small quantities of pork,
poultry, fish and fruit.  Most of the land is farmed by smallholders who
have customary settler and cultivation rights. Data on farm and family
size, agricultural practices, crop and livestock production are limited, but
the average farm family is estimated to have approximately 6-7 persons with
1.5 to 2 ha of lowland rice land and a smaller area of upland soil. In
addition to rice, farmers usually have a few coconut and fruit trees around
the house. They may rear one or two buffalo, a few pigs and poultry.
2.04      Due to climatic conditions, most of the coffee plantations are
concentrated on and around the Boloven Plateau in the provinces of Champassak
and Saravane; 92% of the total planted are under coffee of about 6,500 ha is
cultivated by smallholders, the remaining area is state farms. Present
distribution of production is about 10% of a local variety (Mik), 55% Robusta,
and 35% Arabica.
C. Soils
2.05      The lowlands have alluvial hydromorphic and acid soils which are
cultivated with glutinous paddy. Part of the upland areas are still under
forest, while considerable areas are cropped with upland rice under shifting
cultivation (slash and burn) which is wasteful of forest, soil and water
resources. The higher elevation soils in Vientiane province are generally low
fertility yellow podzolics. The spurs of the Boloven Plateau in Champassak
province present different characteristics. Deep, basaltic red soils of
rather high fertility are often encountered on these slopes. They are planted
to coffee and fruit trees.



- 8 -
D. Climate
2.06      In the low plains of the three provinces,high temperature, humidity
and rainfall characterize the climate. Mean temperatures range between about
210 C in December/January and 300 C in April.  Rainfall is governed by the
monsoon which generally commences in May and ceases in October. Although
annual average rainfall is about 1,800 mm/year, it is irregular both in onset
and in distribution (80% of rainfall occurs in the five-month wet season).
Without irrigation double cropping rice is generally not possible. The
climate on the Boloven plateau is more humid and cooler. Ir Paksong mean
temperatures range between 180 C in January and 220 C in April. The annual
average rainfall on the plateau, about 4,000 mm, is the highest figure
recorded in the Indochina peninsula.  The high humidity in I'aksong would
affect coffee quality less than the combination of high humidity and high
temperatures in Pakse (see para. 3.16).
3. THE PROJECT
A.  Project Objectives
3.01      The objectives of the proposed project would be to:
(i)  increase the production and improve the distribution of glutinous
rice, by rehabilitating and developing milling, storage, transport
facilities, and by training technicians and skilled labor and
strengthening managerial capabilities in the provinces of Vientiane,
Savannakhet and Champassak;
(ii) increase foreign-exchange earnings from coffee through a program
of quality improvement that involves developing new processing,
storage and transport facilities in the province if Champassak;
(iii) develop a sound maintenance base for the equipment provided under
the project, by establishing a new workshop in Vientiane province
and rehabilitating existing workshops in the provinces of
Savannakhet and Champassak;
(iv) strengthen provincial extension services in Savannakhet and
Champassak and support cooperative activities by introducing an
improved technology package to about 2,400 farm families; and
(v) carry out a feasibility study of cheap power supply development
to support agro-processing plants and rural electrification
programs.



- 9 -
B. Brief Description
3.02      A summary of components to be included under the project is given
below:
(a) rice-mill rehabilitation and development in the three major
producing provinces of Vientiane, Savannakhet and Champassak.
Complementary to assistance by several United Nations agencies /1,
rehabilitation of 5 medium/small and 3 small rice-mills;/2 electric
power supply to 6 medium and 2 medium/small rice-mills; construction
of one 2-ton/hour diesel-powered mill in Vientiane province and one
4-ton/hour electric-powered mill in Savannakhet province, increasing
by 21% the total existing milling capacity; provision of spare-parts
to 63 existing mills; provision for appropriate primary and
secondary storage facilities including associated water and land
transport facilities, and a training and fellowship program for
provincial staff;
(b) coffee-processing development in Champassak province. Construction
of a 3-ton/hr (1-ton Arabica and 2-ton Robusta) coffee mill, inclu-
ding appropriate storage and transport facilities and a training
and fellowship program for provincial staff;
(c) rehabilitation of provincial workshops (vehicles and agricultural
and heavy equipment). Construction of a provincial workshop in
Vientiane and rehabilitation of two existing workshops in
Savannakhet and Champassak, including provision for operational
spare parts and staff training;
(d) cooperative farm development in Savannakhet and Champassak
provinces:
(i) development of a pilot agricultural extension service in each
province through a staff training program and the purchase of
vehicles and office equipment; and
(ii) purchase of farm equipment, fertilizers and pesticides for
distribution to pilot cooperative farms covering about 2,000 ha
in each province;
/1 FAO-TCP/8/LAO/01/E, UNDP-financed LAO/78/016 and UNCDF-financed
LAO/78/C03 project.
/2 Big: 2-ton/hr and above; medium: 1 ton/hr; medium/small: 0.5-ton/hr;
small: 0.25-ton/hr.



- 10 -
(e)  technical assistance (to be funded by UNDP).  232 man-months of
technical specialist services to be divided largely among eight
key personnel as follows: (i) 32 man-months for one rice milling
engineer and 62 man-months for two technicians; (ii: 28 man-months
for a coffee-processing specialist; (iii) 72 man-months for three
qualified mechanics; (iv) 28 man-months for a rice agronomist; and
(v) 10 man-months of short-term consultant services; and
(f)  Rural Electrification Study.  Consultancy services to study the
least cost method of meeting the electricity requirements to support
agro-processing plants, pump irrigation and rural eLectrification
programs.
3.03      The relative contribution of the various project components to
project base cost is presented in the following table:
Total          % of
Category                                            base cost      base cost
($'000)
Rice mill rehabilitation and development                7,431           54
Coffee processing development                           1,884           14
Workshop rehabilitation and development                 1,340            10
Cooperative farm development                            1,444           10
Technical assistance                                    1,315             9
Rural Electrificaton Study                                400             3
Total base cost                                      13,814          100
C. Detailed Features
Rice-Mill Rehabilitation and Development
3.04      Background.  At the present time, paddy is processe¶ either in the
villages, using handpounding or huller type mills, or at the district level in
larger commercial-type mills. Huller mills, used mainly for home consumption
requirements, are concentrated in the major rice producing districts and
process about 40% of paddy production in Vientiane and about 5% in Savannakhet
and Champassak.  These mills are not controlled by the Governnent and the
owners are usually paid both in cash and in kind (byproducts). Overmilling is
a common practice which results in heavy losses and reduces the nutritive
value of the rice. Milling returns are poor, around 54%. Since few spare



- il -
parts are available, most of these mills are periodically out of service.
Handpounding continues to be very widely practiced ranging from 85% in
Savannakhet and 75% in Champassak, to about 20% in Vientiane.
3.05      Commercial-type mills have capacities of 0.5 tons paddy/hour or
more and are manufactured in Thailand or Japan. They are either under joint
management between the State and the private sector or owned by the
Government. Equipment is generally old and obsolete, and milling returns
are low, around 62%, for the Government standard quality of 35% brokens.
A FAO/TCP project provided emergency repairs for 24 mills in 1979: 4 in the
province of Vientiane, 11 in Savannakhet, and 9 in Champassak. The only
modern mill (3-ton/hr) in the LAO PDR is now being built at Nong Teng near
Vientiane, under a UNDP-financed project. In addition, a UNCDF-financed
project will assist the Government in constructing a new 3-ton/hr mill in
Pakse and in rehabilitating 5 mills in the three project provinces. However,
a number of commercial-type mills remain idle or operate far below their
capacity due to a lack of trained technicians, inadequate management and
insufficient transport and storage facilities. Moreover, most units are
diesel-powered, which is less economical than electrical power because of high
operating and foreign exchange costs. Finally, despite the impact of the
FAO/TCP emergency project, a shortage of spare-parts still exists.
3.06      Rehabilitation of existing mills.  Under the proposed project, spare
parts, essential materials, and incremental operation and maintenance
expenses would be provided for the rehabilitation of an additional eight
mills. Building repairs would involve cement flooring and corrugated tile
roofing. Total cost would. be about $120,000 with the following breakdown:
Medium/                           Total
Small           small          Total per       base cost
Province           0.25 ton/ha      0.5 ton/hr         province        ($'000)
Vientiane              3                 3                6              72.9
Savannakhet            -                 2                2              47.5
Total             3                5                 8             120.4



- 12 -
3.07      Electricity Supply to Mills.  Diesel fuel is imporl:ed at high and
continually escalating prices, while electricity is produced locally (hydro
power) at a low price ($0.01/Kwh in Vientiane and Champassak provinces), or
imported from Thailand at $0.0155/Kwh in Savannakhet province. Where
possible, diesel engines of mills in the three provinces wou:Ld be replaced by
electric motors using cheap hydro power. Electric motors, sl:ep-down
transformers, power cable and accessories would be provided at a base cost of
about $77,000 which would be distributed as follows:
Number of mills             Total
Province                 to be electrified          base cost
Medium-small   Medium         ($'000)
Vientiane                    2            -            17.4
Savannakhet                  -            6            59.2
Champassak                   -            - /a            -
Total                      2            6            76.6
/a Provided under UNCDF LAO/78/CO3 project.
3.08      Spare Parts for Existing Mills.  The project would supply spare
parts and essential materials for rice mills now operating, or to be
rehabilitated under the project. This subcomponent would cover spare parts
requirements for about four years for 63 mills in operation and would cost
$206,000 with the following breakdown:
Medium-     Medium        Big      Total      Total
Province    Small mills  small mills    mills         mills     number  base cost
(0.25 t/hr)   (0.5 t/hr)  (1 t/hr)  (3 t/hr)  of mills  ($'000)
Vientiane       8             15             3          5         31         92.0
Savannakhet    5               2             8          -         15        57.0
Champassak      8              9             -          -         17        57.0
Total      21             26            il          5        63        206.0



- 13 -
3.09      New Rice Mills.  The project would provide for (i) the construction
of a diesel powered 2-ton/hr mill in Vientiane province (Sanakham), and an
electric powered 4-ton/hour mill in Savannakhet, and (ii) additional equipment
and buildings for the electric powered 3-ton/hour mill to be constructed in
Pakse under UNCDF LAO/78/C03 project. In spite of higher operating costs, a
diesel unit would be more suitable than a steam boiler mill in Sanakham, a
remote district with no maintenance facilities for sophisticated equipment.
These self-contained compact type mills would be equipped with all milling and
accessory equipment (weighbridge, small vehicles, forklift, laboratory and
office equipment) and spare parts for about three years of operation. They
would also include staff quarters and operational storage facilities for
paddy and rice as described in para. 3.10(ii). The UNCDF project
(LAO/78/C03) signed on September 5, 1979 will finance the Pakse mill up to a
total amount of $0.5 million. The total cost of new rice mills financed
under the proposed project would be about $2.1 million which includes
operation and maintenance expenses. The cost in each province would be:
Total base cost ($'000)
Without          With
Province      Location     Number        operational  operational
storage         storage
Vientiane    Sanakham    1 (2-ton/hr)    480.0            696.0
Savannakhet  Savannakhet 1 (4-ton/hr)    779.0          1,103.0
Champassak   Pakse         1 (3-ton/hr)    180.0 /a       288.0 /a
Total                    3              1,439.0       2,087.0
/a For operation and maintenance and additional equipment and buildings
only.
3.10      Storage Facilities.  At the present time, paddy storage facilities
in the villages are built and operated by farmers. They are mainly small
granaries adjoining the houses. Most are of poor quality and about 10% to 12%
of production losses occur due to insects, rodents, birds and moisture. Apart
from existing facilities at mills, very little storage is available at the
district or provincial level, and what exists is often of poor quality.
Centrally managed storage which include storage in large mills, does not
exceed 13,500 tons in Vientiane province, 7,500 tons in Savannakhet and 7,000
tons in Champassak. Usually, collection and distribution of paddy is
difficult due to a lack of trucks and boats, and the low density and poor
condition of the road network (Chart IBRD 20512 shows the movement of paddy
and rice). The.proposed project would develop collecting storage, operational
storage, and reserve security storage as follows:



- 14 -
(i) Collecting storage would be provided in the villages to allow
for safe preservation of the paddy not yet brought to the mills by
the end of the 3-month harvest season (No-vember-January)
(para. 3.11). It would be managed by village or çooperative
officials. Storage units are designed for flat storage, in bulk or
in sacks, and can be used for other crops while not containing
paddy. The units are raised about one meter above the ground.
Floors and walls are of timber, and roofs are of asbestos. Walls
have timber columns. Each unit, 24 meters long, 10 meters wide and
4.15 meters high, would provide storage for 500 tons of paddy, at a
cost of about $26,000. Existing individual storage would continue
to be fully used. The collecting storage facilitiee provided under
the project would be sufficient to store all paddy to be processed
in government-controlled mills and amounts to about 0.5% of annual
paddy production in the three provinces. Total new collecting
storage capacity installed under the project would te 18,500 tons at
a cost of $962,000 with the following breakdown:
Collecting         Number of        Total base cost
Province      storage capacity   500-ton units            ($'000)
(tons)
Vientiane            7,500              15                    390
Savannakhet          6,000              12                   312
Champassak           5,000              10                   260
Total          18,500             37                    962
(ii)  Operational storage.  Paddy transferred to the mills but not
processed during the six month transport season (para 3.11) would
be stored nearby. These stores would be managed by staff from the
mills.  Operational storage requirements have been nalculated to
complete the needs of the government-controlled mills. Paddy
storage buildings would be 15 x 45 m warehouses of 1,080-ton
capacity with concrete block or brick walls, asbestos roof and
timber trusses. Rice warehouses of the same type (15 x 45 m and
1,200-ton capacity) would also be provided under the project.
Operational storage buildings would cost $648,000 and would be
associated with the new mills to be constructed under the project
(included in cost table in para. 3.09). Total operational storage
capacity would be 3,240 tons paddy and 3,600 tons rice with the
following breakdown:



- 15 -
Operational storage
Paddy     Rice         Total base cost
Province            (tons)    (tons)            ($'000)
Vientiane           1,080      1,200               216
Savannakhet        2,160       1,200               324
Champassak              -      1,200               108
Total         3,240       3,600               648
(iii)  Reseree/security storage.  In addition to operational storage,
reserve security storage facilities would be installed in the
districts near the new mills. They would be managed by provincial
Departments of Industry and Commerce (DICs). They would provide the
necessary flexibility in handling government stocks, import or
surplus distribution. Storage buildings would be for 1,080-ton
paddy or 1,200-ton rice with designs similar to operational storage
units. At Nong Teng, in Vientiane province, a bin-type 1,000-ton
pilot silo would also be erected. Total additional reserve/security
storage provided under the project would be 15,040 tons for a total
cost of about $1.56 million with the following breakdown:
Reserve security storage      Total
Province         capacity              base cost
(tons paddy)             ($'000)
Vientiane           7,480               808
Savannakhet        4,320                432
Champassak          3.240               324
Total            15,040             1,564
3.11      Transport facilities.  The road network serving most villages
in the three provinces is sparse and generally in poor condition, although
some of the existing road links between larger villages are adequate for low
current traffic needs. Tracks leading to the smaller villages are frequently
impassable to freight and passenger vehicles during 2 or 3 months in the wet
season, although they continue to be used by farm carts and bicycles.
Large-scale transport of paddy from producing areas to the mills can be made
by truck or boat. Cargo boats are much cheaper to operate than trucks and
can be constructed at existing shipyards in each province. The transport
fleet has been designed with the following constraints and objectives:



- 16 -
(i)  the transport season lasts 6 months (December to May) from the
beginning of harvest until the beginning of the rainy season; and
(ii)  cargo boats are used as much as possible to transport paddy from
producing areas near navigable rivers.
In the off-season, the fleet would be used to transport consumer goods, farm
inputs and other cargo.  Its main features would be as follows:
Trucks                  Cargo Boats
6-ton    10-ton    10-ton   30/40 ton   60/80-l:on
Number   Number    Number        Number       Number      Total
of        of        of          of           of       base cost
Province         units    units       units        units        units      ($'000)
Vientiane           9       6            -          4            2           916
Savannakhet       10        -            6          -            2           597
Champassak         9        -            4          4            4           820
Total         28        6          10          8             8         2,333
Three sizes of cargo boats would be constructed; ten ton boats with 75 hp
marine diesel engines at a unit cost of $12,700, 30-40 ton boats with
120 hp engines at a unit cost of $23,000, and 60-80 ton boats with 240 hp
engines at a unit cost of $43,700. Unit costs for 6-ton and 10-ton trucks
would be $17,300 and $32,200, respectively. The unit costs for trucks and
boats include a 15% provision for spare parts. Three 1.5-ton pickup trucks
and five motorbikes would also be provided in each province for the general
use of the provincial Department of Industry and Commerce (DIC).
3.12      Training and Fellowships.  The training to be provided at a total
base cost of $82,500 would be of three main types: (a) milling and storage
methodology for about 30 technicians from each province for 6 weeks each;
(b) specialized training for the organization of storage and transport,
operation and maintenance of new milling equipment, and use of by-products
for 5 technicians from each province (6 months each); and (c) rice
milling technology for two or three staff from each provincial DIC (abroad).
Coffee Processing Development
3.13      Background.  At the present time only one coffee mill owned by the
Government and located at km 4 of Road 13 at Pakse in Champassak province
provides hulling/peeling, polishing and grading facilities. It is located in
an area too hot for storage of clean beans. Nominal capacity is about



- 17 -
3,000 tons per annum, but due to a lack of spare parts, operational capacity
was until MIay 1979 only about 300 tons a year. Consequently, over the last 3
years, more than 90% of the coffee produced in the Boloven Plateau has been
hulled by handpounding techniques. These factors result in considerable
physical damage to the coffee beans.
3.14      Moreover, the most widespread berry picking technique is "strip-
picking," under which the number of berries picked while ripe rarely exceeds
60% (see para. 5.05). This method results in serious deterioration in the
quality of clean coffee, especially for the export arabica. Coffee berries
are usually dried on the ground, which lengthens the drying period and
ultimately lowers the quality of coffee.
3.15      Storage of cherries and handpounded coffee prior to delivery is
routinely undertaken by the farmers for periods ranging from 6 to 18 months.
Given the poor quality of storage facilities, and despite the favorable
climatic conditions of the coffee-producing regions, very severe quality
deterioration occurs after more than 6 months of storage. Handpounded coffee
or dry cherries are transported to a subdistrict store, and, after weighing,
are shipped to the Pakse Coffee Mill. After processing, coffee again suffers
adverse storage conditions due to unfavorable climatic conditions and poor
quality of storage facilities.
3.16      Location of the New Mill.  The proposed project would relocate the
Pakse coffee mill from Pakse to a new site on the Boloven Plateau at km 42 on
road 24, where more suitable climatic conditions would reduce the risk of
quality deterioration in processing and storage. An economic analysis justi-
fying this relocation has been made and agreed with the Government. The new
mill would have a 1-ton/hr processing line for Arabica and a 2-ton/hr line for
Robusta. Total base cost would be about $1.9 million, which includes
$184,000 for operation and maintenance during the first three years of
operation. The cost breakdown is:
Total
base cost
Components                                                 ($'000)
Civil works/buildings                                        727
Equipment /a                                                 888
Incremental operation and maintenance                        184
Transport /a                                                  60
Training and fellowship                                       25
Total                                                1,884
/a Includes a 15% provision for spare parts.



- 18 -
3.17      Civil works/buildings.  The total covered area for coffee mill and
storage facilities (four stores) would be about 4,500 sq m. IUnit costs have
been estimated at $160 per sq m. Total base cost would amouni: to $727,000.
3.18      Equipment.  The two milling lines would be equipped with peeling,
polishing and grading facilities as well as weighing scales and quality
control and office equipment. An automatic ventilation systen would also be
provided for the storage buildings. The mill would be equipped with electric
engines, power being provided by a 250 kw diesel generator. The total cost of
the mill equipment would be $888,000, which includes 15% for spare parts.
3.19      Each of the stores would have automatically controlled ventilating
systems and self ventilating roofs to reduce temperatures and to ensure
optimum humidity for quality retention during prolonged storage. Strict
quality control measures would also be introduced in subdistrict collection
centers through the provision of weighing and moisture metering equipment.
The project would further provide for polypropylene and polythene sheeting to
improve drying facilities at the farm level.
3.20      Transport.  Because of the poor existing transport facilities,
the project would provide three new 6-ton trucks and one pick-up for a total
cost of $60,000, which includes spare parts.
3.21      Training and Fellowships.  Training would include (i) six-week
training courses for ten technicians (15 man-months) to upgrade the technical
level of DIC staff assigned to the main coffee producing subdistricts;
(ii) six-month training courses for five selected technicians (30 man-
months) in more specialized fields such as coffee agronomy and processing
and coffee mill management; and (iii) three- to five-month training abroad
in coffee selection, production and processing for two or three provincial
DIC staff. Total base costs are estimated at $25,000.
Workshop Rehabiltation and Development
3.22      Background.  Provincial workshops exist in Savannakhet and Pakse but
due to a lack of spare parts and obsolete equipment their capacity for main-
tenance and repair of vehicles and heavy equipment is very limited.
Operational life of cars, trucks and heavy equipment is presently being
shortened by a widespread lack of routine maintenance and mainy vehicles are
idle for months. The Mtinistries of Agriculture (MOA) and Public Works (MPW)
are the only organizations to have workshops in Vientiane province. A new
workshop for the MOA is now being built with the assistance of SIDA. These
facilities can barely maintain and repair all the equipment belonging to the
two ministries, but they cannot meet the needs of the provincial construction
agency which was recently created to implement irrigation and flood control
works throughout the province.



- 19 -
3.23      In order to meet these various requirements, the proposed project
would provide a provincial workshop in Vientiane and rehabilitate the
existing ones in Savannakhet and Pakse. The cost breakdown would be as
follows:
Vientiane  Savannakhet  Champassak        Total
------------- ($'000) ------------    base cost
Civil works/buildings         207            48.5         48.5         304
Equipment                     382          300           300           982
Training                       18           18            18            54
Total                   607           366.5         366.5       1,340
3.24      Civil lWorks/Buildings.  The project would provide for the con-
struction of a 84 m x 30 m workshop in Vientiane and the extension of
existing buildings in Savannakhet and Pakse. The new building would have
concrete floors, metallic frame and asbestos roof. Unit cost of
construction has been estimated at $60 per sq m. Total building cost would
amount to about $303,000.
3.25      Equipment and Spare Parts.  Basic equipment for the Vientiane
workshop, additional equipment and tools for the Savannakhet and Pakse
workshops, and vehicles and office equipment would be provided under the
project.  The workshops would be organized in 5 sections: (i) vehicles and
heavy equipment repair, (ii) welding, metal sheet and blacksmith, (iii)
electricity, (iv) machine shop, and (v) painting. In addition,
spare parts would be provided for the first two years of operation of the
workshops. Total equipment costs, including office equipment, vehicles and
spare parts would amount to about $982,000.
3.26      Training.  The training to be provided at a cost of about
$54,000 would include 6-month training courses for 90 technicians and
skilled workers (30 in each province) totaling 540 man-months. Fields of
specialization would include: general car mechanics, diesel engine
repair, electricity, welding and blacksmithing, machine operating and
painting.
Cooperative Farm Development
3.27      Background.  In accordance with the Government's objective
of restructuring the economy along socialist lines, directives have been
issued to all provincial authorities to promote cooperative farming and full
state control over marketing of crops. The latest statistics on
cooperatives are:



- 20 -
No. of coop-    No. of       No. of ha      % of total
eratives la    families  paddy lowland  paddy lowland
Vientiane province          468         20,795        24,976          27.4
Savannakhet province        250         13,510        17,711          16.2
Champassak province         457         28,020        50,407          61.2
/a Mostly at the earliest stage of development.
Members of cooperatives are provided with ready access to credit, technical
advice and the use of cooperative machinery. They also have the opportunity
to buy basic consumer items and other goods at government controlled stores.
The rate of development of active cooperatives will depend on how quickly
the Government is able to gain experience in setting up and managing
cooperatives.
3.28      A key constraint in the Government's program to increase crop pro-
duction through development of cooperatives is the shortage of trained tech-
nicians. To develop technical services for farmers, government has greatly
expanded its short-term rural training courses for provincial extension
technicians. Several small UNDP financed projects have been directed towards
agricultural training and the first two IDA-assisted projects also included
funds for expanding the training program for agricultural technicians, and for
establishing a small core of provincial subject matter specialists to
back-stop extension agents.
3.29      The technical support component of the proposed project would extend
to the provinces of Savannakhet and Champassak the same technical support now
given in the first two projects to the province of Vientiane. Base cost
estimates would be as follows:
Savannakhet        Champassak             Total
---------- ($'000) ---------            base cost
Training and fellowships          22                 22                 44
DOA equipment                     360               285                645
Inputs for cooperatives          529                226                755
Total                       911               533               1,444



- 21 -
3.30      Training and Fellowships.  Three types of training would be
provided: (a) some 40 technicians in each of the two provinces would receive
6-weeks of training (total of 120 manmonths) to upgrade technical and
practical skills. The training would include practical agronomy, basic
extension methodology and cooperative formation; (b) about 10 technicians in
each of the provinces would be trained for 6 months (total of 120 manmonths)
in more specialized fields such as timely harvesting, crop protection and
rice, feedgrain and tree crop (mainly coffee) agronomy. These more highly
trained technicians would become subject matter specialists who would train
and es9ist the provincial extension agents; and (c) abroad training (3-5
monthf qeh) for 2 or 3 DOA selected staff in the discipline of technical
s%uVpqrg  e     3 ,gement of cooperative farms,
3.31      DOA Equipment.  Additional equipment would be provided for each
provincial Department of Agriculture. It would include office, laboratory,
agricultural implements and training equipment and some vehicles. Total
equipment cost would amount to about $645,000.
3.32      Provision of Agricultural Inputs.  About $755,000 would be provided
under the project for fertilizers and pesticides required for developing 2,100
ha in pilot cooperative farms at a cropping intensity of about 133% in
Savannakhet and 2,000 ha monocropped in Champassak. Provincial authorities
would arrange for the procurement of materials and equipment with the
assistance of the MOA. They would also be responsible for distribution of
these items to the cooperative farms until procedures for extending credit
through the National Bank of Laos are finalized under the first IDA-assisted
project (Credit 760-LA). Reimbursement by cooperatives would be in kind
(para. 6.13).
Technical Assistance
3.33      The portion of the project proposed for UNDP financing ($1.4 mil-
lion) would provide for eight FAO specialists (232 man-months) to assist in
training, implementation and management. The average man-month cost, inclu-
ding salary, expenses, fees, international travel and subsistence is
expected to be $5,260. The eight specialists to be recruited by FAO under
four separate agreements would be as follows:
(a)  Rice Milling
(i) Rice Mill Engineer. This senior engineer would be contracted
for 32 months. He would have at least five years experience
in rice milling in developing countries and would be familiar
with ICB procurement procedures. In close coordination with
the Ministry of Industry and Commerce (MIC) and the provincial
committees, he would be required to advise and assist in
designing new plants, preparing detailed specifications for
equipment, organizing the transport and storage network and



- 22 -
in managing the units built or rehabilitated under the
project. He would also assist in organizing training
activities and supervise and coordinate the work of the two
field-level rice mill technicians.
(ii) Rice Mill Technicians. Two technicians would be contracted
for 34 and 28 months, respectively. They would have extensive
experience with modern rice mill equipment including instal-
lation, operation and maintenance. Under the supervision of
the engineer, they would advise and assist the provincial
Departments of Industry and Commerce (DICs) staff with
installing and operating the new rice mills, rehabilitating
and converting to electric power the existing mills, and
training national staff for the rice mills constructed or
rehabilitated under the project.
(b) Coffee Processing
Coffee Processing Expert. This expert would be contracted
for 24 months.  He would have at least five years experience
in coffee processing in developing countries and he would be
familiar with ICB procurement procedures. In close coordi-
nation with the MIC and the Champassak province staff, he
would advise and assist in designing and preparing specifi-
cations for equipment. He would also assist in managing the
new plant and in organizing training activities in improved
harvesting and drying practices.
(c) Workshops
Mechanical Experts. One adviser would be contracted for 28
months and two others for 22 months each. They would have
extensive experience in organizing and managing modern
workshops for repair of light vehicles, trucks and
agricultural and heavy equipment. They would advise and
assist the provincial technical staff in deslgning
buildings, preparing specifications for procurement of
workshop equipment and operational spare parts, installing
new or additional equipment and in day-to-day management.
They would also assist in training mechanics and in
establishing general maintenance regulations and in
preparing standard checklists for various types of vehicles
and equipment.
(d) Rice Cooperative Farms
Rice Agronomist. The agronomist would be corntracted for 28
months. He would have at least five years experience in
modern rice production technology and in irrigated farm
management in developing countries. He woulcl advise and



- 23 -
assist the provincial Departments of Agriculture (DOAs) and
Departments of Cooperatives and State Farms (DOCs) in Savan-
nakhet and Champassak in improving cultural practices for
rice, grown under both rainfed and irrigated conditions, in
training technicians and in developing pilot extension
services.
(e)  Short-Term Consultants
In addition, 10 man-months of short-term specialist services
would be provided to help overcome specific technical
constraints which may arise from time to time due to the
severe lack of technically trained personnel in the country.
These services would be provided for rice milling (6 man-
months) and for coffee production and processing (4 man-
months.
3.34      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that, as a condition of
disbursement for each of the major components, the Government would appoint:
(i) an engineer for rice milling: (ii) an expert for coffee processing; (iii)
a mechanical expert for workshops; and (iv) a rice agronomist for cooperative
farms, and that the remaining four specialists would be recruited not later
than January 31, 1981 (paras. 8.01 (a) and 8.02).
Rural Electrification Study
3.35      The proposed project would also provide for $400,000 of consultancy
services to carry out studies to identify least cost methods for the devel-
opment of electricity supply for agricultural and rural needs. These would
explore various alternatives for power supply including, inter alia, the
feasibility of minihydro projects, wheeling of Nam Ngum power through Thailand
by suitable development of transmission network in Lao PDR and generation
based on biomass energy. The study would require approximately 45 man-months
at a man-month cost of US$8,000, inclusive of salary, fees, international
travel and subsistence. In addition, the contract would cover the cost of
vehicles and survey equipment. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
suitable consultants would be selected by October 31, 1980 to undertake this
study on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (para. 8.01(b)).
D. Implementation Schedule
3.36      The rice milling and storage component would be implemented over a
period of four years, the coffee processing, workshop and rural electrifi-
cation study components over two years and the cooperative farm development in
Savannakhet and Champassak over three and four years, respectively, as shown
in Annex 1, Tables 1-5. Detailed design of the rice mills, the coffee



- 24 -
processing plant and workshops as well as the procurement of vehicles and of
construction materials and chemicals would begin in late 1980. Construction
of the first civil works would commence in the dry season starting November
1980, with the remainder being spread over the following two to four years.
Training and fellowships would be spread over the first two years, and
construction of cargo boats would be completed by end-1982. The pilot paddy
areas developed under the project would be about 2,000 ha ir. 1981, 3,600 ha
in 1982, 4,300 ha in 1983 and 4,800 ha in 1984, including dry season crop.
E.  Project Costs
3.37      Total project costs are estimated at $18.8 million, of which
$13.0 million or 69% is foreign exchange. Unit prices for equipment,
vehicles, materials and supplies are based on March 1980 prices. There would
be no taxes or duties on items imported for the project. Due to the very
severe shortage of foreign exchange in the Lao PDR, IDA would finance the
recurrent foreign exchange expenditures of the processing units built or
rehabilitated under the project as well as the foreign exchange costs of
fertilizers and pesticides used during the development phase of the project.
Therefore, the total corresponding recurrent expenditures alnounting to
$2.1 million with foreign exchange at about $1.3 million have been included
in the five-year project costs.
3.38      A physical contingency factor of 10% is applied to the components
for equipment, and 15% for civil works. Additional costs due to expected
price increases over the implementation period account for about 24% of
project base costs, plus physical contingencies, assuming thIe following annual
inflation rates:
Annual inflatiDn rate (%)
1980     1981      1982    1983-85
lIaterials, equipment,
civil works & services                  10.5       9          8         7
UNDP-financed technical assistance         8         8          8         -
These inflation rates are appropriate for both foreign and local components of
the project. Salary levels and wages in the Lao PDR are government-controlled
and all local expenditures (31% of project costs) would be made through the
official marketing system. Details of cost estimates are provided in Annex 2,
Tables 1 and 2 and are summarized as follows:



- 25 -
Total    %
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign  Total  base  Foreign
Inputs                  -- (NK million) ---  ----- ($'000)  -----  cost  exchange
Rice Milling Component
Imported materials    -      16.72  16.72       -   1,672   1,672   12        -
Imported equipment    -      25.04  25.04       -   2,504   2,504   18        -
Labor /a              18.62   -      18.62  1,862        -   1,862   13       -
Local material        13.33   -      13.33  1,333        -   1,333   10       -
Abroad training        -      0.60   0.60       -       60      60    1       -
Subtotal           31.95  42.36  74.31  3,195   4,236   7,431   54        57
Coffee Processing
Component
Imported materials    -       3.88   3.88       -     388      388    3       -
Imported equipment    -       8.90   8.90       -      890     890    7       -
Labor /a               3.20   -       3.20    320        -     320    2       -
Local material         2.66   -       2.66    266        -     266    2       -
Abroad training        -      0.20   0.20       -       20      20    -       -
Subtotal            5.86  12.98  18.84    586   1,298   1,884   14       69
Workshop Component
Imported materials    -       1.70   1.70       -      170     170    1       -
Imported equipment    -       9.79   9.79       -      979     979    7       -
Labor /a               1.22   -       1.22    122        -     122    1       -
Local material         0.69   -       0.69     69        -      69    1       -
Subtotal            1.91  11.49  13.40    191   1,149   1,340   10        86
Cooperative Farms
Imported materials    -       7.55   7.55       -     755      755    5       -
Imported equipment    -       6.34   6.34       -      634     634    4       -
Labor /a               0.24   -       0.24     24        -      24 }
Local material         0.11   -       0.11     il        -      il }  1       -
Abroad training        -      0.20   0.20       -       20      20 }          -
Subtotal            0.35  14.09  14.44      35   1,409   1,444   10       98
Technical Assistance    -       13.15  13.15      -   1,315   1,315    9    100
Rural Elec. Study        -       4.00   4.00       -     400     400    3    100
Total base cost   40.07  98.07 138.14  4,007   9,807  13,814  100         71
Physical contingency    4.42   8.84  13.26    442        884   1,326           67
Expected price
increases             13.31  23.18  36.49  1,331   2,318   3,649             64
Total cost         57.80 130.09 187.89  578   13_,009  18,789             69
/a  Includes provision for local training.



- 26 -
F. Financing
3.39      The proposed IDA credit of $13.4 million would finance 71% of
total project costs. The credit would finance 89% of foreign exchange costs
and 31% of local costs. UNDP would finance the remaining foreign exchange
costs of $1.4 million (11% of foreign exchange costs), for technical assis-
tance and support vehicles. The proposed financing arrangements are shown
below.
Government         UNDP              IDA               Total
$'000    %      $'000      %      $'000       %      $'000       %
Rice-milling
rehab. &
develop.        2,241  30.2          -       -      5,190   69.8       7,431  100.0
Coffee
processing
develop.          400  21.2          -       -      1,484   78.8       1,884  100.0
Workshop
rehab. &
develop.           125   9.3         -       -      1,215   90.7       1,340  100.0
Cooperative
farm
develop.            35   2.4         -       -      1,409   97.6       1,444  100.0
Technical
assistance           -     -    1,315  100.0            -       -      1,315  100.0
Rural Elec-
trification
study                -     -         -       -        400  100.0         400  100.0
Physical
contin-
gencies           267  20.1          -       -      1,059   79.9       1,326  100.0
Expected
price
increases         904  24.8        102    2.8       2,643   72.4       3,649  100.0
Total
pro lect
cost         3,972  21.1    1,417    7.6    13,400   71.3    18,789  100.0



- 27 -
G. Procurement
3.40      Equipment and materials, costing about $10.8 million would be
procured after international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA
Guidelines.  Where contracts are estimated to cost more than $100,000, IDA's
approval would be required before invitations to bid are issued and
contracts awarded. However, to permit flexibility in the procurement of
specialized equipment and materials, items costing not more than $50,000 each,
but not exceeding $1 million in total, could be procured under local
competitive bidding procedures acceptable to IDA. In addition, existing
practices for procurement in neighboring countries of off-the-shelf items
costing less than $10,000 each would be accepted, to facilitate start-up
purposes, up to a total of $500,000.
3.41      Wherever international competitive bidding is required under the
project, bids would be advertised in Bangkok and Vientiane where a growing
number of international firms have sales representatives. The flow chart of
current government procurement procedures is shown in Chart IBRD 19167.
3.42      Civil works, equipment installation and cargo boat construction
required for the rice milling, coffee processing and workshop components,
costing about $6.7 million, would be carried out by force account or be con-
tracted on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally among the small
number of private or joint venture companies in the country. A few companies
continue to operate with the permission of Government and are able to offer
competitive prices for work that would otherwise be done by the ministerial or
the provincial state construction agency. The works would not be suitable for
international competitive bidding in view of their small size and scattered
location and because of the difficulties in setting up support services and
hiring labor.
H. Disbursement
3.43      Disbursements of the proceeds of the proposed credit would be made
at the rate of:
(a) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of directly imported equipment,
construction materials, fertilizers and insecticides, and operating
costs, or 75% of local expenditures for the above imported items
procured locally;
(b)  100% of the costs of training abroad and consultancy services; and
(c) 40% of the local costs for civil works, equipment installation,
and boat construction.
3.44      Applications for disbursements for equipment, construction
materials, fertilizers, insecticides and for works carried out by contractors
would be supported by normal documentation. Applications for force account



- 28 -
work and the foreign exchange portion of operating costs woull be supported by
statements of expenditure certified by the project executive committees in
the provinces and the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. The supporting
documentation would be retained by the Borrower and held available for
inspection by IDA supervision missions.
3.45      The schedule of disbursements and the proposed allocation of
proceeds of the Credit are presented in Annex 3, Tables 1 and 2. It is
expected that disbursements would be completed by end calendar year 1985,
approximately twelve months after the end of construction.
4.  PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Institutional Background
4.01      Provincial Executive Committee.  The Government is decentralized.
Each province is administrated by a seven member Executive Committee (PEC)
which is directly responsible to the Prime Minister through its chairman who
is ranked as a minister. The PEC heads 22 departments covering all fields of
activity in the province (see Chart page 68). Most departments are under the
technical control of their corresponding national ministries.
4.02      Technical Ministries.  Three technical ministries would be involved
in the various project components: (a) the Ministry of Industry and Commerce
(MIC) for rice milling and marketing, coffee processing and export, and rural
electrification study; (b) the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) for provincial
workshops and cargo boat construction; and (c) the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA) for Cooperative farm development. Each of these ministries is organized
in nine Departments or Directorates as shown for the MIC in Chart IBRD 21029.
B. Project Organization and Management Concept
4.03      The proposals for project management must be viewed against the
existing decentralization. To achieve its objectives, the project would
require close coordination of project activities by the provincial and
national authorities.
4.04      The pattern of project management which, as shown in Chart
IBRD 21028, is as follows:
(a) Coordination at the Central Level. A project coordinating
committee chaired by the Vice Minister for Industry, would
be set up within the MIC. It would comprise members from
the MIC's Department of Light Industry (DLI), the MOA's
Department of Planning and the MPW's Department of Equipment
and would be responsible for coordination with the three
concerned provinces as well as with the above Ministries;



- 29 -
(b) Implementing Organization at the Provincial Level. Each of the
three PECs would be in charge of implementing the project. For
that purpose, a project executive committee chaired by a member of
the PEC would be appointed in each province. It would comprise
four to six members distributed as follows:
(i)  a financial officer from the provincial Department of Finance;
(ii) an administrative officer from the provincial Department of
Administration;
(.it) a senior officer from the provincial DIC;
(iv)  a senior officer from the provincial Department of Public Works
(DPW); and, where necessary
(v)  a senior officer from the provincial DOA; and
(vi) a senior officer from the provincial DOC.
Thése project executive committees would be responsible for direction, control
and coordination of project field operations at provincial level. This organ-
izational structure would be supported by a strong training and technical
assistance program.
4.05      An assurance was obtained at negotiations that Government would
appoint these project coordinating and project executive committees not later
than October 31, 1980 (para. 8.01(c)).
C.  Annual Work Programs
4.06      Civil works and operation and maintenance, including staffing, would
be the responsibility of the provincial department involved. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that government would make adequate arrangements for
the timely provision of funds and resources required to achieve and maintain
all civil works to be constructed under the project and to staff, maintain and
operate all other project-supported facilities (para. 8.01(d)). Additional
staff requirements, amounting to about 800 are detailed in Annex 4. Not later
than October 31 of each year, the Government would present to IDA an annual
work program for its review, detailing the proposed activities of the
implementing provincial agencies for the 12-month period starting on the
following January 1, including recruitment and training of required personnel.
The project would be implemented in accordance with this program. During
negotiations, assurances to this effect were obtained (para. 8.01(e)).
D. Accounting and Auditing
4.07      Each provincial implementing agency is subject to normal govern-
ment control and auditing procedures. Project accounts would be audited by
the State Auditors and supervision missions would work closely with the



- 30 -
authorities to ensure satisfactory quality of audits. IDA has furnished the
Government with auditing guidelines, proforma accounts and reporting require-
ments. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that: (a) separate
accounts would be maintained for each of the components in each province;
and (b) audited project accounts would be sent to the Association within six
months of the close of each financial year (para. 8.01(f)).
E. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.08      Under the proposed project, coordination of procurement and
collation of project component accounts would be the responEibility of the
Financial Section of the DLI. Monitoring and evaluation of project
activities would be carried out by a unit comprising technical and financial
staff from the MIC's Department of Light Industry, MOA's Department of
Planning and MPW's Department or Equipment. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that this monitoring unit would be established not later than
October 31, 1980 (para. 8.01(g)).



- 31 -
5.  TECHNICAL ASSUMPTIONS
Rice Milling, Storage and Transport Technical Specifications
and Expecteu Outputs
5.01      Rice Milling.  Current milling returns for handpounding and huller
mills are about 54%, and about 63% for the commercial-type mills. Traditional
handpounding and huller mills do not allow grading of byproducts, and the
mixture of 39% brokens, bran and husk cannot be used as pig or cattle feed.
The equipment of two new rice mills constructed under the project would be
self-contained and would include a hopper cleaner, disc sheller, coarse bran
sieve, husk separator, paddy separator, whitener, white rice grader (whole
grain and various classes of brokens) and automatic bagging scale. Given the
present government standard of 35% brokens, the milling return of these new
units is expected to average in the future 67% white rice and 10.5% brokens
and bran as by-products. This target implies timely harvests and appropriate
drying practices.
5.02      Storage.  The collecting and operational storage requirements have
been estimated using the following assumptions: a six month dry season for
transport, a three-month harvesting period, and 1,800 hours of milling (out of
an annual total of 2,400 hours) during the transportation period. The storage
facilities provided under the project and described in para. 3.10 (i) and (ii)
are expected to reduce losses by insects, rodents, birds and moisture from
10-12% to 4-6% at the primary stage, and from 4-5% to 1-2% at the secondary
stage.
5.03      Transport.  To estimate the number of trucks and cargo boats
required during the transport period the most suitable types of vehicles have
been determined. Where possible cargo boats have been selected: sixty to
eighty-ton boats for most transport on the Mekong river and 30/40 ton and
10-ton boats on narrower stretches of the Mekong and on the Se Bang Mouan,
Se Done and Kha Mouane rivers. Six-ton trucks have been chosen for road
transport with a few ten-ton units selected for Vientiane province where
roads are better. A mix of trucks and boats has been selected that would
keep mills operating at full capacity while minimizing the amount of
collecting storage required. The breakdown of the assumed monthly capacity
of trucks and boats is as follows:
Monthly Capacity Per Unit (Tons)
Trucks                   Cargo Boats
6 Ton    10 ton      10 ton   30/40 ton   60/80 ton
Vientiane           450       750            -       435           875
Savannakhet         450         -         160          -           875
Champassak          450         -         160        435           575



- 32 -
5.04      Expected output.  It is estimated that improved milling as well as
transport and storage conditions would result at full development in addi-
tional ouput of rice or equivalent as follows (as shown also in Annex 5):
% increase
Without        With          in rice
project       project       equivalent
Rice Equivalent from Milling (%)
(a) Rehabilitated Diesel Mills
- Rice                                 54  /a         64             19
- Rice equivalent of byproducts         2  lb          4  /c        100
Subtotal                         56              68             21
(b) New Mills
- Rice                                 54  /a       67               24
- Rice equivalent of byproducts         2  lb        3.5  Id         75
Subtotal                         56           70.5              26
(c) Mills Provided with Spare Parts        53% or 63%   54% or 64%        2
Savings from Transport and Storage (%)
(a) Collecting Storage
% paddy loss                        10-12          4-6               -
% savings in rice                      -              4              4
(b) Operational Storage
% paddy loss                         4-5            1-2              -
Z savings in rice                      -              2              2
(c) Reserve Security Storage
% rice loss                            2              1              -
% savings in rice                      -              1              1
/a  Average for huller milling, and handpounding.
/b Estimated at 2% rice equivalent value.
/c Estimated at 4% rice equivalent value.
/d Estimated at 3.5% rice equivalent value.



- 33 -
Coffee Picking, Drying and Processing - Technical Specifications
and Expected Outputs
5.05      Picking.  Most farmers in Champassak and Saravane "strip-pick" all
their coffee at once rather than selectively harvesting only the ripe berries.
As a result, about 40% of the harvested berries are either under or overripe.
The proposed project would encourage farmers to pick only ripe berries, and
to keep arabica and robusta varieties separate.
5.06      Drying.  Farmers currently dry berries in simple solar-heated earth
dryers which result in uneven drying and rapid fading of the coffee beans.
They are also contaminated with dirt, small stones, and fungal spores. The
proposed project would alleviate the present drying problems by providing
farmers with sufficient woven polypropylene sheeting to construct simple,
well-ventilated, raised drying area, and U.V. stabilized polythene sheeting to
cover the drying area at night, or when it rains.
5.07      Processing and Storage.  It is estimated that about 90% of the
coffee produced in Paksong district is hulled by handpounding which is very
labor-intensive, and results in the poor recovery of clean coffee (35% to 40%)
and a high percentage of brokens. The proposed project would emphasize the
procurement of dry cherries over handpounded beans and would organize bagging
and collection at the sub-district level as well as transportation to the km
42 coffee mill. The collecting stores would also provide farmers with
information from the quality control laboratory attached to the coffee mill on
techniques to improve the quality of dry cherries. Separate reception stores
for Arabica and Robusta would be constructed at the mill site with insulation
and automatically controlled ventilation to maintain optimum storage condi-
tions (75% relative humidity and temperature less than 200C). Processing
equipment would include separate peeling (prehulling), polishing, cleaning and
grading facilities.
5.08      Expected Output.  Although top quality premiums are low for the
robusta coffees, discounts are applied by the importing traders when
particularly detrimental defects are found such as: (a) presence of small
stones, mineral dust, husks and such, (b) high proportion of black beans, and
(c) presence of excelsa coffee. Robusta coffee produced in Laos currently
contains all of these (11% by weight) and has the further disadvantage of
being mixed indiscriminately with arabica. These contaminants affect prices
for unwashed arabica coffees in the same way. The expected improvement in
quality and price benefit, detailed in Annex 5, would be as follows:
% Increase in sales price from improved
Peeling, polishing,       Husbandry and
grading and sorting         storage            Total
Robusta coffee                 14                      -                14
Arabica coffee                 14                      3                17



- 34 -
Workshop Technical Specifications and Expected Outputs
5.09      The workshops ta be rehabilitated and built under the proposed
project would be equipped to provide routine maintenance as well as major
repair services. With routine maintenance vehicle life is expected to
increase from six to eight years for cars and trucks and from 10-12 years
for heavy equipment. Also the availability of facilities for major repairs
is expected to decrease vehicle down-time substantially. It has been
estimated that project facilities would increase overall vehicle
availability by 15%.
Cooperative Farm Technical Specifications and Expected Yields
5.10      The proposed project would improve traditional production of
glutinous rice and pave the way for the further development of non-glutinous
high yielding varieties. The use of (a) improved rice variet:Les; (b) modern
agricultural techniques associated with better water management; and (c)
fertilizers and pesticides would increase average yields as follows on the
selected pilot cooperative farms:
Wet Season             Dry Season
Without       With       Without   With
project      project    pro:Iect  project
Inputs
-  Varieties                      Local         Improved/a  Local   Improved/b
-  Fertilizers (kg/ha)
- Super triple
(48% P205)                                 65                    65
-  Urea (46% N)                    -         65 to 130      --    130 to 200
-  Pesticides, fungicides              -        Variable        -     Variable
Yields (kg paddy/ha)                 1,250 to      2,000 to    1,800   3,000
1,400         2,200
Expected increase (%)                  -             60             -      66
/a Glutinous Sampathong and IR 789
/b  Non-glutinous C4-63/1, IR 22, IR 2823
The resulting incremental paddy production is shown in Annex 5.



- 35 -
6. MARKETS, PRICES AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Collection, Marketing and Prices
6.01      Paddy Procurement.  All rice produced under the project would be
consumed domestically. The Government's policy is to channel most paddy
through government-controlled mills using the following methods: (a) expan-
sion of cooperative farming, (b) direct purchase or barter of paddy produced
on cooperatives against basic goods (salt, soap, agricultural tools, cloth
etc.) valued at offical prices in government stores, and (c) collection of
agricultural taxes in the form of paddy. In 1977, a drought-year, direct
purchase and barter accounted for about 5% and tax collection for 3% of total
production. Chart 20512 describes the domestic movement of paddy and rice.
As a consequence of very low official price of paddy, too few and poorly
located government stores, the shortage of available goods, and the low yield
of the agricultural tax, official paddy procurement remained far from the
Government target of 20% of total production in 1978.
6.02      In a recent move, the Government decided to allow farmers to use
government mills while still retaining ownership of their grain, with the
milling charges paid in paddy or by-products. The Government also increased
the official price of rice by more than 150% to NK 3/kg (see para. 1.04).
These new policies would help considerably to reach the 20% target once the
appropriate collection, storage and transport facilities are set up. Assur-
ances were obtained at negotiations that farmers using mills financed under
the project would continue to be allowed to keep their grain and to pay
milling charges in kind (para 8.01(h)).
6.03      Coffee Procurement.  The Pakse mill is supplied primarily through
the purchase, at the subdistrict level, of handpounded coffee beans delivered
by individual farmers. Due to the present condition of the milling equipment
at Pakse, only a small quantity of coffee is supplied as dry cherries.
6.04      The project would eliminate handpounding by farmers as only dry
cherries would be procured. It would also improve the efficiency of all
aspects of harvesting, collection, processing and storage for export. Coffee
would be exported through the Ban Van Tao border crossing with Thailand
which has recently reopened near Pakse.
6.05      Price Review.  Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
Government would annually review and adjust, when necessary, farm gate prices
for major crops, including coffee, to reflect rising costs and to maintain
farmers' incentives to produce (para. 8.01(i)).
Impact of Rice Mills on Farn Budgets
6.06      With the project, farmers would benefit from higher milling
returns, reduced storage losses and more valuable byproducts. Where they



- 36 -
presently handpound rice, farmers would also benefit from labor savings when
using new or rehabilitated mills. The impact of rice mills on the average
farm budget is detailed in Annex 6, Table 1 and the potential increases in
farm net income are summarized below:
Estimated farm income gain (%)
when moving from:                            Existing mills       New mills
Handpounding to                           32                  38
Huller mills to                           31                  37
Impact of Coffee Processing on Farm Budgets
6.07      Except for the labor savings resulting from eliminating handpound-
ing, farmers would not benefit directly from the increased value of output
fostered by the coffee component if the official farm-gate prices for coffee
(NK10/kg arabica and NK8/kg robusta) are not changed. To insure that farmers
have adequate incentive to use improved harvesting and drying techniques, the
possibility of increasing official farm-gate prices would be considered in the
future (see para. 6.05).
Cooperative Farm Budgets
6.08      Under the project, in addition to improved rice seeds selected at
Salakham and multiplied at Na Phok seed farm (Credits 760-LA and 924-LA),
fertilizers, pesticides and some farm equipment would be distributed to some
1,400 and 1,000 members of cooperative in Savannakhet and Champassak
provinces, respectively. These inputs could be paid for in full from sales of
rice at new official price levels as shown in the farm budgets detailed in
Annex 6, Table 2. Rice farm models have been prepared for 2 ha (100% cropping
intensity), 2 ha (125% cropping intensity), and 1.5 ha (133% cropping
intensity). Projected rice incomes are summarized below:
Rice Cropping Intensity      Net Farm Income    % Increase
Size    -------- (%) -------       ------ ($) -------       due to
Farm model   (ha)    Without          With       Without       With      project
project        project    project    project
i       2.00       100            100         316         426         35
2       2.00       125            125         436         603         38
3       1.50       133            133         366         515         41



- 37 -
Cost Recovery
6.09      The general policy of the Government is to recover as much of the
capital and 0&M costs as possible from the beneficiaries without impairing
their incentives. The costs are recovered either directly through charges
to the beneficiaries or indirectly through increased collection of agricul-
tural taxes.
6.10      Rice Milling, Storage and Transport.  Farmers using facilities
rehabilitated or built under the rice milling component would be required to
pay directly for capital and O&M coste. Assuming a 10% opportunity cost of
capital over the life of the project, full co0t recovery of all investment
and 0&M expenditures, excluding reserve security storage, would require a
milling charge of $18.60/ton paddy as shown in Annex 6, Table 3. These
charges would be collected in kind (equivalent to 62 kg rice/ton paddy).
Rent recovery and cost recovery indices would be:
Rent Recovery    Cost Recovery
Farmers moving from                          Index (%)         Index (%) /a
Handpounding to existing mills                 40                  59
Handpounding to new mills                      36                  59
Huller mills to existing mills                 42                  59
Huller mills to new mills                      37                  59
/a When including reserve security storage.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Government would annually
review with IDA the adequacy of these milling charges (para. 8.01(j)).
6.11      Coffee Milling, Transport, and Storage Facilities.  Since the
coffee processed in the government mill will be wholly government-owned, the
budget of the mill should allow for full recovery of investment and O&M costs.
Assuming a 10% opportunity of capital over the project life, a budgetary
allocation of $95.0/ton (NK 950/ton), a shown in Annex 6, Table 5, would be
required to fully cover these costs.
6.12      Workshop Facilities.  The Government agencies that operate vehicles
and heavy equipment receiving maintenance or repairs in the provincial work-
shops are currently required to make full payment at official prices. This
practice is expected to continue with the project and charges should cover all
costs for spare parts, labor, materials and overheads.
6.13      Cooperative Farms.  Cooperative farmers would continue to reimburse
the Government in kind for the agricultural inputs they receive. The cost of
the DOA equipment provided under the project would be partially recovered by



- 38 -
the incremental taxes (paid in kind) that would be collected. Rent and
cost recovery indices would be as follows:
Farm Model           Rent Recovery Index (%)       Cost Reccvery Index (%)/a
1                          28                            72
2                          20                            72
3                          18                            65
/a In calculating this index the incremental tax assessment. was valued as
an import substitute at USJ17.50/kg paddy, as shown in Table 6, Annex 6.
7. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Benefits, Justification
7.01      The rice milling and cooperative farm components would contribute to
the Government's objective of self-sufficiency in food production, and would
mainly benefit small rice farmers. By increasing rice production they would
save foreign exchange that would otherwise be spent on rice imports. The
workshop component would also save foreign exchange by extending the life of
government vehicles and heavy equipment and the coffee processing component
would significantly increase foreign exchange earnings. Economic analysis was
conducted for these components and for the project as a who:Le. For the
analysis, tradables goods were valued at international border prices plus
local transport and all local goods except field labor were valued at market
prices. Field labor was shadow priced at NK 14.00 or USJ87 50/man-day
at the shadow exchange rate of NK 16 per dollar which is equivalent to the
free market exchange rate. The average expected economic rate of return for
the four components, which account for 98% of the project's base cost, is 32%.
7.02      Rice Milling Rehabilitation and Development.  The major benefit of
the rice-milling component to about 80,000 small rice farmers would be the
incremental rice output from improvements in milling, storape and transport
facilities. These improvements would result in additional annual output of
rice of about 5,600 tons at full development, out of which about 4,500 tons
would result from increases in milling yields and 1,100 tons from better
transport and storage. In addition, the value of byproducts would increase by
75% to 100%. The total value of incremental output would ainount to $2.6 mil-
lion at full development or 8% of annual rice irmports on average. Incremental
costs associated with the project average about $0.6 million so the net
annual incremental value is about $2.0 million. The value of labor saved
from reduced reliance on handpounding has been ignored under the assumption
that paddy for the mills under the project would mainly come from huller
mills. The economic rate of return of this component is 25%.



- 39 -
7.03      Coffee Processing Development.  At full development, the coffee
processing component would improve the quality of about 4,300 tons of clean
coffee annually. This coffee, presently about 1/3 arabica and 2/3 robusta,
is of extremely poor quality and is currently sold to Singapore dealers at
very low prices ($2.30/kg delivered at the Thai border in 1978). Gains in
quality and improvements in monitoring procedures would result in incremental
foreign exchange earnings amounting to $1.3 million at full development.
Associated incremental costs are estimated at $80,000/year on average, giving
a net annual incremental value of about $1.2 million. Again, benefits have
been calculated without including the labor savings from the reduced reliance
on handpounding due to the very low opportunity cost of labor for coffee
farmers. Even so the economic rate of return is satisfactory at 40%.
7.04      Workshop Rehabilitation.  The major benefit of the workshop
component would be the foreign exchange savings from the extended life and
increased availability of government operated cars, trucks and heavy
equipment. At full development, net foreign exchange savings would average
about $0.5 million. The estimated rate of return is 31% for this component.
7.05      Cooperative Farm Development.  Incremental paddy production on
project-supported cooperative farms in Savannakhet and Champassak provinces
would amount at full development to about 4,000 tons for an import substitute
value of $0.8 million. About 2,400 rice farmers would benefit from an
increased output of rice, whether for home consumption or for sale or
barter against basic goods. The economic rate of return for this component is
54%.
7.06      The project would also induce substantial nonquantified benefits.
Local capabilities for cargo boat and industrial construction, mechanical
engineering, repair and maintenance would be strengthened and developed.
Moreover, the project would increase managerial capabilities in agro-industry
and strengthen the LAO PDR administration. Through the support provided, a
basis would be laid for further increases in food production. The ameliora-
tion of coffee quality would improve the marketing image of LAO PDR coffee and
pave the way for production increases of export coffee.
7.07      Finally, direct employment from the project would be about 800
full-time jobs (see para. 4.06).
Risks
7.08      The economic rate of return for the four project components are all
satisfactory. The rate of return for the project as a whole and for the rice
milling and workshop components in particular are, however, somewhat sensitive
to delays in achieving benefits and to cost increases. For example, a



- 40 -
two-year delay in achieving benefits would cause the rate of return of the
entire project to drop to 17% and if this delay were combined with a decrease
of 20% for all project benefits and an increase in costs of 20%, the rate of
return would drop to 7% (see Annex 7, Table 1). Such sensit:ivity underlines
the need for a strong management, timely supply of equipmenl:, materials and
farm inputs, and close monitoring of project progress.
7.09      At full development, the rice milling component accounts for about
56% of total project costs and 43% of project benefits; the overall economic
performance of the project is thus heavily dependent on this component. At
the new official price for paddy, farmers have sufficient incentives to use
government facilities. As an additional incentive for part:Lcipation, the
Government would let farmers keep their grain when they use government mills
and pay the milling costs in kind (see para. 6.02). This airrangement would
ensure that milling capacity would be fully utilized, should new changes
occur in pricing policy. However, careful monitoring would be needed to
evaluate progress in official paddy procurement and marketing.
7.10      Risks in the coffee processing component would also include under-
utilization of milling facilities due to insufficient procurement of coffee.
Close monitoring will be required so as to take adequate and timely measures
regarding procedures and/or prices (see para. 6.05). The Government pricing
policy is flexible for subsidiary crops such as coffee, and the correspond-
ing risks are not estimated to be important. The project addresses itself
to coffee processing but it is clear that quality gains in processing could
be wiped out by other factors such as extended delays in shipment and deliv-
ery of export coffee. The location of the mill on the Boloven Plateau would
contribute to reduce these risks.
7.11      Another major risk is that the implementation capacity of the
provincial executing agencies might prevent the project from proceeding as
planned. Experience gained with the first project indicates acute diffi-
culties in coordination of agencies or departments and timely procurement of
project items. Similarly, problems can be expected in the setting up of an
efficient repair and maintenance organization for the equipment put into
operation under the project. These risks would be reduced by concentrating
project coordinating responsibilities under a single ministry, the Ministry
of Industry and Commerce, and setting up a substantial training and
technical assistance program. Despite these safeguards, supervision will
need to be frequent with steady support provided by the Bank's resident
mission in Thailand.



- 41 -
8. AGREEMENTS
8.01      Agreement was reached at negotiations on the following main points:
(a) Government would enter into four separate agreements with UNDP
and FAO to provide eight specialists (232 man-months) and
appoint, not later than January 31, 1981, the four specialists
not recruited as conditions of disbursement (paras. 3.33 and
3.34);
(b) Government would select by October 31, 1980 suitably qualified
consultants to undertake the feasibility study for power-supply
development under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (para.
3.35);
(c) Government would appoint, not later than October 31, 1980, the
project coordinating and project executive committees (paras.
4.04 and 4.05);
(d) Government would make adequate arrangements for the timely
provision of funds and resources required by the project and to
staff, maintain and operate all project-supported facilities
(para. 4.06);
(e) Government would present, by October 31 of each year, to IDA for
its review an annual work program detailing the proposed
activities for the 12-month period starting on the following
January 1 (para. 4.06);
(f)  Government would maintain separate accounts for each of the
components in each province and send audited project accounts to
IDA within six months of the close of each financial year
(para. 4.07);
(g) Government would appoint, not later than October 31, 1980,
the interministerial unit responsible for monitoring and
evaluation of project activities (para. 4.08);
(h) Government would continue to allow farmers using mills financed
under the project to keep their grain and to pay milling charges
in kind (para. 6.02);
(i) Government would annually review prices for major crops,
including coffee (para. 6.05); and
(j) Government would annually review with IDA the adequacy of rice
milling charges (para. 6.10).



- 42 -
8.02      Agreement was also obtained at negotiations that, as a condition
of disbursement for the respective components, the Governmenit would appoint:
(a) an engineer for rice milling; (b) an expert for coffee processing;
(c) a mechanical expert for workshops; and (d) a rice agronomist for
cooperative farms (para. 3.34).
8.03      With the above assurances, the project would be suitable for an
IDA credit of $13.4 million. The Borrower would be the Lao People's
Democratic Republic.



43                                          ANNEX 1
Table 1
Page 1
LAO PDR
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPHENT PROJECT III
Project Item Phasing
Total project
Unit      no. of units   Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5
RICE-MILLING COMPONENT
1. Vientiane Province
Milling facilities
Rehabilitated rice-mills    unit                   6         -           6
Electricity supplied           unit                2         -           2
New rice mill (2 t/hr)         unit                 1         -          -        1        -
Transport facilities
10 and 6-ton trucks            unit               15         -         15        -        -
60/80-ton cargo boat           unit                2         -           2        -        -
30/40-ton cargo boat           unit                4         -           2        2       -
Storape facilities
Collecting storage           ton paddy         7,500         -      1,500   2,000   2,000   2,000
Operational storage
Paddy                      ton paddy         1,080         -          -   1,080         -        -
Rice                       ton rice          1,200         -          -   1,200         -        -
Reserve/security storage  ton paddy            7,480         -      2,080    1,080   2,160   2,160
Training & fellowship
Local training               man-month            75        35          40        -        -        -
Training abroad              man-month            10       2.5         7.5        -        -        -
2. Savannakhet Province
Milling facilities
Rehabilitated rice-mills    unit                   2         -           2        -        -        -
Electricity supplied           unit                6         -           6        -        -        -
New rice mill (4 t/hr)         unit                 1        -           -        1        -        -
Transport facilities
6-ton truck                    unit               10         -         10        -        -        -
60/80-ton cargo boat           unit                2         -           2        -        -        -
10-ton cargo boat              unit                6         -           3        3       -         -
Storage facilities
Collecting storage           ton paddy         6,000         -      2,000   2,000   2,000           -
Operational storage
Paddy                      ton paddy         2,160         -          -   2,160         -        -
Rice                       ton rice          1,200         -          -   1,200         -        -
Reserve/security storage  ton paddy            4,320         -           -   1,080   2,160    1,080
Training & fellowship
Local training               man-month            75        35          40        -        -        -
Training abroad              man-month            10       2.5         7.5
3. Champassak Province
Milling facilities
New rice mill (3 t/hr)         unit                 1        -           1
Transport facilities
6-ton truck                    unit                9         -           9        -        _        _
60/80-ton cargo boat           unit                4         -           2        2
30/40-ton cargo boat           unit                4         -           2        2
10-ton cargo boat              unit                4         -           4       -        -
Storage facilities
Collecting storage           ton paddy         5,000          -     1,000   2,000   2,000
Operational storage
Paddy                      ton paddy             -         -          -        -        -        -
Rice                       ton rice          1,200         -           -   1,200         -        -
Reserve/security storage  ton paddy            3,240          -          -   1,080    1,080    1,080
Training & fellowship
Local training               man-month            75         75          -        -        -        -
Training abroad              man-month             10         5          5



- 44-                                              ANNEX 1
Table 1
Page 2
Total project
Unit      no. of units   Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5
COFFEE-PROCESSING COMPONENT
Milling Capacity
Arabica                       ton/yr          1,750         -          -   1,750        -        -
Robusta                       ton/yr          3,500         -          -   3,500        -        -
Transport facilities
1.5-ton pick-up               unit                1        -          1        -        -       -
6-ton truck                   unit                3         -          3       -        -        _
Storage facilities
Dry cherries                  ton             1,900         -          -   1,900        -        -
Clean coffee                  ton            1,900          -         -   1,900         -        -
Training and fellowship
Local training              man-month            45        45          -       -        _        _
Abroad training             man-month            10         5          5       -        -        -
WORKSHOP COMPONENT
New workshop                  unit                1         -          -       1        -        -
Rehabilitated workshop        unit                2         -          2       -        -        -
Local training              man-month           360        60        300       -        -        -
COOPERATIVE FARM COMPONENT
1. Savannakhet Province
Farm Development
WS paddy area                  ha            7,500         -      1,200   2,100   2,100   2,100
DS paddy area                  ha             2,500         -       400      700      700      700
Training/fellowship
Local training              man-month           120        30         90       -        -        -
Abroad training             man-month             5         -          5       -        -        -
2.  Champassak Province
Farm development
WS paddy area                  ha            4,700          -       400      800   1,150   2,000
DS paddy area                  ha                55         -          5      10       15       25
Training/fellowship
Local training              man-month           120        30        90        -        -        -
Abroad training             man-month             5         -          5       -        -        -
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Rice-milling engineer           man-month            32         8         12       12       -        -
Rice-milling technicians (2)  man-month              64        16         24       24       -        -
Coffee-processing expert        man-month            28         4         12       12       -        -
Mechanics experts (3)           man-month            72        12         36       24       -        -
Rice production expert          man-month            28         4         12       12       -        -
Short-term consultants          man-month            10         2          4       4        -        -
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION STUDY
Short-term consultants          man-month            45         5         20      20        -        -



45                                                           ANNEX I
Table 2
Page 1
LAO PDR
AGRICULTUEAL REH&BILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Imoienientation Schedule fvr Rice M±iininR Storaae an,d Trans2ort Pacilities
Work item                       t      Yearl        j     Year 2       t     Year 3              Year 4      i      Year 5      i
Comyonent Technical Advisor                   i        i         t t i I I t t t                            i i t i i
(Engineer expert inrice               I I I t I t i I i I i t i                                          t               
muiiing>
Vientiane ProvinceIi                                                 t         t I It                            i ii i i
1. Tech,nical aes±stance                                  li1                        1       1Ii
(Rico nill±ng techn±ct.an)       I         IIi
2.  Rice mill rehabilitation, I            i t i t I                    I        I t I              i         i iI
electrif. &provision of           i                  1        1       1        1                             i
spare parts                                                                                                    
- Procurement of equipmentl            II                          ii                         li                 i
and spare parts                   l        fî                                  i    Itt                                     i
- Installation                        I     ti                  i        i        i       t       l        t              
- Operationi i
3. New 2-ton/hr rice milli                             i      i I        ti         i       t      t                   i
(San~akham)t                          I    t    t   It             t    t   I    I    i    II            i    i    Ii
- Detailed designt                           H      I    tI i                                                      i    t i
- Procurement of equipmentt tt I                                                                                   Ii I
& construcion  mater±ial       t i        u nI                                          I         I                        
Civil    works/bu±ld±ngs       i    t           -      't                                              t    t    ii
- Equipuent installation          i I       t      l
- Test operation                  I t t t            t~t
- Operationt I                                       I t i t
4. Storage (collecting, opera-t                 i      t       l      t      t i       t      t                                    
tional &reserve/security>i             t      t )i                           t      l            
- Procurement ofconstruc-i              11                   1        1       1        t      tii                            i
tion miaterialst t                                                                                     t i t t            t t
- Civil works/buildings          t it t
5.  Transportt                             t    i    t   t    t    i    i   i    t    i    t    t   t    t    i    i   t    t    t    t
- Procurement of trucks &          t      t              i             i              i      i        t      l      
mnarine diesel engines         t i        '     '       t         t                 i      i      i tt                   t
- Construcion of cargo boatst                                                              t 1           t t t               
6.  Trainingi                              t    t    i   i    i    t    i    t   t    t    t    t    t   t    i    t    t   t    t    t
- Locali i i
- Aboardt t t
Savannakhet Provincei i i t t I t                                         i t            i i t         t i      t t t i t i
I. Technical assistance                t       t              i      i        t      t              i       i       t      t       
(Rice muilling technician)            t t                  ...........l..J                      i i t t t i i i
2. Ricemill rehabilitation,             t      t              i       i       l      i               i      i       t      t       
electrif. &provision of           i I t i t                   t i t t t t t i i t i t                                   t t t
spare     partsi                      t    i    t    i    t   t    i    t    i   t    t    t    t    t   t    t    t    t    t   t
- Procuremen   of equipmenrt           t i i i             l      iiiiitt t                                                  t t
and spa re partst i t                                         Ii iti                                                        t
- Installation                         t~it                                            i        t tt                          i
- Operationt                               t    t t i



- 46 --                                              a  
Page 2
Work item                         Year 1    |    Year 2    I    Year 3    I    Year 4                Year 5
I   I   I   i   I   I    I  I  I   I   I   I   I          I      I  I  I I I   I I
3. New 2-ton/hr rice mill
(Sanakham)                   i   I   i      i     I   I   i   i    J   i   J   J       I        i   i   I   i   |
- Detailed design            i              I .   I                    i       il    i   i           1111
-Procurement of equipment             I   F       I i                  I       i  I   I   i   I   I   i   I   I
& construcion materials   J             I      I      I |     i      i       i   I   J   J   I   i   I   I   I
- Civil workslbuildings      J   J          I   I        I               I                  I I i       I   I i
- Equipment installation    J   i   I    11          1                         i r  r  - - -1           i   I 
-Test operation              J   J   I      l    I       l                      11111
-Operation                   i                            J   I   I   I                             I   I I   I
4.  Storage (collecting, opera-       i           I    1                        1                       i        I
tional & reserve/security)    I   l         I         I i       i                lii        l       1   1   
- Procurement of construc-  |   |                              I       I i     I        I                Iii
tion materials                 i a                                                        i   i       I     i
- Civil works/buildings                                            , I         :  T
5. Transport                               i           1                    l               1111|1i
- Procurement of trucks&             i                         liii                 I       J   J   i I
marine diesel engines
- Construcion of cargo boatsl   I    i                                             I   J   i   J   J   I   J
I      I   i   J    1T                  TI  I         I   I I    I  I          I I
6. Training                           11111111111
- Local                      J   I                                             |
- Aboard                     J   J   J   V.L.               II1IT111TII[iII
I   II  I   I   iJ     '   II    I  I    I1     1  I                   I   I       I
Champassak Province                           I         I        J  I        J i     I   I  I         J   J i
1.  Technical assistance          l                    1I11111
(Rice milling technician)
2. New 3-ton/hr rice mill                                     | | |                    
(Pakse)                      i   I   i   I    J   i   I   i   I   I    I   J   I   i   I   i    J   i   J   i   I
- Procurement of additionall          III!             1                       I   l                     iii
equipment and constructionl    III          I           I  i      J  1   1  Ii   i     ii                      J 1     
materials                  |    |                    I           III         l                 11111
- Civil works/buildings      I
- Equipment installation    I   I   i    L j                                           J -  1
I   J   X                        I   I r     I    I   I                l i i   I   i  
3.  Provision of spare pErts                                                   I    II               H Ij           j
4. Storage (collecting, opera-
tional & reserve/security)J                   l   I               l                J   I j      I           I   I
- Procurement of construc-        1111                  l         l                J   J    I               I j
tion materials             J   I   L   I   I   I..         I    I                                 I   J I   I
- Civil works/buildings      J   I            I   II        1I1V1    1 1   1
5. Transport                     J    III         i   J   J     l ii  |                    J  J         I |
- Procurement of trucks &   J   I   i   I   .         i i
marine diesel engines      i   J     L                       I           I   J   I   I   J   I |      J   I   J
- Construcion of cargo boatas    J       1   1   1                                     I I  I       J |   |   |
*~~~~ I                       I      I       I      J            I         J                     
6.   Training                    I   i    i   I   I   J   I   J   i    J   i   i   J   I   J    i   J   J   i   i   i
- Local                      |   |   |            I
- Aboard                                  r      T        r                T       r       r           T        1
i   i   i   r.L          F- - -- -- '                                                     



ANNEX 1
- 47  -                                           Table 3
LAO PDR
ACRICULTUURAL REHABILITATION AID DEMELOPMENT PROJECT  III
Implenentation Schedule for km  42 Coffee Processinz Plant
I               1              1               I                I  
Work item                         t  Year 1           Year 2   I   Year 3   t   Year 4   |   Year5   |
....                   I  ~~~~I    I                                 1                 
Technical Assistance                                     I   t       I       I   t   t  I         t  I   t        t
(Coffee  processing  expert)                    I    I   I   I   I
I   I  I                                     I            I   I   I      
Detailed  design of coffee mill  J   i                I       | t       t     | I  I   t      t         I t   t    t t
Procurement of equipment and              ttttttttttl                               tttttttl                       tt
construction naterials                 I  t   t.       lI        I   I                 I           t   t   t   t   t
Civil works/buildings                                          I                       I   I I    I    I    I       I   I
I   I  I  I   I                         I  I  I  t            t   t       t                 
Ecuipment installation                   I  I        t       I        I          t  t   t  I   t  I   t   I   t  t   t
Test operation                           i   I   I  I        I t                     t  I         I  I   t       I
Operation                                                                             I  I   I  I                       !
Training                                                         l l l l l l l l         
Locaiin                                 I   I   I   t         I   I         ! t t  t  t   t t     t   I         t   t   !
Local                                 I   I  I   I             t  |
AbroadI tt it ''                                                      t        t t             t t I ttt



ANNEX 1
- 48 -                                        Table 4
LAO PDR
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMFNT PROJECT III
Implementation Schedule for Vientiane,Savannakhet & Pakse Workshops
Work item                     | Year 1   |   Year 2           Year 3  |   Year 4  |   Year 5  |
Vientiane Workshop
Technical assistance
(Mechanics expert)             i       i                l                            i
Detailed design of workshop   |  |  |    l                                          I |  |
Procurement of equipment,
construction materials andll iiiiiillillitllili
operational spare parts         i  i  i , 1 11            1        I             t   I         J
Civil works/buildings             i  t  i              h             t  i  i  t  i  i  I  t  t  i  i
Equipment installation            i  I  t  t  I  i  i    l            i I    t  I  t  i  t  t  t  t  t
Operation                         i   I    i    I    t  i    i    t    i  I I    I. II I           III
Training                          i  i  t              I
Savannakhet & Pakse llorkshops          i |  |  |  |  |       t            t  i |  |  |       t |
Technical assistance
(2 Mechanics experts)          i  I  i  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I    i
Procurement    of    equiment     t   i  i   i  i   i  i   i  t   t  i   i   i  i   i  I   i  I   i  i   i
construction materiais and|||||                      |      |      |||||||||
operational spare parts         i  t  i  1111            If        t (           t             i
Building    extension             i   i    i    i  II I    i    i    i    I    i    t    i    I    t    t    t    t    t    i
Additional    equipment           t   i  i   i  i   i  i   I  i   i   I  i   t  i   t  t   t  t   I  i   t
installation
Training                          i  i  i  I               II. I IIII.ILI.I.I I           I     I
i  i   i  t   i  t   i  i   i                           



- 49 -                                     ANNEX 1
Table 5
LAO PDR
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Cooperative Farm Development Tentative Phasing
Year 1                                                 Year 5
(1980)       Year 2       Year 3       Year 4         (onward)
- Season                           DS      WS   DS      WS   DS      WS   DS      WS     DS       WS
Savannakhet Province
Pilot paddy area (ha)          150/a  450/a  400  1,200  700  2,100  700  2,100  700/b  2,100/b
Estimated no. of farm units
Model 3                            -           800          1,400        1,400        1,400
Total                        -           800          1,400        1,400        1,400
Champassak Province
Pilot paddy area (ha)            -       -      5    400   10    800   15  1,500        25  2,000/c
Estimated no. of farm units
Model 1                            -            180            360          720         950
Model 2                            -             10             20           30           50
Total                        -           190            380          750        1,000
/a  Planned for 1980, by provincial DOA, not included in the project.
/b  2,100 ha WS and 700 ha DS paddy, at full development, distributed as follows:
Preproject
(1980)     1981       1982         1983         1984
DS   WS   DS   WS   DS    WS    DS    WS    DS    WS
Phine district
(Na Nhom)             75  250  200  500  400  1,000  400  1,000  400  1,000
Champhone district
Lao Nat               40  100  100  200  200    500  200    500  200    500
Keng Koc              35  100  100  500  100    600  100    600  100    600
/c  2,000 ha WS paddy, at full development, distributed as follows:
Pholthong district  :  1,000 ha out of 14,249
Champassak district :    500 ha out of  7,582
Mounlapamok district:    250 ha out of  3,222
Soukouma district   :    250 ha out of    817.



AC
Il, ta   11                                              y-,  1                                                                                                                                                          Y-        4                                          y-        5
'-A
1   F. r.        1- ., 1      F.    f gl,      1. la 1   F. E.         L., Il 1     F.    il, l,    TI t, 1   Fr.
Ri- M 1 1 III,
P-.
1, 2 68. 5     1                                 PIl       41:5        11.11      7:;. 1                                                                         3(P.          Il,, 5. R     4 7  1)     3 51        2 9 5IR     :'O 2 . 0       4 q 7. 8     4 0. 6     2 747          98            3  1            4
-1:1               . 1     14: 3
PbyiI1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7
I           1 2^ :5         I              I
4              11         11              11,1        Ill: 1       I                                                                                                          1 41          1.'            ICIl I'     2 6 .3
E,i"" I'd  P'i-                                     1)       48i                                                                . Il                     .                                                                 5 5                3       55                                                   40  9           .5             9
1                      1, a 7 3        2, 44 1.0      4-il I. l    51            5          4 3.7    _2          4              j ti   1I l 5. 3        211.1. 7       7 8. I       1. 4            4 42        6 8 89       35. 4        jjLA       1_1 Ë, . 7                    4IO       4 5 2. 0    1 61. 1          61 3. 1      2 6.3
khl, 1 Pl I h
7. 1      1 1. 1      1 1. 1   7 1 , 1,    4 1 - 1    Ilq.1   1           Il     11 1 l17       I, - 1     Il 1.          1.4, 71       4                        21             Il : 1        Il 11        21         1 Il- 1       Il: 1          1 Il - 1     Il - 41
7.                          7. 7                   4.         9.        51) . 0       4 7            30 .                           1         36 .          M.I)          6 .                          8        1 0             3          2             0.           60              6 . 5      6.
n.p""d  n'i-                                3 7 8 .          PIP.I,         7'41                               4 . 1                     1 9        82."        2 70 . 9        3, 3.7       7I . 6      1 14 . 1,      W.3          1 54 .7      31,A         1 1 3 .1      3'l. R         1 5 1 . 9   M.5          7 3 . 1      3 2 . 4       10 5. 5      30 .7
16- 1 41       2-1)9 31         1, /U    6     _16  5       % ilI   l3  7       Il        46 . 21)      4P7*-   1, 59.8           208 3 . 5       ?6.1                       2IY6         669*1        32 .5        401 *7        3 7. 8         5 3 9 .5    2 5 . 5     222 . l       986           321 *0       30.7
111,I,       1, 1I5:1    14 . 1         2 5.1      20. 1      4 i.5      1, 41       1 7 171       1 1 1           l 1 .1    Il .1        22 - 1        Ilil.1        Il.. Il    Il .1          1 Il 1 . 1    l.1           2 1 1 . 41   I   Il     1 12 , 1      1 12           2 1 1 , Il    1 9 -1
0.-      liq.4          -5.          1             4 0.         5.           1 8 .        1  . 1           9.        3   8        I.5           6.3                       375
IR .8   11.            191.l,    79.`I            SI . I        3 7 .I       L23.8        2 9.5                      40. 3                      3 1 . 7           8        4 . 0            38       299
?9I:1          2 I(1) 1        11,9, Il    4 '1              1          1       1        4 Il                                                                                                                                                                             7 90                        . I , : il
Sb 1L1                             1 ,I8,        13 3 19    25 1_ 7 . 0          12         2 9 . 9     23.R       53 .7     4 44        2U l          9( 1 .I    11_    2 Y. 8     79 .8       _Lï 52         1 60 . 2      5i 5 . 4     2 9 .5       3 087        143oO          4 5 17       3 1 - 7    14-2- 9       10 35          3464         29.9
1!:! ': 1 -"    1 )               4_6                    6       1 (I _ 4 2 . 9  5          13 1                 '4?         4. II 1  1 89 . 5         1 125        53620          7 7P, 1  2 7 14            6         1 89 3 . 4      3 8   1  1668    59 7 . 5              1  7h43         3 i.9      9 1 7 . 3    36 32        1 2805    28 - 4
(h)               p-,              CI-
MI,1        12111;. 3       18-             "A          Il         4 1:       Il1        1 23         1 'l-1   11 2 14           11 1 11         1 4           1 71 11       1.1           1,11 .11    Il. 1            1       511: 8          7.4       7 1  1       M. 6         54.1            747       1 24
y. i-I                                      79                                                       7            1     1 1         i            Il               11          I1^11         19              -1              7          11, -      1.                         5                         lo  0                      5.4             5       100  fi
,p- ,,J  p,                                                  2              4 6`1         8  7                                                     In, n9          5 7             i  .6         .7                            9                    30             8.1         21 .9           30. 0      7 3. 0       1 0. 1       -19 .1          39         7 4
(b)                        81 13    1_ 7 6 O                              i.4                  L)        11 7à7       4 18        943   1, 5(6.1)               ilm.3       7 1 .7        1 91           386         !V*7         302           2 87         7 78           106. 5       7 3 - 1     30- 7        88.6           119&3       743
O
3-Q      1 0.1                 1, 3         1 0                                 2     8 2 . 0                          0         2 0          n0
3:            1" Il1                          I                   1 .5                50             1                            1115       An5
E.p,,,d  pî-                                 14 7         t1 i.1          13',l, . l   I'.2             5       1.            7     44-4             Il.,       1 14              74       8 1 .8                         8.3           H.3   1 or)0
-  1                         !2            66     1        îB         LL2         1 1 -Q     1 27       2P. 1                   136.5         hl 3.1)         75L)q1      81 -R                                           m    lon.')
Pl
M6.           9
:,                     ,,      ,                             ',       l ,, ,',      l ;, 1 ,l    I , , ,Î                   2-- 'l
,I    i                              76             7 1               17           l         -9                   15       4(. l9                     II 7                         O9                           3 .3                        0
s ah 1 l 1 1 1                         4 81)         43b.2           4 8 11       90. 1         9          64        1 b1)    ALI.2           l 1) .3     39b0                   l    9 10                          3 58          3 5      1 Oo0
IC 1          klrov,-
3        3 1 7 . 9       3"b1        81,1 ll        b:1       11        1 ':I     ,8, 1        III,3        2 1 11
i4.2           372                      0   7                                                                         3        9 3                              5              5     qo0
7 . 6         7,1             q 3.1           9        1). 9      (          i5       40. 0           I7           Il 72           73-I      qn.g                              3          il3   1 w (
S al,      1                                        43 11           4nj          1) 0         9  6       64        1I   Il                  3 91                        A35.3       q 1 - 1)                                    3 5R   1 on.0
21QU I    1, 5 385          17H8.          86.0                              6O7                       1 1   1,               16_    2 0 .7     Hb.                        lq,.4         1 0 74    !00O
s
L-                                                                                  5.                                                                                                                                                                            1 3   100. 0                         1 43            1 3   100. 0
E.P"I,,d   P'n                                  4.1          3 1 77          321-l'    98.7             J. 3       -' . 3     26       8A5             i.          3                   8     9 a                         1 û           14'.5   1 1 II)0              -           1m            6 18    1 00. 0                      7 71            7 71   100.0
S . b vl t Il 1                       21 - 1,     12 9'i e)   _I    Il . 1,    Il 8 -1         1_3    Z            279        !Pî           2 3         i222           2 -'2 e 6   90. 0                       6 1 1         6 1 1   1 W 1)                -           4            2 1 9.l   1 00 - 0                                   2 347   100.0
ù-
0                        5I3.1        97.4          S.')      I',.O     411. 1)    87.5            9.I        -'17                                                                                                                          7
I.      10.0                         -.                 - 3        .9                        , ,            ,,,    ;;: :                       !'.                                                      7                1   00:0
7                                                                                                                                oo:'
2.3         [l2.0           1 14. 3      9ïl. 6        0.5        4 : O'     4 . 5    98. 9           I.R          6'.2           I4. 0       9 72                         1 7           1 7   1 10.1)               -         3 1 . 1         II        l00.0                                        2  (    '00   0
1 Il.3        732* i                      9 7. 8        5.5    AL         AjA         88 . 5        lo.,,        3w,            _11 7 - 0    9 71                         5 0          iiL    1 00  0               -       110. 4          11,1. 4    1 ffle 0          -       i 58. 2         1 582   1 00  CI
T-at  (d)                              4_19       2 02 1. 3    2, 069. 2         98.0             M    _t 7. 0      75. l,    S            3 31         5m,            il, -9- 6    i              -         67i.1           71 - 1   _l,)t) I)          -        3 2 9H                     loil q 0          -       392. 9          392. 9   100. 0
1,41Ï-9         illlb.9    1 q1j. 0                 281 . I   2 3 1 . I 1 IlI. 1)                      5 2 9. 1        l     1   1 M. 1)            -         61-5                5          0            -
K- 1                                                               4 00. 0         4 00.1)                             4 0. 0     40.q    ]W.1                          2'll'. I        *'). 0   100. C              -         1                              0            -
ta 1                                                                                                                        71). 2   2,032.ll   l, 3, I. 7   1          I 1 . 7    80. 5                                                 6 11
_5LCI . 0    1 3 001). 3   IM   789.3                     244mO         __74.'I   Bl.1                                                                     1, 360. 5   2, '05.6    3, 5 66. 1                    1,195.5   1,005.1            2,200.6         45-7       948.0         844.7    1  _7) I. 7        4 7. 1
1-1,11 j,j; pIlyf 1. 1 -d Il, i- 1-1,,P1111 Il 1



LAO PDR
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Pro-1ct Cost Phasing Pe- Pro-i-ce (S'Ooff
Total Projeot         Sear i                                  Tear~~~~~~~~~~~~~Y.   2                  Year 3                                     Ysa- 4                                  Te
Local   Fa-ig    Ttoal    F.E.%    Local   F Zer-ig    Total           F.E.%    Loca      Porego   Total       F.E.X     Local   F-etg    Totl           F.E.%    Local          Yeag T4 1    P.E.%    Local ..Eearg T5t1                    F.E.Z
VlENTIANE PROVICR
Base Costs
Rice =illing co.po.,eut          1,268.5  1,751.1  3,019.6         58.0      41.5       35.0      76.5      45.8    349.3  1,249.9  1,599.2         77.7    307.2    165.8    473.0           35.1     295.8    202.0    497.8         40.6     274.7       98.4    373.1         26.4
Workshop co=ponent                  113.9    493.3    607.2        81.2      13.0      10 0      23.0       43.5    100.9    458.3    559.2         82.0          -      25.0      25.0    100.0           -          -         -         -          -         -          -          -
Sobototl Base Co.ts           1.382.4  2,244.4  3,626.8         61.9      54.5      45.0      99.5      45.2    450.2  1.708.2  2,158.4          78.8    307.2    190.8    498.0           38.3     295.8    202.0      497.8       40.6    274.7        98.4     373.1        26.4
Physica-  contingencie:               157.7    257.8    415.5        62.0       6.0        6.0      12.0      50.0      56.1    192.1    248.2         77.3      34.7      24.4       59.1      57.5      32.1       25.5      57.6      44.3       28.8       9.8      38.6        25.4
Expected poio  lotteBses             489.7    600.9  1,090.6        55.1        6.3       5.4      11.7      46.2    103.6    388.6    492.2          79.0    102.8       64.8    167.6        38.7    128.5        89.2    217.7       40.9      148.5      52.9    201.4         26.3
Tot.l                         2.029.8  3.103.1  5,132.9         60.5      66.8      56.4    123.2       45.8    609.9  2.288.9  2,898.8          78.9    444.7      280.0      724.7       38.6    456.4      316.7     773.1       40.9     452.0      161.1     613.1        26.3
SAVANNAKHET PROVINCE
Base Costs
Rice oilliog ...=pon0t           1,110.1  1,525.3  2,635.4         57.9      41.5       35.0      76.5      45.8    359.2  1,194.5  1,553.7          76.9    310.8    147.3    458.1          32.2    259.8        88.3    348.1       25.4      138.8      60.2    199.0         30.3
Wo-kshop  -oopo.net                  38.3    327.9    366.2        89.5       8.0        5.0      13.0      38.5      30.3    297.9    328.2         90.8         -      25.0       25.0    100.0           -         -         -         -  -       -         -          -          -
Coop. fars cooponeot                 21.5    889.4    910.9        67.0       3.0       17.0      20.0      85.0      18.5    126.5    145.0         87.2         -    459.3    459.3    100.0              -     143.3    143.3    100.0            -     143.3    143.3        100.0
Sobtotal B-so Costo           1,169.9  2,742.6  3,912.5         69.4      52.5      57.0    109.5       52.1    408.0  1,618.9  2.026.9          79.9    310.8    631.6        942.4      67.0      259.8    231.6    491.4         47.1     138.8      203.5     342.3        59.5      s
Physical -onttngenci-s                128.8    293.7    422.5        69.5        5.2      10.5      15.7      66.9      48.0    201.1    249.1         80.7      36.3      36.8       73.1      50.3      28.8       25.0      53.8      46.5       10.5      20.3       30.8       65.9
Expetctd price - ocoasos              389.9    790.4  1,180.3        67.0        6.0       7.1      13.1      54.2      93.3    372.1    465.4         79.9    104.4    201.1        305.5      65.8     113.1      100.6    213.7       47.1       73.1     109.5    182.6         60.0
Total                         1,688.6  3,826.7  5,515.3         69.4      63.7      74.6    138.3       53.9    549.3  2.192.1  2,741.4          79.9    451.5      869.5  1.321.0        65.8    401.7       357.2     758.9       47.1     222.4      333.3    555.7         60.0
CHO ASSAKC PROVINCE
Base Coats
Rice =illing  c=poneot              816.1    959.6  1,775.7        54.0      25.5       20.0      45.5      44.0     171.9    675.9    847.8         79.7    262.6    108.9       371.5       29.3    203.5        91.6    295.1       31.0      152.6      63.2    215.8         29.3
Coffee processing  -o.pon..t        586.1  1,298.3  1,884.4        68.9      54.5       40.0     94.5       42.3    429.4  1,126.4  1,555.8          72.4      61.0      27.0      88.0       30.7      20.6       50.8      71.4      71.1       20.6      54.1       74.7       72.4
Workshop ooopoooot                   38.3    327.9    366.2        89.5       8.0        5.0      13.0      38.5      30.3    297.9    328.2         90.8         -      25.0      25.0    100.0            -
Coop.  ars component                 14.0    519.4    533.4        97.4       5.0       35.0      40.0      87.5       9.0    277.3    286.3         96.9         -      38.5      38.5    100.0            -      72.1      72.1    100.0           -      96.5      96.5       100.0
Sobtotal B... Coset           1.454.5  3,105.2  4.559.7         68.1      93.0    100.0    193.0        51.8    640.6  2,377.5  3,018.1          78.8    323.6       199.4    523.0       38.1    224.1    214.5        438.6       48.9     173.2      213.8    387.0        55.2
PhyoOoal contingeocies                155.8    332.4    488.2        68.1        9.7      10.3      20.0      51.5      84.0    254.0      338.0       75.1      33.3      23.3       56.6      41.2      18.3       23.4      41.7      56.1       10.5      21.4      31.9        67.1
Expected price inoroases              451.3    825.0  1,276.3        64.6      10.8       11.6      22.4      51.8     148.2    538.1      686.3       78.4     107.4      66.9      174.3      38.4      95.0       93.3     188.3      49.5       89.9     115.1     205.0        56.1
Total                         2,061.6  4.262.6  6.324.2         67.4    113.5    12l.9    235.4          51.8    872,8  3.169.6  4.042.4         78.4    464.3    289.6        753.9       38.4     337.4     331.2    668.6        49.5    273.6       350.3    623.9        56.1
Technicel Aa.istance /a                     -  1,416.9  1,416.9    100.0             -    281.3    281.3    100.0             -    529.1    529.1    100.0             -    606.5      606.5    100.0
Rtail E1ectriEication Study /a              -    400.0    400.0    100.0             -      40.0      40.0    100.0           -    200.0    200.0    100.0             -    160.0    160.0    100.0
Total                         5,780.0 13,009.3 18,789.3         69,2    244.0      574.2    818.2        70.2  2.032.0  8,379.7 10,411.7         80.5  1,365.5  2,205.6  3,566.1           61.9  1,195.5  1.005.1  2,200.6          45.7    948.0       844.7  1.792.7         47.1
1a Iocladieg physîcl and price cootlogooclea.



- 52 -
Table
LAO PDR
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION ANiD DEvwrr  rbD
Schedule of Disbursements ($'000)
IDA Fiscal Year                       Semester                  Accumulated
& semester                       disbursement                 disbursement
FY 81
First                                   200                           200
Second                                  600                           800
FY 82
First                                 3,300                         4,100
Second                                3,200                         7,300
FY 83
First                                 1,300                         8,600
Second                                1,000                         9,600
FY 84
First                                   800                        10,400
Second                                  800                        11,200
FY 85
First                                   800                        12,000
Second                                  800                        12,800
FY 86
First                                   600                        13,400



-53 -                                  ANNEX 3
Table 2
LAO PDR
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Proposed Allocation of Proceeds of the Credit
Vientiane  Savannaakhet  Champassak        MIC/   Total
ltesf a4  X o     p #naçci                                                  EDL Lb
1. Imported equipment,
construction materials,
fertilizers and
insecticides (100%)           2,670        3,310        3,570            -    9,550
2.  Training abroad (100%)            20           30           50            -       100
3. Imported items procured
loc4lly (75Z)                   110           60           180           -       350
4. Local costs for civil
works, equipment
installation and boat
construction (409)/a            600          500           600           -    1,700
Subtotal                3,400         3,900        4,400            -   11,700
5.  Feasibility study (100%)           -            -            -          400       400
6.  Unallocated                      400          450          450            -    1,300
Total                   3.800         4.350        4.850         400   13,400
/a Excluding O&M costs.
/b Electricity of Laos.



- 54_
LAO PDR
AGRICULTMtAL REYABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Additional Staffing Requirements for the Rice-Milling,
Coffee Processina and Workshop Components
Yr 1      Yr 2    Yr 3    Yr 4         Yr 5
<1980)                                 onward
A.  RICE-MILLINO COfIPONENT
1. Vientiane Province
Rice-mill manager                   _           3       4        4        4
Deputy manager                      -           -       2        2         2
Accountant/adm. employees           -           6       9        9         9
Shipnaster                          -           4       6        6        6
Relmsman, mechanics                 -          12      18       18        18
Driver                              -          30      31       31        31
Labor                               -        119      145      145      145
Subtotal                         -         174     215      215       215
2. Savannakhet Province
Rice-mill manager                   -           2       3        3         3
Deputy manager                      -           -       2        2         2
Accountant/adm. employees           -           4      10       10       10
Shipnaster                          -           5       8        8         8
Helmasman, mechanics                -          12      18       18        18
Driver                              -         20       21       21        21
Labor                               -          79     110      110      110
Subtotal                         -         122     172       172      172
3.  Champassak Province
Rice-nill manager                   -           1       1        1         1
feputy manager                      -           2       2        2         2
Accountant/adm. employees           -           5       5        5        5
Shipmaster                          -           8      12       12       12
tHelmsnan, mechanics                -         20       32       32       32
Driver                              -          19      19       19       19
Labor                               -         98      130      130      130
Subtotal                         -         153     201      201       201
Total                          -         449     588      588       588
B. COFFEE-PROCESSING COMPONENT
Coffee-mill  manager               -          -        I        1        1
Deputy manager                      -           -       1        1         1
Accountant/adm. employees           -          -        8        8        8
1lechanics                          -           -       2        2        2
Quality assessor                    -           -       3        3        3
Driver                              -           -       4        4        4
Labor                               -          -       28       28       28
Total                          -           -      47       47        47
C.   ORKVS HOP COMPONENT
1. Vientiane Province
Mgmt & section supervisors          -           -       6        6        6
Adn. employees, drivers &
miscellaneous                   -           -      20       20        20
Skilled workers/assistants          -           -      69       69       69
Subtotal                         -           -      95       95        95
2. Savannakhet Province
Adm. enpLoyeesa drivers &
miscellaneous                   -           8       8         8        8
Skilled workers                     -         17       17       17       17
Subtotal                         -          25      25        25       25
3.  Champassak Province
Adm. employees, drivers &
miscellaneous                   -           5       5         5        5
Skilled workers                     -           9       9        9        9
Subtotal                          -         14      14        14       14
Total                          -          39     134      134       134
Grand total                    -         488     769      769       769



-55-                                 ANNEX 5
LAO PDR
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Estimated Incremental Production or Quality Gain at Full Development
Without       Under
Project      Project   Incremental    % increase
situation   situation       effect      /preproject
Rice Milling Component
1. Milled rice from (ton)
- Rehabilitated mills                       3,890        4,610          720          18.5
- New mills                                11,665       14,475        2,810          24.1
- Mills provided with spare parts          62,644       63,672        1,008           1.6
Subtotal (1)                          78,219       82,757        4,538            5.8
2. Byproduct from (expressed in
rice equivalent) (ton rice)
- Rehabilitated mills                        144          288          144          100.0
- New mills                                  432          756          324           75.0
Subtotal (2)                             576        1,044          468           81.3
3. Rice recovery from improved storage (ton)
- Collecting storage                           _          740          740            4.0
- Operational storage                          -          200          200            2.0
- Reserve security storage                     -          150          150            1.0
Subtotal (3)                               -        1,090        1,090             -
Total                                 78,795       84,891        6,096            7.7
Coffee Processing Component
Robusta processed (ton)                       2,900        2,900             -             _
Incremental export value ($/ton)                  -          270          270            14.0
Arabica processed (ton)                        1,450        1,450            -             -
Incremental export value ($/ton)                  _          330           330           17.0
Cooperative Farm Component
Incremental production (ton paddy)
Farm Mbdel 1                                2,375        3,800        1,425           60.0
Farm Model 2                                  180          285          105           58.3
Farm Model 3                                4,200        6,720        2,520           60.0
Total                                  6.755       10.805        4,050           60.0



- 56 -                                  ANNEX 6
Table 1
LAO PDR
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Impact of Milling on Average Rice Farm Budget
Without Proiect           With Prolect
Private    Existing
1,000 kg paddy                         Hand-         huller    commercial    New
Farmer unit production                   pounding        mills    type  ulls   mills
(1)            (2)          (3)         (4)
Production (kg paddy)                      1,000         1,000        1,OCO      1,000
Loss at storage (kg paddy)                 130            130          70         70
Production milled (kg paddy)               870           870          920        930
Gross Income /a
- Rice (kg)                                479           461          5S5        623
- Rice equivalent of byproduct (kg)         17             18          25         31
Total (kg)                             496           479         620        654
- Rice ($)                                 158 /b         152 tb   178.5         187
- Byproducts ($)                             5              5        10.5          9
Total ($)                              163           157       189.0        196
Average production costs ($) /c               18             18          l8         18
Average agricultural tax ($) /               9.5            9.5         9.5        9.5
Net Income ($) (1)                         135.5          129.5       161.5      168.5
Less milling charges                          26/e           19/f        ]7/Q       17/R
Net Income ($) (2)                         109.5         110.5        144.5      151.5
Z increase                                 From (1) to (3)               22
From (1) to (4)                          38
From (2) to (3)               21
From (2) to (4)                          37
Labor consumption (man-day)                  135            105         105        105
Labor remuneration ($/man-day)               1.0            1.1         1.4        1.4
/a  Using milling rates shown in Annex 2, Table 23 of Project File.
/b  Valued vith a premium of 10% when compared to 35% broken white rice.
/c  Cost, excluding family labor, estimated at $18.0/ton paddy with average
yield assumption of 1.3 ton paddy/ha.
/d  14% of WS projection (assumed on a 2 ha farm size), after deduc:ting
individual allowance of 120 kg paddy.
/e  Valued at the market wage of NK 14/man-day (or USC87.50/man-day).
/f  Estimated, at the free market, at NK 0.35/kg paddy (with byproc.ucts returned
to the farmer); i.e. USC2.2/kg paddy at the free market exchange rate of
NK 16 per dollar.
/g Milling charges of $18.60/ton paddy, as in Annex 6, Table 3.



- 57 -                               ANNEX 6
Table 2
LAO PDR
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Cooperative Farm Unit Budgets
Without Project              With Project
Without additional inputs With additional inputs
Farm Models                            1       2        3         1       2        3
Wet-Season Cropping Pattern
Paddy (ha)                        2.00    2.00    1.50       2.00    2.00    1.50
Paddy yield (ton/ha)              1.25    1.35    1.40       2.00    2.10    2.20
Dry-Season Cropping Pattern /a
Paddy (ha)                           -    0.50    0.50          -    0.50    0.50
Cropping intensity (%)               -      125      133        -      125      133
Paddy yield (ton/ha)                 -    1.80    1.80          -    3.00    3.00
Total paddy production (ton)        2.50    3.60    3.00       4.00    5.70    4.80
Production gross value ($) /b        400      576      480       640     912      768
Production costs ($) /c                47      98       86       144     234      198
Agriculture tax ($) /d                 37      42       28        70      75       55
Return
Net farm income before tax($)    353        478      394      496      678      570
Net farm income after tax($)       316      436      366      426      603      515
Labor consumption (man-days)       272      360      292      282      375      304
Labor remuneration: $/man-day    1.2        1.2      1.3       1.5     1.6      1.7
/a  On existing irrigation by pumping schemes.
/b  Valued at the expected new official price for paddy NK 1.6/kg, i.e.,
US¢16/kg at the official exchange rate of NK10/$.
/c  Excluding family labor.
/d  14% of WS production after deducting individual allowance of 120 kg.



I.AO PtR
Olt>TtT>ntiR^ EA 8t48>T8flO» A713D DEt8,t0PhhN7 I5>OJÉcT If
frteres yar                        I       2         3        4         S        6         7        8         9       >0        Il       >2        >3        >8        >5       >6        >7        >8       >9        20
Star                    >90~~~~~~~~1 )0    1981  >982  1983  1984     R9&5      1986     >91 >98      8 rgf  >998g    >g-  999  95       t92       1993     1994      1995      1996      1997     > 998     1999
'-  8c1>cb >1 tte.9/0>sctr Ifed
81>>a/Nea mlils
- Toc paddyfhr                                 -      3.5     9.25    >2.25    >2.25    12.25    >2.25    12.25    12.25    >2.25    12.25    12.25    12.25    12.25    >2.25    >2.25    12.25    >2.25              12.25    12.25
_ 7.ossl (tes>                                .-   1.800   21,b6          ü 28.300   28,600    28,88D   28.09   28,800   28.80O   28,800   28,90o   28,80D   20,809   28,800   28.880   2A,0O   28,800   28,800   29,8D0   2P,PD0
-' tqcp,n                                286.0  1,801.9         -         -        -      52.2    >98-4         -        -         -     5/.2    >98.4          .         -               57.2    198.4         -         -         -
- Tilc>   -28 544.9 0                                9.9 1    13.0         -        -      14. 5    35.9      11.3         -        _.    1545      35.8      fi.3                         1 _ 4.5   35.9     I>.3 3
SoOootsî                             430.I° 1360.9   >13.0           -         -     7>.7    23843       11.3        -       _       71.7    234.3       >1.3       _         _       7>.?    234.3      1.3        --
048 Iccras. Costa ($ 000) /o                23.2     55.2     63.>1     63.61 83.          83.1     63.1      63.>1     63.>     63.1      63.1     63.1      63.1      63-1     6 63.61 63.         83.>      63. >    63.1      63.>
Total États                          430.3       304.1    >60.2   63.>      63.1    134.8    297.4       >4.4     63.1      63.1    134.8    297.4      74.4      83.1      63.>1    >34.     297.4      14.4      63.1     63.1
R- 0003 - 2. 58.. 7 12
Oscosec> t rcpossd obolîno
Itocos cf $>2itoo toMe <1d-0891             O      93.6    259.2    545.6    345.6    345.6    345.6    345.6    345.6    345.6    34S.6    345.6    545.6    345.6    345.6    345.6    345.6    345.6    345.6    345.6
taessct cOlos cf toto> oesVtA
(5'000 - 2,598.3 /c
2.   >l31o Pîc.ded sIth Stasr fart.
- Toc ppdd/tYr                                _      3d.0    43.75    43.75    43.75          43.35     43.15     45.25     43.15    63.15     4    3.75    43.15    83.25 43.1>          49.75    43.35    435.15    43.75    43.35
- Alooal (tas>                                -   87,60   1008,800  >0.0800  >89,800  10W.088   >08.800  1W.0800  >00,800  >89,809  >00,800 >90O800  >89.880  >89,889  >89.808  >89,889  >89,890  >89,800  >00,889  189.800
Tlotl Cbat  ($'000)                      -     40.4      59.4     59.4      59.4     59.4      59.4      59.4     59.4      59.4     59.4      59.4     59.4      59.4      59.4      59.4     59.4      59.4      59.4      59.4
froasot caotu c> total ro5t
(S.0.01 - 486.9 P2
SO.6/son sdda 10,0005                       -      52.6     6. 5     60.5      60.5     60.       60.5     68.5      60.5      69.5     60.5      69.5     60.5      80.5      60.5      60.5     60.5      69.5      68.5     60.5
froasco voaus c> total tsvesoe
(S$O0Nl» - 498.9 /c
J.  0dd4>ttccl TCllccc c,c
Opracat >ca> IttorSg Yfus>l tîOt
Uese1t>îtto O1ltlP3 Éstacite
- tea poddy/hr                                -    50.75      56.5      59.5     59.5      59.5     59.5      59.5      59.5     59.5      59.5     59.5      59.5      59.5     59.5      59.5      59.5     59.5      59.5      59.5
- Asocl (tosI                                 -  1>8,600  132,400  139.600  139,600  139,680  139,600  139,600  139.600  239,bnO  139.600  139,600  139,600  139,600  139,806   139,600  139.600  139.690  139,600  139,600
Toa É1cos   00                       >14.0    924.5    5>3.8    239.2       59.8      11.4     92.4      51.4     23.9       6.0      11.4     92.4      51.4     23.9       6.0      18.4      92.4     51.4      23.9       6.8
fotoset calot ot total touts
(9 090> - 1,798.4 Jo
$1.5/ton tadd>8 (989 °?-    177.9    198.6    209.4    209.4    209.4    209.4    209.4    209.4    209.4    2n9.4    209.4    209.4    209.4    209.4    209.4    209.4    209.4    209.4    209.4
f rcat.t vitl cf o total tavcntas
(1.0001 - 1.714.1 Jo
4.  _ddItI ..           t c t
A.c>  Coot.)                                -   510300  1271600   57.489  137.480  137,400 13724W  >37,49O  137,400  137,401 1>37,400 137.400  137,400 137,400  137,40.  137,400  137,400  1 37,400  137,400  137.400
CaItl  oas  >'0)                  24.   1.31.       41.4                                 064.6        ..         -        -      2.0  1.208.6       4I.8 0                -               646.8         -        -         -
:;:~~~~~~~~o  :"  .0 w to,^^^so es                                              oo     a  :eo            oes   '!'.'    oco         lto   !e.          300.5    900.^e5  340.Ae~ n5 340.5    3PS*40.S  *53.3409 4.5    4. 340.5
Ëtto> Cotto (S'0001                   24.-0  §14        241.8    313.5    346.5    340.5    387.3    340.S    340.5    305    364.5   .54>.>    389.5    340.5    340.5    340.5    '17.3    340.5    349.5    340.5
lretoeltcaflo  cf  total toast
(51007V - 4,753.3 Lo
o    230.8    574.2    618.3    618.3    61R.3    618.3    618.3    618.3    0>8.3    61K.3    6>8.3    618.3    618.3    618.3    618.3    618.3    618.3    6>1.3    618.3
Pc coent colos cf total rtetoor
(S1'Oû) - 4.7R5.3Jo
5. fsotcosd >911>lOo Él,artst
- >4511>08 1 512.0to fs pdsIy
- IttO'os        S 1.5/otn poddo 
-to  lotcîpzt I S 0.4/toa poddo                                                                                                                                                                                                                 v  P
-Tîonsacrr   > S 4.3/lt4  paddy                                                                                                                                                                                                                    o
Total I 518.6/ton p.ddy
/n À Attc toklot >ctco cccorssteîo<.a de et t>tcr 1(>ad s>>>>.-
/b  P-ro..t cotu- . la 1980 dl-coo.ttd at 101 sera th  llft le ttl, p-tJ-et (aattaatad opsaltst cot t cr,ptrst>
,C:haoshe    t se rhe prp-e.t caras of rec--l, -coid bt abo-t aqoal  to th  pteae -r calots af tatal c_ a.



- 59 -                                                       ANNEX 6
Table 4
LAO PDR
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Rice Milling Rent and Cost Recovery ($)
(1)             (2)           (3)              (4)            (5)           (6)          (7)         (8)
Incremental
net income    Savings in                                    Incremental    Rent          Cost
per unit /a  family labor  Management &    Project            milling      recovery   recovery
1,000 kg paddy  before mill-  and milling  uncertainty    component    charges                index       index
producing unit  ing charges    charges          allowance /c        rent        in kind       (Z) /d       (2) /e
Handpounding
to existing
mills              26.0           (26.0)/b        5.2             46.8         18.6           40         59
Handpounding
to new mills       33.0           (26.0)/b        6.6            52.4          18.6           36         59
Huller mills
to existing
nills              32.0           (19.0)          6.4             44.6         18.6           42         59
Huller mills
to new mills       39.0           (19.0)          7.8             50.2         18.6           37         59
/a  From Annex 6, Table 1.
/b Labor for handpounding valued at estimated market wage of NK 14/man-day; i.e. US¢87.50/man-day.
/c Valued at 20% of Col (2).
/d Equals Col (6) divided by Col (5).
/e Equals Col (6) divided by (6) + reserve security storage (see para. 6.09) over 20 years at 10%
interest and converted to per ton basis ($12.8/ton).



LAO PDR
AORICULTURAL RE8AYILITATION AND DEVELOPHENT PROJECT  1I
Propoeed Cottee ProcessigR CharRes ($)
prolecryear                1        2        3      4       5      6       7      8       9     10      Il     12      13     14      15      16     17      18      19     20
Year                    1980    1981    1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1981   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1-999
Annual Processiug
(ton coffee beans)                                     1,768  3,970  4,340  4,340  4,340  4,340  4,340  4,340  4,340  4,340  4,340  4,340  4,340  4,340  4,340  4,340  4,340  4,340
Capital Costs ($000)
Equipaent and matertals                -        960.7      -       -      -  171.7  203.6        -      -  171.7        -  203.6       -  171.7       -       -  203.6  171.7       -       -
Civil workh                             92.0    750.0   80.5       -      -       -   86.7       -       -      -       -   86.7       -  -           -        -  86.7       -       -      -
Subtoral                            92.0  1,710.7   80.5        -     _   171.7  290.3        -      -  171.7       -  290.3        -  171.7     _       _   290.3  171.7        -       _
06F  Increm. Cost ($000)                     -        -   40.7   76.5   80.1   80.1   80.1   80.1   80.1   80.1   80.1   80.1   80.1  80.1    80.1   80.1  80.1    80.1   80.1   80.1
Total Co.ts ($'000)                 92.0  1,710.7  121.2   76.5   80.1  251.8  370.4   80.1   80.1  251.8  80.1  370.4   80.1  251.8   80.1   80.1  370.4  251.8   80.1   80.1
Present value of total
costa ($'000):  2,867.4 la
Revenue at the Proposed Hilling
Charge of $95/too ($'000)                 _         -  168.0  377.2  412.3  412.3  412.3  412.3  412.3  412.3  412.3  412.3  412.3  412.3  412.3  412.3  412.3  412.3  412.3  412.3
Present value of total
revenues ($'000): 2,846.0 /b
la  Present values in 1980 discounted at IO  (o.c.c.) over the life of the project.
/b Charges set so the present values of revenue woûld be about equal to the present value of total costn.
Ir M



- 61 -                                 ANNEX 6
Table 6
LAO PDR
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Cooperative Farm Rent and Cost Recovery /a
(s)
(1)         (2)          (3)        (4)        (5)       (6)         (7)        (8)
Incremental  Incre-   Management               Incre-
net family   mental   and uncer-  Project  mental           Rent       Cost
1 ha     income be-   family        tainty      com-    tax as-   recovery  recovery
Family   fore tax       labor    allowance   ponent   sessment   index          index
model        /b         cost lc      /d        rent /e       /f        % /R       % Ih
No. 1        71.5        4.4         7.2         59.9      16.5       28         72
No. 2       100.0        6.7        10.0         83.3      16.5       20         72
No. 3       117.0        5.3        11.7        100.0      18.0       18         65
/a  All values are in 1980 constant prices.
/b  From Annex 6, Table 2, converted from 2.0 and 1.5 ha farm »del to per hec-
tare basis.
/c Valued at an estimated equivalent market wage of NK 14 per day (i.e.,
USe87.50 at the free market exchange rate of NK 16 per dollar).
Id  Valued at 10% of Col. (2).
/e  Equals Col. (2) - [Col. (3) + Col. (4)].
/f  Farm tax as in Annex 6, Table 2, valued at the expected new official price
for paddy (NK 1.6 or USe16.00/kg).
/g  Equals Col. (5) divided by Col. (4).
1h  Equals incremental tax assessment valued as import substitute, i.e., NK 1.75
or US017.50/kg divided by cost of DOA equipment amortized 10 years at 10%
interest.  ($25.50 for farm models 1 and 2, $30.50 for farm model 3).



- 62 -
ANNEX 7
Page i
LAO PDR
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Economic Analysis
Methodology
Standard cost benefit analyses for each component is shown in
Table 1 with a project life of 20 years and the following assumptions:
(a)  Exchange Rate.  Traded goods are valued at their international
market price for 1980 adjusted for transport to Lao border points.
Nontraded items except field labor are valued at estimated market
prices converted at the shadow exchange rate of NK.16/$ which is
equivalent to the free market exchange rate. Incremental labor of
cooperative farmers has been shadow-waged at NK14 per man-day which
is assumed to be the return of labor on his privately held lot.
This figure, converted at the current free market exchange rate of
NK16 per dollar, gives a shadow-wage of USe87.50 per man-day.
(b)  Commodity Prices
(i)  Rice and Paddy Prices.  The latest projection for Thai
white rice with 5% brokens have been discounted by 20% to
derive the value in 1980 prices of incremental rice output
with 35% brokens which is the official goverr,ment standard
quality. The import substitution value of the incremental
output (see Table 3) also includes $30/ton for transport
from Bangkok to Thanaleng. The import substitution value of
paddy has been projected in the same way fromi a 1980 value of
S$115/ton f.o.b. Bangkok.
(ii) Coffee Price. LAO PDR coffee price projections were derived
by discounting Bank projections for Guatamalan Prime washed
coffee to account for historical price differences between
Guatamalan Prime washed and Robusta and Arabica varieties.
For the "without project" situation, additional discounts
were applied for the poor quality of LAO PDR coffee. With
the project, quality improvements would increase the export
price by 14% for Robusta and 17% for Arabica. These
increases would remain constant over the life of the project
(see Table 3).



- 63 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2
Sensitivity
Under the above assumptions, the rates of return and net present
values (at a discount rate of 10%) of each component are as follows:
E.R.R.(%)   NPV ($million)
Rice milling component            25.5             6.1
Coffee processing component       40.1             5.2
Workshop component                30.8             2.0
Cooperative farm development    54.3               2.8
The standard rate of return for the entire project is 32% and the net present
value is$16.1 million. It is moderately sensitive, as shown in Tables 1 and
2 to the timing and level of benefits and to increases in investment costs.



- 64 -
ANNEX 7
Table 1
LAO PDR
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Economic Analysis - Rates of Return (%)
Rice      Coffee                Cooperative   Total
milling  processing  Workshop       farms     project
Standard ERR/20 yrs            25.5        40.1         30.8       54.3       32.1
Costs + 10%                    21.6        36.5         22.9        46.2      27.3
Costs + 20%                    18.2        33.5         16.2        39.6      23.4
Costs + 30%                    15.4        30.8         10.3       34.0       19.4
Costs + 20%, benefits - 10%   14.5         30.0          8.2        32.3      18.9
Costs + 20%, benefits - 20%   10.6         26.5         (1X3)      25.1       14.3
Costs + 30%, benefits - 30%    3.8         20.4          -          13.4       6.4
Benefits slipped 2 yrs          14.2       24.9         11.1        23.4      16.9
Benefits slipped 2 yrs,
and - 20%                     9.1        20.5          2.4       16.7       11.4
Benefits slipped 2 yrs
and - 20% and costs + 20%    5.0         17.1         (7.5)      11.2        6.9



- 65 -
ANIEX 7
Table 2
LAO PDR
AGRICULTU'RAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Sensitivitv Analysis
Elasti-
Appraisal       Crossover           z       city
value          value  a        Change      /b
Rice Milling
Incremental output from
new and rehabilitated
mills /c                       5,000 t/yr      2,900 t/yr          -42       3.3
Savings from improved
storage  C                     1,090 t/yr           - /d             -       1.6
World market price of rice          S421/ton        5276/ton         -34       3.3
Development period                     5 yrs         8.4 yrs         +68      -1.5
Costs le                          $11.5 mil.       $17.6 mil.        +53      -1.9
Coffee Processing
Incremental output /c            4,340 t/yr       1,515 t/yr         -65       1.6
Premium for improved
coffee /e
Robusta                              14%            4.9%    }   -65        1.6
Arabica                              17%            5.9%
Development period                     5 yrs        13.1 yrs        +162      -0.62
Costs /e                            $2.8 mil.        8.0 mil.       +186      -0.54
Workshops
Savings from servicing
vehicles /c                    $0.441 mil.       0.166 mil.        -62       1.6
Savings from servicing
heavy equipment /c             $0.730 mil.       0.455 mil.        -38       2.7
Development period                     2 yrs         4.2 yrs        +110      -0.9
Costs /e                            $6.4 mil.       $8.3 mil.        +30      -3.3
Cooperative Farms
Incremental paddy output /c    4,050 t/yr        2,005 t/yr          -51       2.0
Development period                     4 yrs         9.5 yrs        +138      -0.7
Costs le                            $2.9 mil.       $5.7 mil.        +97      -1.0
/a  Value of variable tested which makes the net present value (discounted at
10%) equal to zero.
/b Percentage change in net present value (discounted at 10%) with respect to
a 1% change in the variable tested.
/c At full development.
d  Net present value for rice mill component includes benefit streams for both
storage and mills. With no benefits from storage net present value would
still be positive.
/e Present value of costs (discounted at 10%).



ANNEX 7
- 66 -                             Table 3
LAO PDR
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Commodity Economic Price Projections (in 1980 $ /a
Commodities                             1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1990
White Rice ($/ton)
5% brokens, /a                         430   442   458                 488   504
f.o.b. Bangkok (constant
1980 $)
35% brokens,                           374   384   396   404   412   420   433
c.i.f. Thanaleng /b
Paddy ($/ton)
f.o.b. Bangkok                         155   159   165                  176   181
c.i.f. Thanaleng                       175   189   195   198   202   206   211
Coffee ($/kg)
Guatemalan Prime Washed /a            2.05  1.95  1.85  1.85  1.95  2.10  2.30
(c.i.f. New York
constant 1977 $)
(C.i.f. New York,                    2.72  2.59  2.45  2.45  2.59  2.79  3.05
constant 1980 $)
Lao PDR coffee
Without project
c.i.f. New York /c                    2.12  2.02  1.91  1.91  2.02  2.18  2.38
f.o.b. Pakse /d                       1.89  1.79  1.68  1.68  1.79  1.95  2.15
With project
Robusta (f.o.b. Pakse)                2.15  2.04  1.92  1.92  2.04  2.22  2.45
Gain/kg /e                            2.26  0.25  0.24  0.24  0.25  0.27  0.30
Arabica (f.o.b. Pakse)                2.21  2.09  1.97  1.97  2.09  2.28  2.52
Gain/kg /f                            0.32  0.30  0.29  0.29  0.30  0.33  0.37
/a  Commodity Price Index, May 1979.
/b  0.8 times 5% brokens, plus $30/ton for transport cost.
/c  0.78 times Guatemala Prime Washed quotations.
/d  After deducting $0.23/kg for transport costs.
/e  14% increase over the "without project" price.
/f  17% increase over the "without project" price.



C32905/J59366/D2799/52-55 WS
LAO PMR
AGRICULTURAL RERABILITATION AN0 DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Total Pro1ect tcremental Costs & Benefits
($'000)
Pr cYna-                    I        2         3         4        5         6         7         8        9        10        Il       12        13        14        15        16        17        18        19       20
Yero                         1980      1981     1982      1983      1984     1985      1986      1987      1988     1989      1998      1991      1992      1993     1994      1995      1996      1997      1998      1999
Costs (iocluding phly-cal
.ontiR.enc.e.   )
Rie oilling rehab. & developaent   864.5  4,626.9  1,637.3  1,267.8    902.8    728.3  1,524.4    621.1    639.2    684.9    632.2  2,078.2    705.0    728.3    552.9    608.2  1,567.3    753.1    596.3    552.9
Coffee prooeoolng developoent          139.0  1,803.6    204.6      78.0      81.6    253.3    371-9       81.6      81.6    253.3       81.6    371.9      81.6    253.3       81.6      81.6    371.9    253.3       81.6      81.6
Workahap rehab. 5 developoent          117.0  1,728.1    789.7    660.5    660.5    665.1    873.8    660.5    660.5    660.5    665.1    873.8    660.5    660.5    660.5    665.1    873.8    660.5    660.5    660.5
Coop-rative fora dav_lopoert           139.0    886.2    281.6    265.1    268.0    271.3    315.9    268.0    268.0    268.0    306.2    613.2    268.0    268.0    268.0    271.3    315.9    268.0    268.0    268.0
Total Icres ..ta1 Coato (A)          1,259.5  9.044.8  2.913.2  2.271.4  1.912.9  1.918.0  3.086.0  1,631.2  1649.3  1866.7  1.685.1  3.937.1  1.715.1  1.910.1  1.563.0  1.626.2  3.128.9  1.934.9  1.606.4  1.563.0
Benefits /n
Rice ailliog rehab. 4 developoet           -    831.8  1.834.7  2,412.3  2.510.7  2.559.5  2,559.5  2,559.5  2,559.5  2,559.5  2.638.7  2.638.7  2,638.7  2,638.7  2,638.7  2.638.7  2.638.7  2,638.7  2,638.7  2,638.7
Coffee p-ocoaaiog developaent              -        -    453.7  1,019.0  1.157.4  1.258.6  1,258.6  1,258.6  1,258.6  1,258.6  1.403.3  1.403.3  1,403.3  1,403.3  1.403.3  1.403.3  1.403.3  1,403.3  1,403.3  1,403.3                      °
Workshop rehab. 6 developoent              -    456.6  1,171.0  1,171.0  1,171.0  1,171.0  1,171.0  1,171.0  1,171.0  1.171.0  1.171.0  1,171.0  1,171.0  1,171.0  1,171.0  1.171.0  1.171.0  1,171.0  1.171.0  1.171.0
Cooperativ_ far-  developa.et              -    327.2    604.9    725.3    818.1    834.3    834.3    834.3    834.3    834.3    854.5    854.5    854.5    854.5    854.5    854.5    854.5    854.5    854.5    854.5
Total Incremental Benefits (B)             -  1.615.6  4.064.3  5.327.6  5.657.2  5.823.4  5.823.4  5,823.4  5.823.4  5.823.4  6.067.5  6.067.5  6.067.5  6.067.5  6.067.5  6.067.5  6.067.5  6.067.5  6.067.5  6.067.5
Net Benefita (B) - (A)              (1.259.5)(7,429.2) 1.151.1  3.056.2  3.744.3  3.905.4  2.737.4  4,192.2  4,174.1  3.956.7  4.409.4  2.130.4  45 4.157.4  4.504.5  4,441.3  2.938.6  4.132.6  4.461.1  4.504.5
/a EIpre.sed in constant 1980 $.
'Il1



- 68 -
LAO PDR
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Provincial Executive Committee Organization
Department of Planning
-  Department of Finance /a
-  Department of Education /a
-  Department of Defense /a
-  Department of Interior /a
Department of Information /a
-  Department of Justice /a
-  Department of Agriculture, Irrigation,
Forestry and Meteorology /a
-  Department of Industry and Comnmerce /a
Department of Public Works and Transport /a
Provincial              Department of Post and Telecommunications /a
Executive               Department of Taxes and Levies
Committee               Department of Health /a
(7 Members)- Department of Labor and Unions
Department of Women
Department of Credit (BNL)
Department of Researches
Department of Statistics
Department of Administration
Department of Personnel
Department of Protocol
Department of Sports and Cults /a
/a Each of the concerned Departments is placed under the technical
supervision of the corresponding Ministry.



LAO PDR
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT Ill
DOMESTIC MOVEMENT OF PADDY AND RICE
Surplus f rom Other          îmports
Provinces
District and                           Central Government              Army Store
Sub-District Rice Mills                           Store
Farmeers Paddy    o            ViIIage                     Lustrsct                     District                    rov nca                       District
Store                         atere                     Store                        Stfre                      Rice Milsa
WorCd Bank - 2051C
Private                |    Vlage
Sales                     Reserve
|  _  l  |       l l                |           | ~~~~~~~~~~Sub-D istrict    |    District               | Provincial 
I Village            e I   . s   II     Dficit    |I                Officials   |               Officials                     Officiais 
| Marke             Nlho        || Vlagers   ||Producers of ||                                   Urban                         Urban     |
Ravv Materials |            ef-Employed |                ef-Employed 
World Bank -20512



LAO PDR
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT 111
ORGANIZATION CHART OF MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY AND COMMERCE
Minister
Vice Minister for Industry
Vice Minister for Commerce
Minister's Cabinet
DeatetDepartment                              Department            Departmen               Department           Department of          Department ofDeateteprmn
of Planning and          oeatmn                    f Light                     enof                                                                                                             of
Statistics           of Finance               Industry              of Mining             of Electricity     Internal Commerce   External Commerce                Control                Personnel
Finance               Statistics          Administrative             Technics             Construction          Control Prod.
Section                Section                Section                Section                Section                 Section
World Bank - 21029



LAO PDR
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT 111
PROJECT ORGANIZATION CHART
Minister of                                                                    Minister of Industr"                                                                            Minister of
Agriculture            - - - - - ------ _                                         and Commere             -_ - - - - - - - - - - - - - -                                      Public Works
Cabinet                                                                             Cabinet                                                                                    Cabinet
tion Committee       L..
Rural El«trification
.  1t                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Study                  ,
Deparnent of                                                                        Department of                                                              ___            Department of
Planning              _  _                                                       Light Inrustry                                                                              Equipment
. F~~~~~~~~~iniancial Section                                               *_.Statistics Section_
-Pnocurement and                         t         i                                     -Monitoring
Accounting Unit                                                                  _     and Ew.luation 
Il                                                                                                             o
Vientiane Province                                      Savannakhet Prov.                                      Champassak Prov.
Project Executive                                      Project Executive                                       Project Executive
Committee                                              Committee                                               Committee
Province Department       Province Department of       Province Departments        Province Department       Province Departnent of       Province Department of      Province Iepartment of
of Public Works         Industry and Commerce         of Agriculture and           of Public Works         Industry and Commerce        Agriculture and Coop.      Industry and Commerce
Workshop Manager           Rice-Milling, Storage     Cooperatives Agriculture      Workshop Manager           Rice-Milling. Storage       Agriculture Extension      -Workshop Staff
and Staff              and Transport Sfaff          Extension Agents               and Staff              and Transport Staff               Agents               -Rice-Milliang Stoaage
and Transport Staff
t_ t       t                                                       t            I   -Coffee-processing
à                                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Staff
b Direct Functional Line
4-. ~-      _ -  - Coordinating Line                                                                                                                                                    World Bank -21028



LAO PDR
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT 111
ORGANIZATION CHART FOR PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES (ICB)
Contr_t                 -_                          MINISTRY OF FINANCE
o /   ~~  ~ lud9etControl        
(Bureau of the Budget)
/  /  >      -  Appropriates Funds for an
Approved Annual Expenditure
//  o,                                      Program
TECHNICAL MINISTRY                                                            ' \         
Technical                                                                                   %\\\ 
Department                                                                                  
-Prepared Technical Specifications                                                \\\
for Procurement
-Gets Minister Approval of Annual                                                                                   EXTERNALTRADE BANK
Expenditure Program                                                                                                Together with Representative
-Prepares Draft Tender Documents                                                                                     of Ministry of Finance,
and Draft Invitations to Bid                                                                                        Verifies Import-Export
-Sends these Documents to the                                                                                        Corporation's Request
Ministry of Industry and Commerce                                                                                  Against Budget Allocation                                            o
-Follows up the Procedure of                                                                                         Opens Letter of Credit
Advertising, Bid Opening and                                                                                        R ens  ter   or
Selection of Contract                                                                                              Withdrawals from theCredit
-Informs or asks for IDA Approval                                                                  'c'
MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY AND COMMERCE                    f      e
Import-Export  -Advertises and Issues Tender                e'
\\°r  Society  Documents
c',.                           Societv      --~~~~~~~~~~Receives Bidt from Suppliers          1
-Organizes Bid Evaluation Commissionm      /
-Prepares Contracts and Contacts
\                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Supplier Chosen.     À_
-Signs Contracts for Purchase
-Requests External Trade Bank
to make Payment to Supplier
-Takes Delivery of Irmported Goods
-Arranges Delivery to Technical Ministry
N.B. (1) Division of the Directorate of External Trade within the Ministry of Industry and Commerce
Worid Bank - 19167



1020                                         `>1040             Oh,, onap flac Bacc pmepared Pt, ttoe  1060  -     o Th  -p           COO
s : :             'T                                                                     -d  --
CHINA                                       ~                                           ootNteo ntn o  ftt
ELEVATIONtMetert n   0 o>                                                                                                           2               >1
- -   ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCT                                                           pw g ih    g               .                '' .2S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/o.  'ix
PONA EOUNAtESo                                                                                               .-<                            9Pnto   '. n-/'«'"
MILE'  ~~~~~ ~TA ILN                                        (                                              $h(kmk_
LA    PEPL' DEMOCRATIC REPUCEABLIC                                                                                                                                                 r 
L2.0102°                                                        J 0                            94ù                                              26° 200\99
0 - 199~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
I   IER
AIRPORTS~TAIAN
LAO~   PEOPLESRDEMORATICPEPUBLI
1 60~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 






____________________________                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD  14763
<*    >                                             102°                                               I03>                                                10                DECEEMBER 1979
f 2 ,     C H I N A                                                                   LAO  PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT Ii
RURMA  t,oC,1   X>                                                                                      PROJECT LOCATION
BURMA    <    :<F'\' t)14Vientiane   Province
[        NrVi7   ,>S)                                                      RICR  MILLING  INFRASTRUCIURE.                            PRIMARY PAVED ROADS
S\\  1--- ZrA    éVIET    |                   t½  BIG  SIZE MIL                                       GRAVEL OR LATERITE ROADS
< X THAILANi    D z        \                                          XNAM  «.,. MEGIUM  SIZE  MILL                             ROAD UNDER CONSTRUCTION  OR
RBINC, UPCRADED
81 -MTn    ' t                                        ,'MEDIUM / SMALL SIZE  MILL
ÉA   G    orKAMPO0HRCj1E                                      O SMALL HULLER MILL                                    t GHLAND  AREA
Andarnor ) }    >         ,S                                                                                                               R --- ---   BROVNCAL  BOUNDARIES
S th                                                                                             -        INTERNATIONAL  BOUNDARIES
(:vChorqx Sp,                                                                                           c     RIVERS
t'                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20'-
=> >/~~~~~~LUANG -  /,-) 2°
PRABANG   _
-Z 9  Ri Est A Y        Ch-g Lo
YS M Thooeos0.        V          ENG LA                                 R Tre~rg   XIANG  KHO            C                                A E
i  )  -  B TgXIANGi                                          NAMOjANG
-)ÇYAIGNABOURI                                       J     b      >          X/                          _KAN    1v G                   /         ~         \ 
0                                                                                                                  k  W0                ; 0ff
Nt' T105                               e  er        j.-
J               / ANAKHAM           fA KB PAKM I                     VANi V ENG
y   VS                                 T   H    A    I   L  g A    N    D                                                                                         >\B V-g K
M. L0                                                                                    20      40      60      B0      100
This trop Ires bten preporea bp toct Worîd Bsr,kS sstaff et&olS,oeîy for tro convtneorCe
of tpe leaderst 0f rte report te sOhîP ut ,s sttoot,ed The denoirorotions tsd ar,d the      0        20       40        60        80       100
Oooodar,ts shown on tlds mrap do flot oopîIy on thtt part of the Wortd Bank and 'te    
aff,lt,etes any tudgenot on the t lega stato 0f aof C terr,torp or top endorosement or                         K LOMET ERS
acr eptasoce of Oooh 6Potndarrefs
10/e                                                102°                                                103°                                                104°
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~              ~P. K,                                                        8 IA  SA






IBRD  14764
l0$>                                         lOS   \  106°                                                                 DECEMBER 1979
\   Bs N oko'l  -  0  Sfmphg \BSOBO                    Do-"g Ho      vu/.f                         C  H  I N  A
Phono         B                            =o ong                                                                 BùRMA         A i ,(
- ~21  B Tong,                            K H A                                                                              -   «PnS                 <   f 'D 9
7T         D B Nong Bofl,      -                            9                                             _r                        "l THAI         7         VNE
17' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ s                                                                ~-,( î                               NAM
--   é     C    t            rJS              X     B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~on  No,nn,o - -~                                        ORMOCE,Ri\Ip j(
B K.ngkobo                                                                                   j                2 |
D i 3 L - - ` - i a ~~~~Ong Pholn                          (S      B.; Non                                                                        0,, n,iete
Z        Sovannokhe                                         K,N A                                                                                   A I  A Y S i A
Bon Sebong Nm    j          udf n "<B  N t          ( F`......
6'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-N1'
LAO  PEOPLE'S  DEMOCRATIC  REPUBLIC                                                                                                         ---'--I
AGRICULTURAL REHABIlLTATION                                                                                 Bon Bo<0,
AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT ml(
PROJECT LOCATION
Southern   Province  of Savannakhet
and  Chompassak                                            oonJ  o
RICE MILLING INFRASTRUCTURE:
MEDIUM SIZE MIlIt( af                                                            f i,»:, T                                     n
A    MEDIUM / SMALL SIZE MILL
O SMALL HULLER MILL                            _        X    i >              »Sinabn                                                 / 
COFFEE INOUJSTRY                                                                                                     Pk
15'h
_        COFFEE PRODUCING AREA                                                                                                                                  15°
(D   NEW  COFFEE PROCESSING PLANT                                         h.kph.))                           T  T A   P E U
PRMARY PAVED ROADS
GRAVEL OR LATERITE ROADS                    /                    B- n Nongon
TRAIL UNDER CONSTRUCTION OR                                   \ot
-=    BEING UPGRADED                                    Kh    2;          >       _     S      -S 3//7                         <
BRIV OIIOROB
AREAS OF 1000m ELEVATION AND OVER                             BonHongdon                     B S>ropn
_._ -- PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES                       /          C             S A K
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIFS
\  _2   9   /  Sophongy  B. Fonton  tt      D  E M  O  C  R A  T IC
-14°  9 \.        <            Hofnottk Roon \     ;)K   A     M    P  U C   H   EA
O     10    20    30    40    50                   4C
Th,s ,ap to- ben -repan-d by oe Wo,td D.nk s-rftf ncts hvot  tht convnienc                                      O       2         0                        0
of ,ne rtadel oef tnn ,eportfot nto wh,fh no rtaonod Tht deno,n,,ttt,o,,st,sed nd the  |   ,nR  1S0                     20       40 6n            80      100
Oootdon,Osshtowmtor tn,otapt to noft -p,y ot- the pa-r of the Woo,ttS-A 00,0                                                     KIadETERS
eff,t,atet. an! ttdotnenf t,, (hoetegot otarn 0f a,nt,,torvrO oornneKont or                  çKILOMLTER5
acetptence of such hbondarnes                                                    Â*> j)   g                                   107






- 69 -
LAO PDR
AGRICULTIIRAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJSCT III
PR0JECT LOCATION
Table annexed to Mips I3RD 14763 ond 14764
Reh1bilttttion              Eiectric power supply          Provision of apare parts          Construction new mill            Collecting        Reserve storsge
Sr. Nu.  1,u,tta/Niam       Sïize/Mill   Location/Name   Size/Mill   Location/Name           Size/Mill   Location            Size/Mill   Storage/LocAtion           location
Vienctian  Prevince
I.  uanmol;lno        Med/omall                                    Sanakham            Med/small   Sanakham            2 tons/hr        Xasy             Nomg-teng
2.  lakoean           Med/snnnl                                    Paksane             Med/small                                        Vsngvisng         Naxaythong
9,  Taulekhem         Med/small                                    Toulakhom            4ed/amall                                       Kheoudon          Vientimne
4.  Van Vieng ()1   Small                                          Vang-Vieng (1)    Small                                              Toulakom
5.  Van Vteng (2)   Small                                          Vang-Vieng (2)    Smell                                              Xsythany
6.  Van Vieng (3)   Smali                                          Veng-Vieng (3)    Smell                                              Pakaane
7.                                  lastxcapheng     Med/small   Flatxaiphong          Med/amall                                        X&y-Fang
8.                                 That Luang        Med/lmall   That Luang            Med/small
9.                                                                 Kweng-Thong         Big
1o.                                                                 Chitjalieun         Big
11.                                                                 Km 10               Big
12.                                                                 B. Souan mon        Big
13.                                  Koleo /a         Big           Kaoleo              Big
14.  Seikr-t /a        Medium                                       Seiket              Medium
I5.                                                                 That-nuong          Medium
16.                                                                 Pak-sane            Medium
17-21.                                                                 Sanakham             5 amall
22-24.                                                                 Vientiane            3 med/amall
25-27.                                                                 Naxaithong           3 med/small
28-29.                                                                  Kaithany            2 med/small
30-31.                                                                 Ba-oh                2 medlsmall
Total    3 merd/amail and 3 small        2 med/small                     31 nille                         One unit           2 T/hr       14x500 * 7.500 T   1.000+6.480 T
S,uaenekht e vPr.i_co
i.   nopon1           Med/snall   Kobay              Medium        Kobay               Medium       Savannakhet       4 tons/hr        Champhone         Savannakhet
2.  Na Nhum           Med/small   Soesavath          Medium        Soesavath           Medium                                          Mongpenh
3.                                 Tek6eung          Medium        Teksoung            Medium                                           Chepone
4.                                 Chanharaun       MSdium         Chanchareun         Medium                                           Songkhone
5.                                 Lao Chareum        Sedium       Lao Chareun         Medium                                          Athsephanthong
6.                                 Tangiap-xuane   Medium          Tangiap-xuane       Medium                                           Nakay
7.  Naoo        /a   MSdium        Naseng /a         Medium        Naseng              Medium
8.                                 Nakay /a          Medium        Nakay               Mediuo
9.                                                                 Nanghom             Small
10                                                                  Laochia             Small
il.                                                                 Thaal-ng            Small
12.                                                                 Outha               Small
13.                                                                 Kengkok             Small
14.                                                                MSng penh            Med/smal1
15.                                                                 la Nhum             Med/small
Toetl    2 mod/smail                     6 modium                        15 mills                          One unit          4 T/hr       12xS00 - 6.000 T   1.0S0x4-4.320 T
Champausa.k Province
1.                                 Sahaseng la       Medium        Sahaseng            Medium        Pakse /a          3 tons/hr       Nong Hay          Moungkau
2.                                  Tektai /a        Medium        Tektai              Medium                                           Phong Thong       Champassak
3.                                                                 Moung Kau  (Coop.) Medium                                            N.ng Tay          Moung Khong
4.                                                                  imbnua             Medium                                           Saphay
5.                                                                 Nong-Hay            Medium                                           Solo
6.  Lao-Kasikorn /u Sedium                                         Lao-Kasikorn        Medium                                           Bane Kamg
7.  Lao-Sembe.. /u  MSdium                                         Lao-Somboun         Medium                                           Champassak
8.                                                                 Moung-Katu          Medium                                           Done Tolat
9.                                                                 Chanpassak          Medium                                           Soukouma
10.                                                                 Phiafay             Smail                                            Noungkhong
11.                                                                 Paksong             Small
12.                                                                 Souvannakhili       Small
13.                                                                 Nalong              Small
14.                                                                 Saphay              Small
15.                                                                 Soukouma            Small
16.                                                                 MounIpamok          Small
17.                                                                 Poumoktone          Small
Total    -                                                               17 millt                          -                 -            10x500 - 5.000 T   1.080x3-3.240 T
/a  Rice-milling rohabilitation te bh  finan-d under UNCDF LAO/78/C03 project signed on September 17, 1979.



- 70 -
ANNEX 8
Page i
LAO PDR
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJ.ECT III
List of Documents in Project File
M4ap/
diagram/
Table    chart      Appendix
ANNEX 1 BACKGROUND DATA
Distribution of Administrative Units per Province          1
Commercial Imports by Main Product                         2
Exports of Main Commodities                                3
Merchandise Exports and Imports, 1977                      4
Distribution of Credit by the Banking System
(1975-78)                                                5
Outstanding Agricultural Credit by Province, 1977          6
Vientiane Province - Population and Land Use
1978 Statistics                                          7
Savannakhet Province - Population and Land Use
1978 Statistics                                          8
Champassak Province - Population and Land Use
1978 Statistics                                          9
Paddy Production Estimates for the Five Major
Producing Provinces                                     10
Coffee Production Estimates                               il
Paksong District - Coffee Area Distribution               12
Vientiane Province - Climate Data-Monthly Average         13
Savannakeht Province - Climate Data-Monthly Average    14
Champassak Province - Pakse Climate Data
Monthly Average                                         15
Champassak Province - Paksong Climate Data
Monthly Average                                         16
ANNEX 2 RICE MILLING COMPONENT
Vientiane Province - Milling and Storage Capacity
Development - Phasing of Activities                      1
Savannakhet Province - Milling and Storage Capacity
Development Phasing of Activities                        2
Champassak Province - Milling and Storage Capacity
Development Phasing of Activities                        3
Transport Capacity Estimates per Transport Unit            4
Vientiane Province - Paddy Transport and Storage
Facilities Requirements                                  5
Savannakhet Province - Paddy Transport and Storage
Facilities Requirements                                  6
Champassak Province - Paddy Transport and Storage
Facilities Requirements                                  7
Capital Costs - Rehabilitation of Existing Rice Mills   8



- 71 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2
Map/
diagram/
Table    chart      Ap,endix
Capital Costs - Electrification of Rice Mills             9
Capital Costs - New Rice Mill - Vientiane
Province                                              10/a
Capital Costs - New Rice Mill - Savannakhet
Province                                              10/b
Additional Capital Costs - New Rice Mill -
Champassak Province                                   10/c
Capital Costs - Paddy Primary (Collecting)
Storage Facilities                                    11
Capital Costs - Paddy Secondary Storage Facilities   12
Capital Costs - Transport Facilities                     13 (2 pgs)
Capital Costs - Spare Parts for Existing Rice Mills  14 (4 pgs)
Investments - Phasing of Activities                     15 /a
Total Capital Expenditure and Phasing                    16
Detailed Annual Operating Expenditure per
Type/Size of Mill                                      17
Total Milling Incremental Operating
Expenditure and Phasing                               18/a/b
Detailed Annual Operating Costs per Transport Unit   19 (2pgs)
Total Transportation Incremental Operating
Expenditure Costs and Phasing                         20
Training and Fellowship - Total Cost
Estimates and Phasing                                 21
Total Incremental Operating Costs                        22
Comparative Milling Extraction Rates                    23
Expected Increase in Milling Extraction
Rate and Paddy Recovery                               24
New Plants - Technical Specifications                     -                     1
Paddy Collecting Storage - Specifications                 -                     2
500-ton Unit Paddy Collecting Store Lay-out              -        IBRD 20590   -
500-ton Unit Paddy Collecting Store Detailed
Drawings                                               -        IBRD 21034   -
1,080-ton Unit Paddy Oerational Store Detailed
Drawings                                                -       IBRD 21035   -
Flow Chart of 2 to 4 ton (Paddy/hr) Rice-Mill             -       IBRD 20592   -
Site Plan for Pakse 3T/hr Rice-Mill                      -        IBRD 21032   -
Front, Side and Back View of 2I/hr Sanakham and
3T/hr Pakse Rice-Mill                                  -        IBRD 21033   -
Site Plan for Savannakhet 4rThr Rice-Mill                -        IBRD 21030   -
Frong, and Back View of 4T/hr Savannakhet Rice-Mill   -           IBRD 21031   -
ANNEX 3 COFFEE PROCESSING COMPONENT
Pakse Coffee Milling Facilities - Preproject
Situation                                              1
/a Included in the main text as Table 1, Annex 1.



-72 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3
Map/
d iagram/
Table    chart       Appendix
Capital Costs - Civil Works and Buildings                    2
Capital Costs - Quality Control Laboratory Equipment  3
Capital Costs - Pre Hulling and Polishing/
Grading Equipment                                          4
Capital Costs - Coffee Mill Accessory Equipment              5
Total Capital Expenditure and Phasing                        6
Total Milling Incremental Operating
Expenditure and Phasing                                    7
Farmer Assistance - Training and Fellowship
Total Cost Estimates and Phasing                           8
Analysis of the Location of the Coffee Mill                  -                       1
Milling Equipment Specifications                             -                       2
Ground Plan of new Coffee Mill                               -        IBRD 20589   -
Prehulling Flow Diagram for Arabica/Robusta                  -        IBRD 20593   -
Polishing, Grading and electronic Sorting flow
Diagram                                                      -        IBRD 20591   -
Coffee Store Lay-Out                                         -        IBRD 20588   -
ANNEX 4  WORKSHOP COMPONENT
Provincial Workshops Pre-Project Situation                    1
Capital Costs - Workshop Equipment                            2 (2 pp.)
Capital Costs - Workshop Accessory Equipment                  3
Capital Costs - Civil Works/Buildings                         4
Total Capital Costs and Phasing                               5
Training - Total Cost Estimates and Phasing                   6
ANNEX 5  COOPERATIVE FARMI DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
Provincial DOA Pre-Project Staffing and Equipment             1
Provincial DOA Additional Equipment - Cost
Estimate and Phasing                                          2
Detailed Cost of Audiovisual Equipment Kit                    3
Training and Fellowship - Cost Estimates and Phasing   4
Estimated Fertilizer Requirements and Costs                   5
Farm Models - Various Rice Cropping Estimated
Operating Costs per ha                                      6
Cooperative Farm Unit Budgets                                 7/a
Cooperative Farm Development Tentative Phasing                8/b
Agricultural Input Requirements, Costs and Phasing            9
Total Capital Expenditure and Phasing                        10
Cooperative Farm Incremental Paddy Production and
Value                                                      1l
/a Included in the main text as Table 2, Annex 6.
/b Included in the main text as Table 5, Annex 1.



- 73 -
ANNEX 8
Page 4
Map/
diagram/
Table    chart      Appendix
ANNEX 6 TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Cost Estimates and Phasing for Technical Assistance    1
Technical Expert Terms of Reference                       -                     1
ANNEX 7 PRICE AND MARKETING
Historical Coffee Price Data                               1
Commodity Price Projections                               2/a
Coffee Prices and Mlarkets                                                      1
Agricultural Tax and Credit Regulations                                         2
ANNEX 8 PROJECT COST
Total Project Cost Estimates                              1
Physical and Price Contingencies Distribution             2
ANNEX 9 ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Economic Analysis                                         -                      1
Rates of Return                                           1/b
Rice Milling Incremental Costs                            2
Rice Milling Incremental Benefits                         3
Paddy and Rice Storage Incremental Benefits               4
Rice Milling Incremental Costs and Benefits               5
Coffee Processing Incremental Costs and Benefits          6
Workshop Incremental Costs and Benefits                    7
Cooperative Farm Development Incremental Costs
and Benefits                                            8
Total Project Incremental Costs and Benefits              9/c
/a Included in the main report as Table 3, Annex 7.
/b Included in the main report as Table 1, Annex 7.
/c Included in the main report as Table 4, Annex 7.



