Document of
The World Bank   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2704-LA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO
THE LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR THE
THIRD AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 25, 1980
This document has a restricted distributon and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - New Kip (NK)
NK 1.00        $0.10
$1.00      = NK 10.00
NK 1,000,000 = $100,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)              =  2.20 lb
1 metric ton (1,000 kg)      =  0.98 long tons
1 kilometer (km)             =  0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)               =  2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DOA   -  Department of Agriculture (MOA and Province)
DOC   -  Department of Cooperatives and State Farms (MOA and Province)
DIC   -  Department of Industry and Commerce (Province)
DLI   -  Department of Light Industry (MIC)
DPW   -  Department of Public Works (Province)
MIC   - Ministry of Industry and Commerce
MOA   - Ministry of Agriculture
MFW   - Ministry of Public Works
ADB   -  Asian Development Bank
FAO   -  Food and Agriculture Organization
SIDA  -  Swedish International Development Authority
UNCDF -  United Nations Capital Development Fund
UNDP  -  United Nations Development Program
LAO FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
THIRD AGRICULTIURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:        Lao People's Democratic Republic
Amount:          $13.4 million equivalent
Terms:           Standard
Project
Description:  The project would assist the Government's efforts to
achieve self-sufficiency in food production and to increase
foreign exchange earnings. Specifically, the project would
include:
(a) rehabilitation and development of rice mills, and
transport and storage facilities in the major producing
provinces of Vientiane, Savannakhet and Champassak;
(b) construction of a coffee mill in Champassak province
and development of appropriate transport and storage
facilities;
(c) rehabilitation and development of three provincial work-
shops for improved maintenance of vehicles, agricultural
implements and heavy equipment;
(d) development of pilot agricultural extension services in
Savannakhet and Champassak, including provision of agri-
cultural inputs for 2,400 cooperative farmers;
(e) technical assistance for project planning, execution,
and training; and
(f) study to prepare a program of hydro development and
rural electrification in the southern provinces of
Laos.
The project would directly benefit about 80,000 small rice
farmers, improve the quality of coffee exports, develop a
sound maintenance base for government vehicles and equipment,
and prepare for future rural electrification programs. The
main risk relates to the limited implementation capacity
of the provincial executing agencies. The nature of technical
assistance and training to be provided under the project
along with frequent supervision would help minimize this risk.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated
Cost:                                        Local      Foreign      Total
------- ($ million) -------
Rice milling                   3.2         4.2         7.4
Coffee processing              0.6         1.3         1.9
Workshops                      0.2         1.2         1.4
Cooperative farms              -           1.4         1.4
Technical assistance           -           1.3         1.3
Study for rural
electrification
development                  -           0.4         0.4
Base cost                   4.0         9.8        13.8
Physical contingencies         0.4         0.9         1.3
Price contingencies            1.4         2.3         3.7
Total Cost                  5.8        13.0        18.8 /1
Local      Foreign     Total
Financing Plan:                                ------- ($ million) -------
Government                     4.0         -           4.0
IDA                            1.8        11.6        13.4
UNDP                           -           1.4         1.4
Total                       5.8        13.0        18.8
Estimated              IDA FY       1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
Disbursements:                   ---…-…($ million) -------------
Annual             0.8    6.5    2.3    1.6    1.6    0.6
Cumulative         0.8    7.3    9.6   11.2   12.8   13.4
Economic Rate
of Return:    32%
Appraisal
Report:        Report No. 2842-LA, dated April 18, 1980
/1 Net of taxes.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR THE THIRD AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of $13.4 million equivalent, on standard IDA terms, to
the Lao People's Democratic Republic, to help finance the Third Agricultural
Rehabilitation and Development Project. The United Nations Development
Program (UNDP) would contribute the equivalent of $1.4 million on grant
terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Socialist Transformation in the Lao
People's Democratic Republic," in two volumes (2282-LA), was distributed
to the Executive Directors on March 20, 1979. Country data are given in
Annex I.
Recent Political Developments
3.        Since the signing on September 14, 1973, of the Vientiane Peace
Accord, which ended nearly three decades of war, Laos has undergone political
and social changes that have major implications for its future socioeconomic
development. In April 1974, the Provisional Government of National Union
(PGNU) was established, bringing the former adversaries into a short-lived
coalition. Soon after the changes of government in neighboring South Viet Nam
and Cambodia in the spring of 1975, the year-old coalition in Laos began to
weaken. Finally, the Prime Minister resigned, the King abdicated, and, on
December 2, 1975, a National Congress of People's Representatives proclaimed
the formation of the Lao People's Democratic Republic, thereby abolishing
the PGNU and the monarchy.
4.        The present Government's principal objective is the socialist
transformation of Lao society. During 1975/76, the new regime focused its
attention almost exclusively on establishing and consolidating an adminis-
trative apparatus capable of maintaining law and order; short-term management
of the economy was neglected. Since 1977, the Government has turned to the
difficult task of restructuring and developing the economy.
Development Constraints and Priorities
5.        Laos, with an estimated per capita income of $90, is one of the
poorest nations in the world. Most of the country's 3.2 million people live
in absolute poverty. Malnutrition is widespread and infant mortality high.



- 2 -
The country is not self-sufficient in food production and has one of the
lo7est paddy yields in Asia.  Laos consumes nearly all it produces and has
practically no national savings, so that the country is almost fully
dependent on the world community to finance its investment requirements for
development.
6.        Laos' poverty results partly from geographic factors:  the country
is landlocked and generally mountainous, so that transport within the country
and to the sea is costly and difficult. The country's sparse population is
overwlelmingly rural and illiterate, and the small dispersed markets
preclude economies of scale in production. While vast forestry, mineral and
hydropower resources have been identified, exploiting especially the latter
two would require large investments.
7.        Laos' current economic structure is the product of centuries of
weak government and foreign domination. More recently the country suffered
not only the physical destruction of a war but also profound structural
distortions. In the rural areas, the war damaged some of the most productive
lands, resulted in the loss of tens of thousands of draft animals and forced
400,000-700,000 persons (or up to a quarter of the rural population) to
migrate to the cities. Agricultural production did not keep pace with
population growth, and Laos became a food-deficit country. Economic
activity in the urban areas was dominated by a disproportionately large
service sector geared to the war effort. The major source of urban income
was foreign aid, but this did little to improve the productive capacity of
the country or to develop exports, and instead tended to perpetuate foreign
dependence. The new Government started to deal with these problems as
rapidly as possible in the context of transforming the economy along
socialist lines. One measure involved the settlement of a large part of the
nonproductive urban population on new or abandoned land. As a result, Laos
is gradually moving from a serviceoriented economy to one whose structure
reflects the country's internal resource potential and is geared towards
long-term development.
8.         The main economic activity in Laos is agriculture, in particular
the cultivation of rice, the main staple. Cropping intensity and yields are
very low, due primarily to the shortage of irrigation and flood control
infrastructure. Also, unexploded ordinance has hampered resettlement programs
in several areas, making resettlement costly. As a result, many provinces
of Laos are not self-sufficient in food production. Moreover, marketing and
transport problems make food distribution difficult between surplus and
deficit regions. There is also a major shortage in meat production, due
partly to the shortage of feedgrains, with the result that the daily food
intake contains less than the normal daily caloric and protein requirement.
Top priority is given to the rehabilitation and development of irrigation
infrastructure, and to increasing rice and feedgrain production.
9.         In the short and medium term, coffee, timber and wood products and
export of electricity are the country's most promising foreign exchange earn-
ers.  However, timber production has stagnated due to disruptions caused by



- 3 -
war. With foreign assistance the equipment constraint to increasing timber
production is being reduced and now that relations with Thailand (which
provides the country with a link to the sea) have improved, timber exports can
be substantially expanded. Coffee export earnings can also be increased in
the short run through improvements in quality of processing and in the long
run through rehabilitation and expansion of plantations.
10.       The industrial sector in Laos is still at an early stage of develop-
ment. Except for rice mills and wood processing factories that utilize
domestic raw materials and produce for export, most industries established
during the war produce simple consumer goods, are relatively capital intensive
and rely heavily on imported raw materials. Capacity utilization is very low
due to shortages of raw materials and spare parts, and to managerial problems.
The immediate priority is to rehabilitate selected plant and machinery that
can efficiently produce basic commodities and agricultural tools, and save or
earn foreign exchange. With regard to minerals, Laos is producing and
exporting small amounts of tin. Large deposits of potash and especially iron
ore of high concentration have been identified, but the net economic value of
these minerals needs to be established, taking into account the high transport
and marketing costs. Tf exploitation is found economically viable and
financing can be arranged, these minerals could provide Laos with substantial
foreign exchange revenues for its long-term development.
11.       The transport and power network did not suffer greatly from the war.
Overall, the national road network, including the sections currently under
construction, is adequate for the present light traffic volumes.  For the
immediate future, road development should concentrate on the repair, main-
tenance and upgrading of the existing network. In addition, priority should
be given to roads construction in rural areas. The Government also intends to
open an alternative link to the sea through Viet Nam. In the case of power,
the construction of the Nam Ngum hydroelectric scheme has made Laos a net
exporter of electricity to Thailand and plans are under way for the expansion
of this scheme. Priority is also given to developing the vast hydro-potential
of Laos to meet power demands of agricultural areas, including agro-processing
industries.
Planning and Mlanagement
12.       The Government is progressively implementing its policy of socialist
transformation.  Although the state manages all external trade and banking,
many industrial enterprises and some internal marketing of basic products;
most agricultural production and the retail trade are still in private hands.
An official distribution network sells basic commodities at subsidized prices
to the public. A parallel free market also exists where prices are somewhat
higher. As a result of the political transformation, the former institutional
structure has become obsolete. Thus, Laos faces a formidable challenge in



buildlng Jcistitutions for effective management of its socialist economy.
Neverthe>a -,s a new decentralized administrative structure is already
emerging. A planniag and mnanagement system is being progressively introduced.
These are `:npressive achievements for a young republic emerging from decades
of col'flict, facing an acute shortage of food and trained manpower, and
confrontiitg -he difficult problems of consolidating the revolution and
uresertring political independence.  In addition to ongoing reforms, a number
of measures to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the planning and
management system need to 6e considered: less centralized planning; closer
linkage between planning and budgeting; greater autonomy for enterprise
managers, increased managerial accountability; and introduction of incentives
and economic cost accounti-ng.
Development Strategy and Prospects
13.        During most of the past three decades, wartime exigencies and
insecurity precluded the formulation, let alone the effective pursuit, of a
long-term development strategy. The country is now, at last, ready to under-
take planned economic development. Major problems that need to be tackled
are: low agricultural productivity, a weak industrial sector, and shortage of
capital and foreign exchange. Others relate to the structural distortions and
dislocations caused by war and to the managerial aspects of socialist
transformation. The Government intends to focus on these problems within the
framework of long-term planning. The preparation of the first five-year plan
is just beginning, and will be supplemented by detailed annual plans. In the
meantime, the Interim Three-Year Development Plan, 1978-80, provides a
temporary framework. Its main thrust is to transform and develop agriculture
and forestry, and the role of other sectors is to support agricultural
development. In 1979, agricultural projects accounted for more than 50% of
development expenditures financed by the counterpart funds of commodity aid.
Top priority was given to making every province self-sufficient in food
production by 1980.
14.        Because of the unimpressive performance of the economy, the
Government in late 1979 undertook a major reassessment of the economic
situation and in early 1980 announced sweeping changes in its economic
policy. These include: major devaluation of the currency and an overhaul
of the wage and price structure (see para. 18 below); greater incentives for
food production; development of cooperatives at a pace compatible with
prevailing local conditions; abandonment of the goal of self-sufficiency in
every province and instead development of high potential areas for food and
export crop production; and removal of all inter-provincial restrictions on
trade.
15.        In preparation of Lao PDR's first five-year plan, systematic
consideration will need to be given to the optimum use of the country's scarce
investment funds, foreign exchange and skilled manpower. Laos should, on the
other hand, maximize the use of its two most abundant resources: land and, to
some extent, unskilled manpower.  Development programs should therefore
continue to emphasize simple, easy-to-implement, low-cost projects that are



primarily designed to achieve food self-sufficiency and expansion of
agricultural exports. Since current yields are low, limited investments
should be able to increase productivity, for instance, in the many areas that
could benefit from small irrigation and flood control schemes.
16.       By 1985, Laos could become a net exporter of agricultural products,
and industrial crops may also be developed to support agro-industries. With
a comprehensive forestry development plan, the production and export of
timber could expand rapidly. In infrastructure development, emphasis would
have to be on projects geared to enhancing Laos export earnings such as
hydropower and mining development provided external financing is available and
improved access to rural areas through low cost, labor intensive construction
would stimulate agricultural production and exports in high potential areas.
Recent Economic Developments
17.       During 1975/76, the Lao economy suffered from severe instability,
inflation, unemployment, and shortages of food and foreign exchange.  Faced
with a serious food shortage and unemployment in the urban areas, the Govern-
ment launched a food distribution program at low subsidized prices to
prevent widespread starvation. In addition, the Government began a massive
program to resettle persons displaced by war. The subsidies, combined with
the cost of resettlement and the maintenance of minimum services, led to large
budget deficits, which were financed by the banking system. Supply shortages
and monetary expansion drove up prices on the free market.
18.       Since early 1977, the Government has progressively introduced
measures to increase supplies, improve budget discipline, reduce public enter-
prise deficits and thus control monetary expansion. As a result, monetary
expansion fell steadily from 170% in the second half of 1976 to less than 25%
in 1979. Although the disastrous 1977 and 1978 harvests again threatened to
cause severe food shortages and rising prices, the timely response of the
world community to two international food aid appeals provided reasonable food
suplies in 1978 and 1979. The trend of rising free market prices was reversed
in mid-1978 and the prices of several commodities actually declined during
1979. The budgetary situation remains weak; foreign assistance (commodity
aid, cash grants and project aid) accounts for about 80% of total expend-
itures, and domestic revenues are insufficient to meet even current
expenditures. In May 1978, as part of a stabilization program agreed with the
IMF, the Government devalued the currency by 50%, and took measures to
stimulate production and exports, reduce unemployment and stabilize prices.
Dissatisfied with the outcome of these measures, in early 1980, the Government
announced further sweeping changes in monetary policy.  It replaced the former
currency with a new currency and devalued the new currency by 60% thus
bringing the exchange rate more closely in line with the free market rate. In
addition, the authorities announced radical changes in the structure of
agricultural prices. For example, official prices of paddy, rice, maize and
coffee were increased in dollar equivalents by about 60%, 170%, 80% and 30%



- 6 -
respectively. These changes brought prices of major crops in line with prices
prevailing in neighboring Thailand. The new price policy better reflects
market prices, and is expected to provide incentives for growers to increase
production of priority crops such as rice, feedgrains and coffee.
Balance of Payments and the Need for Aid
19.       Despite these important policy reforms, Laos' balance-of-payments
situation remains weak. In 1976-79, exports averaged about $10 million and
imports about $65 million. The current account deficit averaged about $75
million in this period and was covered by cash grants, credits and project
loans from abroad. Laos will continue to need the world community's
assistance in preparing and financing development programs for the foreseeable
future. Anticipated improvements in export earnings are likely to cover only
food and other consumer imports in the medium term. Therefore, nearly all the
medium-term imports required for rehabilitation and development projects - raw
materials, and intermediate and capital goods - will have to be financed
through external assistance. If a reasonably sized investment program is to
be implemented in line with the above strategy, foreign aid averaging $100
million per annum will be needed in the medium term.
20.       The Goverment is seeking foreign aid from any source, provided the
aid is offered without political conditions. It has recently concluded
long-term aid agreements with its major socialist donors including the Soviet
Union and has received new commitments from Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the
German Democratic Republic and Romania, the OPEC Special Fund, IFAD, ADB
and several voluntary and relief organizations. In 1978/79, some countries
and private and public organizations made special commitments in response to
the emergency appeal for food./l In addition, the Government obtained about
$20 million from the IMF through a purchase in the first credit tranche and
two trust fund loans. Aid from nonconvertible currency areas is expected to
provide roughly half ($50 million) of the required net annual external
resource transfers, as well as considerable technical assistance over the
next five years. The balance and additional technical assistance would
need to come from the convertible currency areas and international
organizations.
21.       Given the country's extremely low level of development, lack of
savings, and the difficult budgetary and balance of payments situation,
external aid should be on the softest possible terms including, in the
short term, commodity aid or cash grants to finance imports of food and
basic necessities, and to stabilize the budget. Assistance will also be
needed to finance nearly all of the local currency costs as well as foreign
/L World Food Program, UNHCR, UNICEF, EEC, Australia, Burma, Canada,
Denmark, German Federal Republic, India, the Netherlands, Norway,
Switzerland, Sweden, Thailand, the United States of America, etc.



- 7 -
exchange requirements of projects, since domestic revenues, which at present
do not even cover current expenditures, are unlikely to increase
considerably in the medium term. Laos' external debt position is not
serious. Debt outstanding and disbursed, the bulk of which is on soft terms
and of long maturity, amounted to an estimated $90 million at the end of
1979. The debt service ratio, which in 1979 was estimated at about 20% of
exports, is considerably below its medium-term potential levels, and the
Government's policy is not to undertake short-term borrowing on commercial
terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
22.       Laos become a member of the Bank in July 1961 and of the
Association in October 1963. The proposed credit would be the Bank Group's
third operation in the country. During the wartime period, the Bank Group's
contacts with Laos were limited. In 1966, at the request of the former
Vientiane Government and bilateral donors, the Bank agreed to act as the
administrator of the Nam Ngum Development Fund, which was established with
grants from Australia, Canada, Denmark, France, Japan, the Netherlands, New
Zealand, Thailand and the United States to help finance the first stage of
the Nam Ngum hydroelectric scheme located about 60 km north of Vientiane.
The project was successfully completed in 1972 and has recently been
expanded. Electricity from Nam Ngum is now serving the Lao grid and is
being exported to Northeast Thailand. During 1972-75, under the general
sponsorship of the Mekong Committee and in cooperation with the ADB and the
UNDP, the Bank helped identify the Casier Sud and Se Bang Fai pioneer
irrigation projects in Laos. The Bank is currently acting as the executing
agency for feasibility studies by the Mekong Secretariat for the Se Bang Fai
project. In April 1975, the Bank co-sponsored an Aid Group Meeting on Laos,
chaired by the ADB. In early 1976, after the political transition and the
establishment of the Republic, the new Government requested IDA to begin
lending operations along the lines discussed in a preliminary way at the
time of the Aid Group tIeeting.
23.       The first and second IDA credits to Laos for the Agricultural
Rehabilitation and Development Project (Credit 760-LA) and for the Second
Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Project (Credit 924-LA) became
effective on April 5, 1978 and October 17, 1979, respectively. Implemen-
tation and disbursement under the first project have been behind schedule;
of the $8.2 million IDA credit for this project, $1.6 million had been
disbursed as of March 31, 1980 (or 40% of the appraisal estimate). The
implementation of both projects is now proceeding satisfactorily. As was
anticipated, there is a need for frequent supervision in resolving issues
relating to procurement and implementation, and the Regional Mission in
Bangkok has substantially increased its supervison activities in response
to the Government's needs for assistance in these areas. Annex II contains
a summary statement of IDA's lending to Laos as of March 31, 1980, and a
note on the execution of the first two projects.



- 8 -
24.       Bank group relationship with Laos has gradually strengthened.
The approval of the first and second IDA credits, the work of the economic
mission to Laos in 1978, the appraisal of the proposed project and the
identification work for future projects, have helped to create an atmosphere
of increasing mutual confidence and understanding between IDA and the
Government. While a generally sound basis for IDA operations has been
established, it will take time to build a working relationship that would
enable Laos to achieve the maximum benefits from its membership in the Bank
Group.
25.       A primary objective of Bank group strategy in Laos is to continue to
improve its knowledge of the economy so as to maximize the contribution
of limited IDA resources to meeting Laos' development needs. The Bank group
intends, through its economic, sector and project work, to gain a better
understanding of the country's priorities and constraints as well as the
institutional and management systems. It has made considerable progress in
its dialogue on the critical issue of restructuring the incentive system to
increase agricultural production. The recent changes in agricultural pricing
policy, if accompanied with rational marketing and credit policies, should
enable the Government to undertake successfully agricultural development
programs designed to increase agricultural production and exports. In line
with the country's problems and priorities outlined in Part I above, and in
view of the scarcity of technical staff experienced in project planning and
implementation, IDA staff will seek priority projects for financing that are
clearly defined, simply designed, easy to implement, and promise fairly quick
returns. Since the most basic problem now facing Laos is its inability to
feed its population, IDA is concentrating on projects that could increase food
production through assistance for irrigation, drainage and flood control, and
feedgrain development. Projects that would assist the development of coffee
production and export of electricity, and the improvement of rural infra-
structure such as roads in support of agricultural production are also under
consideration for possible IDA financing.
26.       Laos faces unusual difficulties in mounting a sustained development
effort and in mobilizing resources to finance productive investments. While
opportunities would be sought to coordinate IDA activities, both in project
preparation and financing, with bilateral and other multilateral aid programs
the Bank group should be prepared to make a relatively large commitment of
staff time. This investment of staff time seems justified because Laos is
among the poorest countries in the world and has good long-term development
potential. IDA must also be prepared to finance a high percentage of total
project costs, including local costs, if IDA is to play a meaningful role in
Laos' development effort.



- 9 -
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
27.       The Lao economy is basically agricultural.  About 85% of the total
3.2 million population rely on agriculture for their livelihood and most live
in absolute poverty. Agriculture, including forestry, directly accounts for
more than 60% of GDP and generates about 60% of the country's exports includ-
ing coffee and timber. Most production is still carried out by private
farmers who typically cultivate about 2 ha of land. Cropping intensity and
yields are low and fertilizer use very limited.
28.       Glutinous rice, the staple food throughout the country, accounts for
70% of the total cultivated area. About 40% of the rice area consists of
rainfed uplands where paddy yields are very low (about 1 ton/ha). In the
lowlands there is little controlled irrigation, and excessive flooding,
interspersed with periodic drought, results in widely fluctuating paddy
yields. Floods in 1978 reduced the rice available to about 120-130 kg per
capita (including imports), considerably below the average requirement of
160-180 kg per capita. Additional losses occur in milling and storage due to
inadequate, obsolete and poorly maintained facilities. This general picture
had been further complicated by a pricing policy which until recently impaired
incentives to rice farmers.
29.       General shortages of feedgrains are having an adverse effect on
meat production. Maize, the most important feed crop, is only grown on about
25,000 ha and only about 5% of production is procured by the Government and
used to produce animal feed; the balance is used for human consumption or
fed to backyard livestock.
30.       During the war, much of the coffee area, mostly located on the
Boloven Plateau in the south, was destroyed or abandoned. Some plantations
are being rehabilitated by the Government, but yields remain low (about
600 kg/ha).- The only coffee mill in Laos operates well below capacity, due
to worn out equipment and poor management. Consequently, handpounding is
widely practiced, which, along with defective drying techniques and poor
storage, results in damaged beans, and therefore poor quality coffee and low
export prices.
31.       Forests cover about half of the country's total area and are a major
source of export earnings. Between 1974 and 1977, however, timber produc-
tion decreased and export earnings declined considerably. Lack of equipment
and fuel, weak management, marketing difficulties and border problems with
Thailand contributed to this decline. Since 1978, export earnings have
gradually increased.



- 10 -
Government Objectives and Strategies
32.       The Government's primary objectives in the agricultural sector are:
(a) Self-Sufficiency in Food Production. Historically, Laos has been
self-sufficient in staple food production but recently, due to
political upheavals, organization and marketing problems,
inadequate price incentives, and bad weather, food production has
failed to keep up with demand. Consequently, imports of rice have
steadily increased since 1976 and were about 100,000 tons in 1978.
The Government's goal is to reverse this trend and achieve self-
sufficiency in food production by the early 1980s.
(b) Increased Foreign Exchange from Timber and Coffee. Laos has a
chronic trade deficit and extremely low export earnings which have
stagnated at about $10 million p.a. in recent years. Increased
export earnings are required to reduce the trade deficit and to help
finance future investment.
33.       The strategies proposed for attaining these objectives include:
(a) Improved Technology for Food Production. The Government's
efforts to achieve food self-sufficiency focus on (i) expanding
the area of rice land under irrigation, (ii) increasing rice and
feedgrain yields by using improved seeds, fertilizers, pesticides
and on-farm practices, and by strengthening extension services,
(iii) decreasing paddy losses by establishing appropriate storage,
transport and milling facilities, and (iv) increasing meat
production by developing livestock multiplication units that can
supply animals to cooperatives and state farms for fattening.
Priority has been given to Vientiane province where about 17% of
the country's population live.
(b) Export Development. The Government is working to rehabilitate
forest industries and has recently received assistance from the
Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the Swedish International
Development Authority (SIDA). With regard to coffee, the
Government intends in the short term to improve processing
techniques and to rehabilitate the one existing coffee mill. In
the longer term, it expects to increase production by developing
research facilities, rehabilitating existing mature areas, and
planting new stands.
(c) Cooperative Farm Development. The Government intends to replace
privately held farms with cooperative and state farms. Three
stages are planned for the development of cooperatives. In the
first stage, farmers' associations would be established to exchange
labor and share tools and draught power. In the second stage,
land would be cultivated collectively and the crop shared in



- 11 -
proportion to the days worked by each farmer. In the final stage,
farmers' associations would be converted into cooperatives.
However, farmers who join cooperatives may retain part of their
land and some animals for themselves. In 1978 the Government
began rapid implementation of this strategy but recently a slower
pace has been adopted.
(d) Infrastructure Development. The Government is concentrating on
improving road and river transport and on developing rural
rehabilitation schemes to remove transportation constraints to
increased production, processing and exports.
34.       The major constraint in implementing these strategies lies in the
severe shortage of qualified and experienced staff to prepare and manage
development projects. Until recently, inadequate price incentives were also
a major constraint.  But with the recent increases in the official price of
major crops should provide farmers with adequate incentive to increase
production.
Bank Group Involvement in the Sector
35.       The first two IDA-assisted projects are supporting the Government's
food production strategy. They focus on the production of rice, feedgrains
and pork by expanding irrigation, increasing seed production, developing
agronomic packages for cooperative farms, and establishing feedgrain farms
and pig multiplication units in Vientiane province. The proposed third
project would continue the emphasis on food self-sufficiency; it would extend
assistance for rice production to the major producing provinces of
Savannakhet and Champassak and rehabilitate milling, storage, transport and
maintenance facilities in the two provinces and in Vientiane. In addition, a
coffee processing component would increase foreign exchange earnings.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       The project was identified by a Bank group  mission in November
1978 and appraised in October 1979. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled
"Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Project III" (No. 2842-LA, dated
April 18, 1980) is being distributed separately. Supplementary project data
are provided in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Vientiane from March 25
to March 26, 1980, with the Lao PDR delegation led by Mr. Oudone Pholsena,
Secretary General, Mlinistry of Finance.
Project Objectives
37.       The project would aim at helping to (a) increase the production and
improve the distribution of glutinous rice, by rehabilitating and developing
milling, storage and transport facilities, and by training technicians and
skilled labor and strengthening managerial capabilities in the major produc-
ing provinces of Vientiane, Savannakhet and Champassak; (b) increase



- 12 -
foreign exchange earnings from coffee through a quality improvement program
that involves developing milling, storage and transport facilities in the
province of Champassak; (c) develop a sound maintenance base for the equipment
provided under the project, by establishing a new workshop in Vientiane
province and rehabilitating existing workshops in the provinces of Savannakhet
and Champassak; (d) strengthen provincial extension services in Savannakhet
and Champassak, and support cooperative activities, by providing an improved
technology package to about 2,400 farm families; and (e) carry out a
feasibility study of cheap power supply development to support agro-processing
plants and rural electrification programs.
Detailed Features of the Project
38.       Rice Mill Rehabilitation and Development.  At the present time,
paddy is processed either at the village level, using handpounding or huller
type mills, or at the district level in larger commercial-type mills. Except
for the larger mills, overmilling is a common practice which results in heavy
losses and reduces the nutritional value of the rice. Furthermore, many mills
are out of service and milling returns are low. The project would complement
rehabilitation and development work, already begun with assistance from the
United nations Development Program (UNDP), the Food and Agriculture organiz-
ation (FAO) and the United Nations Capital Development Fund (UNCDF), in the
provinces of Vientiane, Savannakhet and Champassak. The project would
rehabilitate eight mills abandoned since 1975, supply, where possible,
electrical power to diesel mills and provide for spare parts to some 63 mills.
It would also install the milling capacity required in Sanakham, a remote and
poorly equipped district of Vientiane province without electrical power, and
substantially increase the milling capacity in Savannakhet (currently handling
15% of the province's paddy production). In addition, it would provide
collection storage facilities at the villages before shipment to the mills,
operational storage facilities near the rice mills before processing and
reserve storage in urban areas. Because the road network serving most
villages in the three provinces is so sparse and often impassable to freight
traffic in the wet season, cargo boats are the most efficient and economic
mode of transport of paddy from producing areas to the mills. Some 26 cargo
boats would therefore be constructed under the project. To complement the
transport requirements during the dry season, trucks would also be provided.
Each provincial Department of Industry and Commerce (DIC) would be responsible
for this component, with technical assistance from the Ministry of Industry
and Commerce (MIC).
39.       At full development, mills built or rehabilitated under the
proposed project would increase annual capacity by about 21% or about 29,000
tons. The milling return would be increased by 24% when changing from hand-
pounding or huller milling to new mills. Paddy storage losses would also be
reduced by 6% through collecting storage and another 3% through operational
storage. The net income of farmers when changing from handpounding or huller
milling to new and rehabilitated facilities would increase by about 35%. At
full development, the incremental rice production would be about 5,600 tons
annually representing a net value of about $2.0 million.



- 13 -
40.       Coffee Processing Development.  The project would improve coffee
quality by introducing more efficient harvesting and drying techniques, and by
providing better storage, transportation and milling facilities. The DIC of
Champassak province would be responsible for implementing this component, with
technical assistance from MIC. At full development, these facilities would
process about 4,300 tons of coffee beans annually, which is twice the capacity
of the one government-owned mill presently in operation. The proposed project
would induce higher export prices and increase foreign exchange earnings from
coffee exports by about 15%.
41.       Workshop Rehabilitation and Development.  This component would
rehabilitate provincial workshops in Savannakhet and Champassak and establish
a new workshop in Vientiane province. The three provincial governments have
approximately 850 cars, trucks, tractors and other heavy equipment at their
disposal. However, routine vehicle maintenance is rarely undertaken, spare
parts are extremely short in supply and, consequently, the vehicles have short
lives and are often out of service for long periods. The project would pro-
vide appropriate maintenance and repair facilities for the project and other
vehicles operated by various provincial agencies. Each provincial Department
of Public Works (DPW) would be responsible for implementing this component
with the technical assistance from the Ministry of Public Works (MPW).
42.       Cooperative Farm Development.  The first two IDA-assisted projects
provided agricultural technical services and inputs to rice farmers in
Vientiane province; the proposed project would extend these benefits to the
provinces of Savannakhet and Champassak. It would train about 100 agricul-
tural technicians and provide improved technology packages to about 2,400
cooperative farmers through provision of fertilizers and pesticides, and
technical assistance in rice production and cooperative farming. Each
provincial Department of Agriculture (DOA) and Department of Cooperatives and
State Farms (DOC) would be responsible for implementing this component, with
technical assistance from the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA).
43.       Improved technology would increase yields by an estimated 60% and
the farmers' net income by about 35%. The Lao PDR's agricultural credit
system is at an early stage of development and is being assisted under the
first IDA credit. Since the credit system is not yet fully operational, the
project would allow for interim measures to deliver improved technology
packages.  Inputs and materials would be procured by provincial authorities
with help from the MOA and they would be distributed among the pilot cooper-
atives. Members would pay for these inputs and materials with a part of
their paddy production.
44.       Rural Electrification Study.  The project would also provide for
consultancy services to carry out a feasibility study to identify the least-
cost methods for the development of electricity supply that could lead to
increased agricultural production by supplying locally produced energy for
agro-processing plants and pump irrigation schemes. The results of the
feasibility study would provide a basis for possible future assistance from
IDA. The study would require about 45 man-months of consultancy services at



- 14 -
an estimated total cost of $400,000, including provision for vehicles and
survey equipment. The average man-month cost, including salary, expenses,
fees, international travel and subsistence, is expected to be about $8,000.
Not later than October 31, 1980, a suitably qualified firm of consultants
would be selected to undertake this study on terms and condition acceptable
to the Association (Section 3.03(b) and (c) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
45.       Technical Assistance.  To assist in implementing the project, the
Government, UNDP and FAO would enter into agreements to provide a total of
232 man-months of technical assistance. Eight specialists would be
appointed: (a) one engineer and two technicians for rice milling, to assist
the provincial DICs in designing, installing and operating the new rice
mills, rehabilitating existing mills and training local staff; (b) one coffee
processing expert to assist the Champassak DIC in designing, installing and
operating the new coffee mill, and in organizing training activities; (c)
three mechanical experts to assist the provincial authorities in procuring
and installing workshop equipment, and in assisting day-to-day management;
and (d) one rice agronomist to advise and assist the Champassak and
Savannakhet provincial DOAs and DOCs in improving cultivation techniques, and
in training technicians and developing pilot extension services. In
addition, 10 man-months of short-term specialist services would be provided
to help overcome specific technical constraints in the rice and coffee
processing industries.
46.       The appointment of a rice milling engineer, a coffee processing
specialist, a mechanical expert and a rice agronomist would be a condition of
disbursement for each of the respective components (Schedule 1, Part 4 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). The remaining four specialists to be
funded by UNDP would be recruited not later than January 31, 1981 (Section
3.03(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
47.       Total project costs (exclusive of taxes and duties which are neg-
ligible) are estimated at $18.8 million, of which $13.0 million, or 69%,
represents foreign exchange. Foreign exchange totalling $1.3 million has been
included to cover the cost, over the five-year development period, of agri-
cultural chemicals for cooperative farms and of the operation and maintenance
of the new rice milling, coffee processing and transport facilities. This
financing of recurrent foreign exchange expenditures is justified by the very
severe shortage of foreign exchange in Laos. Physical contingencies of 10%
for equipment and 15% for civil works have been added to the base cost
estimates. Price increases were assumed as follows: for materials, equipment,
civil works and services, 10.5% in 1980, 9% in 1981, 8% in 1982 and 7%
thereafter; for UNDP-financed technical assistance, 8% throughout. Expected
price increases amount to 24% of base costs plus physical contingencies. The
proposed credit of $13.4 million would finance 89% of the foreign exchange
cost of the project and $1.8 million of local costs equivalent to 71% of



- 15 -
total project costs, exclusive of taxes and duties. UNDP would provide
$1.4 million, the balance of the foreign exchange costs (11%), for technical
assistance, and the Government would finance the remaining project cost of
$4.0 million.
Procurement
48.        Equipment, materials and chemicals, costing about $10.8 million,
would be procured after international competitive bidding in accordance with
the Bank Group's Guidelines. Where contracts are estimated to cost more than
$100,000, IDA's approval would be required before invitations to bid are
issued and contracts awarded. However, to permit flexibility in the
procurement of specialized equipment and materials, items costing not more
than $50,000, but not exceeding $1 million in total, could be procured under
local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Association. In
addition, existing practices for procurement of items costing less than
$10,000 each through prudent shopping in neighboring countries would be
permitted, up to a total of $500,000, to facilitate start-up activities.
Civil works, equipment installation and cargo boat construction required for
the rice milling, coffee processing and workshop components, costing about
$6.7 million, would be carried out by force account or be contracted on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally among the small number of
private or joint venture companies in the country. A few companies continue
to operate with the permission of Government and are able to offer competitive
prices for work that would otherwise be done by the central or the provincial
state construction agency. The works would not be suitable for international
competitive bidding in view of their small size and scattered location and
because of the difficulties in setting up support services and hiring labor.
Disbursements
49.       Disbursements of the proceeds of the proposed credit would be made
at the rate of: 100% of the foreign exchange cost of directly imported
equipment, construction materials, fertilizers and insecticides, and
operating costs, or 75% of local expenditures for the above imported items
procured locally; 100% of the costs of training abroad and consultancy
services; and 40% of the local costs for civil works, equipment installation,
and boat construction. Normal supporting documents would be submitted with
disbursement applications for equipment, construction materials, fertilizers,
insecticides, consultants and for works carried out by contractors. State-
ment of expenditures certified by the Project Executive Committees (see
para. 52) in the provinces and the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, would
be submitted for force account work and the foreign exchange portion of
operating costs. It is expected that disbursements would be completed by
December 1985, approximately twelve months after the end of construction.



- 16 -
Cost Recovery
50.       The Government's policy is to recover as much of the capital and
operation and maintenance (0&M) costs as possible from the beneficiaries
without impairing incentives for participation. These costs are recovered
either directly through charges to the beneficiaries, or indirectly through
agricultural taxes. Capital and incremental O&M costs of new and
rehabilitated mills and associated storage and transport facilities would
average about $450,000 per year. Full recovery of investments and O&M costs,
excluding reserve security storage, would require a milling charge of $18.6
per ton of paddy. With this charge, the level of rent recovery would be
about 40%. For the cooperative farm component, the cost of equipment provided
to the provincial DOAs would partially be recovered by the incremental
agricultural tax and the cost recovery level would be about 70%. To ensure
adequate incentives on a continuing basis the Government would (a) annually
review and adjust, when necessary, farmgate prices for major crops, including
coffee, to reflect current costs and to maintain farmers' incentives to
produce, and (b) exchange views with IDA on the results of this review and
the adequacy of rice milling charges (Section 4.05 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
Project Organization and Management
51.       The project would be implemented by several central and provincial
government agencies. At the central level, project coordination responsi-
bilities uould be concentrated under a single ministry, the MIC. The
Department of Light Industry in the MIC would technically assist the rice
milling and the coffee processing components, and would share this function
with the MOA's Department of Planning for the cooperative farm component and
with the MIPW's Department of Equipment for the workshop component. A Project
Coordinating Committee, chaired by the Vice-Minister for Industry, would be
set up in the MIC to coordinate activities in the concerned provinces and
ministries. The Government would establish this coordinating committee not
later than October 31 1980 (Section 3.02(b) and (c) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
52.       At the provincial level, a Project Executive Committee in each of
the provinces of Vientiane, Savannakhet and Champassak, chaired by a member of
the Provincial Executive Committee, would be established for implementing the
project. The committee would comprise four to six members as follows: (a) a
financial officer from the provincial Department of Finance; (b) an
administrative officer from the provincial Department of Administration; (c)
a senior officer from the provincial DIC; (d) a senior officer from the
provincial DPW; and, where necessary, (e) a senior officer from the
provincial DOA; and (f) a senior officer from the provincial DOC. The
Government would establish these project executive committees not later than
October 31, 1980 (Section 3.02(a) and (c) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). These Project Executive Committees would be responsible for
direction, control and coordination of project field operations at the



- 17 -
provincial level. This organizational structure would be supported by a
strong training and technical assistance program.
53.       The Government would make adequate arrangements for the timely
provision of funds and resources required to achieve and maintain all civil
works to be constructed under the project and to staff, maintain and operate
all other project-supported facilities and equipment (Sections 3.01 and 4.04
of the draft Development Credit Agreement). By the end of October of each
year, the Government would present an annual work program for IDA's review,
detailing the proposed activities of the implementing provincial agencies for
the 12-month period starting on the following January 1, including recruitment
and training of required personnel (Section 3.04 of the draft Development
Credit: Agreement).
Accounting and Auditing
54.       Each provincial implementing agency is subject to normal government
control and auditing procedures. Project accounts would be audited by the
State Auditors, and supervision missions would work closely with the authori-
ties to ensure satisfactory quality of audits. The Association has
furnished the Government with auditing guidelines, proforma accounts and
reporting requirements. Separate accounts would be maintained for each of
the components in each province, and audited project accounts would be sent
to the Association within six months of the close of each fiscal year
(Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Monitoring and Evaluation
55.       Under the project, coordination of procurement and collation of
project component accounts would be the responsibility of the Financial
Section of the Department of Light Industry (DLI). Monitoring and evaluation
of project activities would be carried out by a joint unit comprising
technical and financial staff from the MIC's Department of Light Industry,
MOA's Department of Planning and MPW's Department of Equipment. The
Government would establish this monitoring unit by October 31, 1980 (Section
3.07 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Benefits and Justification
56.       The rice milling and cooperative farm components would contribute
significantly to the Government's objective of self-sufficiency in food pro-
duction and save foreign exchange that would otherwise be spent on rice
imports. The rice milling component would directly benefit about 80,000 small
rice farmers, and the improved milling, storage and transport facilities would
increase annual rice output by about 5,600 tons. In addition, the value of
by-products would increase by 75-100%. The cooperative farm component would
benefit about 2,400 farmers, and the incremental output of paddy would amount
to about 4,000 tons annually at full development. The total increase in rice



- 18 -
output would amount to about 8,200 tons, or 12% of average annual
imports.  The workshop component would save foreign exchange by extending the
life of government vehicles and heavy equipment. At full development, net
foreign exchange savings would average about $0.5 million a year.  The coffee
processing component would substantially improve the quality of about 4,300
tons of clean coffee annually, which, when sold at higher prices, would
result in incremental foreign exchange earnings of $1.3 million. Finally,
direct employment from the project would total about 800 full-time jobs.
57.       The economic rate of return is estimated to be 25% for the rice
milling component (costing $8.0 million); 40% for the coffee processing
component (costing $1.6 million); 31% for the workshop component (costing
$1.8 million); and 54% for the cooperative farm component (costing $1.6 mil-
lion). The average economic rate of return on these components is 32%. In
addition, the project would induce nonquantifiable benefits by strengthening
local capabilities in construction, engineering, and maintenance and repair.
The project would also increase managerial capability in agro-industries and
strengthen the Lao PDR's administrative agencies. Moreover, through its
support to pilot cooperative farms, the project would provide a basis for
further increases in food production. A better quality of coffee would
improve the reputation of the Lao PDR's coffee and pave the way for increased
production of coffee for export.
58.       Whiile the economic rates of return for the project components
are satisfactory, the rates of return for the project as a whole and for
rice milling and the workshops in particular, are sensitive both to
increased costs and to delays in achieving benefits. For instance, a two-
year delay in achieving benefits lowers the return for the project to 17%,
and if the delay is combined with a 20% decrease in benefits and 20%
increase in costs, the rate drops to 7%. Such sensitivity underlines the
need for a timely implementation and close monitoring of the project.
59.       At full development, the rice milling component accounts for about
56% of project costs and 43% of project benefits; the economic performance
of the project is thus heavily dependent on this component. At the new
official price for rice, farmers have sufficient incentives to use
government facilities. As an additional incentive for participation, the
Government would allow farmers to keep their grain when they use government
mills and pay the milling costs in kind (Section 4.03 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement) . This arrangement would ensure that milling
capacity would be fully utilized.  However, careful monitoring would be
needed to evaluate progress in official paddy procurement and marketing. The
same close monitoring would be required for the coffee processing component to
ensure that enough coffee is procured to fully utilize facilities provided
under the project.



- 19 -
Risks
60.       A major risk is that the limited implementation capacity of the
provincial executing agencies might prevent the project from proceeding as
planned. Experience from the first project indicates that difficulties might
arise in coordinating the activities of several agencies or departments and
timely procurement of project items. These risks would be reduced by
concentrating project coordinating responsibilities under a single ministry,
the MIC, and setting up a substantial training and technical assistance
program. Despite these safeguards, supervision would need to be frequent,
with steady support provided by the Bank's Resident Mission in Thailand.
Finally, project implementation might be disrupted through internal security
incidents, which the Lao PDR experiences from time to time. However, the
project areas are generally considered secure, and project implementation
should not be unduly affected.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Lao People's
Democratic Republic and the Association, and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided in Article V, Section I (d) of the Articles of Agreement
of the Association are being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors.
62.       Special conditions of the development credit are listed in
Section III of Annex III.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by Moeen A. Qureshi
Attachments
April 25, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 20 -                                            ANNEX I
TAILt 3A                                            Pg. 1 of 4   pgs.
1U0 Dl - SOCIAL InDICATOS DATA SNEtT
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AnRAES
LAND ARA7  (THOUSAND SQ. Hlt.)                 LAO FDR                         - MOST RCRNT ESTS
TOTAL            236.8                                                     SAME         SAME      NERT HIGHRn
AGRICULTURAL       17.6                                 MDST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960 Lk    1970  Eb ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    CROUP /a
GNP PER CAPI7A (USS)                    60.0 /2     70.0 Li   90.0 /f          616.0       182.9       432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       18.0.        98.0      63.0            522.0        88.9        251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION. MID-YEAR 
(MILLIONS)                          2.3          3.0       3.,
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)   ..          15.0       15.0             30.1       15.0         24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KK.                        10.0         13.0      14.0            156.8        46.8         42.7
PER SQ. K1. AGRICULTUltAL LAND    131.0        171.0     193.0            794.8       254.1         95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          41.1         41.7      42.1             40.8        43.6         44.9
15-64 YRS.                          56.5         55.7      55.2             55.4.       53.3         52.8
63 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.4          2.6       2.7               3.2        2.9          3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                            2.4       2.3              2.3         2.4          2.7
URBAN                                ..           ..       2.5              5.1         4.0          q.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      44.8         44.5       44.6             34.6       44.3         42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      23.7         22.7      22.8               8.7       19.7         12.4
GROSS R£PRODUCTION RATE                ..          3.0        2.5              2.6        2.9          3.
FAMILY 8LANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..         ..            22.1        14.6         14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDyU OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              72.1        100.0      91.4            106.8        96.4        104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRZMZENTS)                   81.0         96.0      94.0            108.7        92.3         99.5
FROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           39.0         46.0      58.0             57.7        50.0         56.8
OF WHICH ANIMIAL AND PULSE         ..           ..      12.2             17.0        13.9         17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         ..          ..         ..             4.0                          7. 5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    40.4          40.4      40.4             59.0        45.8         53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..          ..      283.0             44.0      102.7         82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCERT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..         ..            21.9        26.4         31.1
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..            58.3        63.5         68.5
RURAL  -                             ..           ..         ..             9.8        14.1         18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL              -                 ..           ..         ..            28.6        16.1         37.5
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..             66.6        65.9         69.5
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..             14.8         3..4        25-.
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          38000.0 /A  16540.0   30769.0            4103.1    13432.7       9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..       4530.0    3480.0           1520.2      6983.3       2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
T(TAL                            2400.0 /g   1180.0    1150.0             657.1      1157.6        '96.5
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..           145.5       183.3          8.4
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..           1011.8      1348.8       1358..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..         ..             19.0       19. ~        19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TD TAL                               ..           ..         ..              5.2         ..
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..              5.2        4.8
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..              5.4        S.3
AVERAGE NUNSER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..           ..         ..               ..
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..              ..
RLURAL                               ..           ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRI..-Y (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..         .3 9.1
8RS8                                 ..           ..        ..
RURAL                                ..           .     .      .             ..         '. -



- 21 -                                              ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                             Pg.  2  of 4   pgs.
W   PDR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REPERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
LAO PDR                          - MOST RECENT EST7MATE) -a
SAhM         SAME      NEXL  HIGHER
MOST RECEINT     GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME         tNCOME
1960         1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        RECION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRLMARY:      TOTAL                  25.0         54.0       84.8              95.6        62.9          75.8
PEIALE                 16.0         40.0       47.0 /h           93.7        45.9         67.9
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                    1.0          3.0       18.0              43.3        14.4          17.7
FEMALE                  0.4          2.0        3.0 /h           38.6         8.8         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)  9.0            14.0       14.2              11.3         6.6           7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRL'tARY                             32.0         36.0       40.0              30.0        38.5          34.3
SECONDARY                            18.0         17.0       27.0              25.4        19.8          23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          28.0           ..          ..             84.0        36.7          63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPUELATION                           1.4          3.7        4.3               9.3         3.1           7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THO'USAND
POPULATION                           11.0         17.0       38.0              97.6        31.1          71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER TEOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..           ..         ..              21.8         2.8          14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    12.0 /L        ..         ..              25.9         6.0          16.3
CINtEA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.2  |i         0.3         ..               4.6          1.4          1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        1300.0       1500.0    1600.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     47.0         45.1       44.7              33.2        24.2         28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                83.1         78.8       85.0              48.4        60.7          54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   13.0         15.9         ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  54.8         50.5       49.6              38.9        39.8          37.8
MALE                                   57.1         54.8        51.0             48.6        53.3          50.3
FEMALE                                 52.4         46.0       48.2              28.4        19.6          20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 0.8           0.9        1.0               1.2         1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE LNCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEIIOLDS       ..           ..         ..              17.3        20.3          19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF 8OUSEEtOLDS    ..             ..         ..              45.6        45.1         48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..           ..         ..               6.5         5.7           5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF 80USERULDS        ..           ..         ..              17.3        16.8          15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..             140.8        88.5         155.9
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..             112.8        71.9         97.9
EST IHATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOMZ
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..                ..       100.8         143.7
RURAL                                  ..            ..        ..              76.3        42.0          37.3
ESTLT'(AED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..           ..          ..             27.7        46.0          22.9
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..              40.4        48.0          36.7
Not available
'lot applicable.
NOTES
Ia    The adjusted group averages for each Indicator are population-yelghted geomtric mans, excluding the extrew
values of the indicacor and the mose populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries 'among the
indicators depends on availablityt of data and is not uniform.
lb    Unless othernise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betveen 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 ard 1977.
East Asia and Pa.ific;  /d  Lo  Incom   (9280 or Less per capita 1976);  /.  Loer Mtddle Income  '02'1-550
/pr  19piza, 2 9.6.;   I1  4ational accounts are not c.cpiled to Lao; data are staff estimetea;   !   1952;
/h   1972.
September 1i9Th



- 22-                                                                   ur 
PIFUTTIOhS OF  M&IJ    trDIATOMSA NE                                                               
Pg. 3 of 4 pgs.
jaU: ,Thu adjusted group averages for each iadlcatoT ea" popsal.eciom-seeighted gseometric mama, secluding the setrae values of the indicator aed the float
popul atd ussoty in teach group. coverage of cewatries amog the indicators depends oe a,eilebility of dtar sad is net smiferm. Dea to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil teaprtere and SadMacsee of accees to wager sad excretst disposal, besiag, incmea dlstribatln eat po"vety era
Simple population-wightSd geometric means .itbouat the exclusive of extre alveis.
LOiD AREA (thousead eq. hm)                                                               Pooulation yor hospital, beLd - total. uirbas. and rural - Population  (total,
Total - Total nurfcs area  -cpising leand arm and ilan"d waters.urban  and rural) divided by their raspecrtie oumber of hoepital bads
Aeticuitucal - Moat recant estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                  available in public and private general sod epecialised hospital andre
on permanently fororpa  pastures, narkat and kitchen gardeos or to                       habilitetton cas ters.  Hospitals are satabliebmeota permanently sceffad b
is  aellow.                                                                             at Iasaar one physician.  Establishments providing prianipally c.stadiAl
cars are not included. Rural hospicals. however, include health a-d edi-
INP ?ER CAPITA '11$) -  NP per -opira astiaes st current market prices,                      Iosi cerar  oot permansntly  tcaffad by * phyeicia-  (hot by a medical as
c-l-c,..td by sas- --n...i-r osthod as World Sank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                  iscant,n.rs  sidwifs, etc.) which cffer ic-patient acooairad
(960,17,ad197  datn.                                                                    pro-ida a limited rage of med ica-      acI     ts
Admissisos per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to on diaccarges
iNERGY CO5SIPITIOg PtI CAPITA - A .o.al consumption of cosrtil1 energy                      from  hoapitals divided by the soaker of bet..
(coal and lignite. ptnolsas.  -ca-ra  gas and bydro-, ncerand Sao-
thsrmal seuctriciry) in kilograms of oa.l equivalent per capita.                    HOiSING
Averass  it. of household (pesrons per household) - ctota, urba.. uod rurl1
POPC7.ATION ANfD VITAL STATISTICS                                                           A bo...ashold c-esfes cf a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total ooo.ltion. s4-vaar (stll.ons)1-( As of July 1; if notrvilke                        end chair main meals.  A boardar or ledger may or may non be  ecluded in
averag  of? two so-year estimatesal 190,"1975    d 1977 date,                           the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical dcfi itioiss of house-
Urhan poopulation Is erat of totali - Atis ofurban to coral popula-                      hold vary.
tion; differsnt taf initios of arbe  area map affect comparabilityAhorstes number of perasn.  oar room - total. uchan, aed rural -    rge  ue
of dat. aman  countr'ies                                                                bar of parsons per ross in all. urhas, and rural occpied c-oootonsi1
Populanlon dsnsity                                                                        dwellings  reepsctively.  Dueellings e-luda no-permaent structures  and
Per  so. ha. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (il  bhctars)-unccupied parts.
of :otsl erea.                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~Acoss  to sIactricity Iparceor of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Pe  o.k.saiuluelad-Coaputed as above for agricultural leand                              Convanional dwellings wtslactricity in lIinig quar.ters as parcentees
only,                                                                                   oftta.  ur-ban, and rura  dwligIapciey
FPoplation see atrcture losrcson) - Childoo   (0-14 years). seorking-aga
615-64 ysr)   nd rstirsd (65 years and ova) as percentaegs  of old-                EDU)CATION
vsar population.                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~Adlusctd snrollmen.t ratios
Poplaionarset rts(percent) - total, and urban - Compound so-u.I                   Primary school - total, and female - Total ond female enrollmet of all apes
month racss of ctoa  an .d unbar nd-ysar populations for 1950-60,                       at tha primary Iaa  nas percantages of repcieyprimary school-ens
196-0, and I970-75.                                                                     popusi...s; normaly iInuda  uhildrme aged h-1l psars hut adjunrad for
Cr,da hinsrecs-tlpsr thousend) - Annua  live births per thousand ofdifferen  lsngths o1f primary aualn   o   onna    Ihuieslou
old-year pupul,ation; ten-pear eritimotlc av"rages ending in 1960 and                   cation enrollment mey soceed 100 p-rcant slots some pupils are balow o
191  n  (osyaraergssdigin191fo   oe  rcntatlat.Sv  Ihcbsoficiatl school as..
Irus dechrat   or9touad)-  nua  dahs par thousan:d of mid-                         Secnar.     cho  -ttal. -An  famal  - Computed seaova;s...ondarysduca-
csarpoplatin;   an-ysr  nitiaci  avrags  m-ding in 1960 and 1970              don. requires at lasac  four ysars of approved primary instruction; pro-
andfv -psr  veaS: ending in 1975 Ion mast ra.s..  stimata-t.                            oidsa gansrs1 voca.tional, or csaohsr training instrootions for pupils
Irons re routc rts-Aagenmrofdaught.ara woman will bsc                                     usually of 12 no 17 years of aSs; oorrespendsno.ccursssara  g.anrally
in her normal  sprodoucics priodi  sha. eepsieocsspsstae:oldd
spc    I (eiiyracs  uauall>  fios--sraess  enigin 1960,                        Vocationa  entroillent (Percent of secondary) - Vocarioa   in 1Jsti.tuin    -
I197, and 195                                                                           cluda tarhoical, industrial, or othsr progras  w hich oparastendspendanclc
Peall  olanolos- accptror.  nnal(rthou-eda) -Aaual number of                              or as dspartmnta of ascondaryIntuios
accaptora of hlrth-control  isvcss und   .supices of national family                 Punil-teacher ratio - Drimarv. mad secondary - Total  tadants  arrollec ic
plannin  Proga                                                                          primary and secondary 1-0.l6 divided by stambers of t-ahers In chacro
taly oninsusr' s orose otf earciad wmn    P-rretgs. of                                    spondig level.
married woome  of cilld-bering ags  15-uk years) who use birth-con.trol              Adult litsrecy rats fpsrcentl - Literate adults (able to read and  rfitsla
devices to all married  -ome  in, saee  agS. group.                                     e percentage of total adult ;poplation sgsd (7 years end  -osr.
FOOD Alit NUTRITION                                                                    CONSUMIPTION(
Ioden of food produution p.r caspita  1970-1100  - tnds. combat of per                 Passesnger cars (per thonsend poouletion) - Paseng"er c.ar  -opriso motor cars
caiaana   roduc,tion, of all food conaoditiss.                                seating less than eight parsons ; ancludas embo1ancas, hsarses and milItary
Potcr   c   upoly ofcaoies  Cpercent of rseulromsocs) - Computed from                   -ehicla..
serdgyy sqois:lent of ost food supplisa available in coun.try per capita             Raedio recri-nst  lost th-acant populstion) - oil types of raci-rer  for radio
pe  de.  AvIlal   upisoors   oetcproduction, imports  es                              broadcastsito gensra  pblic per thousan d of population; snlds.lcos
soports, and chana. in  toc,   etepplias entluda animalfad  sans,                     rsier  in coun-trie  ad in ysar  when registration of rdio IesuaI
quniis .sd infood processing  andlossin distributlon.   Rs                     effect; data forrecet years maynot be coparble since most counries
quiremeoto cers stimad by Phi ha..ad on phyaolginal osds forno-                       alihdissng
mal actioty and health conidaring  -nironmnata1 tsmps..ature, body                   TV reca.i-ansleer.t ...ua.nd nooalatiool     TV rec..i-ars for broadcast to gonord
eights, aSs and sa- distributions of population, ant allowing 10 per-                   public perhouadpplto;ecitsulcns  TV recalors in cou-
cent  or waca a  household 1a-1.                                                   triss and in yea'rs whan regStr .rato  o   'sn  was i  afct.
Per capIta supply of protsin lSerea  pst day) - Protein ctontnt of per                 Meeporc1clto   pr thooaand  .Oulstlon) - Shows the average circul-
capita net supply of food per day.  siet supply of food is defined as                   non o1.f 'dsily geneara 1lainterest nadapr , dfIne  as aperdical punlt-
abova.  Isquiramente for all coucnias established by iSDA po-ids for                    cation devoted primaril~ to recording genera  nesI          t  s nidersd c
s inleu  allowance of 60 gr-m  of ctota  protein per day and 20 grams                  hedal   if it appats at   saet four times a week.
of an imatad  uleprorsin. of which 10 grams Should be animal protein.                Cinema annual attendance per capit  per Year B- ssd on tie number of LiCkats
...e.o sadardsuera loa hn  those of 75 gram  of total protein an-sd                           drn   h   ar   nldn    adiue             to drive-in ci-as and sobilo
23 jrasa ofanimal Proteinsa  average for the world, propo...d by                        units
Fci in chs Third World Pood Survey .d
PrcItorsin suoplo from anial  adpule-Poen pply of food                       feLPOYfENT
derived fromaias  n   uss  cgepsr dy.                                                Total labor foros lthb.u.a.dsl  - tconomically antics psrsons, inclod log  ...
Child (a.S.  1-4) mentality rote  pe lot houead) -Annual deaths pen thous-                forces and   bnupoedht .oluding houseai-r, s-conc., tcc.  Dnfn-
and in  gs group 1-4 ysers, to children in th is egs group.                             tions in   nu   cOUntries are not coparble.
reel   oace   -rmalo la:bor (once as percetage     tota  laorfoce
ctALTH                                                                                  haiutr   pret) - lbofrc  in forming, I -v-tr,  col   ad funhc-n
rasicogat  inh;usall  fneyaa  asrgs  enin  in 19601,1970,                   Inusr  (pecet)-tLabor. force   inding, contrction, nauhcurn   r
and l9'.                                                                                electricIty, water end gSeaa  per..entags of total la1bor forc..
:h.ent no-ality roatepars thousand) - Annua  deaths of infants under                    artciptio rta  -pret)    total, mal., and fsma1e   Total,  ai., ono
Po   arof ass per thuadlntere cnl   ao   oc   s  ocrae        hI  rsnnc    cualr
Access. tc esfe water (osroso  ofipopulatIon) - total. urbs. and rural-                     bas  em. .. LOs 0 ad1ordpancpsurrte   e icy.  c-e
Number of peopls (total, urban, and rura)with.reesonabla  ccs   tocc cr f rho population  -od  org cive tred.
safe cotor supply   lcus  croons%    d srf       etn mnrsr untraod hut              iccmcdpnscorti-au    f  oualrcur       r   baOoe
nconcealnac_d _wtasc  a  te  from  rotected bonehlse. opningn,                          the  lbor (once ur age g-opoill',-6uoa--
and can itcar  wala) as penerag...  oftchair rsp-ctine poulations.
lanuan   nreayulcfnti  orsnandposr loatdpntTmor                                   INCOME DISTRIIC'TION
rha  lt  atas  ro  a  oue  aybo-onidar-d as being withi iFaaa                  ...rctnaa of pni-ano ioo... (bon  ih cash ano kivl recived hu richest 
.onahlsaucasa of that hos.   Ic rural er.aa reamonable  -cs  would                      perrant, riches,t 20 peracn, poo...ct lC perroo, and poonent 40 percnt
top ly tha.t the  o--iwfro  n-nero of the household do non have to                      o     .husods.
pyand adi dlpnpor tlnats par:,t fi tha day in fatching ths femily's
wanonoseda.                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Alccesc erts disoal            oreto   osain   'total  ura,ed                          taies   bolt   oet  icm   e                  (111 per capita) -  -nia.oc  rd 
roel-  ,ibe  o  yops  toal  orio.  ndtura) esrved bserets                            Ahnuspvrymuelli   ht incun. love) halco  hic_adi.
diaposal as psrcentsgss of their rasp-ti-s populations.  Eacrets                        nutr itionally adequate diet plu a.aa..n.cal vo-f-creu  evt.uc
dieponIayinclude the coloconad disposal, wi th on withou                                 frtordabla.
tannt of h-,  -orc  sod  -ast-watar bytwatar-bor-   systems                    itcumed relati-e ou-rty Inc-ns leve   151 pen capita, - urban anod,r 
orthsje  of pit princIad scila  Inatalltlon.                                           ise apoer   nom   od u  thati-                       - Incm evlla  than  -r-chur
Population  s- virsician-' Popul-ccondici d:d byushr of pr-tnhicogper iapita persona   .cous  of  h. counry-
physiin  quliid (re -           dia  cr.1.tav    icy 1-va.                           Eatinat-d puoulacion bolow p-verny in.om. leve  (per-cn) -  rbon and ru-l 
Ppulation pa ,nrIn parson. - PoyIclstlo  divided"'by number of                            Percant of popalation (urban aco rurall  ho  ar   ither 'houepoor  o
p     _cico   ml  and femlo gradus te nurses, pratica- nrss  and                    relative poor" onichsnar is greate.r
asriacor c vursoa.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,, i                                                             o-~i



-    23  -                                                                ANEX I
Page 4, of 4 pages
ECONOMIC ISNlCATORS /1
AREA                            POPELRATION (19773                                DENSITY
236,800 sq km               1.2 million  (annual growth rate 2.41)                  13 per sq am
which  Urban            102
Labor force   50%
,ROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT r'1977)              GNP PER CAPI-A (1977)             LABOR FORC' (1977)
CSS290 million /2                            US590  I                  I.b million
7J.'EhNME    713A71c    Oucal Years)                     MONEY  CREDIT AND iRICES
1975      i976      i977
State Budsec                                                                  (billion KL outstanding
1977          :978 /3                                                                end fiscal period)
()Blion KL)
Cacal Expendicures            49.0          65.6         .Money and Quasi Money                                  4.75        8.30      11.i
Total Receipts                 8.2          11.5          Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)                     4.30        7.20      11.1
Deficic                       40.8          54.1          Bank Credit to Private Sector                          0.32        0.18       0.3
<ecernal kssiscance           35.7          50.3
ent-rl 3aS. Borrowing          5.1           3.9                                                              (Percentages or Index Numbers,
Coat of Livtng Index - Vientiaa  /!4 (1970-100)  913              2.320       5.3Z0
Annual percentage changes in:
Cost of Living  Index - Vienciane                            210         90
8ank Credit co Public Sector (net)                            67         54
Bank Credit to Private Sector                                -;3         b7
Money and Quasi Money                                         75         34
3ALANCE OF PAYMENTS  5                                                                                M.ERC?iANDISE EXPORTS sAVERAGE 1976-78)
1974      1975       1976     1977      1978                                                            JSS million:
(USS Million)
Timber and wood products                     2.2              23
Mercandise (net)                    -59.6      -50.0     -41.5   -55.0       -64.0                    Ti-ln-concencrate                                             12
Exparcs                              9.5        3.0       6.5      9.0       11.0                   Coffee                                       3.5               -a
!.porcs                            69.1       53.0       48.0     64.0       75.0
Services 1nec                        -17.3     - 8.0    -15.5   -20.0    -20.0                        A1L other commoditces c eiecrricirv    2.3                     25
Receipts                            20.7        3.0       4.5      3.5        6.3                         Total                                  d.8              i00
E.pe-ditures                        38.0      16.0       20.0     23.5       26.5
Corre-t 3alance                      -76.9      -58.0     -57.0   -75.0       -84.0
Ca-tcil and Transfers "6              99.5       48.0      52.0      70.0      82.0                    EXTERN4AL DEBT. CECEMBER 31, 1977
Over31  3alznce /7                    10.0      - 7.0     - 1.0    - 4.d         1.3                                                          SS oclllon
>-an4e in R-serres (-increase)   - 2.0            3.1     - 2.8       1.9     -12.3                   Public Debt, *ncl. g3aranceec               75.
MF 3aorr .o,-g                          -         3.9       3.8        -       11.0                   Nonguaranteed Privace Deot
Total Outstanding and Disbursed
Cross Reserves rend  -ear)             L0.9       7.8       L0.6      5.9      18.3
Petroleum products Imports            14.0       12.0       3.8       6.0       8.0                   DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1977 1.9
RATE 3F EXCHANGE                                                                                       Public Debt, incl. guaranteed              . .8
Nonguaranceed Private Debt
March 1975-June 30, 1976                  July 1976-May 1978                                          Total O.standing and Disbursed
SS01.00 - KL 37.5                         USSI.30 - KL 200
KL 1.00 - USSO.027                       KiL 1.00 * US50.005                                           IBRD/IDA LENDING. February 1979    (million  US$)
IBRD          IDA.
Since June 1978                                                                                       Outstanding & Disbursed                   -
USS1.30 * KL 400                                                                                      Undisbursed                               -           8.1
KL I1.30 - USSO.0025                                                                                  Outstanding inml. Undisbursed             -           3.2
2I  Avaliable data is very limited.  Population, labor force, GNP and per capita G9P figures are estimates.  In June 1976.  che kip (K)
was replaced by Kip de lib&ration  (IL) ac a conversion rate of K 20 - EL 1; all figures in local currency have been converced to
KY equivalents.
'  Based on staff estimLates for 1977 in local currency and converted at average 1977/78 exchange rate (C. 300/SI.  The lack of data
precludes the use of Sank Atlas methodology.
3  PrelL=.nary.
- End of calendar vear index; for 1976 and 1977, indices adjusted to reflect near zero inflation on the offical market.
'5  Balance of paymtens acc -unts are not copiled  in Laos; cable constructed on the basis of staff estim,ates and data provided bv L_a
authorities; trade figures limited to official transactions only; 1975 for the Vientiane zone only; 1976-77 for the wnole country.
6 Includes co-odit aid.
77  Includes errors and omissions, and, is 1974, capLial exports.
/3 Ratio of debt serv-ce to exports of goods.
.no aL   oLnee
- nil



- 24 -                             ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LAO PDR
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1980)
Loan or                                                Amounts ($ million)
Credit                                                 Less cancellations
Number   Year  Borrower    Purpose                Bank      IDA     Undisbursed
760-LA   1977  Lao PDR       Agriculture             -     8.2           6.6
924-LA   1979  Lao PDR       Agriculture             -    10.4          10.4 /a
Total                                    -    18.6          17.0
of which has been repaid               -       -
Total now outstanding                    -    18.6
Amount sold                              -        -
Total now held by Bank and IDA           -    18.6
Total undisbursed                        -    17.0
/a  Of which $50,000 has been transferred to a Special Account.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
None: Lao PDR is not a member of IFC
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Cr. No. 760-LA First Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Project:
$8.2 million Credit of December 27, 1977; Effective Date:
April 5. 1978: Original and Current Closing Date:
December 31. 1982.
Project implementation is about 18 months behind schedule due pri-
marily to: (a) the lack of familiarity of Lao officials with IDA's procurement
procedures; and (b) the late arrival of technical specialists financed out of
a $1.7 million grant from the UNDP. All specialists under the project are now
in the field and the pace of project implementation has improved considerably.
Awards have been made for equipment and materials for a quarter of the cost of
the project and additional awards will be made shortly.  Standard designs and
specifications for the irrigation schemes are being prepared for submission to
IDA for approval.



- 25 -                          ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
Cr. No. 924-LA Second Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Project:
$10.4 million Credit of June 15, 1979; Effective Date:
October 17, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
This credit became effective in October 1979 and progress is satis-
factory. Awards have been made for equipment and materials for about one
sixth of the cost of the project.
4



ANNEX III
- 26 -                            Page 1 of 2
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
THIRD AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Prolect Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:          11 months
(b) The agencies which have prepared
the project with assistance from
the Association:                            Ministries of Agriculture,
Forestry and Water
Resources, Industry and
Commerce
(c)  Date of first presentation to IDA:          November 1978
(d) Date of first IDA mission to
consider the project:                       May 1979
(e) Date of departure of appraisal
mission:                                    September 18, 1979
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:         March 26, 1980
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:              September 10, 1980
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
The Government has agreed to:
(a) select, not later than October 31, 1980, consultants to
undertake the feasibility study for power supply development
in the southern provinces of Laos (para. 44);
(b) arrange with UNDP and FAO for the appointment, not later
than January 31, 1981, of the four specialists not recruited
as conditions of disbursement (para. 46);



ANNEX III
- 27 -                            Page 2 of 2
(c) review annually and adjust, when necessary, farm-gate prices
for major crops, including coffee, and exchange views with IDA
on the results of this review and the adequacy of rice milling
charges (para. 50);
(d) establish, not later than October 31, 1980, the project
coordinating committee and the three project executive
committees (paras. 51 and 52);
4                      (e)  arrange for the timely provision of funds, resources and
staff to construct, maintain and operate all project-supported
activities (para. 53);
(f) submit annual work programs to IDA for approval (para. 53);
(g) maintain a separate account for each component in each
province and audit project accounts following procedures
acceptable to IDA (para. 54);
(h) establish, not later than October 31, 1980, an interministerial
unit to monitor and evaluate the project (para. 55);
(i) allow farmers to keep their grain when they use government
mills and pay for the milling costs in kind (para. 59).
As a condition of disbursement for the respective components, the
Government has agreed to appoint:
(i) an engineer for rice milling;
(ii) an expert for coffee processing;
(iii) a mechanical expert for workshops; and
(iv) a rice agronomist for cooperative farms (para. 46).






Workslaoo sktaff s-sy tfo
J                              jdg-     l  I 'tw                2
20          0-'9Q ' 't                                                                                                                                                      (
22K       cHIN           Il   ~~~~~~~i ENsorp InAhptOOO
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
LEXVATION(G-EDROS                                                                                                                 \ >II
lREX aTINd DORA   STRUCTION OR BE NG UPGRADED\Sa-hke                                                         (    -
200 - 999
O      o 199
-1 6"             ~~~PROPOSED ROADSI6L
EXISTING PAVED ROADS
EXISTING GRAVEL DR LATERATE ROADS
…. ROADS ODER CONSTRUCTION OR REINS UPGRADES
RIVERS
+       Al RPORTS
PROVINCIAL   UNDARIES
INTERNATIONBAL BOUNDARIES
WA1N RICE PRODUCEN DAREAS
14'          0         5~ ~~0 100            150                                                                                                     >     ~
-1 4'                                                      ~~~~~~~~~DEMOCRATIC  KAMPUCHEA                                                                  k\         '
1020                                            10C40






IBRD 14763
FE2~                                         lO :102 13°4                                                   DECEMBER 1979
/ f      C E   I N A                                                         LAO  PEOPLE'S  DEMOCRATIC  REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT m
PROJECT LOCATION
.TJ#  A    d                                                                               VPEOP  Vientiane  Province
$,L   .     1 REP    8@                                            RICE MILLING INFRASTRUCTURE:                        PRIMARY PAVED ROADS
U  BIG  SIZE M LL                                 GRAVEL OR LATER TE ROADS
'  7H; AELAND   .)   4                                              AAM  *  MEDIUM  SiZE M LL              ____-   ROAD UNDER CONSTRUCTION  OR
R. . .4 >                                     *A  MEDIUM / SMALL SIZE MILL                         BEING UPGRADED
.N        ABRPEJDI)                                               0 O SMALL HULLER MILL                             HIGHLAND AREA
.. ., w} > t / ............................... - -PROVINC AL BOUNDARIES
Sns,pb30vtA                                                                            -*-INTERNATIONAL  BOUNDARIES
PR  B .  WCA S@R VERS
IO1                     /f LUANG                            ) PRABANG r 9 < g NG
\   V(AGNABOURI     E!               4    7       _                     - B      ,L fR   N.
_' f~~~~~~~~~~B NaPhaf/. Ch-nN f    
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J /PR/                     V I E/                                                        T           
-l8t                              17-S2,f1t I \18
J        t        +4SANAIrhAM d  PAKMI                                                                                                           NA
S \D         EC    bC       BC    lET
\ ~    ~~~~~~ Gu   BOR                             H                                      Ph- qA N   
,  _/                                                                             0     20      40    60      80    10,0~~~~~~~~~ N,L.
MIL ES
hsap hasbeen prepared by thheWhtld 8tantks saf reuntusinety frthe nsnsedn,tt            0        0             0n0
bonanes shown en this snap ds not imply. on tho patrt of tbe Wo rld dank and toe
aIente. any lodassens on the legal stets tsfo any terrntort or anyendsorsemseot or                KI LOMET ERS
asseptasnce of sucb boundaries
101°                        102t                                           103                                           104~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






IBRD 14764
-   >   '  )  _  <   ~   \  1065°  Cong 4   i07e                         DECEMBER 1979
\  B   Nok-Sst3phe    \                                       0\   v^r l ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J,f of  ,  C  H I N  A     
P BUR MA
---i           H          u                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~7DEM><
-NongBo                                       <                        _ '                            17-           THAILAND          A- p
AMPCHB
lEe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
B. Kenkb                 (                     :                                         |                         e    |7 t' s  h
LA75en  PEOLES-,8 DEMOCRATIC  R EPU
>~~~ <                                                    )  <J/}M-Cg Ph--                                                                       Sg > eo
Z                                               Augnke N   A KX                 X  <,'  P  E   tt                      MA L AY
\<=S>mo,  i  l  4             A  / B Ka7  >)   i~~~~ bng Kanm         j             _
-16>                            =         <~~~~~~~~~~~~~B Sb.,g N.-W. _ <(e w            )        %                                                 16°.
LAO  PEOPLE'S DEMVOCRATIC REPUBLIC    7               \      a~\) 
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION
AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT e(
PROJECT LOCAT ION                                 %,                                 >,s BAREV   
Southern  Province  of Savannakhet
and  Chompassak                              gf        Kog..os>9          )/\                                            > ~
R CE M LL NG INFRASTRUCTURE
B IG     SIlZ E   M I LL                                     12agpe Tn
MEDIUM SIZE MILL                               ;         /                  t          '/'      
COFFEE INDUSTRY'
_    COFFEE PRODUCING AREA
(©   NEW  COFFEE PROCESS NG PLANT                                                                     A  T  T      P E U
PRIMARY PAVED ROADS                       {         \ogsnfv              / 8        \/ At p \
-- GRAVEL OR LATER TE ROADS                    )         7 \No         gsmi        0 t                     _X(
TRAIL UNDER CONSTRUCTION OR,   \ 5m                        7      N                           /
BE ING UPGRADED
AREAS OF 1000m ELEVATION AND OVER                           B-J BaHangdon-$           S m ol             ~        v>/      v
_. _   PROVINC AL BOUNDARIES                             C H         A S S A K
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
¾     otat ~/t  9   /  SaphaX 1   ~D  E M  O  C  R A  T I C
14J   |-                                                                                 K AM  PUCHEA
t    >Xsef                C   °   2~~~~~~~~~~~~~10  30  4,0  50
ST [ES
Th,s map has been ccep-h d ste Wor/d - f V k a staff e,clca,cely fr the ccn,enecceIO6
ot the reade-s of tbereport to wancsc,t V atta che- The de-otnssed and the                                  0       20      40      6        ED     1
b-chd-5r-essho-c c th,t lhpScr   ot -pr onats pat tof the World -ak -ndcts "I
afftl,-tes  t ;ldre-to - -tce legal_tat  -`of`y"tectoc aneccectoc                                                             LOMETERS
-cceptance of-ch boundf nesJ
105°                                        DEc                                          107'



