L-V   'K) VJ /    - P7 L
Doumpumt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
port ND. P-6455-AL
ND(OANDU  AJID IEOHRND&TION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF TUE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR ECONSTRUCTION ANID DEVELOPNEIET
KEXECwILv  DIRECTOkS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQIALENT TO US$51 MILLION
TO THE
DEOCRAIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOR AN
EMERGENCY RECONSIRUCTION PROJECT
NOVEMBER 10, 1994
This doc_met has a resticted diStution and may be used by recipient only in th pefoman  of
their officia dutes. Its contents may not otws be dclosed witout Wod   bk autoiabtiloM



EXCHANGE RATE
Currency Unit: Algerian Dinar (DA) = 100 Centimcs
Equvalency of 1 US$ in DA since 1985
1985             5.03
1986             4.70
1987             4.85
1988             5.92
1989             7.46
1990             8.60
1991             17.35
1992             22.49
1993             22.00
1994   (Sept. 9)  38.00
ABBREVIATIONS
I g.a      32.2 ft/s/si of gravitational acceleration
bbl/d       barrels per day
ft         feet: 0.30 meter
ha          hectare
Km   :    kilometer
MW/3    :    cubic meters per second
Mm3  :    million of cubic meter
Mnmt :    million of metric tons
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
AGID        :    Agence Nationale de RFalisation et de Gestion des Infrastructures
Hydrauliques pour Irrigation e. le Drainage
BAD               Banque Algerienne de D6veloppement
BEFL        :    Banque de D6veloppement Local
CGS         :    Centre National de G6nie Parasismique
DHW         :    Direction de l'Hydraulique de la Wilaya de Mascara
DSA         :    Direction des Services Agricoles de la Wilaya de Mascara
DTlP        :    Direction des Travaux Publics de la Wilaya de Mascara
DUC         :    Direction de l'Urbanisme et de la Construction de la Wilaya
de Mascara
EPEOR       :    Entreprise de Production, de Gestion et de Distribution d'Eau d'Oran
EPIC        :    Entreprise Publique, Industrielle et Commerciale
GOA         :    Government of Algeria
MA          :    Ministere de l'Agricutre
ME          :    Ministere de I'Equipement
MICLERA   :    Ministbre de l'Interieur, des Collectivit6s Locales, de l'Environmement
et de la RWforme Administrative
ONCTC       :    Organisme National de Contr6le Technique de la Constucton
SONELGAZ :    Soci&t6 Nationale de l'Electricite et du Gaz
WILAYA(TE):    Province(s)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PEMOCRATI An POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
MASCARA EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Loan and Project Sumna
Borrower           :     Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Beneficiaries            Mistry of Agriculture, Ministry of Education, Ministry of
Housing, Ministry of Public Health, and Ministry of Public
Works
Amount             :     US$51 million equivalent
Terms              .     Repayable in 17 years, including S years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate
povery CLategory    :    Not applicable
Financi  Plan                               Local        Foreign     Total
-== -U-IS$ Million---
Requirements:            32.6           51.0       83.6
Financed by :
IBRD       :             --           51.0        51.0
Government:           -332.6
TOTAL SOURCES             M6 
Eco0nomic
Rate of Return :   Not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report No.    :   Not applicable - A Technical Annex is attached
Ma:               IBRD No. 26457
lils document has a resticted distrbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
ofricia dutes Ils content may not otherwi be dbclosed without World Bank authorization.  i



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO TUE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOR AN EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on
a proposed loan to the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria for the
equivalent of US$51 million to help fmance an Emergency Reconstruction
Project. The loan would be at the Bank's standard variable interest rate, with a
maturity of 17 years, including 5 years of grace.
1.          Background  On August 18, 1994, at 1 Hour 13 GMT, an earthquake with a
magnitude of 5.6 on the Richter scale, struck a mountainous area known as Beni Chougrane in
the Province of Mascara in Algeria. The epicenter of the seism was located near the village of
Sehadlia, with the mpture area extending over a radius of 13 kilometers. In the aftermath of
the earthquake, ten aftershocks with magnitudes varying from 3.9 to 5.1 occurred within a
period of 36 hours. The impact of the earthquake was devastating, as 172 people lost their
lives, 295 were injured and had to be hospitalized, and 10,000 were left homeless. Basic
infrastructures, public and residential dwellings suffered major damages that resulted in the
interruption of road traffic and public services right after the seism. These damages, estimated
at US$128 million, to a large extent occurr. because of the nature of the traditional village
houses in the area. They were made of irregular stones bonded with clay, and covered with
wooden-framed roofs. The whole structure was not conceived to resist the shock of an
earthquake with a magnitude like the one that took place.
2.          Algeria is prone to seismic hazard. The largest one measuring 7.2 occurred in
the city of Chelf on October 10, 1980, causing widespread damages in this agglomeration.
Tectonic activities and the associated seismicity in North Africa stem from the closing of the
African and the Eurasian plates at an estimated rate of 0.9 cm per year. This convergence has
generated major earthquakes along the Mediterranean coast over the last three centuries. The
Algerian authorities are conscious of this risk, and have issued seismic safety regulations. With
the assistance of foreign experts, they have proceeded with seismic zoning and microzoning,
with a view to assessing earthquake hazard at different places in the country. They have also
issued regulations spelling out prevention measures to put in place in case of natural
catastrophes, and ways to orgadze relief efforts.
3.          Government's Response. All vital sectors in the region were damaged by the
earthupake. Potable water supply was cut off, four road sections were destroyed, and part of
an irrigation system collapsed. Prior to the seism, most economic activities in this pastoral land
consisted of livestock raising, supplemented by the culture of dry crops, such as grapes, olives,
and almonds. The seism caused the loss of 1,400 heads of cattle. The Government was quick
to respond to this emergency. Within hours following the earthquake, a rescue and medical
team arrived ih the area. Its first action was to bury the dead and to transfer the injured to
nearby hospitals. Next, 3,600 tents were installed to shelter the homeless population. To
prevent epidemics, potable water was trucked to the area, and medicines and assistance given
to the population. Food and clothing were distributed free to the population.



4.          As the situation has now stabilized in the area, the authorities have begun to install
weather-resilient steel structures for public dwellings, such as schools, health centers, and other
offices, as well as for the affected population. This is necessary to protect the population from
decreasing temperatures with the approaching winter. These structures will be integrated within
the permanent dwellings that will be rebuilt for the homeless families. As most of them do not
want to return to the land where they used to live for fear of more aftershocks, they will be
housed in neighboring areas. These new settlements are in the same villages where the
destroyed houses were located. The authorities are now planning the reconstruction phase with
a view to restoring assets and economic activities in the affected region.
5.          Bank Response and Strategy. On August 22, 1994, the Algerian authorities
requested emergency Bank assistance for reconstruction of the earthquake-devastated area in
Mascara. A reconnaissance mission visited Algeria between September 9 and 15, 1994, to
assess the damages. This was followed by an appraisal mission in mid-October 1994, with
negotiations taking place in Paris, France, in early November 1994. The Mascara earthquake
came at a particularly bad time for Algeria. The country is going through a political turmoil
with civil unrest stirred up by a depressed economy. Unemployment is at 25 percent. As a
compounding factor, a severe drought since 1985 has substantially reduced water availability for
urban supply and irrigation. The drought was so intense this summer that it generated a number
of uncontrolled forest fires, particularly in the western part of the country, where Mascara is
located. The losses resulting from these fires are estimated at US$50 million.
6.          The Bank's assistance strategy for Algeria aims to support macroeconomic
stabilization and accelerated structural reform. It is geared toward establishing the necessary
conditions for a strong supply response that would help to meet the basic social needs of the
population. This strategy is part of a broader effort by Algeria's external partners to promote
economic reform, ease the debt service burden, and contribute to greater stability in the country.
Under the proposed strategy, an economic rehabilitation loan, appraised in September, will
support economic reform measures that would set the foundation for a new phase of adjustment
lending starting in 1995. The proposed reconstruction loan would provide further badly needed
external assistance to Algeria. It would help to minimize budget disruptions that the additional
resources requwired to reconstruct the eartuake-devastated area, might have in other
Government programs and initiatives.
7.          The proposed project meets all the criteria for Bank emergency recovery
assistance. The earthquake impact together with that of the continuous drought and of damages
caused by the forest fies, are significant enough to furer increase the budget deficit and slow
down the economic recovery process. A quick, effective Government response to the emergency
in Mascara is vital for promoting further political and economic stability in the country. The
Bank has gained much experience in disaster recovery, having so far participated in a large
number of emergency reconstruction programs, and thus could be of great assistance to
Algeria.



8.          Pt  ObLeje s. The proposed Bank assistance will focus on the short- and
medium-term recovery of the sectors most affected by the seism. The project aims at rebuilding
the economic, social, and physical assets that were destroyed by the earthquake, with a view
to restoring essential facilities and services in the shortest possible time. To this end, it will
assist the authorities in sefting up an effective organization to manage the reconstruction
program. It will help to develop long-term measures for seismic damage prevention and
mitigation. It will further evaluate the institutional framework for dealing with natural disasters,
and make appropriate recommendations. Although the primary goal of the project is asset
reconstrction, it will nevertheless proceed within a larger view of promoting more economic
development in the region.
9.          Past Experience in Emergency Operations. The Bank has not before given
emergency assistance to Algeria, though the country has suffered major earthquakes like the one
in Chelf City in October 1980. The Bank, however, has gained valuable experience in disaser-
recovery assistance. The lessons learned in past operations have been taken into account in
designing the proposed reconstruction project. As the project is essentially targeted toward
restoring normal economic and social conditions, broader policy issues have been set aside and
left to be pursued later. Project execution should begin immediately, since there are no up-front
conditions to bet met. Such conditions have caused major delays in the execution of past
emergency operations. The project advocates the establishment of a strong implementation unit,
a key element for the success of those operations. Also, based on past experience, the project
includes a public education program on disaster mitigation, and guidance in disaster-resistant
building techniques.
10.         Project Description and Implementation.  The project would include the
reconstruction and repairs to facilities in the following sectors: (a) in education, 2 schools would
be rebuilt, and 10 others repaired (US$2.7 million); (b) in housing, steel structures would be
provided to the homeless, repairs would be made to damaged houses, public buildings would be
reconstucted, and 2,131 new housing units would be built (US$55.7 million); (c) in agriculture,
repairs would be made to the irrigation system, 6 holding basins would be constructed at the foot
of hills, damaged irrigation equipment would be replaced, and a reforestation program would
be carried out (US$3. 1 million); (d) in public health, all health centers in the affected villages
would be rebuilt (US$1.2 million); (e) in roads, six sections of three national roads would be
repaired (US$11.4 million); (f) in water supply and sewerage, the water and sewer networks in
the affected villages would be rebuilt, water and sewerage services would be provided in the new
housing development areas, and lagoons would be constructed for reuse of treated water in
irrigation (US$7.8 million); (g) in earthquake hazard reduction and prevention, seismic zonimng
and microzoning studies would be carried out, a revision of seismic design coefficients and
spectra followed by an evaluation of building codes would be undertaken, and a public awarencs
program dealing with natural disasters would be implemented (US$1.5 million); and (h) in social
rehabilitation, the needs of women and children affected by the earthquake would be addressed
with a view to restoring their productive facilities and activities (US$0.2 million).



-4 -
11.        D:>amages to the power sector were minor, and the national power utility,
SONELGAZ, should be able to repair them without outside assistance. Two factories, a wheat
flour grinder and a brick making facility, were destroyed by the seism. The recommendation
was made to the authorities to take advantage of this situation to sell these public enterprises to
the private sector. This replacement cost as well as that of the livestock is not included in the
proposed project. About two-thirds of the investments would be made in the housing sector, and
to some extent this cost would need to be recovered within the limits of the population's income.
The population in the area is largely rural, low-income, living on limited revenues from
livestock raising and subsistence agriculture. On this basis, and given the losses suffered by the
population as a result of the earthquake, the Government has decided to provide a subsidy of
US$8,940 equivalent to each homeowner to start the reconstruction of his/her dwelling. It is
estimated that this amount will finance only the core of the dwelling. To complete the
reconstruction process, the Government is prepared to make sub-loans to the affected
homeowners on concessionary terms. These sub-loans would be managed by the Banque de
D6veloppement Local (BDL), an institution that the Government has been using to finance rural
housing. For homeowners whose dwellings were only damaged by the seism, the Government
will provide a subsidy of US$2,980 equivalent to each of them to fmance repairs to the
dwellings. Sub-loans should also be made available to them for additional finishing works.
12.         A Bank loan of US$51 million is proposed to finance the foreign exchange
component of the project. Part of the loan equivalent to US$4.8 million, together with equal
counterpart funds, will be used by the Government to make sub-loans to homewoners as
previously desebed. The remaining proceeds of the Bank loan would be used to match the
Government subsidies for reconstruction of the destroyed houses and public dwellings, and for
rebuilding in the other sectors.
13.         Agreed Actions. The proposed project is not conceived as a vehicle for policy
changes, and as such there would be no conditionality attached to it. Nevertheless, certain
actions need to be taken that would ensure speedy project execution, given its emergency nature,
and adheence to existg policies. The first one dealt with project implemenation. Because
of the involvement of several sectors, it was agreed with the Government to decentralize the
project at the provincial level. In addition, a project implementation unit would be set up at this
level to coordinate project execution among the different sectors. Staffing and managing this
unit adequately would be an important parameter for project success. To this end, the
Government appointed the project manager of the unit, who participated in the negotiations. It
was further agreed that, not later than amnuvay 31, 1995, the rest of the unit staff will be
appointed by the Govermnent. The unit organization, as well as staff qualifications, should be
acceptable to the Bank.
14.         As indicated before, BDL would make sub-loans to homeowners to finance
finishing works in their dwellings. BDL is an established bank in the project area, with
experience in providing loans for rural housing. One half of the funds for the sub-loans would
come from the Bank loan proceeds, and would be onlent on the same terms of the Bank loan,
except that the foreign exchange risk would be borne by the Government. The other half would



be contributed by the Govermnent. To make the sub-loans affordable to the population, it was
agreed that the Govenunent counterpart funds would be lent on a repayment term of 25 years,
including 4 years of grace, at an interest rate of one percent. This will provide a blend of funds
in equal shares between the Bank loan proceeds and the Government contribution for each sub-
loan, with a resulting repayment term of 20 years, at an interest rate of 4.5%. In this context,
the Govemment and the Bank are currently discussing policies in he housing sector, as part of
a Housing Completion and Sector Development Project (Loan 3561-AL). Any new policies that
would come out from these discussions would be applied for fimte loans that BDL would make
in the earthquake aea.
15.         Cost recovery will be fully achieved in the water supply sector. Under current
policies in this sector, lease fees paid by operators of water supply systems should increase
whenever new installations are built by the Government and handed over to these operators for
exploitation. Accordingly, in conformity with the provisions of such lea'; agreemet, the
Government will increase lease fees charged to the operator in the earthquake area, once the
water supply works in the newly developed areas have been completed.
16.         Project Benefits. The project would assist in restoring physical assets and
economic activities in the earthquake-stncken area. It would alleviate human suffering through
the provision of shelters to 2,131 families. It would provide the whole population with the
necessary school and public health facilities, and with adequate water supply and sewerage
services. A new impulse would be given to agriculture through repair of the irrigation system,
the constuction of holding basins to increase the availability of water, and the execution of a
reforestation program. The project would also spell out measures that the authorities should
inplement to reduce damages by earthquakes, through a revision of the building codes, seismic
zoning and microzoning, and preparedness of the population to the occurrence of natual
disasters. Cost-benefit caklculations cannot be carried out readily, but the project's economic
benefits are expected to be substantial.
17.         Social and Environmental Aspects. The project will address the population's
social and envirornental concerns that have surfaced in the aftermath of the eartquake.
Particular attention will be paid to the needs of women and children. As part of project
execution, a social survey will be carned out. Its aim would be to determine living habits of
the population, so as to design a project which conforms to these habits. The survey would also
look at the women's livelihood prior to the seism, to explore ways to restore it and possibly
improve it. It would also invesdgate the pre-seism social environment of children, proposing
an agenda for improving it. The population has been much traumatized by the devastation, and
has to deal with its fear for the area. Counselling to this effect would be provided under the
project.
18.         The project will have a major positive impact on the environment. Through
rebuilding of the area, the quality of the environment would greatly improve, as more
strcturally sound and functional houses would be provided to the population, accompanied by
good access roads, and better water supply and sewerage services. The project would also



- 6 -
ensure that education and public health facilities are made available to the population. Lagoons
would be built to allow recycling of treated wastewater in agricultLue. Increased water
availability together with the proposed reforestation program would promote a more pleasant,
greener environment in the region. Because lagoons and the construction process in itself might
have some limited adverse environmental effects, the project has been rated "Category B."-
19.         &iLks. There are some risks associated with the execution of the proposed
project. The current political instability in Algeria might disrupt bidding and construction, and
project supervision. Project success depends on the selection of one or several experienced local
finns for the construction of the housing component. If this does not materialize, construction
might drag for years, making the project lose its emergency character. To minimize this risk,
prequalification of bidders will be made, so as to ensure that only qualified and fiancially sound
construction firms participate in the bidding. Additionally, the Government should engage itself
to provide full security for the staff and the installations of the contractors. As long as the
current security risk persists, the Bank will rely on trustworthy, qualified local consultants to
carry out project supervision, with regular review of this task by Bank staff.
20.         Other risks would be involved in the availability of construction materials in the
country.  To safeguard against this situation, contract documents should provide for the
possibility for contractors to import materials, whenever they are not available on the market.
To protect the Govermnent against possible speculation by the contractors, prices of imported
materias should be quoted in bids.
21.         Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply vith the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attacbments.
Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
November 10, 1994



-7-
S&bgedule A
DEMOCRATIC AND POPlULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
MASCARA EMERGENCY RECONSRUCTION PROJECT
ESTIMATED PRO    COS AND FINANCING PLAN
A. Estimated Cost
In    &rUc      to be rebuiltin            Local        Fordm         Total
-US$ Million-
E3ducation                            1.1          1.3          2.4
Housing                              19.1         30.1         49.2
Agriculture                           1.0          1.7          2.7
Public health                         0.3          0.7          1.0
Roads                                 3.7          6.4         10.1
Water supply and sewerage             2.9          4.0          6.9
Subtota                              28.1         44.2         72.3
Social rehabilitation                 0.1          -            0.1
Institutional development
Microzoning, land slide study      0.6          0.8           1.4
Total Base Cost
(Sep. 1994 Prices)                   28.8         45.0         73.8
Physical contingencies                2.9          4.4          7.3
Price escalation                      0.9          1625
TOTAL PROJECT COST                   32.6                      83.6
B. _nmgg Plan
Goverment                            32.6          -           32.6
IBRD                                   -          51.0         51.0
TOTAL SOURCES                        32.6         5.6
L/    Includes US$15.4 million equivalnt in taxes anm duties.



-8-
Schedule B
Page I of 2
DEMOCRATIC AND OPULR RELIC OF AlGhRIA
MSCARA EMICRGENX REONSM^UCTION PILOJECT
1. Siummarv of PrOf ow 4    curement Anasuements
(US$ Xbr.zou Equivalent)
PROCUREMENT METHOD
PROJECT ELEMENT                                                        TOTAL
ICB       LCB       OTHER    N.B.F    COST
1. Works
1.1 Housing developraent,
schools, public dwellings              33.3                              33.3
and bealth centers                    (21.2)                            (21.2)
1.2 Repairs to houses,                      4.7           1.1&                5.8
irrigation, roads                      (2.4)        (0.6)                (3.0)
1.3 Water supply and sewer,                 10.8                             10.8
holding basins, road RN 17             (5.4)                             (5.4)
1.4 Steel structures, public                3.4          16.02               19.4
services, curbs and roads              (2.4)       (11.2)               (13.6)
1.5 Land acquisition                                              5.3         5.3
2. Goods
2.1 Equipment and machinery:
school, hospital, pumps,
aerators, trucks, lorries    3.6                                          3.6
telephone, tansport          (3.3)                                       (3.3)
2.2 Materials:
Pipes and fitings,           2.1                                          2.1
asphalt, seeds               (1.8)                                       (1.8)
3. Consultancies
3.1 Project implementation                                1.6b                1.6
(1.3)               (1.3)
3.2  nstitutional development                             1.7b                1.7
(1.4)               (1.4)
TOTAL                   5.7       52.2         20.4      5.3       83.6
(5.1)    (31.4)        (14.5)              (51.0)
NOME:  Figures in parentheses ar the respeciive amounws finaced by die Bank loan. N.B.F.: Not Bank finaned.
a.     Direct connaccg.
b.     Procured in accordance with World Bank's Guidelins: Use of Cons4an by World Bank Borrowers and by dc World Sink as Executing Agency, August
1981.



-9-
Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
DfEMQCATIC A OIPULAR REPIBLIC OF ALGERIA
MASA  EEGE    RECONSTUCTION PROJECT
11. gsbursemet of the Loan Proceeds
A. Disbursement Categories and Loan Allocaton
Amoud of the Loan Allocated            % Expenditures
Category                    In US$ Milon Equivalent               to be Fliced
(1) Civil work:
(a) Recons    on of residential
and public dwellings                         27.8                            70%
(b) Others                                       6.8                             50%
(2) Equipment and matrials                          4.6                 100% of foreign expenditures
and 80% of local expendius
(3) Sub-loans for housing completion                4.3                             50%
(4) Consultants' services for:
(a) project implention                           1.2                            80%
(b) Earthquake studies                           1.2                            80%
(5) Unalioaed
TOTAL          1
B. I3t_d Loan Disbsemen s
Bank FY               19      9                      1997           1998           1_99
Annual                 7.9            13.8           14.4           11.5            3.4
Cumulative             7 9           21.7            36.1           47.6           51.0
* Expectd to mn over four (4) calendar yeas, the tdwe nee4d to execute the project and me fnl payments on contrt.



- 10-
Schedule C
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF AIGE_RIA
MASCARA EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
KEY PROCESSING EVENTS AND RESPONSIBILIfIfIES
Project identification                     August 22, 1994
First Bank mission to review the project   September 9, 1994
.^Apraisal mission departure         :     October 20, 1994
Date of negotiations                 :     October 31, 1994
Planned date of effectiveness              January 31, 1995
List of relevant PCRs                :     Project Performance Audit
Report No. 13203 on Loan 2379-CO
Popayan Reconstuction Project
Project preparation by                     A. Amir Al-Khafaji
Division Chief
Fritz Rodriguez
Task Manager
Frangois Amiot
Sr. Economist
Samia El-Baroudy
Principal Country Officer, Algeria
Charles Sterling
Sr. Operations Analyst



d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0i 1
il~~~~~~~~~~~l V i
5  8 8 8 8 8.8  .8.8 8  S8  8 8.8]§~8.8 ; 9
*g U                                                           #
-   -  -  -  -  i-  -   -- --
49~~~a   



12
SchqSb 
(Peas20121
Semenat f IFC IEm t In   b
(AsOAUaut t31S19941
Fisal                                                                            (US$Mmn)
1992            Hellos S.PA             Chtmcal& &                       10.00        -         10.00
Perochemico
TotaWgrossoan ts                                                10.00        -         10.00
LeW  CanclWons teoMdnaons. epaynon                               -
sfesandfcaneadJust
ToW omnttwnet held by IFC                                       10.00        -         10.00
of whicht undbursd                                              1.54        -          1.54
Does not ilude p      _atpmt



DEMORATIC AN) POPULAR REPUBLIC OFLE
MASCARA EMRGENCY RECONSTRUCTION
TECHCAL ANNEX



DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
MASCARA EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Table of Contents
A. BACKGROUND .........................................   1
Seismic Activities .......................................   1
The Mascara Earthquake  ...............                                            1
Damage Assessment and Government's Response  ...................   2
Seismic Damage Prevention and Mitigation  .......................   3
B. BANK RESPONSE AND STRATEGY ............................   4
Rationale for Bank Involvement ..............................   4
Bank Strategy  .........................................   5
C. THE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT ............................  6
Overview ....................................... 6
Objectives of the Project ...................................   6
Project Description ......................................   7
Education  ......................................    7
Housing  ......................................                             7
Agriculture  ......................................   7
Public Health .....................................   8
Roads .......................................                               8
Water Supply and Sewerage .........            ...................   8
Studies ......................................                              8
Social Rehabilitation .   ................................   9
Cost Estimates .......................................                             9
Project Execution .......................................  10
Project Financing .......................................  10
Cost Recovery .......................................    11
Procurement ....................................... 12
Disbursement  ......................................                              13
D.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  .........                    ......................  13
Program Management .          ...................................  13
Implementation Organization ..........           ......................  14
Proj'ct Accounts and Audit ..........           .......................  14
Reporting and Monitoring ...........            .......................  15
Risks  ...........................................                                15
Supervision Plans . ......................................  16
E.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ...............  16
This report is based on the findings of a reconnaissance mission composed of Messrs. A. Amir Al-
Khafaji, Fritz Rodriguez and Fran;ois Amiot, and Ms. Samia El-Baroudy, who visited Algeria in
mid-September 1994. A subsequent mission comprising Messrs. Fritz Rodriguez, Francois Amiot,
and Charles Sterling, appraised the project in late October 1994.



DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
MASCARA EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
List of Attachments
Attac}unent No.:
1.         List of Past Major Earthquakes in Algeria
2.          Detailed Cost Estimates
3.         Price Escalation Calculation
4.          Project Implementation Schedule
5.         BDL's Background and Operations
6.         List of Contracts to be Placed for the Project
7.          Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
8.         Project Implementation Organization
9.         Project Implementation Unit
10.         Selected Photos of Earthquake Damages
11.         Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Map No.:          IBRD No. 26457



DEMOCRAfIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
MASCARA EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TEC!INICAL ANNEX
A. BACKGROUND
Seismic Activities
1.          With the exception of the Sahara desert in the south of Algeria, most of the
remaining land in this country is subject to seismic hazard. It is particularly high along a line
joining Algiers in the center, to Ain Defla and then Chelf in the west. Ground acceleration
along this line, with 10 percent probability of occurring in 50 years, can reach 0.25g near the
most active part located around Chelf. An earthquake with a magnitude of 7.2 hit this city on
October 10, 1980. Available geological and seismological information shows that other parts
of the country situated along the Mediterranean coast are also prone to moderate seismicity, with
a mean acceleration of 0.15g. As one goes inland toward the high plateaux and the Saharan
Atlas, seismic hazard diminishes greatly with a possible mean acceleration of about 0.08g. It
is totally negligible in the southern desert. This is, however, the least populated area in the
country. Less than 10 percent of the total population lives there. Most of the population resides
in the northern region where seismic hazard exists. This is also the region with the best ferdle
land, relatively adequate water resources, and better environmental amenities.
2.          Attachment 1 lists major earthquakes that have occurred in Algeria since 1716.
Quite recently, an earthquake with a magnitude of 5.1 rumbled the ground in Mont Chenoua in
Tipaza Wilaya, on October 29, 1989. Prior to that, on October 10, 1980, a seism with a
magnitude of 7.2 caused major damages in the city of Chelf. This seism was felt over an area
of 250 kms long by 60 kins wide. A previous earthquake in 1954 had completely destroyed
this city. Tectonic activities and the associated seismicity in North Africa are stemming from
the closing of the African and the Eurasian plates at an estimated rate of 0.9 cm per year. This
convergence has generated some major earthquakes over the last three centuries. Proof of this
contraction is the occurrence, between October 1980 and March 1981, of three intense
earthquakes in three areas along the Mediterranean basin, namely in Chelf, Algeria; irpina,
Italy; and Gulf of Corinth, Greece.
The Mascara Earthquake
3.          On August 18, 1994, at 1 Hour 13 GMT, an earthquake measuring 5.6 on the
Richter scale hit a mountainous area known as Beni Chougrane in the Wilaya of Mascara (see
attached map). The epicenter was located near the village of Sehadlia. The shock is believed
to have lasted 12 seconds, and at approximately 12 kms from the epicenter, had a horizontal
acceleration of about 0.2g. In the aftermath of this seism, ten aftershocks with magnitudes
varying from 3.9 to 5.1 occurred within a period of 36 hours. The rupture area, as inferred



-2-
from the distribution of aftershocks, extended over a radius of 13 kms. The earthquake caused
damages particularly in the towns of Hacine and El Guetna located in the county of Bou Hanifia,
and in the villages of Sehadlia and Sidi Ali CheAif situated in the county of Sig. Ihis seism
exacerbated the depressed economic situation in this part of the country, where agriculture as
the main economic activity has been hampered by a continuous drought since 1984.
Damage Assessment and Government's Response
4.          The housing sector suffered the most as a result of the earthquake. Some 2,131
residential quarters were destroyed and 385 others seriously affected. As a consequence, 172
persons lost their lives, 295 got hurt and had to be hospitalized, and 10,000 were left homeless.
The victims were mainly children, women, and elderly people; more than half of the dead were
children. Most public dwellings in the affected area, such as health centers, schools, -t
offices, as well as the water and sewer networks collapsed, cutting off public services i. (de
area. Three national roads (RN 6, 17, and 97) were damaged at different locations, and right
after the earthquake, road traffic was interrupted in the region. The agricultural sector was also
affected with the loss of some 1,400 heads of cattle, and extended damages in the irrigation
system. In the industrial sector, a wheat flour grinder and a brick-making factory were
destroyed completely. They were the only employers in the area, and with their disappeance,
unemployment which was already substantially high in the region, has increased further.
5.          The Government was quick to respond to this emergency. A two-pronged strategy
was adopted immediately by the Government. First, a rescue and relief effort was organized
within the hour following the earthquake. Within hours a rescue and medical team arrived in
the area. Its first action was to bury the dead and to transfer the injured to nearby hospitals.
Next, 3,600 tents were installed to shelter the deprived population. To prevent epidemics,
potable water was trucked to the area , and medicines and assistance given to the population.
The water quality was monitored closely to detect any possible contaminaton. In addition, some
400 tons of food were distributed free to the population. This distribution is expected to last
about three months, as prescribed in the Algerian relief emergency procedures.
6.          The first phase is now completed. The national effort in relief assistance was
organized by the Protection Civile of the Interior Mistry, the Public Health Ministry, the
Army, the National Police, and the Red Crescent. An operational unit made up of
representatives of the above-listed organizations was set up in the seism area, while a command
unit of similar composition was established at the seat of the Mascara Wilaya. At the same
time, a steering committee made up of representatives from all the sectors affected by the
earthquake, was put in place in the Ministry of Interior. Its role has been to provide effective
support to the command unit in Mascara, and to centralize rebuilding efforts by the Government.
So far, this organization has worked well, as effective assisance has been provided to the
population. The situation has now been stabilized in the area.



-3 -
7.         International response has also been quick in providing relief assistance. This
response was coordinated  by  the UN's Department of Humanitarian  Affairs in
Geneva,Switzerland, who made an emergency grant of US$30,000 to Algeria. Other cash
contributions were given by Italy (US$382,165), United Kingdom (US$50,000), Sasakama
Foundation (US$20.000), Secours Populaire Franpais (US$18,416), and Spain (US$15,267).
In addition, France, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, USA, Netherlands Red Cross, and the European
Union made contributions in kind.
8.          For the second stage coming after successful completion of the relief effort, the
firs objective has been to provide weather-resilient steel structures to the affected population.
With the approaching winter, shelter tents camnot protect from the low temperatures that prevail
at that time of the year in the area. Weather-resilient steel structures need also to be provided
for public dwellings such as health centers, schools, post offices, which were destroyed by the
earthquake. To this end, the Algerian authorities are currently instlling about 1,200 steel
strutures that will house the homeless families, and later on will be integrated in their
permanent dwellings. In many instnces, for the homeless families it has not been possible to
place these structures on the land they used to occupy, because of visible land slide, or the
population's fear for the area affected by the earthquake. To accommodate the population, a
number of new sites were selected to resettle the displaced population. All of them are close
to the former living places of the population, and no population displacement will take place.
The intent is to make the steel structures be a part of the permanent dwellings.
9.          The operational unit has completed its assessment of damages incurred by different
sectors, and based on this information, the steering committee has prepared a reconstruction
program for each sector. The aggregate cost of this reconsuction project has been estimated
at US$128 million (Sep. 1994 Prices). This project would include the rebuilding of all the
facilities destroyed by the earthquake, the provision of earthquake-resilient steel structures to the
homeless families, and repairs to damaged srcs. Project implementation is scheduled to
begin in January 1995, together with a microzoning study in the selected sites for housing the
homeless population.
Seismic Damau Prevention and Migation
10.        As previously mentioned, on September 9, 1954, a seism with a magnitude of 6.7
rocked the city of Chelf (previously called Orleansville and El-Asnam), causing 1,240 dead and
major damages. Following this event, the authorities issued a seismic safety regulation known
as Recommadaions AS 69, with the objective of ensuring seismic resistance of building
structres. Tnis regulation, however, became mandatory only in 1979. Prior to that year, it
was optional to engineers and homeowners to apply seismic safety design. Beginning in 1976,
the  Organisme National de Contr6le Techique de la Construction (ONCTC), with the
assistance of Stanford University, Berkeley, California, began to prepare a building code with
allowances for earthquake movements, and to cariy out a zonmg program. As a result of this
work, a building seismic code was issued in March 1983 as Rtglement RPA 81. In addition,
microzoning was carried out in Chelf, and seismotectonic maps were prepared for the cities
of Oran and Chelf. Since January 1987, a seismological institute, Centre National de Geiie
Parasismique (C(GS), has been in operation.



-4-
11.        In 1985 the Algerians authorities also issued regulations covering prevention
measures to put in place in case of natural catastrophes, and how to organize relief intervention
for each type of catastrophe.  Public awareness has been raised through information
dissemination, simulation exercises, and the establishment in advance of security groups that will
automatically meet upon the occurrence of a natural catastrophe. These arrangements have
worked well on the occasion of the Mascara earthquake, though there is room for further
improvement, particularly in the use of microzoning.  The proposed project makes
recomnendations toward this goal.
B. BANK RESPONSE AND STRATEGY
Rationale for Bank Involvement
12.         The Mascara eardtquake caine at a particularly bad time for Algeria. The country
is going through a political turmoil with terrorism making it unsafe for foreigners. Even
nationals who do not share the terrorists' approach have not been spared. In response to this
situation, the government has hired a large number of security guards for protection of
government officials and buildings.  This political situation is compounded by high
unemployment, a severe housing crisis, and shortage of basic necessities. Agricultural
production has been down in the last five years as a result of a severe drought in the country,
particularly in the Mascara region. This summer the drought was so acute that it generated a
number of uncontrolled forest fires. The losses that have resulted from these fires are estimated
at DA 2 billion (US$50 million). The damages caused by the earthquake have been estimated
at US$128 million, i. e. about 1 percent of the 1995 budget.
13.        With the technical and financial support of the IMF, the Government is currently
implementing a stabilization program aimed at correcting macroeconomic imbalances and
distortions. The key elements of this program are: (a) adjustment of the exchange rate and
reform of the exchange regime; (b) trade liberalization; (c) domestic price liberalization; (d)
deficit reduction; and (e) monetary restraint and higher interest rates. To make this program
work, however, it is necessary to loosen the external resource constrint. The international
community has launched a concerted effort to reduce Algeria's debt service burden and to
provide it with additional resources. However, even with the IMF stand-by, the rescheduling
of Paris Club debt together with a restructuring of London Club maturities, and disbursements
from existing trade-linked loans, a residual financing need of about US$1.45 billion remains in
1994. The European Union, the African Development Bank, and the Islamic Development
Bank, are expected to make total contributions of about US$700 million to fill this gap.
Additional resources will come from the renewal of bilateral credit.
14.         On its part the Bank is proposing to contribute about US$500 million through
quick disblursements from a proposed rehabilitation loan (US$150 million), the emergency
reconstruction loan (US$50 million) presented in this report, the second tranche of the EFSAL,



-S -
and the Housing Completion and Sector Development Loan. The proposed recostuction loan
would provide fiurter badly needed extemnal assistance to Algeria. It would help to minimize
disruptions that the additional resources needed to reconstruct the earthquake-devastated area.
might have in the budget and in the implementation of the economic stabilization program. The
proposed project meets all the criteria for Bank emergency recovery assistan.
15.         On August 22, 1994, the Algerian authorities made an official request for an
emergency Bank loan to assist in the reconstruction of the earthquake-devastated area in
Mascara. A reconnaissance mission composed of Messrs. A. Amir Al-Khafaji, Fritz Rodriguez
and Fngois Amiot, and Ms. Samia EI-Baroudy, visited Algeria between September 9 and 15,
1994. This mission assessed damages caused by the seism, and reviewed reconstuction plans
and organizational arrangements. A second mission composed of Messrs. Fritz Rodriguez,
Frangois Amiot and Charles Sterling, appraised the project in late October 1994. Negotiations
were held in Paris, France, in early November 1994.
Bank Srt
16.         The Bank's assiae strategy for Algeria aims to support macroeconomic
stabilization and acceleration of structural reform. It is geared toward establishing the necessary
conditions for a strong supply response that would help to meet the basic social needs of the
population. This strategy is part of a broader effort by Algeria's external partners to promote
economic reform, ease the debt service burden, and contribute to greater stability in the country.
Under the proposed strategy, an economic rehabilitation loan, appraised in September, would
initiate a new phase of Bank support for Algeria's macro-economic stabilization and structral
reform. Built on the achievements of two previous adjustment loans, it will establish the
foundation for a more comprehensive SAL proposed for 1995 in parallel with the anticipated
EFF. The proposed rehabilitation loan would also pave the way for the preparation of sector
adjustment operations in the housing and construction sector, and in agriculture.
17.         The Bank's investment lending program will focus on operations that support basic
infrasucture and social needs. A sixth highway project has been appraised, and preparation
of a social safety net project is under way. The possbility of a tecnical assistace loan in
support c, the financial sector development and privatization is being explored. The lending
program is supported by an ambitious ESW agenda, including the PER and PSA mentioned
above.



-6 -
C. THE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
18.         As previously mentioned, all sectors in the earthquake area were affected to some
degree. As is usually the case for a seism, housing, roads, and water supply and sewerage were
the most affected. The least affected were electricity installations. A wheat flour grinder and
a brick-making factory were completely destroyed. The reconunendation was made to the
Government to take advantage of this situation to sell these public enterprises to the private
sector. Consequently, their reconstruction is not included in the proposed project. The
authorities are also considering replacing the livestock that was disseminated by the seism. This
replacement cost is not included in the project. As said before, damages to the power sector
were minor, and the national power utility, SONELGAS, should be able to repair the network
without outside assistance. Those repair expenses have not been included in the proposed
project. Thus, the reconstruction program would basically cover the following sectors:
education, housing including public buildings, agriculture, public health, roads, and water supply
and sewerage.
Objectives of the Prolect
19.         The Bank's strategy is to focus on the short-and medium-term recovery of the
sectors mostly affected by the earthquake. The proposed project aims at rebuilding the physical
and economic assets that were damaged in the seism area with a view to restoring essential
facilities and services in the shortest possible time. To this end, it will assist the authorities in
setting up an effective organization for managing the reconstruction program. It will help to
develop long-term measures for seismic damage prevention and mitigation. It will review
seismic design prescriptions in the building code. It will furither evaluate the institutional
framework for dealing with natural disasters, and make the appropriate recommendations. And
finally, but not the least, it will ensure greater efficiency and economy of the rebuilding process
through the use of international procurement and competitive bidding. Although the prinary
goal of the project is asset reconstruction, it will nevertheless proceed with rebuilding within a
larger view of future economic development in the area.
20.         In the agricultural sector, for instance, the project includes the construction of
holding basins that would increase water supply for irrigation. This constuction would not
involve any resettlement or negative environmental changes. To the contry, it would lead to
major environmental improvement in the region. It seems essential to try to increase the
availability of water in this area just for the mere survival of the population. As part of the
project, a social survey will be carried out. Its aim would be to determine living habits of the
population, particularly women and children, and to design a project acceptable to the homeless
families. The survey would look at the women's livelihood prior to the earthquake, and at ways
to restore it and possibly improve it. It would also investigate the pre-seism social environment
for children, and proposed an agenda for restoring and improving it.  The proposed
reconstruction project embodies social rehabilitation as an essential component in its design.



-7 -
Project Decpon
21.         The proposed project would include reconstruction and repairs to facilities in the
following sectors:
Education: Two schools in the eardtquake area were destroyed, while the
structure of ten others was damaged by the seism. The destroyed schools would
be rebuilt, and repairs would be made to the others to render their structure
resistant to earthquakes. Investments in this sector, including re-equipping the
schools, are estimated at US$2.4 million based on September 1994 prices.
Housing: As a result of the seism, 2,131 houses were destroyed, and 385 others
endured some structural damages. These will be repaired with the necessary
reinforcements to make them resilient to possible recurning earthquakes. Among
the destroyed houses, 1,924 of them will have to be relocated because of possible
land slides in their previous locations. The authorities have selected fourteen new
sites for this relocation with a total area of about 450,000 rn2. The construction
of streets and public services, such as water supply, sewerage, and drainage, is
well advanced in five of them. Each lot in the newly developed sites will have
an area of about 200 e2. A steel structure will be installed on each lot, and later
on will be integrated in a core housing unit with an area of about 30 i2.
Contractors retained through local competitive bidding (see para. 32) will build
the strutural works of these units, consisting of their foundations, concrete floor
and roof slabs, columns, and separation walls. Against these works, the
Government has accepted to provide a subsidy of DA 300,000 for each unit.
Finishing works of the units will be carried out by the homeowners, using small
craftsmen and enterprises. The Government has agreed to make subsidized loans
available to homeowners to finance the finiing works. Similar arrangements
would be made for the 207 dispersed houses that need to be rebuilt. Meanwhile,
for the dwellings that will be repaired, the Government will make a subsidy
equivalent to DA 100,000 per unit to finance these repairs. Loans will also be
made available to these owners to execute additional finishing works. The
owners will receive guidance from an advisory committee that will be set up as
part of the project implementation unit (see para. 40). In addition, administrative
buildings such as town halls, telephone offices, and fire stations, which were
destroyed by the earthquake, would be rebuilt. The housing program is budgeted
for an amount of US$49.2 million.
Agriculture: The irrigation system in the earhquake area received some serious
damages that will be repaired in priority. In an attempt to alleviate water scarcity
in the area, it is proposed the construction of about six (6) holding basins at the
foot of a number of hills in the region. In addition, the project contains the
replacement of irrigation equipment (sprinklers) damaged by the eartuake, and
an intensive reforestation program. The total cost of this component is estimated
at US$2.7 million.



Public Health: Four health centers and a maternity hospital were destroyed by
the seism. Besides, two other centers were seriously damaged, but still can be
repaired. The project proposes the reconstruction of two health centers and a
maternity in the village of Hacine, one health center in each of the villages of
Sehaldia, Sig, Ouled Sidi Aissa, and Sidi Ali Cherif. Repairs will be made to
a health center in Hacine, that stood the earthquake, and to another health center
in the village of El Goetha. The total estimated cost for this sector is US$1.0
million.
Roads: Three national roads, RN 6, RN 17, and RN 97 cross the Mascara
region. In the rpture area of the seism, they were seriously damaged in four
locations. Eight particular structures need to be consolidated as a result of land
slide. In addition, 23 km. of RN 17 should be rehabilitated entirely. The total
estimated cost of these works is US$10.1 million.
Watr Supply and Sewerage: The water supply and sewer networks in the
village of Hacine were devastated by the eardquake. They need to be rebuilt
entirely. The same must be done for the main transmission pipe to Hacine. In
addition, five new boreholes will need to be constructed to increase water
production that has slipped as a result of a dropping in the water level of the
aquifer. On the sewerage side, two lagoons would be built, one in Hacine, and
the other in Bou Hanifia. The first one would have a capacity of 20,000
inhabitans equivalent; and the second 60,000 inhabitants equivalent. These
lagoons would be made of aerobic basins with a retention time of about three
days. The total estimated cost of this component is US$6.9 million.
Studies: They would essentially cover seismic zoning and microzoning. The
first objective would be to revise and expand seismic zoning in selected cities and
regions to assess seismic riss. This revision wil be carried out on the basis of
past earthquake occurrences and new seismological data. An evaluation of the
seismological network in Algeria will be made to determine the need for
consolidation and expansion. The existing zoning maps will be updated, and
seismotechtonic maps will be prepared. As part of this work, a microzoning map
will be prepared for the Mascara seism area. In conjunction with that, a risk
assessment and reduction program will be carried out. Geotechnical and
geological studies will be udrtaken to detect potential land slide in the region,
and formulate ways to protect against this risk. A revision of seismic design
coefficients and spectra wil be undertaken with a view to carrying out an
evaluation of curremnt building codes. Parallel to this review, a public awareness
program would be implemented in the earthquake area. These studies are
esfimated to cost US$1.3 million.



-9 -
Social Rehabilitation: As usual in the aftermath of a seism, the population will
remain traumatized for a while, with strong apprehension toward the areas where
they used to live. An education program will be implemented to address the
concerns of the population, explain the seism phenomena and outline measures
they can take to protect themsolves against the destructive forces of an
earthquake. A social survey will be undertaken to ensure that the planning and
design of the new villages and houses are acceptable to the population. The
survey would also determine losses suffered by women and children, and ways
to compensate them under the reconstrucoton program. The social rehabilitation
component is esfimated to cost US$0.2 million. Like for the cost of the education
component, all the costs that follow have not yet been adjusted for physical and
price contingencies.
Cost Estimte
22.          The estimated total cost of the reconstruction project is DA 4,199.9 million
(US$83.6 million), with a foreign exchange component of DA 2,599.4 million (US$51.0
million), i.e., 61 percent of the total cost. A summary of the cost estimates is given in Table
C-1. Detailed esfimates and price escalation calculation of project investments are provided in
Attachments 2 and 3.
Table C-1: Cost Estimates
Sector                   Local   Foreg    Totl   Locd  Foreg  Tota   Percnt
- ~DA Mlllion-~ -US$ Mtiion-
Education                 42.5      47.5    90.0   1.1      1.3    2.4     3.2
Housing                  725.8    1143.8  1869.6  19.1    30.1   49.2    66.7
Agriculture               37.8      66.3   104.1   1.0      1.7    2.7     3.7
Public health             13.4      23.1    36.5   0.3     0.7    1.0      1.4
Roads                    142.6    245.4   388.0   3.7      6.4   10.1    13.7
Water Supply
and sewerage            109.8    148.2   258.0   2.9      4.0    6.9     9.3
Social rehabflitation      -         7.6     7.6   -       0.2    0.2      0.3
Stuies                    24.8     _.1A   47.9   _.7       0.6    1.3      1.7
Base cost (Sept. 1994 Prihs)  1097.7   1705.8  2803.3  28.8    45.0   73.8   100.0
Physical contngencies    109.8    170.5   280.5   2.9      4.4    7.3    10.0
Price escalation         393.0    723.1  1116.1   029    .L6       2.      3.3
TOTAL PRPOJECT COST   1600.5    24   SjW2    &6.          1.0  83.6   1133
(Curent prices)
Percentage                38.1      61.9   100.0  39.0    61.0  100.0



- 10-
23.         The cost estimates are based on an evaluation of the works that wfll need to be
executed to put the infrastructures back the way they were before the earthquake. The estimates
include taxes and duties. A 10-percent allowance has been added for physical contiDgencies.
During project execution, local expenditures are projected to increase by 25 percent in 1995, 20
percent in 1996, and 15 percent in 1997. Foreign expenditures, meanwhile, are expected to
increase by 2.0 percent in 1995, 2.5 percent in 1996, and 2.7 percent in 1997. Price escalation
is forecast to amount to about 3.1 percent of the base cost in US dollars, but to 45.6 percent in
DA. As a result of the differences between local and foreign inflations, the exchange rates are
projected to be DA 44.3 for US$1.0 by mid-1995, DA 53.7 by mid-1996, and DA 61.5 by mid-
1997.
24.         The project provides for an estimated 40 person-months of consulting services for
project preparation including contracting documents, construction supervision, zoning and
microzoning studies, and seismic risk assessment and protection.
Protect Execution
25.         A bar chart ilustrating the execution phases of the reconstruction program is
shown in Attachment 4. Project execution is expected to begin in early 1995 and to be
completed by the end of 1998. Bids for the three largest components, the housing, the roads,
and the water supply and sewerage, are scheduled to be awarded by mid-1995. Constuction
should start during the second half of 1995 to be completed by the end of 1998. Repairs to
roads are expected to start in 1995.
26.         The Ministry of literior, Local Affairs, Environment, and Admiistrative Reforms
(.MICLERA), would be responsible for the execution of the reconstruction works. This
rsponsibility would be carried out in concert with authorities in the sectors involved in the
reconstruction program, and discharged to a project unit based in Mascara. This unit's works
would be supervised by a coordination committee incorporated by representatives of all the
sectors involved in the reconstruction program. In addition, the unit will be assisted by
consultants who will carry out all necessary studies and environmental mipact assessments, and
assist in construction supervtision. During negotiations, agreement was reached that these
consuls would be retained not later than Jamnaly 31, 1995, in accordance with the Bank
Group Guidelines for the Use of Consultants, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank.
EieaMA^£
27.         A Bank loan of US$51 million is proposed to finance the foreign exchange cost
of the project. The loan would be made to the Government, to be repaid over 17 years,
including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate. During negotiations, agreement
was reached with the Goverment that a part of the loan equivalent to US$4.8 million will be
used to make sub-loans to homeowners in the earthquake area to finance finishing works in their
dwellings. These sub-loans would be made for a repayment term of 17 years, including 4 years



- it -
of grace, at an interest rate of 7.5% per annu. The foreign exchange risk on these sub-loans
would be borne by the Government. To make the sub-loans affordable to the population in the
project area which is essenially rural, the Govenment would provide equal counterpart funds
that it would lend for a repayment term of 25 years including 4 years of gace, at an interest rate
of 1 % per annum. The Government funds, combined in equal parts with the Bank's, would
provide a blend of sub-loans that the rural population should be able to serve.
28.         The sub-loans would be managed by the Banque de Diveloppement Local (BDL)
under a subsidiary agreement with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Loan
disbursements for sub-loans to homeowners would be made only after the subsidiary agreement
has been approved by the Bank. The remaining Bank loan amount would be used to finance the
structual works of the core housing units, repairs to damaged dwellings, rebuilding of public
dwellings, and reconstuction costs in the other sectors. The balance of local costs would be
financed by the Govermment.
Cost Recoverv
29.         The largest investment would be in the housing sector, and to some extent, the
costs should be recovered. But given the mrual character of the program and the low-income
level of the population, a grant element should be allowed in loans to homeowners in the
earthquake area. As shown in past emergency reconstruction projects, post-disaster subsidies
seem to be unavoidable. Cost recovery policies cannot strictly be enforced, as no government
can risk aggravating the situation of disaster victims. In the past, BDL provided loans for rural
housing at a subsidized interest rate of 1% per annum. Funds for these loans were made
available by the Government to BDL, which kept a management fee of 0.5% on repayments of
the loans. Under the reconstruction project, this lending practice would continue for only half
of the sub-loans for housing reconstruction. The other half would be lent essentially on the Bank
loan terms, except for the foreign exchange risk. The combined repayment of these two loans
would be equivalent to that of a single loan with a repayment term of 20 years at an interest rate
of 4.5%. This rate is below the cuTent cost of money in Algeria, but acceptable in rural areas,
especially for reconstruction fo}lowing a natural disaster.
30.        Government policies in the housing sector are currently under review as part of
a Housing Completion and Sector Development Project (Loan 3561-AL), and any agreed policy
changes should be applied to new loans by BDL to homeowners in the disaster area. Whenever
a relocated family has the financial means to acquire the land where his new home would be
built, the land would be sold to this family. Otherwise, it would be leased for 99 years.
31.        Part of the loan will be used to rebuild water and sewerage installations in the
affected region. Under the current sector arrangements, these installations will continue to be
owned by the Government, but leased to the regional water uility, Entreprise de Prodion,
de Gesion et de Distribion d'Eau d'Oran (EPEOR). Annual leasing fees are calculated on the
basis of replacing assets at their current value over a 50-year period. After the water and
sewerage works have been completed, they will be taken over by EPEOR for operation, and the



- 12-
lease fees will be increased accordigly. As a result, ful cost recovery would be achieved for
the investments in the water sector. As called for in the lease agreement with EPEOR, the
Government will increase the lease fees based on the cost of the investments in water supply
reconstruction in the earthquake area. No direct cost recovery will be achieved in the other
sectors. These investments, however, are justified in terms of the large economic benefits they
will bring to society at large.
Procurement
32.         Proposed proement arangements for the project are depicted in Schedule B
to the MOP. A list of contracts to be placed for the project is given in Attachment 6. The
project elements have been distributed into packages that should ensure efficiency, economy, and
speed in project execution. Contracts for their execution will be awarded in accordance witb
the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. Apart from the supply of equipment and materials,
which would be procured through international cmpeuttve bidding (ICB), all the remaining
contracts would be placed following local competitive bidding (LCB). Given the low cost and
disparity of civil works conuracts that range in size from US$0.2 million to US$2.0 million, no
foreign conhtors are expected to be interested in the construcdon of the project elements.
However, they would not be excluded from bidding. The housing development program covers
14 sites, and will be bid on the basis of a slice and package system. Owners of properties will
negotiate directly with small contractors for repairs to their houses. They will be reimbursed
to a maximum of US$2,980 for a total of US$1.1 million.
33.         With minor exceptions, local bidding procedures have been found acceptable to
the Bank. All civil works contracts above US$10. milion and contracts for goods above
US$300,000, will be subject to the Bank's prior review procedures. They will account for
above 60 percent of the value of all contracts. Those below these thresholds will be subject to
Bank post review on a selective basis. In evaluating bids for the supply of equipment and
materials, a 15-percent margin of preference or the actual customs duties, whichever is lower,
would be allowed for goods manufactred in Algeria. Consulting services would be procured
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency.
34.         As mentioned before, to house the homeless families, the authorities purchased
and installed steel stucus, fabricated in Algeria, at a total cost of US$10.0 million. These
structures will be integrated in the permanent dwellings that wil be rebuilt for the homeless
population. Only two local manufacturers provide this type of installation. Their entire stock
was purchased on this occasion at current market prices. Because of the disruptions created by
this purcbase in the budget of MICLERA, it was agreed to retroactively finance the foreign
exchange component of the cost of the steel strucues. This retroactive financing is estimated
at US$7.0 million. In addition, as indicated in para. 21, development works are well advanced
in five housing sites. For these works, five contracts were awarded on an emergency basis, as
extensions to existing/previous conrcts, that had been awarded through competive bidding.
The cost of these works also will be partly reimbursed on a retroactive basis in an amount of
US$3.2 million. Total retroactive financing would be US$10.2, which is within allowable
limits.



- 13 -
Disbursnemnt
35.         The Bank loan would be disbursed against: (a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures
for itnported equipment and materials; (b) 80 percent of local expendites for goods procured
locally; (c) 70 percent of total expenditures for civil works on the housing development program;
(d) 50 percent of total expendiues for civil works on other contracts; (e) 50 percent of sub-
loans made by BDL to affected homeowners in the project area; and (f) 80 percent of total
expenditures of consulting services for project implementation and institutional development
assistance. Overall, the Bank loan would finance about 61 percent of the planned investments.
36.         Estimated quarterly disbursements of the Bank loan and Govermment funds have
been derived from the Project Implementation Schedule (Attachment 4), and are given in
Attachment 7. The estimates take into account the quick reconstruction character of the project.
As discussed in the next chapter, some procedural changes should be made in the ways projects
are usually implemented in Algeria, in order for the projected quick disbursement to materialize.
37.        In order to make prompt payments to contractors and consultants, the Bank should
agree to advance regularly funds for the establishment of a Revolving Fund in Algeria to cover
these payments. The Fund would be maintained at the Central Bank of Algeria for a maximum
amount of US$5.0 million, which would cover the Bank's share of eligible expenditures over
a period of four months. The Fund would be maintained in U.S. dollars and replenished by
reimbursement applications from the Government in US dollars. Applications with appropriate
supporting documentation covering the use of the Fund, should be submitted when approximately
half of the maximum allowed amount in the Fund has been spent.
38.         The closing date of the loan would be December 31, 1998.
D. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Program Managnment
39.         Seven sectors, namely: education, housing, agriculture, public health, roads,
water supply and sewerage, and social rehabilitaton would be covered in the reconstuction
progran. Because of this diversity, the project will be budgeted as a decentralized operation at
the wilaya level. There, each sector is managed by a Directorate which is normally responsible
for project preparation, procurement, contract laying, constructon supervision, and contract
payments. This practice will continue under the proposed project, but with the coordination and
supervision of a project implementation unit. The Directorate of Urban Planning and
Construction (DUC), would be responsible for implementing the housing program, including the
reconstruction of public dwellings, such as schools and bealth centers; the Directorate of
Agricultural Services (DSA), for the irrigation works; the Directorate of Public Works (DTP),
for road repairs; and the Directorate of Hydraulic Resources (DHW), for water supply and



- 14 -
sewerage works. Disbursements would be processed by Banque AlgMfenne de Diveloppement
(BAD), who would ensure that contracts have been placed in accordance with the procedures
outlined in the loan agreement.
40.         An advisory committee would be set up to provide guidance to the implementing
agencies and the communities. Its main role would be to ensure that the population's needs and
preferences are taken into account in the planning and design of the new facilities, with the least
disturbance in its new locations. The committee would also provide guidance in relation to
seismic risk assessment and protection. It will advise individual homeowners on the conduct of
repairs that will make their dwellings resistant to earthquake. The committee will be conposed
of a civil engineer, an earthquake expert, a sociologist, and an urban planner. The committee
will also advise the implementing Directorates who will in addition receive technical assistance
from consultants.
hpIlementation Organization
41.         The proposed implementation organization is shown in Attachment 8. The project
would be implemented by MICLERA through the above-mentioned Directorates, under the
coordination and supervision of a project unit based in the city of Mascara. The work of this
unit would be supervised by a coordination committee made up of representatives of all the
sectors covered by the reconstruction program. DUC will act as work-owner for construction
of the housing development program and other housing constructions, such as schools, public
buildings, and health centers. The agricultural component would be executed by DSA. The road
component would be implemented by DTP. Finally, water supply and sewerage works would
be constructed by DHW.
42.         At negotiations, the organizadonal chart of the project unit, as shown in
Attachment 9, was discussed and approved by the Government . The unit would comprise of
four sections: procurement, construction supervision, disbursement, and accounting. The chart
also indicates the staff that would be integrated in the unit. In addition to the project manager,
this staff would include two engineers, one administrator, one accountant, two secretaries, and
two drivers. The chief of the unit has already been appointed and participated in the
negotiations. In addition, assurances were obtained that the Government would appoint the rest
of the project unit staff, not later than January 31, 1995.
Project Accounts and Audit
43.         The project unit will maintain separate records and accounts of the works executed
in each sector and for each contract. These records and accounts will be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. So far, this function has been performed by a government
agency, the Inspection Generale des Finances (IGF), for previous Bank loans, and its
performance has been rated satisfactory. During negotiations, agreement was reached that IGF
will perform an annual audit of the project accounts, including the Revolving Fund account.
Certified copies of the accounts as well as the auditors' reports should be submitted to the Bank
not later tdan six months after the end of a fiscal year.



- 15 -
Reporting and Monitoring
44.         In order to monitor progress in project implementation, agreement was reached
during negotiations that MICLERA through the project unit will submit, to the Bank, quarterly
progress reports on project activities in the different sectors. These reports would cover in
particular:
(a)   progress in procurement of materials, equipment, and civil works,
including revised timing of procurement actions such as bidding and
contract awards;
(b)   progress in rebuilding in each sector, particularly in relocating homeless
families;
(c) expenditures on the project and updated cost estimates of remaining
works; and
(d)   execution and evaluation of the institutional development assistance
program.
45.         Assrances were also obtained that, within six months following the closing date
of the loan, MICLERA with the assistance of the project unit and agencies that were involved
in the project execution, will prepare and submit to the Bank a completion report on the
execution and initial operation of the project, its costs and benefits derived or to be derived from
it, the performance and fulfillment by the Government, the concerned ministries and their
agencies, and the Bank, of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement, and the
accomplishments of the objectives of the Bank loan.
46.         There are some risks associated with the execution of the reconstuction program.
The major one relates to the political instability in the country. Terrorist actions might disrupt
project execution, particularly as it will be taking place in a relatively isolated rural area prone
to these actions. Project success depends on the selection of one or several experienced, well
organized construction firms to carry out the housing development component. If this
component ends up with an unqualified firm, construction might drag for years, leading to
project failure. One possible way to minimize this risk is to have bidder prequalification, so as
to ensure that only qualified firms with the necessary financial resources, participate in the
bidding. The Government should also make it clear that it will provide full security for the staff
and the installations of the construction firms.
47.         Other risks are related to the reliability of data used in project preparation. They
were collected quickly after the seism, in the rsh of alleviating human suffering in the area.
They might not be accurate enough to allow an optimum project design and reliable cost



- 16-
estimates. But, overall, the proposed works are relatively of simple design, and any variation
in estimates should not be too far off the reality. Besides, given the nature of an emergency
project, the Bank should be willing to accept relatively small changes in project design in the
course of project execution.
Supervision Plans
48.         Extensive supervision will be necessary to ensure adequate, quick project
implementation. However, because of the security situation in Algeria, particularly in the area
where the project will be built, the Bank should refrain from sending frequent missions to
Algeria, until security in the area improves. In the meantime, the Bank will rely on the use of
trustworthy, competent local consultants to carry out project supervision. These consultants are
expected to make a supervision visit quarterly, or more often if required. Two short Bank
supervision missions per year in Algeria are envisaged, with more frequent and extensive
discussions with the local consultants taking place outside of Algeria. Bank missions will
comprise experts in the different sectors involved in the project. Services of an expert in seismic
engineering will be needed, particularly at project inception.
E. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMNDATION
49.         During negotiations agreement was reached on the following issues:
(a)   consultants acceptable to the Bank should be hired not later than January
31, 1995, to carry out studies included in the project and to assist in
construction supervision, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 26);
(b)  the Government will make US$4.8 million from the Bank loan available
to BDL for maling sub-loans to homeowners for housing reconstruction.
The Government will match this amount withi equal counterpart funds and
pass them to BDL under a subsidiay agreement, with terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Any disbursement for this program
will be made only after this agreement has been approved by the Bank
(paras. 27 and 28);
(c) retroactive financing up to US$10.2 million would be made available for
works undertaken after September 1, 1994;
(d)  the appointment of staff of the project implementation unit should be made
no later than January 31, 1995 (para. 42);



- 17 -
(e)   project records and accounts including the Revolving Fund account,
should be audited annually by auditors acceptable to the Bank. 'Ihe
annual audit reports should be submitted to the Bank not later than six
months after the closing of a fiscal year (para. 43); and
(f)   during project execution MICLERA should submit quarterly progress
reports to the Bank, and within six months of the closing of the loan, will
prepare and submit a completion report to the Bank ( paras. 44 and 45).
50.         Agreement having been reached on the foregoing issues, the proposed project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$51 million to the Government of Algeria for a term of 17 years,
including 5 years of grace.
Washington, D.C. , U. S. A.
November 10, 1994



- 18 -
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 2
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
MASCARA EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
List of Past Major Earthauakes In Aaerla'
Date              Location           Itenity        Magnitude           Remarks
Febnrary 3, 1716     Algiers                    X                       Numerous casualties
October 9, 1790      Oran                       X                       3000 victims
March 1819           Mascra                     X                       Nunmeous victims
March 2,1825         Blida                      X                       7000 dead
February 9, 1850     Zamora/E Guenzet          vnI
November 22, 1851    Mascaa                  vn-vmiI
August 22, 1856      Jijel                     ix
Bejaia                   vIm
January 2, 1867      Mouzaia                  X-XI
November 16, 1868   Biskra                     IX                       About 100 dead
Jamnary 19, 1885     N'Gaous                   vim 
January 8, 1887      Mansoura                  VmII
November 29, 1887   Kala                      IX-X
January 6, 1888      Mouzaia                   VmII                     20 dead
Januay 15, 1891      Gouraya                    X
March 11, 1908       Blida                   VII-VIII
August 4, 1908       Constantine               vmII
June 24, 1910        Masquery                   X              5.1
August 6, 1912       Oued Marsa                VI              6.4
August 25, 1922      Bordj Abou-Hassan          X              5.3
March 16, 1924       Batna                     IX
November 5, 1924    Near Algiers               vmI             5.6      Several dead
June 10, 1925        Near Boghar               vIm             5.0
August 24, 1928      Oued Rhiou                vImI
August 15, 1931      Djebel Dira               VEII            5.4      4 dead
September 7, 1934    El-Abadia                 IX              4.9
September 19, 1935   Near Chetaibi                             5.0
Febnray 10, 1937     Near Guelma               VImI            5.1
April 16, 1943       Near Maosoura             IX              5.4
Februay 12, 1946     Hodna Mtns.             VRI-IX            4.0
August 6, 1947       Oued-Ham  Mine          VII-IX            5.6      246 dead
March 13, 1948       Asla                      vIm             5.3      Many victims
February 17, 1949    Near Kerrata              VIII            4.9      1 dead
April 20, 1950       Near Aflou              VI-VII            4.9
July 5, 1953         Near Ain Bessam           VIII            5.1
August 29, 1953      Hodna Mtns.             ViI-iX                     1 dead
September 9, 1954    Orleansville
(El-Asnam)                X              6.7       1243 dead, 20,000
._._-____   houses destroyed



- 19-
Attachnment 1
Page 2 of 2
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
MASCARA EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
LIst of Past Maor Earh kes In Algeria1
Date               Location            Iest          M      de         Rearks
September 10, 1954   Orl6ansville               IX             6.2      Aftershock
February 4, 19S5    Orl6ansville                vm                      Aftershock
May 8, 1955         Beni Haoua                  VIll
June 5, 1955        El-Asnam/Beni Rached        VIll           5.7
February 14, 1956    Bordj Bou Hassan          VI-VII          5.9
June 28, 1957       Sendjas                      VII           5.0
May 24, 1959        Zamora/El Guenzet         VII-Vi           5.5
November 7, 1959    BoU Medfa                   VIII           5.5
February 21, 1960    Melouza                    VEII           5.6      47 dead, 88 injured
December 2, 1961    Annaba (at sea)                            5.5
September 4, 1963    Near Setif                                5.7      1 dead, 100 injured
January 1, 1965     M'Sila                                              5 dead, 24 injured
1304 houses destoyed
July 13, 1967       Near Sig                    Vll            5.1      10 dead, 15 injured
February 28, 1968    El Alen                    VIII           4.9      1 dead, 4 injured
February 5, 1971    Ames                                       5.9
February 23, 1971    Rouina                     vIm            4.9
February 25, 1971    Asla                                      5.4
March 11, 1973      Near TdnFs (off coast)                     5.7
November 24, 1973   B.B. Arerridj               Vll            5.1      4 dead
November 25, 1973   Guenzet                     VII            4.9
July 28, 1974       Setif                       VII            5.0
November 9, 1974    South of Bejaia             VIII           4.1
July 11, 1975       Setif                       VmII           5.0      1 dead, 18 injured
October 10, 1980    El-Asnam                   Xto Xi          7.2
October 10, 1980    El-Asnam                                   6.0
November 8, 1980    El-Asnam                                   5.6
September 1985      Constantine                 VII            5.6
October 29, 1989    Tipaza                      VIII           6.0
11 Source: Khemici. 1980
a/ Modified Merali Intensity Scale



20                                         Attachment 2
Page I of 2
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
MASCARA EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
DETAILED COST ESTIMATES
DA Milon                  US$ Mlloa
Local  Foreign    Total   Local  Forelg   Total Percent
SECTOR
1.  EDUCATION
Repairs to 10 schools - Type B.l.
and reconstruction of 2 destroyed ones      42.5     47.5    90.0      1.1       1.3    2.4     3.2
1Il HOUSING
Steel structures                           121.6    288.8   410.4      3.2      7.6   10.8
Land acquisition                           140.6      ...   140.6      3.7       ...    3.7
Pulling down of affected structures          3.8      3.8     7.6      0.1      0.1    0.2
Strengthening of existing structures        15.2    22.8    38.0       0.4      0.6    1.0
Construction of 2131 houses - Type F2      349.6    608.0   957.6      9.2      16.0   25.2
Roads, curbs, and public services           72.2    167.2   239.4      1.9      4.4    6.3
Public dwellings                            22.8     53.2    76.0      0.6       1.4    2.0
Subtotal  )                         725.8   1143.8  1869.6    19.1       30.1   49.2    66.7
Im. IRRIGATION
Repairs to irrigation system                7.4     16.9    24.3      0.2       0.4    0.6
Construction of six holding basins         15.2    22.8    38.0       0.4       0.6    1.0
Reforestation program                       3.8      3.8      7.6     0.1       0.1    0.2
Irrigation equipment                       11.4    22.8    34.2       0.3       0.6    0.9
F-  ~ Subtotal(I                             37.8     66.3   104.1       1.0      1.7    2.7      3.7
IV. PUBUC HEA,TH
Reconstruction of a maternity center in Hacine  5.4   9.6    15.0      0.1      0.3    0.4
Strengthening of 2 health centers in Hacine  2.1      3.9     6.0      0.1      0.1    0.2
Reconstruction of a health center in Sehaldia  1.9    3.1     5.0      ...      0.1    0.1
Construction of health center in Sig,
Sidi Aissa, and S. Ali Cherif              4.0      6.5    10.5      0.1       0.2    0.3
Subtotal ON)                         134      23.1    36.5      0.3       0.7    1.0      1.4
V. ROADS
Repairs to RN 6                             34.0     51.0    85.0      0.9       1.3    2.2
Repairs to RN 17                            20.0     30.0    50.0      0.5      0.8    1.3
Rehabilitation of RN 17                     88.6    164.4   253.0      2.3      4.3    6.6
Subtotal (V)                        142.6    245.4   388.0      3.7       6.4   10.1    13.7



21                                          Attachmert 2
Page 2 of 2
DA Million                US$ Milon
Local  Foreign    Total   Local  Foreign   Total Percent
SECT OR
VI. WATER SUPPLY ANI) SEWERAGE
Renovation of w.s. and sewer in Hacine      13.0     52.0    65.0      0.3       1.4    1.7
Construction of five wells                   7.5     22.5    30.0       0.2       0.6    0.8
Renovation of Mehiedine pipe                  1.3      1.7     3.0       ...      0.1    0.1
Equipment supply (water trucks, tip-lorries)  10.0    30.0    40.0      0.3       0.8    1.1
Lagoons in Hacine and Bou Hanifia           78.0     42.0   120.0       2.1       1.1    3.2
F         Subtotal (VI)                         109.8    148.2   258.0       2.9      4.0    6.9      9.3
VII. STUDIES
Microzoning                                  15.2     22.8    38.0       0.4      0.6    1.0
Land slide                                    6.8      8.7    15.5      0.2       0.2    0.4
Social rehabilitation                         3.8      ...      3.8     0.1        ...    0.1
Subtotal (V)                          25.8     31.5    57.3       0.7      0.8    1.5      2.0
VM1. BASE COST (Sept. 1994 prices)            1097.7   1705.8  2803.5    28.8        45.0   73.8   100.0
IX. Physical contingencies                     109.8    170.5   280.3      2.9       4.4    7.3    10.0
X.  Price escalation                           393.0    723.1  1116.1       0.9       1.6    2.5      3.3
XXI. TOTAL PROJECT COST                        160.5   2599.   4199.9    32.6        51.0   83.6   113.3
XII. Percent                                    38.1      61.9   100.0    39.0       61.0  100.0



DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBUC OF ALGERIA
MASCARA EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
PRICE ESCALATION CALCULATION
(US$ Million)
FXED PART                   1995                 1998               1 97           TOTAL
TEM                          LOCAL FOREIGN          LOCAL FOREIGN        LOCAL FOREIGN    LOCAL POREIGN   LOCAL FOREIGN
1. Education                               0.1       0.1           0.2      0.3         0.3      0.4       0.5       0.5      1.1      13
II. Housing:
Steel structures - land acquisition      6.9      7.6            ....     ....       ....      ....      ....     ....     6.9      7.6
Pulling down - strengthening             0.1      0.1           02       0.2         0.1      0.2       0.1       0.2      0.5      0.7
Newconstrucfion                          2.9      2.8           0.7      1.9         4.0      8.5       4.1       8.6     11.7     21.8
III. Irrigation                              ....    ....          0.2      0.4         0.4      0.6       OA       0.7       1.0      1.7
IV. Public health:
Reconstruction of health centers         ....    0.1           0.1       0.2        0.1       0.2        ....     ....    0.2       0.5 
New constructon                                                                               0.1       0.1      0.1      0.1       0.2    s
V. Roads:
Repairsto RN8andRNI7                    0.1      0.2           0.6       0.9        0.7       1.0        ....     .        1.4      2.1
Rehabilitation of RN17                  0.2      0.4           0.4       0.8        0.7       1.4       1.0      1.7      2.3       4.3
VI. Water supply aSfu sewerage:
Renovation works                         ....    0.2           0.1       0.6        0.2       0.8       0.2      0.5      0.5       2.1
Equipment supply                         ....     ....         0.1       0.2        0.1       0.3       0.1      0.3      0.3      0.8
Lagoons                                                        0.7       0.3        0.7       0.4       0.7      0.4      2.1       1.1
VIl. Studies                                 ....    ....          0.3      0.2         0.4      0.3        ....     0.3      0.7      0.8
VIII. Base cost (Sept. 194 prices)         10.3     11.5           3.6      6.0         7.7     14.2       7.2      13.3     28.8     45.0
I)X  Physical contingencies                 1.0      1.1           0.4      0.6         0.8      1.4       0.7       1.3      2.       4.4
X   Price escalation                         ....    ....          0.1      0.1         0.3      0.6       0.5       0.9      0.9      1.6
Xl. TotalProjectoost                       11.3     12.6           4.1      6.7         8.8     162        8.4      15.5     32.6     51.0
XII. Cost in DA million                   429A     478.8         181.6    296.8       472.9    870.5    516.8    953.3   1600.5   2599.4    >>
VIII. Exchange Rates                           38.0                    44.3                 53.7               61.5                            e
ir



DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBUC OF ALGERIA
MASCARA EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATlON SCHEDULE
Estimated Annual Contractual and Other Payments
(US $ Million Equivalent
Project YearsToaRerk
Project Elbent                                                                                            Payments
1995            1996              1997              1998
1. WORKS
1       ~~4.3        9.6              12.8              9.73A
1.1 HousIng Development                                                                                                                   LCB
.8  3.3                       2-0             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11.1
1.2 Sdiools, Holding Basins, Public Health, Road 17      (                                                               (5.6)            LCB
(09)      2   (1.7)         (1.9)                              6.0               C
1.3 Repairs to Houses, Roads                                4                                                            (3.0)            LCB
(.) ( 1.0) .        (0-1.56)737                                              C
1.4 Water Supply and Sewer                                                                                               (1 9)             LCB
(0.7)    (.1       0.8)          (0O4)03                                  C
1.5 Reforestation Program                                                                                                (0.3)            LCB
1.6 Land Acquisition                                                                                                     5.4 .
12.3
1.7 Steel Stnuctures                               6                                                                     (8.8)       Direct Contracting
2. GOODS
Is                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~3.8
2.1 Equipment and Machinery                                (0      .3  (1.3)                                             (3.0)             ICe
_       ~~~0.3    05n
2.2 Materials                                                    05                                                       1.3              ice
(0.2)                        (0.4)                              (1.0)
3. CONSULTANCIES
3.1 Project Implementatlon                                              -F _                                              1.6            Short List
(02)          0 7(0.5)         0          (4)(1.3)
3.2 Institutional Development                     (06                               (0.2)                                (1.73)          Short Ust
-(0.6)      -     -i(0 5)-                                               (1 2)   -.
TOTALS                                              27.0             21.2              22.4             13.0              83.6
(Bank-Financed)                                     (15.2)           (12.7)           (14.7)            (8.4)            (51.0)
0
Lecend:           DI
Document Preparation                           Construction Study Period     ~JBidding                                        sads/w50721a



- 24 -                         Attachment 5
Page 1 of 4
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
MASCARA EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
LOCAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
BACKGROUND AND OPERATI3NS
Background
1.          The Local Development Bank, Banque de DMveloppement Local (BDL), was
established on June 21, 1988, in accordance with Law 38.01 of January 12, 1988, when the
parent institution, Credit Populaire d'Algerie (CPA), ceded its local enterprise (EPL) portfolio
to the new bank. Since Febnrary 20, 1989, BDL has had an Entreprise Publique Economique
(EPE) status, and as such, is fully autonomous, both administratively and financially. At first,
BDL's clientele was limited to local enterprises owned and operated by Wilaya and municipal
governments. In recent years, a number of EPLs have been either restructured or liquidated;
the remaining ones are being considered for privatization. Consequently, BDL has been reaching
out to an emerging private sector. Private contractors and industrial enterprises providing
construction materials are now important clients. Besides its growing private sector portfolio,
BDL's comparative advantage is its capacity to serve rural, as well as urban, customers through
an extensive network of 146 branches. In the coming year, some 14 new branches will be
opened. An operational strategy is currently under discussion.
Oranization
2.          BDL has a total staff complement of about 3,100, including about 1,000
professionals. An international firm has conducted a major institutional and financial audit of
BDL, covering the period between January 1, 1991 and September 30, 1992, with a view to
restucuing BDL, with Bank assistance under the ongoing Economic and Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan (EFSAL). BDL has begun carrying out the recommendation of the audit. Its
operations, which are decentralized, are nearly fully computerized. An organizational chart is
shown on page 3 of this Attachment.
Financial Position
3.          BDL was initially capitalized in the amount of DA 500 million. Its present capital
is DA 720 million, including capitalization of DA 220 million in 1994. In 1992, BDL made
major adjustments in its balance sheet by removing non-performing loans to liquidated EPLs.
As a result, it posted a significant loss in that year. To compensate for this loss, the
Government agreed to swap Treasury bonds valued at DA 16 billion for an equal amount of
BDL's losses. The swap is being carried out over a two-year period, 1993-94. As a result of



- 25 -                         Ament S
Page 2 of 4
these new revenue-producing assets, BDL's spread moved to a positive one, albeit 0.3%, in
1993. A second phase of auditing is underway, and the fnal report is scheduled to be issued
by the end of December 1994. Audited fnancial statements for 1993 should reflect the real
impact of those assets on BDL's fiancial position. Meanwhile, measures to mitigate the impact
of the remaining losses are under consideration. Original and adjused fmancial statements and
indicators are shown on page 4 of this Attachment.
Mascara Emergency Reconstruction Project
4.          To meet reconstruction needs in Mascara, the Government has decided to grant
an upfront housing subsidy in the amount of DA 300,000 to each homeowner whose dwelling
was destroyed by the earthquake. In areas where housing is scattered, the grant will be used
entirely for self-help construction. In sites and services development areas, where 90% of the
affected families will be living, the grant will cover the cost of the structural works of a 30 in2-
core unit, to be built by contractors. This will leave the possibility for each unit to be expanded
over time according to a flexible, prototype architectural design. An additional DA 150,000 will
be needed to finish each core unit in these areas, through self-help construction. Within this
famework, BDL's role will be to provide loans for fmancing finishing works in the core units
and possible extensions. A subsidy of DA 100,000 will be given to each homeowner whose
dwelling was damaged by the earthquake. This amount will be used to finance repairs to the
dwelling. The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be in charge of managing the
disbursement of the subsidies to approximately 210 families for rebuilding of their scattered
houses, and to about 385 families for making repairs in their dwellings.
5.          Bank loan proceeds in the amount of US$4.8 million have been earmarked to
cover 50% of the cost of self-help constuction works needed to finish core units. The Treasury
will channel Bank loan fumds in the amount of DA 75,000 per beneficiary homeowner and an
equal amount in counterpart funds, through BDL. It will make Bank funds available to BDL
at the current interest rate charged by the Bank with a maturity of 17 years and four years of
grace. Concomitantly, it will lend an equal amount on current concessionary terms, i.e., 1% 
with a 25-year maturity and four years of grace. The Treasury will provide resources to BDL
upfront in equal installments composed of Bank loan proceeds and matching counterpart funds.
The Bank will reimburse the Treasury from the loan account on receiving proof of Treasury
disbursement to BDL. BDL will make subloans to beneficiaries under the terms described
above, and will receive a fee from the Treasuiy for managing these subloans. The Inspection
Generale des Finances, within the Treasury, will audit project accounts annually and submit
audit reports to the Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
6.          The Mascara Regional Office of BDL will process subloans in coordination with
the PIU, which will develop a dossier for each sub-borrower. To be eligible for financial
assistance through BDL, homeowners would have to provide, inter alia, property titles as
collateral. In addition, BDL may engage the services of a local firm to supervise the works in
progress.



-26-
Attachment 5
Page 3of 4
President
General Manager
I General I
l        l       T   ~~~~~~~IrnspectUon 
Deputy General Manager      .jAudit j
I ControlJ
DptManae                          Deputy Marnager                        Dpt   aae
Loanommitent                     Rnarnce and Accounting                     "AnIstastIon
1 Private Sector Credit Departnent        9 Finance and Cash Management Department
2 Public Enterprise Credit Department    10 Human Resources Deparnent
3                  Department            11 Information Systems Deear t
4 CommItment Control Department          12 Materia Means and Budt
5 Foreign Exchange Department            13 Regional Offices (15k
6 General Accounting Department
7 Banking Production Department
8 Treasury Department                                                                           sads/W51041d



- 27 -                         Attachment 5
Page 4 of 4
1991         1992*       1993
Audited      Audited  Utn-audited
INCOM STATEM8NT
Interest on Loans                    2,720       3,082       5,033
Interest Expense                    (1,541)     (1,604)      (3,967)
Depreciation Expense               (19,393)    (26,700)        (840)
Other Operating Expenses              (490)       (370)        (799)
Net Operating Income               (18,704)    (25,592)        (573)
Adjustments                             74        (344)         724
Net Income before Taxes            (18,630)    (25,936)        151
BALANCE SiENT
ASSETS
Cash and Equivalent                2,182       1,531       5,620
Oustanding Loan Portfolio         10,591      12,597      11,130
Securities                           120         162      15,526
Fixed Assets                         358         435         872
Other Assets                         719       4,157      32,229
TOTAL ASSBTS                        13,970      18,882      65,377
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
Notes Payable                      4,844       9,715      10,060
Sight Depots                      10,256      12,016      17,480
Medium- and
Long-Term Borrowing                8,404      13,033      16,857
Other Liabilities                  8,063       8,758      18,267
Reserves                             534         796         865
Capital                              500         500         500
Retained Earnings                (18,631)    (25,936)      1,347
TOTAL EQUITY & LIA'ILITIES          13,970      18,882      65,377
FINANCIAL INDICATORS
Liquidity/Quick Ratio                 14.5%        7.0%       20.4%
Working Ratio                         18.0%       12.0%       1S.9%
Operating Ratio                      731.0%      878.3%       32.6%
Average Interes' Earned             -119.3%     -125.1%        6.4%
Average Cost of. Resources            11.0%        8.5%        6.1t
Spread                              -130.4%     -133.6t        0.3*
Return on Assets                    -133.4%     -137.4%        0.2t
* lTrough Sqember 30, 1992.



- 28 -
Attachment 6
Page 1 of 1
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
IASCARA EMERGENCY RECONSTRUClION PROJEC1
UiST OF CONTRACTS TO BE PLACED FOR THE PROJECT
TOTAL
PROJECT COMPONENT                PROCUREMENT iTEMS             CONTRACT NO.    PAYMENT
US$ Million
Housin-:                          Land acquisition             MERP0                   5.3
Steel structures             MERP-H-1                10.6
Housing development         MERP-H-2                37.1
Repairs to structures       MERP-H-3 to              1.1
Agriculture                       Holding basins               MERP-A-1                 1.1
Reforestation program       MERPA.2                  0.2
Repairs to irrigaon          MERP-A-to               0.6
Education:                        Reconstruction of schools    MERP-E-1 to 10           2A
Public health:                    Reconstruction of health centers  MERP-P-1 to 6       1.0
Roads.                            Rehabilitation RN 17         MERP-R-1                 7.5
Repairs to RN 6 and 17       MERP-R-2 to 5           4.0
Eauiement supooW                  School, hospital, pumps,
aerators, truck              MERP-S-1 to             3.6
SU1IV of materials               Pipes and fittings, asphalt, seeds  MERP-M-2          2.1
Water sUoohr & sera:              Water & sewrage network      MERP-W-1                 2.2
Lagoons                     MERP-W-2                 1.5
Consultancies                     Construction supervision     MERP-C-1                 1.6
zoning, microzoning          MERP-C-2                 1A
Land slide study            MERP-3                   0.3
TOTAL



- 29 -
Attachment 7
Page 1 of 1
DEMOCRATIC AND PEPULAR  REPUBLIC OF ALGERUI
MASCARA EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCCTION PRECT
ESTUMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSiEMENTS
(US$ Millon)
Bahnk Loan            Govermnent Funds
Bank FYI and Quarter   In Quarter  Cumulaive    In Quarter  Cumuladve2
1995   Third                4.0          4.0          3.0          3.0
Fourth               3.9          7.9          3.2         6.2
1996   First                3.7         11.6          2.9          9.1
Second               3.6         15.2          2.7        11.8
Third                3.3         18.5          2.3        14.1
Fourth               3.2         21.7          2.2        16.3
1997   First                3.0         24.7          2.0         18.3
Second               3.2         27.9          2.0        20.3
Third                4.4         32.3          2.0        22.3
Fourth               3.8         36.1          2.0        24.3
1998   First                3.5         39.6          1.9         26.2
Second               3.0         42.6          1.8        28.0
Third                2.5         45.1          1.6        29.6
Fourth               2.5         47.6          1.0        30.6
1999   First                2.0         49.6          1.0         31.6
Second               1.4         51.0          1.0        32.6
Rums from July Ist of the preceding year to June 30tI of the current year.
Gives esdmated accumulated disbursements at the end of the conesponding quarters.



DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBUC OF ALGERIA
MASCARA EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCInON PROJECT
Project ImplemontatWon Organiza.on
MINISTRY OF INTERIOR
STEERING COMMITTEE
AGRICULTURE   EDUCATION I HOUSING   PUBLIC HEALTH  PUBUCWORKS
MASCARAS WALI
|COORDINATION COMMITTEE                       |3L)-::
|MPLEMENTAON UNIL
|   ISA*    l l           )DTP'               O I  COMMUNMFS                DUC                     0HW *
BSA: Direction des Sertlces Agflcoles de la Ufllaye de Mascaa
DTP: Direction des TIavaux Publics do la Wllaya de Mascara
WUC: DirecIon de rurbanlse at de la Construcon de la Wilaya de Mascara
DHW: DirectIon de rHydraullque de la WTlaya de Mascara
sadsAN50721b



-31-                  ~~~~~~~ATTACHMENTS
iE~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
IL Z
00
0F
cc                                       M
c                       i~~~~U 
~~~~~z~~~
8~~~~
(wE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u
0011 ~ ~~~~~.......



- 32 -                    Attachment 10
Page 1 of 4
DEMOCRATIC AND POUL    REPUBLIC OF AGERIA
MASCARA EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Selected Photos of Earthquake Damages
''~~~~ist   ~ 7--   strC3  



-33 -                   Attachment 10
Page 2 of 4
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
MASCARA EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Selected Photos of Earthquake Dames
8E~~~V
it                         I
*~~~~~ ~~~~ S 9



- 34-                     Attachment 10
Page 3 of 4
DEMOCRATIC AD PQOuAR REPWBLIC OF ALGE
MASCARA EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
SelectiedPhotos of Earthquake Damages
--  -h--.  X~~~~~~~~~~~~M



- 35 -                 Atachmaent 10
Page 4 of 4
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
MASCARA EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Selected Photos of Earthauake D =es
~~~~--3
1~~~'                                      -
AA



- 36 -                        Attachment 11
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
MASCARA EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.    Reconstruction de la zone sinistite - Bilan et perspective
2.    Reconstruction de la zone sinistr6e - Annexes - Fiches Techniques - I
3.    Reconstruction de la zone sinistr6e - Annexes - Fiches Techniques - II
4.    Esquisse Tectonique de l'Algerie (Alg6rie du Nord)
Expose sur les connaissances actuelles de la structure de I'Algerie et presentation
d'une carte tectonique, Maurice Kieken, Service de la Carte G6ologique de
l'Alg6rie, Alger, 1962.
5.    Le risque sismique en Algerie, Ministere de l'Habitat, Centre National de Recherche
Appliquee en GEnie Parasismique, Alger, 1993.
6.    Council of Europe - EUR-OPA Major Hazards Agreement--Report of the Post-
Earthquake Mission to Algeria from 31 August to 2 September 1994. Strasbourg,
September 22, 1994.



IBRD 267
rW  )              r                                                                       ;                                             .                                             .                                            8  12r 
s7.s <  t vZ  /                                                                                                    M e d i t e   r a n e a n    S e a
Sid,   o                                                                                                               ALOU
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t                                                                             - _,. C4:j       ;<4-iS
-                R -                                                                                       X S----- -->  -- /X/                                                                     - f1\-
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-9 °! a..  -                                                                                                                y         -           -                       'A<- DolS-
°   d   X  v  + n '~~~~~~~tO                                                              -                                                                                                        KDODDIEA   '    -    -       lersR
flf  t                  r{t          t            zer >                               t                          ror_DSDD  .t                                                                                                              VI].
0K
MASCARA                             ALGERIA
2         \i'For detail, sb                                                                            MASCARA EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
- \ N  \  ) t.  < .                                                          EARHQUAKE RECOVERY - PROJET LOCATION
WILAYA NAMES.
2           /    BECIIDA       OUARCIA  \                                                23  biCENI R                                AOllS6          13 ANNMA             25 GUELMA           37 DELIA
TINDOLIF                                                                                -- FAUI- LT UNI      S                2 TLEMCEN           14 EL TARf          26 S1UK AMSAS       38 E10(A
PAVED NATIONAL  ADS                  A AN TEO ENT        SIDI BEt A8S     27 SADA                 TENC8ESA
PAVED WULAYA ROAD$                4CRAN              M6AASCARA            28 TtARET1 TErES
N.     .02551                                               -+-4-'- VJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LROADS  5 MOSTAGAE      17 EELIZANE         29 lSSSEMST         41 a Ocam
F%.f  t\,                                                                                       AI E(l    sSRPORTS                 6 CHU!F G7RUANEM                       10ANDEL    MEDEA     I BECHARE
.RVERS                            7 TIPAZA            S BLEDA             31  rSIiLA          43 GHArA                                 rho
.'  M E *P. OET SND VIlLAGES                           8 BOUMERDES        23  soa,A           32 MAEDA            44 OUIARGL
TASNO1IANGSSETT                                                 WiI VIYCAITA                         aS fuzou         21 sOUZOECU a       32I R ELEORDJOU I      TiR ARRERIDJ 33 O   M    45  A                 Idpo  of
* NATIONAL CAPITAL                 IT BEJASA            22 SETIIF           34 NAAMA            46 ADM                                   Th.       Fo.k    o
WIILAVIA IOUNDDSIES              3tJJL2 MOICA                             $5 EL EAYADM        47 TAMANGNASSET                           AhaoatloiD-
. - -* NTERNIATIONAL BOUNDARIES         12 SKI1DA           24 CONSTANTINE      36 lAGrOUAT 608r GD p°n°. of aooM
|  (*_-.  TDA                                                                                             _                                                                                                               NOVEM8ERA 1149



