Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20503
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(38130; 3813A; 3813S)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5 1.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOR THE
MASCARA EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
MAY 31, 2000
INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT GROUP
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective Jan 1, 2000)
Currency Unit = Algerian Dinar
100.00DA = US$ 1.47
US$ 1.00 = 68.08 DA
FISCAL YEAR
Jan  Dec
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APC          Assemblee Populaire Communale (Local Elected Authorities
BAD          Banque algerienne de developpement (Algerian Development Bank)
BDL          Banque de developpernent local (Local Development Bank)
CGS           Centre national de recherche appliquee en genie parasismique
(National Research Center on Applied Seismic Engineering, Ministry of Housing)
CTC          Organisme national de contr6le de la construction
(National Corporation for Building Control, Ministry of Housing)
EPEOR         Entreprise de production, de gestion et de distribution d'eau d'Oran
(Water Production, Management and Distribution Company of Oran)
IGF          Inspection generalLe des finances (Auditors, Ministry of Finance)
MEAT         Ministere de 1'6quipement et de I'amenagement du territoire
(Ministry of Public Works and Regional Planning)
MICLE         Ministere de l'interieur, des collectivites locales et de 1'environnement
(Ministry of State., Local Communities, and Environment)
MRP          Memorandum and Recommendation of the President (November 10, 1994)
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
WILAYA       Province
Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:    Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager/Director:   Jean-Claude Villiard
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Douglas I. Graham



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
MASCARA EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                           1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                     6
6. Sustainability                                                                         8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                          9
8. Lessons Learned                                                                       12
9. Partner Comments                                                                      13
10. Additional Information                                                               14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                     15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                     16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                     18
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                     19
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                     20
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                        21
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                    22
This document has a restricted distbuio  and may be used by recipients only ine
perfamance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Ban ahorizio.






Project ID: P038695                                         Project Name: MASCARA EMERG.RECONS
Team Leader: Douglas I. Graham                              TL Unit: MNSID
ICR Type: Core ICR                                          Report Date: June 1, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: MASCARA EMERG.RECONS                            L/C/TFNumber: 38130; 3813A; 3813S
Country/Department: ALGERIA                                                Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector: UY - Other Urban Development
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  10/03/94                                  Effective: 03/09/95
Appraisal:  11/10/94                                    MTR:
Approval:  12/01/94                                  Closing: 12/31/98             12/31/99
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF ALGERIA/Project Implementation Unit
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:       Jean-Louis Sarbib                          Caio Koch Weser
Country Manager:      Christian Delvoie                          Daniel G. Ritchie
Sector Manager:       Jean-Claude Villiard                        A. Amir Al-Khafaji
Team Leader at ICR:   Douglas I. Graham                          Fritz Rodriguez
ICR Primary Author:   Claude H. Archambault
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N-Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Developmenit Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
On August 18, 1994 at 01:13 GMT, an earthquake with a magnitude of 5.6 on the Richter scale struck a
mountainous area in the Wilaya of Mascara in Algeria. The impact of the earthquake was devastating, as
172 people lost their life, 295 were severely injured and 10,000 left homeless. Based on the assessment
done for project appraisal by the National Corporation for Building Control (CTC: Organisme national de
contr6le de la construction), more than 1,400 dwelling units were completely destroyed, and 1,000 severely
damaged. Basic infrastructures, public buildings, and agricultural production suffered major damages that
resulted in the interruption of road traffic and public services.
The Government's response was very quick, and civil protection services and other agencies coordinated by
the Wali of Mascara, had installed 424 tents on the day of the seism, and 523 the following day, and
distributed first aid, water, milk, and food to the affected population. During the next few days, the
following personnel and facilities were mobilized: 315 civil protection agents, 15 doctors, 32 ambulances,
15 emergency power vehicles, 8 trucks, 2 communication shelters, 10 mobile electrical groups, 2452 tents,
and 23 mobile water tanks, each with a capacity of 10,000 liters.
The proposed Bank assistance focused on the short- and medium-term recovery of the sectors most affected
by the seism, as set out in the Memorandum and Recommendation of the President (MRP) dated November
10, 1994. Total project costs, including physical and prices contingencies, were estimated at US$83.6
million, and the proposed loan amoumt at US$5 1.0 million. The project aimed at rebuilding the economic,
social, and physical assets that were destroyed by the earthquake, with a view to restoring essential
facilities and services in the shortesi possible time. To this end, it assisted the authorities in setting up an
effective organization to manage the reconstruction program. It helped to develop long-term measures for
seismic damage prevention and mitigation. It further evaluated the institutional framework for dealing with
natural disasters, and made appropriate recommendations. Although the primary goal of the project was
asset reconstruction, it nevertheless proceeded within a larger view of fostering more economic
development in the region.
These objectives were clear and realistic. They focused on short- and medium-term impacts, as befits an
emergency operation. The project proved very successful in tapping the knowledge of local "tacherons",
who are small contractors with experience in construction of houses and small buildings: most of the
project components, with the notable exception of roads and bridges, were contracted out to tacherons
following simplified National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures. The project also benefited from the
expertise of the National Research Center for Applied Seismic Engineering (CGS : Centre national de
recherche appliqude en genie parasismique), a national research center in seismic engineering.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Due to the fact that the actual project costs proved to be much less than initially appraised, and also
because part of the agricultural component was executed under another on-going Bank loan, the Borrower
twice requested to restructure and cancel part of the loan. Following a supervision mission in March 1998,
the Borrower requested the Bank to restructure the project in a letter dated July 7, 1998 and to cancel an
amount of US$9.6 million (increased to US$17.0 million in a letter dated October 19, 1998) based on a
detailed assessment of each project component. The Loan Agreement was amended on December 10,
1998, to (a) reflect that cancellation, (b) postpone the closing date by one year to December 31, 1999, and
(c) increase to 80 percent the percentage of expenditures to be financed for the construction of the two
sewage treatment plants. A further request to cancel an amount of US$2.3 million was received by the
Bank on September 1, 1999. The final amount of the loan was then US$31.7 million.
- 2 -



3.3 Original Components:
The project included the reconstruction of or repairs to facilities in the following sectors, for a total
appraised cost of US$83.6 million:
* in the education sector, 2 schools would be rebuilt, and 10 others repaired (US$2.7 million);
* in the housina sector, temporary steel structures would be provided to the homeless, repairs would be
made to 385 damaged houses, 5 public buildings would be reconstructed, and 2,130 new housing units
would be built (US$55.7 million);
* in the agriculture sector repairs would be made to the irrigation system, 6 holding basins would be
constructed, and a reforestation program would be carried out ($3.1 million);
*   in the public health sector, 7 health centers and one maternity would be rebuilt, and major repairs made
to 2 health centers (US$1.2 million);
* in the road sector, rehabilitation of 23 km on National Road 17 and various reconstruction and repair
works would be carried out (US$11.4 million);
*  in the water supply and seweraze sector, the water and sewer networks in the affected villages would
be rebuilt, water and sewerage services would be provided in the new housing development areas, and
lagoons would be constructed for treatment and use of waste water in irrigation (US$7.8 million).
In addition, the following studies and surveys were included:
* for earthquake hazard reduction and prevention, seismic zoning and microzoning studies would be
carried out, a revision of seismic design coefficients and spectra followed by an evaluation of building
codes would be undertaken, and a public awareness program dealing with natural disasters would be
implemented (US$1.5 million); and
* for social rehabilitation, the needs of women and children affected by the earthquake would be
addressed with a view to restoring their productive facilities and activities (US$0.2 million).
Most of the original components were reasonable and directly related to the project objectives, the
exception being the steel structures that the Government bought and erected as temporary shelters before
project appraisal: these temporary housing units were poorly received by the displaced families. On the
other hand, their usefulness cannot be questioned, since most of them have been given back to the
beneficiaries, especially in rural areas.
3.4 Revised Components:
Component                                    Cost (in million US$)      Rating
Housing Reconstruction                             25.0                   S
School Reconstruction                               2.3                    S
Public Buildings Reconstruction                     0.2                    S
Irrigation System Reconstruction                    0.4                   S
Public Health Facilities                            0.4                    S
Road Reconstruction                                 3.8                    5
Water Supply and Sewerage                           5.2                    S
Studies                                             1.1                    S
Sub-loans through BDL                               2.7                    S
TOTAL                                      41.1
Most components of the project had been completed at project closure date. In the agricultural sector, the
holding basins and the reforestation program were executed through other on-going Bank's projects. In the
water supply and sewerage sector, two sewage treatment plants were still under construction at project
closure date. They are planned to become operational in April and September 2000 respectively.
- 3 -



3.5 Quality at Entry:
There was no formal Quality at Entry assessment, nor Quality Assurance Group analysis during the course
of the project. The ICR ratings in section 2 above are based on the following considerations:
*   At project closure, most of the project components had been completed, at considerable savings to the
Borrower.
*   The project design was relatively straightforward, and all of its components should prove sustainable.
*   The project had a direct institutional impact on the implementation arrangements for the emergency
Reconstruction Project which followed the December 22, 1999 earthquake in Ain Temouchent. The
implementation arrangements for that project have been modified to benefit from the experience gained
in the Mascara Project.
*   Under difficult circumstances, exacerbated by the security situation, both the Bank's and the
Borrower's performance can be assessed as satisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
At the time of project appraisal, the country was going through a political turmoil with terrorism making it
unsafe for foreigners, and even nationals, to travel: to this day, night time travel is prohibited to all vehicles
between Mascara and Oran. This security problem was compounded by high unemployment, a severe
housing crisis, and shortage of basic necessities. At the same time, the Government of Algeria, with the
technical and financial support of the IMF, implemented a stabilization program aimed at correcting
macroeconomic imbalances and distortions through: (a) adjustment of the exchange rate and reform of the
exchange regime; (b) trade liberalization; (c) domestic price liberalization; (d) deficit reduction; and (e)
monetary restraint and higher interest rates.
The Bank's assistance strategy was to support macroeconomic stabilization and acceleration of structural
reforms, as part of a broader effort by Algeria's external partners to promote economic reform, ease the
debt service burden, and contribute to greater stability in the country. The Bank's investment lending
program focused on operations that supported basic infrastructure and social needs. The emergency
operation was designed with these objectives in mind, while focusing on short and medium-term recovery of
the sectors most affected by the earthquake. The project also aimed at helping the local population to cope
with disaster aftermath fears and setfle in their new environment.
It is fair to say that the project has achieved its stated objectives in a satisfactory manner, and that even if
the closing date was postponed by one year, the project was completed in a reasonable period of time, given
the highly volatile security situation, numerous administrative constraints and the lack of counterpart funds
that impeded the PIU's productivity during the latter half of the project implementation period.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Physical Objectives
By and large, the project achieved its stated physical objectives in the sectors of education, housing, public
health, roads and bridges, and water supply and sewerage, as shown in Annex 1. On the other hand, only
one agricultural component out of three was completed, the other two (holding basins and reforestation
program) having been canceled by the Borrower after long delays threatened the very existence of the
program. These two projects are financed through other sources of fund, including a Bank's project for the
reforestation program through a rural employment project.
Financial Objectives
Total project costs, including physical contingencies and price escalation, had been estimated at US$83.6
-4 -



million at appraisal. The actual costs have been much smaller: US$41.1 million. Four major factors help
to explain these savings: (a) not all earthquake victims required immediate help and temporary shelter,
since about 50 percent of them took refuge with relatives and/or friends, or relocated outside of the region;
(b) the actual damages and costs of needed reconstruction were overestimated at appraisal; (c) competition
among the local tacherons to rebuild housing units and public buildings was much more intense than
envisaged, helping to keep the costs down; and (d) not all property owner wanted to apply for a mortgage
with the Banque de ddveloppement local (BDL), which was entrusted with making loans of up to 150,000
DA to help a property owner with completing the core dwelling unit he was given by the Government.
Overestimation of construction costs are due to the fact that it is difficult, in the best circumstances, to
appraise the real needs for reconstruction immediately following an earthquake. In the case of Mascara,
the security situation made it more difficult yet.
The final amount of the loan was US$31.7 million. As of April 30, 2000, total disbursements were
US$25.3 million, leaving an undisbursed amount of US$6.4 million, equivalent to 20 percent of the revised
loan amount. Two major factors may explain the very high proportion of undisbursed funds at the end of
the project: (i) the Banque algerienne de developpement (BAD) as transfer agent was mired in red tape
procedures that required up to 27 signatures to process a simple invoice - at any point in time, the BAD
would have US$2 to 3 million worth of invoices that had been awaiting process for six months or more; (ii)
the PIU did a comnmendable job in processing the invoices, but could not compel the sectoral directors to
approve invoices in a timely manner.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Cost-benefit calculations were not carried out in the MRP. The following benefits were projected, but not
quantified: (a) assist in restoring physical assets and economic activities; (b) alleviate human suffering
through the provision of temporary shelters; (c) provide the whole population with the necessary school and
public health facilities, and with adequate water supply and sewerage services; (d) give a new impulse to
agriculture through repairs of the irrigation system; and (e) spell out measures that the authorities should
implement to reduce damages by earthquakes, through a revision of the building codes, seismic zoning and
microzoning, and preparedness of the population to the occurrence of natural disasters. All of those
benefits have materialized through the project.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
n.a.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project was not seen as a vehicle for policy changes, and therefore there were no conditionalities
attached to it. However, several actions needed to be taken to ensure speedy project execution and
adherence to existing policies were agreed to by the Government of Algeria, namely:
* The project was decentralized at the Wilaya level. This worked well for the housing, education, and
health sectors. For the roads and bridges sector, and for the construction of the sewage treatment
plants, long delays occurred because the Ministry of Public Works and Regional Planning (MEAT)
would not provide necessary authorization to commit funds in a timely manner, and there were still
unresolved disputes between the Ministry and the contractor that were further delaying the construction
of the sewage lagoons as late as February 2000.
*   A PIU was set up at the Wilaya level to coordinate the project execution among the different sectors.
However the PIU did not have authority to allocate the loan proceeds according to the project needs:
this was done through the different structures responsible for the execution of their part of the project,
which further delayed project implementation.
*   The PIU manager was appointed by the Ministry of Interior (MICLE), but his status did not permit
- 5 -



him to exercise authority over the different sectors within the Wilaya. The coordination was rather
weak from that point of view.
*   The Government had decided to offer sub-loans on concessionary terns to homeowners affected by the
earthquake, and it had designated the Banque de developpement local (BDL) to be its agent. The
Borrower was to transfer to BI)L an amount equivalent to US$4.8 million, under a subsidiary
agreement. This agreement only took effect in May 1997, when it was sent to the Bank for no
objection, even if it had been s:igned much earlier, in December 1995. This delay, added to the fact that
the sub-loans were denominated in Dinars and capped at an amount of 150,000 DA, irrespective of the
intervening devaluation of the Dinar between project appraisal and project execution, explains why
BDL could only use one third of the funds that were made available for the sub-loans.
*   The PIU maintained separate records of the works executed in each sector and for each contract
These records were audited by the Inspection generale des Finances (IGF), a subsidiary of the Ministry
of Finance, whose performance was barely acceptable for the following reasons: (a) the disbursements
were suspended on February 20, 1998, because IGF had not submitted the audit report for the year
1996 more than nine months after it became due, in spite of numerous requests to that effect; (b) the
Bank made comments on various audit reports, but IGF never even acknowledged these comments; and
(c) requests to obtain additional' information from the auditors remained unanswered.
*   MICLE was the implementing agency responsible for the execution of the project. A Special Account
was maintained at the Central EBank of Algeria, with the objective of accelerating payments by the PIU
to contractors and consultants. However, the PIU only had access to these funds through BAD. This
imposed another unacceptable delay: contractors and consultants would not be paid for six months,
even a year, after their invoice had been approved by the PIU and sent to BAD for payment.
In spite of these weaknesses, the Borrower achieved most of the Development Objectives. Their immediate
impact has already been demonstrated, as stated above. Their longer tern impact should also prove
beneficial through better coordination between different Ministries, higher private content in construction
works, and more focused contribution to on-going projects by governmental agencies such as BAD, BDL
or IGF.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
One factor benefited the project, i.e. the devaluation of the Algerian Dinar by close to 80 per cent between
project appraisal and project completion, while domestic inflation lagged behind devaluation, thus making
all contracts expressed in Dinars less costly in terms of dollars, and decreasing project costs by the same
token.
On the other hand, two major factors impaired the execution of the project:
* Civil disturbances and the killing of civilians were especially noticeable in the Mascara region, where
armed islamist militants have been active since the early '90s. Although foreseen during project
appraisal, this factor had a mucht larger impact than originally stated, as it restricted bidding to local
contractors, delayed construction activities since contractors could not work more than 6 to 8 hours per
day, and it prevented successive Bank's supervision missions from going to the field, with the exception
of a short site visit on February 27, 2000.
*  Decreases in oil prices during the past few years limited the amount of counterpart funds available for
the project.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
One positive factor was the high level of commitmtent from the authorities of the Wilaya and from the PIU
- 6-



director and his staff to ensure the success of the project, starting with the very first emergency operations
in the hours following the earthquake. MICLE as the implementing agency has also shown a real interest
in the project, although it was not always able to obtain full collaboration from other ministries.
The following factors adversely affected the implementation of the project:
*   The extent of the severe budgetary crisis that the Government of Algeria experienced in 1997 and 1998
was not foreseen during project preparation and appraisal, but it had a major impact on the execution
of the project, as it strongly limited the availability of counterpart funds, delayed the launching of
needed works, affected the scheduling of many contracts, and resulted in the cancellation of some
project components and in the postponement of the project closing date by one year.
* Financial management was entrusted to BAD, whose bureaucratic procedures delayed payments to
contractors and consultants and delayed sending disbursement requests to the Bank. Administrative
procedures should have been simplified in order to accelerate the disbursement of funds, especially in
relation to BAD acting as an intermediary between the Central Bank and the PIU.
*   Not enough attention was paid to the capacity of the Borrower to put in place an effective organization
to manage the project. Eight different ministries were involved in its day to day management, each
having the responsibility to define and design subcomponents, call for tenders, evaluate bids, sign
contracts and supervise works, and authorize payments for works in their respective fields.
* The role of the PIU director and of his staff was not properly defined and it was limited to that of a
communication channel between the Bank and MICLE. The PITJ director, having no authority over the
different sector directors, could hardly exercise his functions of (a) coordinating the actions of the
sectoral ministries which resulted in delays in implementing various components of the project, (b)
preparing technical designs and construction works, (c) carrying out the procurement process, and (d)
preparing applications for the withdrawal of loan proceeds.
*   IGF's incapacity to submit timely audit reports led to the suspension of disbursements in 1998.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The PIU maintained a very strict control over the costs of the numerous contracts through a high level of
supervision. However, in some cases, appropriate procurement procedures as described in the Loan
Agreement were not followed, which led to the cancellation of the financing of one fire station and one
telephone and post office. These were financed through the Governments budget.
The PIU director prepared occasional progress reports, but did not adhere to the schedule described in the
Loan Agreement. There was no mention of project implementation schedule, nor of the delays of any single
component. Also, those reports only showed actual project physical and financial status, without any
discussion on the problems experienced during the preparation or the execution of any project component,
the causes of delays or the proposed recommendations to remedy the problems.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Major changes in project costs occurred between project appraisal and project completion:
*   Average construction costs were much lower than first appraised for various reasons: (a) the lack of
proper reference prices for some items such as the two sewage treatment plants, for which the lowest
acceptable bid was US$2.6 million, compared to US$5.6 million as estimated by the Hydraulics
Directorate of the Wilaya; (b) the relatively high number of bids received, especially in the housing
sector, reflecting both the high number of qualified tacherons and the lack of economic activity in the
region; (c) there were no major change orders in any contract that would have added to the unit prices
(project costs at appraisal included a 10 percent allowance for physical contingencies); and (d) all
contracts were denominated in local currency, eliminating the risk of change, and average construction
prices did not increase as fast as local inflation (project costs at appraisal included a 40 percent price
-7-



escalation factor).
*   Because of lower unit costs, it wvas possible to increase the number of dwelling units that were rebuilt
or repaired by more than 13 percent, from 2515 in the Loan Agreement to 2858 at project completion.
The Bank had given its no objection, following a more refined analysis of structural damages.
Similarly, after close inspection, more repairs were done to retaining walls and road embankments than
first envisaged. The PIU had projected to increase the length of the irrigation channels to be repaired to
attain a better level of efficiency, but the Government rejected the request, for lack of counterpart
funds. Similar requests to increase funding for other activities, such as rehabilitation of public
buildings, agreed to by the Banlc, were rejected for the same reason.
*   The Algerian Dinar, worth US$0.026 in November 1994, had seen its value dropped to US$0.015 at
the end of 1999. Since all contracts were expressed in Dinars at fixed prices, they became less costly
in terms of dollars. This helps to explain why, with similar figures in Dinars (base costs estimated at
2.8 billion DA in the MRP, and actual costs of 2.4 billion DA), the amounts in dollars were much
lower (respectively US$73.8 million and US$41.1 million).
Significant implementation delays occurred for reasons listed above, and the project closing date had to be
postponed by one year, to December 31, 1999. (Even that was not enough, since there remained more than
US$ 1.0 million worth of works to be completed by that time). The original closing date was December 31,
1998, which allowed 46 months for the execution of the project, with most of the works to be completed
within the first 40 months: in normal circumstances, that would have been more than enough. Also not all
project components incurred delays. In particular, the housing component, which represented about 70
percent of the total project costs, was completed in less than 3 years.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating.
Sustainability is likely for the following reasons:
-   In spite of the numerous problems that plagued the project, MICLE has shown a real commitment to
the project objectives and its implementation.
*   Sustainability of the physical components of the project, especially new buildings and housing units,
should be enhanced by the fact that the design and construction methods mostly follow a building code
that includes provisions against possible damages resulting from earthquakes.
*   From an environmental point of view, the project is most likely sustainable since new water and sewer
networks in the villages where previous networks had been damaged should ensure safe water
distribution and proper sewage collection and treatment. Likewise, steps have been taken to cover the
operation costs of the two sewerage treatment plants by allocating a portion of the water distribution
levy to that effect.
*   The social impact of the project was most direct through the reconstruction of infrastructure in three
small towns: primary and high schools, hospitals and health clinics, public buildings and community
centers, public utilities, and roads and streets.
*   Most of the investment was in private housing reconstruction and rehabilitation, and the owners of the
new or rehabilitated dwelling units are more likely to take good care of their property than if they were
renting units in social housing.
Maintenance of public buildings (town halls and community centers) on the other hand may not be seen as
a priority by the local elected authorities (APC), since the budgets of the communes are quite limited. As a
rule, the communes hardly ever invest in maintenance activities, be it for roads or public utilities, let alone
town halls or post offices. This last point raises many questions on the adequacy of municipal finance
arrangements in Algeria, but that subjiect was outside the scope of an emergency operation such as this one.
- 8 -



6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The MRP foresaw that the water and sewerage installations would be owned by the Government, but leased
to the regional water utility, the "Entreprise de Production, Gestion et Distribution d'Eau d'Oran
(EPEOR)". This arrangement did not prove feasible because of severe financial constraints within
EPEOR The two municipalities of Hacine and Bou Hanifia where the sewage treatment plants have been
constructed, will take over responsibility for their operation and maintenance. Contacts have been made
with the operator of a similar treatment plant in a nearby Wilaya, who will provide training and operation
and maintenance support to the technical staff of the two municipalities. It is recommended that the Bank
verify in a year's time that the treatment plants are indeed operational and that proper mechanisms have
been put in place by the municipalities to ensure effective operation and maintenance.
Other public buildings such as schools, hospitals or fire stations, and the rehabilitated roads, streets, and
other public utilities, have been handed over to the respective ministries responsible for their operation and
maintenance. Not all transfer arrangements had been finalized as of February 2000, and the High School
director in Hacine for one does not have sufficient funds in his operational budget to hire janitors to sweep
the floors and clean the windows, nor to operate the cafeteria that still lacks proper gas connection.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The project was prepared in a very short period of time. The earthquake occurred on August 18, 1994. On
August 22, the Government of Algeria requested emergency Bank assistance for reconstruction of the
damaged sites. A reconnaissance mission visited Algeria between September 9 and 15, to assess the
damages. An appraisal mission followed in mid-October, and negotiations took place in Paris, France, in
early November, less than three months after the earthquake.
The identification mission properly assessed the extent of the damages and proposed a course of action that
was well suited to the emergency situation. As the project was essentially targeted toward restoring normal
economic and social conditions, broad policy issues were not discussed, but left to be pursued later, and
they were not part of project identification.
During project appraisal, the Bank made reference to past emergency operations, although there had been
no instances of emergency assistance by the Bank to the Government of Algeria in the past. Among the
recommendations stemming from past experience, the Bank:
*   advocated the establishment of a strong PIU;
*   forewent any conditionality that would have delayed the execution of the project;
*   included a public education program on disaster mitigation, and guidance in disaster-resistant building
techniques;
*   proposed that a social survey be carried out with the purpose of determining living habits of the
population, the women's livelihood prior to the seism, and the pre-seism social environment of children,
with a view to restore and/or improve them.
The project design was relatively simple and straightforward, and well suited to the pressing needs of the
population. The design of the project components, the tender process and the works supervision were
entrusted to the sector directors of the Wilaya - this had the advantage of expediting the design process
since it relied heavily on standardized plans and specifications prepared by the central authorities of each
ministry. All civil works were executed by local contractors through NCB procedures. However,
implementation arrangements led the Bank to rely too heavily on existing public institutions, rather than
-9-



promoting private sector participation, in the following instances:
*   Financial management of the loan was entrusted to BAD, another unit of the Ministry of Finance,
which was the source of major delays in paying the contractors and the consultants and in replenishing
the Special Account.
*   All studies were made by public consulting groups affiliated with various ministries (e.g. CGS, the
earthquake experts, is a subsidiary of the Ministry of Housing, and CENEAP that directed the social
surveys is a subsidiary of the Ministry of Interior), and no effort was made to team them up with
intemational experts in their respective fields (although it would have been difficult to find foreign
consultants who would have accepted to go to Mascara for any period of time).
The Bank properly identified the major risks associated with the project, namely the recurrent violence and
the political instability. On the other hand, the availability of construction materials, described as a
potential risk in the MRP, was never at risk, probably because of the very low level of construction activity
in Algeria during the period 1995-1999.
The financial package was most appropriate in relation to the amount of damages and to the capacity of
property owners to reimburse the subsidized mortgages that were offered to them. The project financed the
300,000 DA subsidy that the Government had agreed to provide to each homeowner to start the
reconstruction of his or her core dwelling unit. However the level of funding to individual property owners
did not increase during the course of the project, despite the rise in local inflation, and that amount did not
change through the duration of the project, although it should have been increased to at least 500,000 DA
to take into account the effect of the intervening devaluation of the Dinar. Similarly, the amount of the
mortgage to which property owners were entitled for completing works on their core dwelling units had
been set at the equivalent of US$4,470 in the Loan Agreement, which represented 150,000 DA at that time.
However, the amount in Dinars has not been modified since then, although it should have been increased to
at least 250,000 DA to account for thie devaluation of the local currency and to pay for the actual costs of
such works.
The implementation plan was adequate, and the Borrower had agreed to an organizational chart that would
have given the PITJ the proper staff to manage the project, comprising one project director, one engineer
specialist in procurement, one construction supervision engineer, one disbursement officer and one
accountant. In practice, these people did not work for the PIU, but rather remained on the Wilaya's payroll.
This strongly handicapped the PIU in performing its work.
No performance indicators as such had been defined at appraisal. Rather, the MRP listed the various items
that would be monitored by the PIU and submitted to the Bank as quarterly reports, namely: (a) progress in
procurement; (b) progress in rebuilding each sector, particularly in relocating homeless families; (c)
expenditures of the project and updated cost estimates of remaining works; and (d) execution and
evaluation of the institutional development assistance program.
The amount of the loan was probably overestimated in view of the relative unreliability of the data at the
time of project preparation: the data was collected quickly after the seism, in the rush to alleviate human
suffering, and it might not have been accurate enough to allow an optimum project design and reliable cost
estimates.
Once MEAT agreed to proceed with the construction of two sewage treatment plants, no component of the
project was inconsistent with the Bank's safeguard policies.
- 1 0 -



7.2 Supervision:
The supervision plan was rather ambitious, and extensive supervision had been foreseen as necessary to
ensure adequate and quick project implementation. Since the security situation precluded on-site visits by
Bank staff, it was envisaged to rely on the use of trustworthy and competent local consultants to carry out
project supervision. Bank missions would have comprised experts in the different sectors involved in the
project, and services of an expert in seismic engineering was seen as essential, particularly at project
inception. This plan never materialized, and no outside consultants were commissioned to supervise the
execution of the project.
The Bank made seven supervision missions. In view of the security situation, they were held in Algiers,
where the PIU director, the Wilaya's sectoral directors, representatives from BAD and BDL in Mascara, as
well as officials from the Ministries of Finance and Interior, would meet the Bank's staff. For that reason,
the progress that is reported in various aide-memoires is solely based on progress reports prepared by the
PIU director and other government officials. After project closure, a one-day site visit was arranged by
MICLE, during which the mission met with several local and regional authorities, and toured various
project components.
One major implementation problem concerned the construction of the two sewage treatment plants. Action
was taken during supervision missions to ensure their completion before the closing date - this was in fact
the major reason for postponing the closing date by one year. In spite of all assurances, construction was
still not completed by the end of 1999, at which time there remained more than 20 percent of the works to
be completed.
Disbursement were suspended from February 19 to March 31, 1998 because IGF had failed to submit its
audit report for the previous year, in spite of numerous requests by the Bank to obtain the report: by the
time of the suspension, the audit report for 1996 was late by more than 7 months.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
T'he Bank's performance in supervision is rated satisfactory (S) because steps were taken to focus the
attention of the PIU director and his staff on the project development objectives. Also, the Bank reacted
with proper diligence when it suspended disbursements because of the negligence of IGF, and it took the
necessary steps to ensure that the sewage treatment plants would be built, by soliciting the support of the
Minister of Finance in favor of these essential components and by obtaining a firm commitment from the
Minister of Public Works towards their construction.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
This being an emergency operation, it was not expected that the Borrower would, or could, spend much
time and effort in preparing the project. One early decision was made to provide temporary steel shelters to
the population. They are now mainly used for storage purposes in rural areas. The involvement of CGS
proved highly beneficial in determining the extent of studies that were required to update the local
emergency response system (Plan ORSEC) and the building codes. Institutional arrangements specific to
the project were well thought out, namely the establishment of the PIU and the agreement between the
Ministry of Finance and BDL to offer mortgages to home owners.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
With hindsight, it is apparent that the Borrower was overoptimistic regarding the authority of the PIU over
the sector directors at the Wilaya level. Also, the extent of damages and the reconstruction costs had been
- 1 1 -



overestimated by CTC. The fact that there were no independent estimates of the extent of the damages, nor
of the unit costs of rehabilitating or rebuilding the damaged infrastructure, may have contributed to
inflating costs during project preparation.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The project greatly benefited from the competence and integrity of the PIU director, whose total
commitment to the project and perfect knowledge of all its aspects were never put in doubt. His
independence from the Wilaya's sector directors was also much appreciated, although he did not have much
authority over them.
The PIU director could have paid more attention to the social aspects of the project and the need for the
various stakeholders to learn from that experience. In particular, more effort should have been exercised to
publicize the results of the social surveys carried out at the beginning of the project, and to prepare a
follow-up survey at the end.
Some discrepancies exist between the Bank's procurement guidelines and the Borrower's own guidelines.
This was particularly the case for snmall contracts, where local procedures took precedence over the Bank's.
But there were instances where the Bank could not give its no objection on a post-review basis, because
proper procedures had not been followed. Such problems would have been avoided had the PIU had a
procurement specialist on its team.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's overall performance is satisfactory (S) in view of the results achieved and taking into
consideration the very special circumstances in which the project was implemented. This assessment is
corroborated by the successive supervision missions that have rated the development objectives and the
implementing progress from satisfactory during 1995 and 1996, to unsatisfactory and highly unsatisfactory
in 1997 and 1998, to satisfactory again at the end of 1998 and during 1999, following a renewed
commitmnent from MICLE and the PIU to achieve the project's development objectives.
8. Lessons Learned
This project provided valuable lessons for emergency projects in general, and for future work in Algeria in
particular.
Proiect Preparation
It is essential to obtain an independent assessment of the extent of the damages and an estimate of the costs
involved, without relying on figures provided by inspectors from the Ministry of Housing.
Solidarity among people affected by an earthquake - or a major catastrophe - should not be minimized, but
rather supported in the project definition. It played a major role in reducing by half the number of
temporary shelters that had to be erected. Solidarity was also present in helping people who used to live in
isolated farmhouses to resettle in villages where the risk of landslides following an earthquake is minimized.
The Bank should require that the PIU director and his staff be thoroughly familiar with its procurement and
disbursement procedures before project launching. Also, if there is a change in the project management
during its execution, the new director should familiarized himself with the Bank's procurement and
disbursement procedures.
- 12 -



Project Implementation
In the case of emergency operations, when it is important to obtain results on the ground as fast as possible,
but also for other operations, there is a need for more flexible disbursement procedures than the ones put in
place for this project. In particular, the Ministry of Finance should have either opened a special account in
a commercial bank, or improved BAD's services. This measure would help accelerate payments to
consultants and contractors.
It is important that the PIU exercise full control over all technical and financial aspects of an emergency
project. When sector directors are in charge of their respective components, it becomes impossible to
program the project activities in a rational manner.
IGF's performance was disappointing. Its reports were often late and did not respond to the needs of the
project. While the bank is helping to strengthen the capacity of IGF with an IDF grant, it should also
become standard practice to agree the audit terms of reference at the outset of the project.
Most project design and supervision activities should have been awarded to private consulting firms.
Besides helping in fostering a healthy consulting business, this policy would have been conducive to
solutions more appropriate to the special needs of the population than the standard design solutions
traditionally centralized in the various Ministries' offices in Algiers.
Project Supervision
The use of a simple project management software would have helped the PIU to prepare its periodic reports
on time and provided MICLE officials with a detailed account of the project status at any point in time. As
it happened, this information was incomplete, and mostly out-of-date.
If, for any security reason, supervision teams cannot make site visits for a certain period of time, the Bank
should consider suspending disbursements, if there is a doubt that disbursements are not properly made or
that project implementation is not progressing as expected. Reliance on national consultants could be an
option in the long run, provided they receive proper training and they remain independent vis-a-vis the
implementing agency.
Provision for proper maintenance of assets financed by the project should be a concern of the PIU long
before the completion of each component. In the case of the two sewage treatment plants, the PIU
effectively recognized the failure of EPEOR to ensure adequate operation and maintenance, and it took
timely measures to identify a valid alternative solution.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower's implementation completion report was made available to the supervision mission of
February 27, 2000.
During the February 2000 site visit, verbal comments were received from the Wali of Mascara and from
the mayors of small towns and villages that were devastated by the earthquake. These officials were
unanimous in praising the effort of the Bank to push this investment project through the bureaucratic maze
and achieve concrete results on the ground.
- 13 -



The Borrower also submitted the following comments on an earlier version of the ICR, and they were taken
into account in this final document, where appropriate:
*  The 1996 audit report was subrnitted late, through no fault of IGF.
*  The temporary steel structures served a valid purpose, and a few of them were sent to Ain Temouchent
after last December earthquake there.
*  The security problems were not a factor in delaying the works or the disbursements.
*   The Borrower recognizes that its procedures were not efficient in terms of integration of various
sectors.
*  Many property owners (their number is not given) did not want to mortgage their property.
*  Variations in international oil piices had no effect on availability of counterpart funds.
*  BAD performed its duties with the utmost integrity. The Borrower recognizes BAD's weaknesses and
will correct them before signing any new loan agreement.
*  Both the Ministry of Interior and the Wilaya of Mascara have gained much valuable experience in
project execution and coordination.
*  The Borrower was pleased with the level of cooperation it enjoyed with the Bank, and looks forward to
similar cooperation in the future.
(b) Cofinanciers:
During the site visit of February 2000, the PIU director pointed out to the Bank's mission a number of
buildings, especially schools and social buildings, that had been financed by other institutions, in particular
the Islamic Development Bank and the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development. Although there
had been no mention of such involvement during project preparation or execution, a minimal level of
coordination between the Bank and these institutions could have led to more appropriate and sustainable
solutions, while avoiding possible duplication of works.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
n.a.
10. Additional Information
- 14 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome/ Impact Indicators:
-. - ' Indor~IHab1ix -   '  '   . Projected inhlast^PSR . .E                      tet
(i) Reconstruction of 2,130.dwelling units                                  2,858 dwelling units, 10 primary schools, one
and other public buildings and facilities.                                  high school, 3 town halls, and 5 community
heafth centers
(ii) Implementation of earthquake hazard                                    micro zoning study completed by Algerian
reduction and prevenUion measures.                                          seismic experts
(iii) Restoration of pre-seism livelihood and                               done through social surveys and
social environment of women and children.                                   reconstruction of housing and other public
buildings
Output Indicators:
- ndc*torlVatrlx  'ProfcOnd In lastPSR                          ' .u etSatlrnat.
Education: Reconstruction of 2 schools and                                  Reconstruction of 4 schools and major
major repairs to 10 schools                                                 repairs to 11 schools
Housing'Sector Reconstruction of 2130                                       Reconstruction of 2268 dwelling units and
dwelling units, and major repairs to 385                                     major repairs to 592
Agriculture: construction of 12.0 km of                                     Construction of 4.7 km of irrigation systems
irrigation systems and 6 holding basins, and                                (holding basins and reforestation program
a reforestation program                                                     done under other Bank's loans)
Public Health: Reconstruction or major                                      Reconstruction or major repairs to 3 health
repairs to 7 health centers, one matemity and                               centers, one matmity and 3 emergency care
2 emergency care faclities                                                  fadlites
Public Buildings: Reconstrucion or major
repairs to 3 town halls, one post office and
one civil protection office
Roads and Bridges: Repairs to 23 km of                                      Repairs to 23 km 'of major roads and 14
major roads and a bridges                                                   structures (bridges and retaining walls)
Water Supply and Sewerage: Major repairs.                                   Acquisifion of 10 water tanker trucks. Major
to 2 water networks, 2 sewer networks, 5                                     repairs to 2 water networks, 2 sewer
wells and Construcion of 2 sewage                                            networks,' 3 wells and Construcdion of 2
treatment plants                                                            sewage treatment plants
Earthquake Hazard Reduction and                                             Most of the program has been completed
Prevention: Zoning and Microzoning studies,
Revision of seismic design coefficients,
Evaluation of building codes, and Public
awareness program
Social Rehabilitaton: Social survey, and                                     Completed
Education program
End of project
- 15 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and F?inancing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
A:pprasal     Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate        Estimate       Appraisal
PrLoect Cost By Component               US$ million     US$ miflion
Education                                               2.40             2.32             97
Housing                                                49.20            27.88             57
Agriculture                                             2.70             0.40             15
Public Health                                           1.00             0.38             38
Roads                                                   10.10            3.76             37
Water Supply and Sewerage                               6.90             5.22             76
Social Rehabilitation                                   0.20             0.13            65
Studies                                                 1.30             1.01             78
Total Baseline Cost                                    73.80            41.10
Physical Contingencies                                 7.30
Price Contingencies                                    2.50
Total Project Costs               83.60            41.10
Total Financing Required                83.60            41.10
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Metho
; : Expenditure Ctgry    i                              ICBe0; Na    0 tii oer, :2 N.B.F.  Total Cost
1. Works                                   52.20        17.10         5.30         74.60
_________________ __  ()  (31.40)  (11.80)   (0.00)      (43.20)
2. Goods                     5.70                                                   5.70
(5.10)         0            0             0           (5.10)
3. Services                                             3.30                        3.30
_    ()      ()          (2.70)                     (2.70)
4. Miscellaneous                                                                    0.00
_i   0) ()~ ()O(0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
_  (0.00)    (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                      5.70         52.20        20.40         5.30          83.60
_   (5.10)       (31.40)      (14.50)       (0.00)       (51.00)
Project Costs by Procurmen t Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival n
Procuremeont MethodI
ExpenditureCategory       Ice           NOS :        i0  2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                                   31.15        0.75          0.80         32.70
()__________ _  0(21.24)  (0.39)      (0.00)       (21.63)
- 16 -



2. Goods                                        0.71           3.89                          4.60
()           (0.56)         (2.72)                 (       3.8)
3. Services                                                    1.14                           1.14
()            ()           (0.91)            0            (0.91)
4. Miscellaneous                                               2.66                           2.66
0              0            (1.33)           0            (1.33)
5. Miscellaneous                                0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00
O            (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                                0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00
()           (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                         0.00           31.86          8.44           0.80           41.10
(0.00)        (21.80)         (5.35)         (0.00)        (27.15)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Appraisal Estimate           Actua/atest Estimate
_ _  __       _  _ ~~~Bank _ GovL       CoF.      Bank       GoKL       CoF.   :Bank  Govt  CoF~
Education                 1.30      1.10                 1.48       0.84              113.8  76.4   0.0
Housing                  30.10      19.10                18.12      9.76               60.2   51.1   0.0
Agricufture               1.70      1.00                 0.20       0.20               11.8   20.0   0.0
Public Health             0.70      0.30                 0.27       0.11               38.6   36.7   0.0
Roads                     6.40      3.70                 2.26       1.50               35.3   40.5   0.0
Water Supply and          4.00      2.90                 3.92       1.30               98.0   44.8   0.0
Sewerage
Studies                   0.80      0.70                 0.90       0.24              112.5  34.3   0.0
Physical Contingencies    4.40      2.90                                               0.0    0.0    0.0
Price Escalation          1.60      0.90                                               0.0    0.0    0.0
- 17 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
At appraisal, project costs were estimated at US$83.6 million. Full cost recovery was expected in the
water supply and sewerage sector, whose value was estimated at US$6.9 million. In addition, an amount of
US$9.6 million was to be lent to property owners in the form of mortgages, with a high recovery rate.
Project benefits were defined as follows: (a) restore physical assets and economic activities in the
earthquake-stricken area; (b) alleviate human suffering through the provision of shelters to 2,131 families;
(c) provide the whole population with the necessary school and public health facilities, and with adequate
water supply and sewerage services; (d) give a new impulse to agriculture through repair of the irrigation
system, the construction of holding. basins to increase the availability of water, and the execution of a
reforestation prograrn; and (e) spell[ out measures that the authorities should implement to reduce damages
by earthquakes, through a revision of the building codes, seismic zoning and microzoning, and
preparedness of the population to the occurrence of natural disasters.
In the Memorandum and Recommendation of the President (November 10, 1994), cost-benefit calculations
were not carried out, but the project's economic benefits were expected to be substantial.
At project completion, project costs, at US$41.1 million, were less than half the estimated costs, but most
benefits that were identified had been achieved.
- 18-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
a  Missions:                                                         _     _._.
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count       Specialty                        Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation         2   Economists
09/94                         2   Engineers
I   Operations Analyst
Appraisal/Negotiation
10/94                         1   Economist
I   Engineer
I   Operations Analyst
11/94                         1   Economist
I   Engineer
I   Operations Analyst
I   Legal Advisor
Supervision
01/95 -Initial Summary                                                 S                 S
10/95                         1  Engineer                              S                 S
12/96                         1  Engineer                              S                 S
06/97 - Update                                                         S                 U
03/98                          1  Engineer                            HU                 U
10/98                         1  Engineer                              S                 S
03/99                         1  Engineer                              S                 S
10/99                         1  Engineer                              S                 S
ICR
02/00                         1   Engineer                             S                 S
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ (.000)
Identification/Preparation                  8                          33
Apprisal/Negotiation                       10                          53
Supervision                               45                          163
ICR                                        3                           12
Total                                     66                          261
- 19 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
F Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
3 Sector Policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
3 Physical                                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
3 Financial                               O H  OSUOM  ON  O NA
 Institutional Development               0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
[3 Environmental                          O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Social
M Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
M Gender                           O H OSUOM O N O NA
F Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
F Private sector development              0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
F Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
M Other (Please specify)                  O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 20 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, IJ=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                  Rating
D Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
I Supervision                                        OHS OS  OU  OHU
O Overall                                            OHS Os O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
D Preparation                                        OHS Os   O  U  O HU
O Government implementation performance              O HS OS   0  U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                  OHS OS  O  U  O HU
O Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
- 21 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Memorandum and Recommendation of the President, November 10, 1994
2. Loan Agreement, December 20, 1994
3. Back-to-Office Reports:
(a) November 22, 1995 (Mission of October 23 - 30, 1995)
(b) January 9, 1997 (Mission of December 9 - 19, 1996)
(c) March 23, 1998 (Mission of March I - 12, 1998)
(d) October 14, 1998 (Mission of September 20 - October 1, 1998)
(e) April 19, 1999 (Mission of March 20 - 23, 1999)
(f) November 2, 1999 (Mission of October 16 - 21, 1999)
(g) March 22, 2000 (Site visit of February 27, 2000)
4. Rapport d'achevement de projet arrt a la date du 31.12.1999 (Mohamed Zaarour, Directeur de projet)
5. Commentaires sur la mise en oeuvre du projet de reconstruction de la zone sinistree de Mascara (25 mai
2000)
6. Album of photographs (before and after reconstruction and repairs)
-22 -



