Page  1
 CONFORMED COPY
 LOAN NUMBER 3813 AL
Loan Agreement
(Mascara Emergency Reconstruction Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 20, 1994
LOAN NUMBER 3813 AL
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 20, 1994, between DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF 
ALGERIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Page  2
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Central Bank" means Banque d'Algerie, the Borrower's central bank, 
operating pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 90-10, dated April 14, 1990, as the same 
may be amended from time to time;
(b)
"BDL" means the Borrower's Local Development Bank (Banque de 
Developpement Local), an economic public entreprise (Entreprise Publique Economique) 
established as such on February 20, 1989, pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 88-03, 
dated January 12, 1988, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(c)
"BAD" means the Borrower's Algerian Development Bank (Banque Algerienne 
de Developpement), established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Ordinance No. 
71-47, dated June 30, 1971, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(d)
"DHW" means the Directorate of Hydraulic Resources within the Wilaya of 
Mascara (Direction de l'Hydraulique de la Wilaya de Mascara);
(e)
"DTP" means the Directorate of Public Works within the Wilaya of Mascara 
(Direction des Travaux Publics de la Wilaya de Mascara);
(f)
"DSA" means the Directorate of Agricultural Services within the Wilaya of 
Mascara (Direction des Services Agricoles de la Wilaya de Mascara);
(g)
"DUC" means the Directorate of Urban Planning and Construction within the 
Wilaya of Mascara (Direction de l'Urbanisme et de la Construction de la Wilaya de 
Mascara);
(h)
"Implementing Agencies" means, collectively, DHW, DTP, DSA and DUC;
 
(i)
"Sub-loan" means a loan made, or proposed to be made, by BDL to a 
Beneficiary (as this term is hereafter defined) out of the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated to Part B.4 of the
Project for a Sub-project (as this term is hereafter defined), the principal of which 
shall not exceed the equivalent in dinars of four thousand four hundred seventy 
dollars ($4,470);
(j)
"Beneficiary" means the owner of a dwelling, destroyed or damaged in the 
Earthquake (as this term is hereafter defined), to whom the Borrower, through BDL, 
proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;
(k)
"Sub-project" means a specific sub-project under Part B.4 of the Project 
to be carried out by a Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
(l)
"MICLERA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Interior, Local Authorities, 
Environment and Administrative Reforms (Ministere de l'Interieur, des Collectivites 
Locales, de l'Environnement et de la Reforme Administrative);
(m)
"PU" means the Project Unit to be established pursuant to the provisions 
of Section A.2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(n)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(o)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 3.01 
(c) of this Agreement;
(p)
"Wilaya" means an administrative division of the Borrower organized 
pursuant to the Borrower's Wilaya Law (Loi Relative a la Wilaya) No. 90-09, dated 
April 7, 1990, as the same may be amended from time to time;
Page  3
(q)
"Wali" means the representative of the Borrower in a Wilaya;
 
(r)
"Daira" means an administrative sub-division of the Borrower organized 
pursuant to the Borrower's Wilaya Law (Loi Relative a la Wilaya) No. 90-09, dated 
April 7, 1990, as the
same may be amended from time to time;
(s)
"Project Area" means the Dairas of Mascara, Bou-Hanifia and Sig in the 
Wilaya of Mascara, all of which were struck by an earthquake on August 18, 1994;
(t)
"Earthquake" means the earthquake referred to under paragraph (s) above; 
and
(u)
"Dinar" means the currency of the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of fifty-one million dollars 
($51,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
Page  4
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 
15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. BAD is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, technical, construction, health, engineering and 
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall make available to BDL an amount equivalent to four 
million eight hundred thousand dollars ($4,800,000) out of the proceeds of the Loan 
under a subsidiary agreement, entered into in accordance with terms and conditions 
which shall have been approved by the Bank, pursuant to which BDL shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, manage the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Part B.4 of the Project. 
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of Part B.4 of the Project, and, except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
(e)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d) above, 
the Borrower shall cause BDL to (i) make Sub-loans to Beneficiaries for Sub-projects, 
on the basis of the procedures and principal terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement; and (ii) exercise its rights in relation 
to each Sub-project in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Bank, the 
Borrower and BDL, and achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Page  5
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date, or such later date as may be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, a 
plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, for the 
future operation of the Project;
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan; and 
(c)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Bank's comments 
thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof. 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without prejudice to the provisions of Section 4.01 (a) of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause BDL to maintain procedures, records and 
accounts to monitor and record the progress of Part B.4 of the Project and of each 
Sub-project, all in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting 
practices.
Page  6
(b)
The Borrower shall have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank and furnish to the Bank, not later than March 31 of such year, the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Zighout Youssef Palace
Algiers
Democratic and Popular
  Republic of Algeria
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINPLAN
67073
Algiers
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
By /s/ Mouloud Belkadi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  7
By /s/ Daniel G. Ritchie
Acting Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
                        Amount of the
                       Loan Allocated                % of
                       (Expressed in            Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Civil works:
    (a) under Part         11,800,000          70%
        B.1 of the
        Project
    (b) under Parts        14,200,000          70%
        A, B.2, B.6
        and D of the
        Project
    (c) under Parts         1,800,000          70%
        B.3 and B.5
        of the Project
    (d) under Parts         6,800,000          50%
        C, E and F of
        the Project
(2) Goods                   4,600,000          100% of foreign
                                               expenditures and
                                               80% of local
                                               expenditures
(3) Sub-loans               4,300,000          50% of amounts
    under Part                                 disbursed by BDL
    B.4 of the
    Project
(4) Consultants'            2,400,000          80%
    services and
    studies
(5) Unallocated             5,100,000
        TOTAL              51,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made (a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed ten million 
two hundred thousand dollars ($10,200,000) may be made in respect of Category (1) (a) 
on account of payments made before that date but after September 1, 1994; and (b) 
under Category (3), unless the Borrower has entered into the Subsidiary Agreement with 
BDL in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement.
Page  8
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for such expenditures for goods, works and services under 
contracts not exceeding $300,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in rebuilding the 
economic, social and physical assets in the Project Area with a view to restoring 
essential facilities and services in the shortest possible time. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Education Sector
 
Repair of ten (10) schools and construction of two schools, and the provision of 
school materials and equipment therefor.
Part B:
Housing Sector
 
1.
Development of fourteen (14) housing sites in the Project Area and installation 
of steel structures thereon to house local people made homeless as a result of the 
Earthquake. 
2.
Carrying out structural works for about one thousand nine hundred twenty (1920) 
agglomerated residential units, each with a living area of about thirty (30) square 
meters, to be located on the sites referred to under Part B.1 of the Project. 
3.
Carrying out structural works for about two hundred ten (210) scattered 
residential units located in the Project Area.
4.
Carrying out finishing works on the residential units referred to under Parts 
B.2 and B.3 of the Project, such works to include, without limitation, plumbing, 
electrical, painting and carpentry works.
5.
Repair of about three hundred eighty five (385) damaged residential units in the 
Project Area.
6.
Reconstruction of three town halls, a telephone and post office, and a fire 
station in the Project Area.
Part C:
Agriculture Sector
 
1.
Repair of the damaged part of the existing irrigation system, including the 
provision of equipment therefor.
2.
Construction of about six (6) holding basins. 
 
3.
Carrying out a reforestation program in the Wilaya of Mascara.
 
Part D:
Health Sector
 
1.
Reconstruction of two (2) health centers and a maternity in the village of 
Hacine, and health centers in the villages of Khrouf, Sehaldia, Sig, Ouled Sidi Aissa 
and Sidi Ali Cherif, and the provision of materials and equipment therefor.
2.
Repair of a damaged health center in the village of Hacine, and another such 
center in the village of El-Guetna.
Part E:
Road Sector 
 
Carrying out of road construction and repair works in the Project Area, and 
rehabilitation of twenty three (23) kilometers on Road 17.
Part F:
Water Supply and Sewerage Sector 
 
1.
Reconstruction of the water supply and sewer network, and the main transmission 
Page  9
pipe, in the village of Hacine. 
2.
Construction of five (5) new boreholes to increase water production in the 
village of Hacine.
3.
Provision of about ten (10) trucks and operational equipment. 
 
4.
Construction of artificial lagoons in the villages of Hacine and Bou-Hanifia to 
treat wastewater.
Part G:
Studies
 
Carrying out studies designed to assist the Borrower in (i) preparing a 
microzoning map for the Mascara area; (ii) detecting potential landslides in the 
Mascara area; (iii) performing a seismic zoning of selected cities and areas to better 
assess seismic risks; and (iv) assessing the Borrower's building codes.
Part H:
Public Awareness Program and Social Survey 
 
1.
Carrying out (a) a public awareness campaign aimed at explaining seism-related 
risks and protection measures to the local population; and (b) a social survey to 
evaluate the economic impact of the Earthquake on the local population, particularly 
women and children, and the  financial capability of the local population to repay 
Sub-loans to be made under Part B.4 of the Project.
2.
Provision of vehicles and miscellaneous equipment necessary (a) for the PU to 
perform its functions; and (b) to carry out the campaign and survey referred to under 
Parts H.1 (a) and H.1 (b) of the Project, respectively.
*          *          *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                                              Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
    beginning May 15, 2000
    through November 15, 2011                       2,125,000
___________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
Page  10
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                          The interest rate (ex-
                                          pressed as a percentage
                                          per annum) applicable to
                                          the Loan on the day of
                                          prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                           0.18
     before maturity
More than three years but                           0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                             0.65
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                      0.88
     more than fifteen years
     before maturity
More than fifteen years                             1.00
     before maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures 
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the 
Guidelines) and in accordance with the  following additional procedures:
(a)
When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, 
such period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete 
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract. The 
bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the 
request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid price to 
reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. 
Such an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid 
evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to the Bank's prior review in 
accordance with the provisions of Part D.1 (a) of this Section, the Bank's prior 
approval will be required for (i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the 
period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days and (ii) any subsequent extension of the 
bid validity period.
(b)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the Borrower 
shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such 
modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes 
of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the 
Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other internationally 
recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower may be granted a margin 
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraph 2.55 and 
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Page  11
1.
Except as provided in paragraph 2 of this Part C, civil works may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Civil works under Parts B.1 and B.5 of the Project, estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $11,800,000 in total, may be procured after direct negotiations with 
contractors, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for civil works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, and each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be 
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the 
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). 
For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under 
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the 
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant 
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other 
standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply 
to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of 
consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by 
the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising 
the contract value to $120,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for 
the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $60,000 
equivalent or above. 
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
A.
Project Implementation
 
1.
MICLERA shall have overall responsibility for the implementation of the Project.
 
Page  12
2.
MICLERA shall establish, not later than January 31, 1995, and thereafter 
maintain, a Project unit, with staffing whose qualifications and experience shall be 
acceptable to the Bank, to assist MICLERA in carrying out its Project functions. PU 
shall be headed by a Project manager (the Project Manager) and shall be responsible, 
inter alia, for supervising the preparation of technical designs and construction 
works, carrying out the procurement process and preparing applications for the 
withdrawal of Loan proceeds.
3.
Supervision of PU's work shall be the responsibility of a Coordination 
Committee, to be established and maintained within the Wilaya of Mascara, consisting 
of representatives from all sectors covered under the Project and headed by the Wali 
of Mascara.
4.
The Borrower shall cause the Wilaya of Mascara to establish, and thereafter 
maintain, an advisory committee consisting of a civil engineer, an earthquake expert, 
a sociologist and an urban planner (the Advisory Committee), whose main function shall 
be to ensure that the needs of the local population are taken into consideration at 
the different stages of Project implementation. The Advisory Committee shall also 
provide guidance to the Implementing Agencies, in connection with seismic risk 
assessment and protection, and advice to individual dwelling owners on dwelling 
repairs.
5.
MICLERA shall, through PU, carry out Parts B.3, B.5, G and H of the Project, and 
shall cause DUC to carry out Parts A, B.1, B.2, B.6 and D of the Project, DSA to carry 
out Part C of the Project, DTP to carry out Part E of the Project and DHW to carry out 
Part F of the Project, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate practices.
6.
In order to achieve the objectives of Part F.4 of the Project, and of each Part 
of the Project requiring the carrying out of works, the Borrower shall, through the 
Implementing Agency concerned, prepare and furnish to the Bank, in respect of each 
such Part of the Project, a study describing the impact on the environment of the 
works under implementation. Said study shall set out the measures necessary to be 
taken in order to mitigate the works' adverse impact on the environment, if any.
B.
Consultants' Services
 
The Borrower shall (i) not later than January 31, 1995, employ consultants, 
pursuant to the provisions of Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, to carry out 
the studies referred to under Part G of the Project and to assist in supervising 
construction works under the Project; and (ii) not later than December 31, 1995, or 
such other date as may be mutually agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, carry out 
the study referred to under Part H.1 (b) of the Project.
C.
Progress Reports
 
Without prejudice to the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, 
the Borrower, through MICLERA, shall, not later than January 31, April 30, July 31 and 
October 31 of each year until completion of the Project, commencing April 30, 1995, 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall reasonably request, describing the progress achieved in the implementation of 
the Project and the impact on the environment of works carried out under the Project.
SCHEDULE 6
Sub-Loans: Procedures and Principal Terms and Conditions
Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the terms and 
conditions referred to in this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.01 
(e) of this Agreement.
A.
Procedures
 
1.
Each request by a Beneficiary to BDL for a Sub-loan shall contain information, 
to be prepared by PU, including, without limitation (i) a summary description of the 
Beneficiary, including his or her name and address, the amount of the Sub-loan, the 
nature of the works to be carried out under the Sub-project and the Beneficiary's 
income determined in accordance with the findings of the survey referred to under Part 
H.1 (b) of the Project; (ii) a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization thereof; 
and (iii) such other information as BDL shall reasonably request.
Page  13
2.
The Borrower shall cause BDL, upon making a Sub-loan to a Beneficiary, to 
forward, without delay, two copies of the contract between BDL and the Beneficiary 
pertaining to the Sub-loan to PU for submission to the Bank. MICLERA shall, through 
PU, provide a summary of all Sub-loans as part of the progress reports referred to 
under Section C of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
3.
Withdrawals of Loan proceeds on account of Sub-loans shall be made only after 
the Borrower has furnished to the Bank documentary evidence satisfactory to the Bank 
of the disbursement by the Borrower to BDL of funds for the carrying out of Part B.4 
of the Project.
B.
Principal Terms and Conditions 
 
Sub-loans shall be made on the following principal terms and conditions:
1.
The Borrower shall cause BDL to obtain, by written contract with the 
Beneficiary, or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the 
interests of the Bank, the Borrower and BDL, including, where applicable the right to 
(a) require the Beneficiary to carry out the Sub-project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, architectural and engineering 
standards; (b) require the Beneficiary to maintain adequate records; (c) require that 
the goods, works and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan be 
purchased at a reasonable price; (d) require that such goods be used exclusively in 
the carrying out of the Sub-project; (e) require the Beneficiary to enable the Bank, 
the Borrower and BDL to inspect the sites, works and construction included in the 
Sub-project, and any relevant records and documents; and (f) suspend or terminate the 
right of the Beneficiary to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by the 
Beneficiary to perform its obligations under its contract with BDL.
2.
Without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section B, each 
Sub-loan shall be denominated in Dinars and shall be made to a Beneficiary that shall 
have established his or her creditworthiness to the satisfaction of BDL, pursuant to 
criteria established by the Borrower and approved by the Bank, and on terms whereby 
BDL shall (a) obtain collateral on the Beneficiary's land and the improvements 
thereon, or other forms of collateral; and (b) not finance the purchase price of land.
3.
The principal of each Sub-loan shall consist of two equal parts, one made at an 
interest rate per annum equal to seven and one half percent (7.5%) repayable over a 
period of seventeen years, including a four year grace period, the other made at an 
interest rate per annum equal to one percent (1%) repayable over a period of twenty 
five (25) years, including a four year grace period.
4.
The amount of monthly repayments by a Beneficiary of the principal of, and/or 
the interest on, a Sub-loan shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the Beneficiary's 
monthly income, such income to be determined in accordance with the findings of the 
survey referred to under Part H.1 (b) of the Project and to be subject to further 
verification by BDL.
SCHEDULE 7
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Accountand deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
Page  14
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts determined by the Bank to be required to pay for eligible expenditures 
during the four months following the date of each such request, which amount shall not 
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request 
or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Bank shall have determined to be so required.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible  expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
Page  15
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
