GLOBAL
ENVIRONMENT
FACILITY
/G4/32
China
Efficient Industrial Boilers
Project Document
November 1996
EWO
THE WORLD BANK



GEF Documentation
The Global Environment Facility (GEF) assists developing countries to protect
the global environment in four areas: global warming, pollution of international waters,
destruction of biodiversity, and depletion of the ozone layer. The GEF is jointly implemented
bythe United Nations Development Programme,the United Nations Environment Programme,
and the World Bank.
GEF Project Documents - identified by a green band - provide extended project-
specific information. The implementing agency responsible for each project is identified by
its logo on the cover of the document.
Global Environment
Coordination Division
Environment Department
World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-1816
Fax: (202) 522-3256



Report No. 16132-CHA
China
Efficient Industrial Boilers
Project Document
November 1996
Environment and Municipal Development Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Name - Renminbi
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
Y 1.00 = $0.12
$1.00 =Y 8.5
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)              =     3.28 feet (ft)
1 cubic meter (mi)       =     35.3 cubic feet
1 kilogram (kg)          =     2.2046 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCEC      - Beijing Clean Combustion Engineering Co. Ltd.
CAS       - Country Assistance Strategy
CMIC      - China Machine-Building International Corporation
CO2       - Carbon Dioxide
DBM       - Domestic Boiler Manufacturer
FBC       - Fluidized Bed Combustion
GEF       - Global Environment Facility
GHG       - Greenhouse Gas Emissions
IB        - Industrial Boiler
IRR       - Internal Rate of Return
LIB       - Limited International Bidding
M&E       - Monitoring and Evaluation
MMI       - Ministry of Machinery Industry
MOF       - Ministry of Finance
Mt        - Million Tons
NEPA      - National Environmental Protection Agency
NOX       - Nitrogen Oxides
PIP       - Project Implementation Plan
PLG       - Project Leading Group
PMO       - Project Management Office
S02       - Sulfur Dioxide
SOE       - Statement of Expenditure
TA        - Technical Assistance
tph       - Tons Per Hour (Steam)
TSP       - Total Suspended Particulates
TVE       - Township and Village Enterprises
Vice President (Acting)   Nicholas C. Hope, EA2
Director              : Nicholas C. Hope, EA2
Division Chief          Jane Loos, EA2EM
Staff Member            Neil C. Hughes, Sr. Operations Officer, EA2EM



CONTENTS
PART I: PROJECT SUMMARY .....................................................i
Schedule A: Cost Estimates And Financing Plan ................................................. 21
Schedule B: Procurement Arrangements ....................................................   22
Schedule C: Estimated Disbursement Schedule ................................................... 23
Schedule D: Timetable Of Key Project Processing Events .................................. 24
Schedule E: Status Of Bank Group Operations In China ..................................... 25
Schedule F: China At A Glance ....................................................  28
PART II: TECHNICAL ANNEXES ....................................................          31
ANNEX 1: Boiler Technology Packages .33
ANNEX 2: Domestic Enterprise Selection .40
ANNEX 3:  Procurement, Disbursement, Accounting, Auditing And
Reporting .43
ANNEX 4: Project Implementation Schedule .47
ANNEX 5: Financial And Economic Analysis .48
ANNEX 6: Incremental Costs .52
ANNEX 7:  Project Performance, Monitoring And Evaluation .57
ANNEX 8:  Social Assessment And Stakeholder Consultation .61
ANNEX 9: Environmental Analysis .64
ANNEX 10: Boiler Market Analysis ..............................................  71
ANNEX 11: Supervision Plan ..............................................         80
ANNEX 12: Detailed Project Cost And Financing .............................................. 81
ANNEX 13: Technical Assistance ..............................................     83
ANNEX 14: Selected Documents Available In The Project File ......................... 89
This report is based on an appraisal mission that visited China in June/July 1996. The
report was prepared by Neil Hughes (Senior Operations Officer and Task Manager), Lily
Uy Hale (Operations Officer), Todd Johnson (Economist), Brooks Howell (Consultant/
Boiler Engineer), R. Gopalkrishnan (Procurement Specialist) and Ying Xiang (RMC/
Operations Officer). The peer reviewers are: Elaine Sun (Senior Financial Analyst),
Roger Heath (Principal Chemical Engineer) and Jack Fritz (Environment/Energy
Specialist).






PART I: PROJECT SUMMARY






- 1 -
CHINA
EFFICIENT INDUSTRIAL BOILERS
Country/Sector Background
1.    Scientific evidence is mounting that a buildup in atmospheric concentrations of
greenhouse gases (GHGs), especially carbon dioxide (CO2) from fossil fuel consumption,
is contributing to a warming of the Earth's atmosphere. In China, CO2 from energy
consumption accounts for roughly 80 percent of the country's GHG emissions, the largest
single source of which is coal combustion in industrial boilers. Medium and small-scale
industrial boilers (IBs)-defined as boilers which produce less than 65 tons of steam per
hour (tph)-consumed over 350 million tons of coal in China in 1990, accounting for
around 35 percent of the country's coal use and around 715 million tons of CO2, equal to
30 percent of total GHG emissions from energy consumption. For comparison, power
sector boilers consumed about 250 million tons of coal in 1990, accounting for one-
quarter of total coal use and about one-fifth of GHG emissions from energy consumption.
2.    There are an estimated half million lBs in use in China and unit sizes are small by
international standards; over half of all lBs in China are between 1 and 4 tph, and the
average size is only 2.3 tph. In contrast to other major industrial countries, where coal-
fired boilers outside of the power sector have been largely phased out, over 95 percent of
industrial boilers in China burn coal. Given the cost advantages of coal relative to oil,
and the lack of large-scale supplies of gas in China, the use of large amounts of coal by
small boilers will continue well into the next century.
3.    The market for industrial boilers has grown significantly since 1978, closely
paralleling the growth of the Chinese economy. The two most important sources of
demand for industrial boilers are: (a) light and textile industries, which require process
heat and power; and (b) space heating for individual apartment buildings, district
residential areas (district heating), and commercial buildings, particularly in northern
Chinese cities.  Three regions of the country-North, Northeast, and East'-which
represent economically active areas with growing space heating demands, accounted for
70.3 percent of total installed capacity in tph of industrial boilers in 1993. Given the
expected future growth of light industry, township and village enterprises (TVEs) and an
increase in the area of space heating in northern China, new and replacement boiler
North China (Huabei) includes Hebei and Shanxi provinces, Inner Mongolia autonomous region, and Beijing
municipality. Northeast China (Dongbei) includes Heilongjiang, Jilin, and Liaoning provinces. East China
(Huadong) includes Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Anhui, Fujian, Jiangxi, and Shandong provinces.



-2 -
annual demand is conservatively anticipated to rise by about 30 percent over the coming
15 years.2
4.     Chinese industrial boiler designs and production methods are based on pre-1950
design principles. Typical efficiency levels for Chinese lBs lie in the range of 60-65
percent. Boilers of similar scale and application in developed countries rarely operate
below 80 percent net efficiency. In developed countries, significant improvements in
production techniques, materials, and auxiliary equipment (fans, stokers, controls) over
the past three decades have resulted in significant improvements in the thermal efficiency
of small and medium-sized industrial boilers. If the thermal efficiency of the current
stock of lBs in China could be raised to those of similar sizes in the developed countries,
coal consumption by small boilers could be reduced by 60 million tons per year-a
savings of about 17 percent. Retrofitting existing boilers has been deemed insufficient for
sustaining efficiency improvements in the sector, because: (a) the demand for new boiler
technology in China is growing, making existing boilers an ever-smaller percentage of
the total market; (b) the lifespan of a typical boiler in China today is only about 15 years;
and (c) improved boiler production techniques are a critical aspect of raising thermal
efficiency by minimizing exit gas temperature and excess air in the boiler.3
5.    The desirability of improving the energy efficiency of industrial boilers is widely
recognized in China, however, a variety of factors have prevented improvements from
being realized. The current boiler production base was built up over a thirty-year period
when the economy was characterized by command-and-control decisions, artificially low
prices of coal, and a primary focus among enterprises on meeting or exceeding
production quotas. The economic environment in China has changed significantly with
the shift towards a market economy: (a) firms now have a profit incentive; (b) coal
pricing is largely market-driven; and (c) environmental regulations have become
increasingly more strict. Despite the importance of these changes for improving energy
efficiency in China, especially over the longer term, additional measures are needed to
hasten major efficiency improvements in China over the coming decade, when a large
amount of new and replacement IB capacity will be added.
6.    Barriers to the Adoption of Energy Efficient Boilers. Despite major advances
in boiler technology worldwide over the past 40 years, China's industrial boiler industry
has operated largely in isolation from the world market. Since 1980, major international
companies have shown considerable interest in China's large-scale electric power boiler
sector and, to a lesser extent, in medium-sized oil and gas-fired boilers. However, there
has been a striking absence of interest in coal-fired lBs. Among the reasons are: (a) IB
profit margins for international firms are low compared to the power boiler market;
2  Prefeasibility Study on High Efficiency Industrial Boilers, China Greenhouse Gas Study, Subreport No. 11,
August 1994.
Prefeasibility Study on High Efficiency Industrial Boilers, China Greenhouse Gas Study, Subreport No. 11,
August 1994.



- 3 -
(b) product development is likely to take time, and be characterized by adaptation and
integration, rather than sales of "off-the-shelf' components or package boilers; (c) unlike
the power boiler market, improved IB designs could be more easily replicated and
disseminated, thus forfeiting the ability to recoup development and investment costs;
(d) the few international firms that continue to produce lBs are mostly small companies,
and have been unwilling to become involved in China, due to perceived high risks and
startup costs; and (e) there is little export potential for coal-fired IBs, and thus an inability
to directly earn foreign exchange.
7.    There are numerous domestic barriers, as well, on both the producer and
consumer side: (a) the industry is in the midst of transition from plan to market, and
production by about two dozen major producers and hundreds of smaller ones is still
significantly below economic scale; (b) product marketing and customer service,
basically nonexistent under the planned economy, are still weak, which has inhibited the
introduction of new boiler models; (c) standards for thermal efficiency, coal quality, and
environmental performance for lBs are out-of-date, and enforcement at the local level,
while improving, continues to be difficult without clear incentives; (d) decentralized
production and weak industry associations have resulted in a scarcity of information
exchange within the industry; (e) low profitability in the industry, due to below-economic
scale production, rising input costs, and intense competition in the small, low-technology
end of the industry, has inhibited the development and marketing of new products; (f) the
lack of consumer information on energy savings has inhibited demand for more efficient
but higher-priced boilers, and without such information, consumers have shown a
disinterest in purchasing energy-efficient boiler models unless there are other significant
benefits, such as reduced local pollution emissions, ease of use, and increased safety; and
(g) underdeveloped capital markets have been reluctant to lend to producers for
domestically untested new products or to consumers for capital investments with payback
periods of more than a few years. As a result of these factors, energy efficiency
improvements in coal-fired industrial boilers in China over the past decade have been
very modest, with minimal investment in produc-. development and production line
overhaul.
Project Identification
8.    A Prefeasibility Study of High Efficiency Boilers (1994), carried out as part of the
GEF-supported China Greenhouse Gas Study by the World Bank and the Chinese
government, concludes that major improvements in the energy efficiency of Chinese
industrial boilers can be achieved only through a systematic program of acquiring and
demonstrating advanced international technologies in China, and by removing the
barriers to widespread dissemination. As part of the prefeasibility study, the Ministry of
Machinery Industry (MMI), with the assistance of international boiler experts and the
Bank, conducted a detailed assessment of boiler producers and users in China, including
future demand trends, and identified the IB technologies that will be most needed in both
steam and hot water applications. In addition, market studies of China's industrial boiler
industry were conducted by MMI's Project Planning and Research Institute in Hangzhou



in 1988, 1991, and 1994, and these studies have been used as the basis for determining
the demand for the boiler models to be supported by the project, and for determining the
price of the new boilers. The boiler models proposed for the GEF project (see Annex 1)
represent about 70 percent of the current industrial boiler market in China, of which hot
water, cogeneration, and fluidized bed combustion (FBC) boilers are expected to gain in
market share in the future. The project enterprises will produce an estimated 27,000 tph
of new boiler capacity by the year 2002, compared to an estimated total industrial boiler
production for China around 105,000 tph.
Project Objectives
9.    The principal objective of the GEF project is to reduce GHG emissions, as well as
emissions of total suspended particulates (TSP), sulfur dioxide (SO2) and nitrogen oxides
(NOx), through: (a) the development of affordable energy-efficient and cleaner IB
designs; (b) the mass production and marketing of the improved boiler models that have
successfully met performance criteria; and (c) the broad dissemination of more energy-
efficient and cleaner IB technologies throughout China through institutional
strengthening, improved information exchange, and energy efficiency and environmental
policy reform.
Project Description
10.   The project would be composed of the following components (estimated total
project cost and GEF financing):
(a)   Upgrading of existing Chinese boiler models ($53.1 million, GEF
contribution of $16.5 million) through the introduction from abroad of
advanced combustion systems and auxiliary equipment, especially the
application of simple automatic controls. The following Chinese IB
models, which currently account for about 60 percent of market demand in
China, have been selected for improvement:
*     packaged watertube boiler
*     improved packaged firetube-watertube boiler
*     modular watertube boiler
*     high sulfur coal boiler
*     packaged and modular hot water boiler
*     packaged and modular extended furnace watertube-firetube boiler
(b)   Adoption of new high efficiency boiler models ($44.1 million, GEF
contribution of $13.7 million) through the introduction of modem
manufacturing techniques and boiler designs suitable for burning Chinese
coals. Three new boiler designs, which will occupy a growing share of
China's IB market, are targeted for introduction under the project:



*     medium capacity steam boiler (cogeneration)
*     medium capacity hot water boiler (district heating boiler)
*     fluidized bed combustion (FBC) boiler
(c)   Technical assistance (TA) and training for boiler producers and
consumers ($2.1 million, GEF contribution of $1.3 million):
(i) improve the quality of boiler operation in China through advanced
training and by initiating steps for establishing an IB operation
certification program; (ii) assist boiler producers develop marketing plans
for improved boilers; (iii) establish a pilot program in three municipalities
in China (Beijing, Chongqing and Harbin) to stimulate the demand for
more efficient and cleaner IBs; (iv) strengthen customer service programs
by domestic boiler manufacturers (DBMs); (v) disseminate successful
boiler technologies to other boiler producers in China; (vi) revise national
standards for thermal efficiency, environmental emissions, and coal
quality for IBs; (vii) extend design improvements for lBs throughout
China; and (viii) improve boiler standards for IB auxiliary equipment.
(d)   Monitoring  and  evaluation  (M&E), and  project management
($2.1 million, GEF  contribution  of $1.3 million):   institutional
strengthening will be provided to MMI and related companies and
research institutes in order to effectively implement the project and
upgrade long-term institutional capacity. Support would be provided to
develop monitoring and evaluation systems, including provision of
monitoring equipment and training of project management office (PMO)
staff.
11.  Investment funding would be provided to nine Chinese boiler manufacturing
enterprises in two phases. Under Phase 1, GEF funds would be used to acquire advanced
international technologies for new and existing Chinese IB models and produce the
model IB units. At the end of Phase 1, the model units would be evaluated against agreed
technical, environmental and safety performance indicators, while project enterprises
would be required to show viable production, marketing and financing plans for Phase 2.
Under Phase 2, GEF grant funds would be used to acquire advanced production
equipment from abroad to upgrade their production lines, in order to mass produce the
successful models. TA and training would be provided to the IB industry in China to
improve boiler operation, to ensure effective dissemination and marketing of high-
efficiency IB models, and to improve standards for thermal efficiency, coal supply, and
pollution control for Chinese LBs.
Project Preparation
12.   MMI is responsible for implementing this GEF project. PMO was established by
MMI for coordinating all activities during project preparation and for preparing a project
implementation plan (PIP). A GEF Block C grant of $746,000 was obtained for the



- 6 -
purposes of preparing the project and is being used for: (a) an international technology
assessment and evaluation of potential international technology suppliers; (b) the
prequalification and selection of DBMs; (c) financial and economic evaluation training
for DBMs and PMO; (d) short- and long-term international technical and procurement
specialists to assist in project preparation; and (e) other costs of project preparation
activities through Board approval.
13.   Technical Review. As required for GEF projects, this project was reviewed in
December 1994 by an external technical reviewer from the GEF's Scientific and
Technical Advisory Panel. The reviewer noted that the project offers significant potential
for GHG reduction but that successful marketing and dissemination of the improved
boilers would hinge not only upon energy efficiency, but on other attributes such as cost,
pollution controls, ease of operation, and the provision of full service by the boiler
manufacturers. These issues were addressed during project preparation, and have been
incorporated into the present project design. In a second review in January 1996, the
same reviewer noted the progress that had been made in addressing "sustainability" issues
in the project design, including the need for customer service and the importance of
meeting energy efficiency and environmental standards in the improved boiler designs.
14.   Stakeholder Identification. During project identification and preparation, key
stakeholders were identified (see Annex 8). The key stakeholders in the project are: (a)
consumers or users of industrial boilers, both current and prospective; (b) industrial boiler
manufacturers; (c) MMI, in setting design standards, regulating the manufacture of
industrial boilers, and disseminating best-practice within the industry; (d) local
governments involved in commissioning, testing, and monitoring industrial boilers for
safety and environmental compliance; (e) domestic and international research institutes
involved in design and testing of new boiler models; (f) international industrial boiler
technology suppliers; and, (g) the Bank.
15.   Selection of Domestic Boiler Manufacturers (DBM). The selection of DBMs to
participate in the project was undertaken in two stages, i.e., prequalification and final
selection, to ensure that enterprises met strict technical, financial, and commercial
qualifications and to ensure "ownership" of the project. All boiler enterprises in China
were notified about the project and of the opportunity to participate. Of 33 firms that
submitted prefeasibility studies, 20 were prequalified and allowed to proceed to the
feasibility study stage and final selection. Prequalified firms next participated in an
international technology assessment tour to visit potential technology suppliers.
Subsequently, these firms incorporated their initial technology acquisition needs into a
feasibility study required for final selection. Both prequalification and final selection
were carried out by PMO, with assistance from international boiler consultants and a
local financial consultant in accordance with Bank-agreed criteria (see Annex 2). As a
result, nine DBMs have been selected with the Bank's "no objection" to acquire the
advanced technology outlined in para. 10 above.



-7 -
16.   Role of DBMs and the Enterprise Group. Each boiler subproject would
involve design, demonstration testing, and manufacture of the new boiler by an enterprise
group comprised of a leading enterprise (the DBM), one or more manufacturers of
auxiliary boiler equipment, and as needed, a boiler design institute. The DBM would
(a) receive the proceeds of the subgrant, (b) be responsible for implementation of the
subproject, and (c) enter into arrangements with the auxiliary equipment manufacturers to
assist in carrying out the subproject, including the procurement of appropriate auxiliary
equipment technology.
Associated Investment Project
17.   The GEF Efficient Industrial Boilers Project is programmatically and thematically
linked to the Chongqing Industrial Pollution Control and Reform Project, which seeks to:
(a) significantly reduce industrial pollution from Chongqing's most polluting industry,
iron and steel; (b) establish a strategy for reducing industrial pollution for the entire
industrial sector; and (c) initiate a pilot program to assist other industrial subsectors to
restructure productive facilities, minimize pollution, and adopt modem corporate
structures. A loan of $170 million was approved by the Bank's Board of Directors on
June 18, 1996.
18.  In Chongqing, small and medium-sized industrial boilers account for as much as
half of the municipality's coal consumption, contributing to severe air pollution and
ambient concentrations of SO2 which are among the highest in the world. Through the
Chongqing Project, Chongqing Municipality is providing support for the implementation
of this project, by improving its regulatory structure for controlling boiler emissions, and
as a condition of loan effectiveness for the Chongqing project, the municipal government
would adopt a plan for reducing boiler SO2 emissions through implementing a municipal-
wide SO2 pollution levy system. Reduction of non-SO2 boiler emissions will be
addressed through strengthening enforcement of environmental standards for other
pollutants. In a parallel effort supported by this project, Chongqing will participate in a
pilot program for (a) improving further regulatory enforcement for controlling emissions,
and (b) disseminating more efficient and cleaner industrial boiler technologies (see para.
l0(c)(iii) and Annex 13).
Project Costs and Financing
19.   Preliminary investment cost estimates for the Efficient Industrial Boilers Project
are $101.4 million, of which an estimated $68.6 million equivalent would be provided
through local counterpart funding, consisting primarily of enterprises' own funds and
commercial bank loans. The remaining balance of $32.8 million (SDR 22.8 million) has
been approved by the GEF Council to finance the incremental costs involved (see Annex
6). During negotiations, agreement was reached that the proceeds of the grant will be
made available to participating enterprises on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. Estimated project cost and sources of financing for Phases I and 2 are presented in
Schedule A and summarized below ($'000):



-8 -
Phase I         Phase 2          Total
Estimated Project Cost:
(a) Upgrading of existing boilers                15,220          27,846         43,066
(b) Adoption of new boiler models                14,137          21,860         35,997
(c) Technical assistance                          1,249            834           2,083
(d) M&E and project management                    1,336            783           2,119
(e) Interest during construction                   314            5,272          5,586
(f) Contingencies                                 5,173           7,353          12,526
Total Project Cost                            37,429          63,948         101,377
Enterprise Self-
GEF      Local Bank Loan     financed         Total
Financing Plan:
(a) Upgrading of existing boilers  16,456        25,648          10,991          53,095
(b) Adoption of new boiler models  13,756        21,226           9,098          44,080
(c) Technical assistance           1,294           789                            2,083
(d) M&E and project management     1,306           813                            2,119
Total sources of financing     32,812         48,476          20,089         101,377
Incremental Costs
20.   The GEF will finance the incremental costs of the project, calculated as the
difference between the costs of the "GEF alternative" and the costs of the "baseline," the
latter being defined as the costs that would otherwise be incurred by China to meet the
same level of industrial boiler demand. Incremental costs faced by boiler producers to
acquire advanced boiler technologies from abroad include licensing, procurement of
engineering services, selected purchase of embodied technology, and their commercial
demonstration. Additional costs include the modification of production facilities to
produce new more energy-efficient boilers. The net incremental cost for boiler producers
for undertaking the GEF alternative is approximately $30.2 million. Additional costs of
$2.6 million are needed to ensure sustainability and effective implementation of the
project, including monitoring and evaluation, and project management. Details of the
incremental costs calculations are provided in Annex 6.
Procurement Arrangements
21.    Procurement for  this  project involves  the  identification  of  appropriate
international suppliers of advanced IB technologies, and the subsequent acquisition of
foreign technology and production equipment by the DBMs through licensing and other
purchase arrangements. The identification of foreign technology sources is being
conducted under an open and competitive process with the objective of acquiring the best
available IB technologies for the DBMs at the lowest possible cost. Procurement of



- 9 -
advanced IB technologies from international suppliers for producing the model unit will
take place during Phase 1 of the project, followed by procurement of production
equipment for mass producing the improved boilers during Phase 2. A summary of the
procurement process is discussed below, with additional details provided in Annex 3.
22.   Prequalification of Technology Suppliers.  A notice requesting interested
technology suppliers to submit prequalification information and expressions of interest
was published in Development Business on December 31, 1994 and the China
Mechanical and Electrical Daily in December 1994. Notification letters were also sent to
foreign embassies in Beijing and to trade associations in various countries, and were
followed up with telephone inquiries and visits to well-known international boiler and
ancillary companies.  Based on criteria agreed between PMO and the Bank, 17
international technology suppliers were prequalified.  Procedures for selection of
technology suppliers are in accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. The
evaluation system for bids incorporates in addition to price, weights for other factors that
influence the success of the technology transfer, including adaptability to the Chinese
context, service contracts, and personnel training arrangements.  Following bid
evaluation, an evaluation report along with a revised subproject implementation plan,
including revised total project costs, financing plan and timetable of investments, would
be sent to the Bank, for a "no objection" response. During negotiations, agreement was
reached that expenditures be made under Phase 1 only for subprojects for which
satisfactory implementation plans had been approved by the Bank. PMO will be required
to provide the locations of the model units and would assure that environmental
assessments from appropriate local government agencies be obtained prior to model unit
construction.
23.   Technology Transfer Phase 1. During Phase 1, procurement of technology
rights and demonstration units will be subject to a two stage bidding process for all
subprojects that have two or more prequalified technology sources (Schedule B).
Procurement procedures will be based on the Instructions to Bidders from the Bank's
Standard Bidding Documents for Supply and the Installation of Plant & Equipment, and
the Conditions Of Contract For Process Technology Procurement that have been agreed
to by the Bank and Chinese government authorities. For subprojects with only one
prequalified technology source, direct contracting will be used for procurement, based on
the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Supply and the Installation of Plant &
Equipment, and the Conditions Of Contract For Process Technology Procurement.
Technology rights, goods and services will be procured during Phase 1 through limited
international bidding (LIB) estimated to amount to $16.4 million. With the Bank's prior
agreement, proprietary items are to be procured through direct contracting, estimated at
$6.5 million. Aggregate amounts for LIB and direct contracting cannot be determined at
this stage of the technology transfer.
24.   At the end of Phase 1 of each subproject, PMO will evaluate the demonstration
model and determine whether the model and the participating enterprises have: (a) met
predetermined technical and environmental performance criteria; (b) met domestic and



- 10-
international safety standards; (c) presented an acceptable Phase 2 (i) production plan,
including financing; and (ii) marketing plan. Should an enterprise fail to satisfactorily
complete the Phase 1 evaluation, MMI would select an alternative subproject, satisfactory
to the World Bank. During negotiations, assurances were received that the verification
of the technical and environmental performance of demonstration models for each
subproject be carried out according to criteria satisfactory to the Bank, including
compliance with domestic and international safety standards, and that expenditures be
made under Phase 2 only for subprojects whose model units have met Phase 1 criteria.
25.   Technology Transfer Phase 2. During Phase 2, the boiler enterprises that have
successfully met their subproject performance criteria will procure production equipment
to put the new boiler designs into production. Goods and services procured under
shopping are expected to amount to $3.7 million. Items costing more than $250,000, but
less than $2 million, are to be procured through international shopping based on
quotations from at least three suppliers from at least two countries, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed $2,690,000. Items costing less than $250,000 are to be procured
through national shopping, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000. Bank-
approved proprietary items, procured through direct contracting, are expected to amount
to $3.9 million.
26.   Consultants for both Phases will be engaged on the basis of Guidelines for the use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and World Bank as Executing Agency dated
August, 1981. Prior review of about 80 percent of procurement documentation by the
Bank will include all goods contracts of $200,000 equivalent or more, and all consultant
services in excess of $100,000 equivalent for firms, and above $50,000 equivalent for
individuals. For contracts not subject to prior review, post review will be carried out
during project supervision, to include at least 25 percent of such contracts.  The
consultant terms of reference and technical requirements regarding experience and
capacity, single selection of consulting firms, and amended contracts which exceed their
thresholds, will be subject to prior review for all consultancy contracts.
Project Implementation
27.   MMI is responsible for the overall implementation of the project. A Project
Leading Group (PLG) was established at project inception with the Vice-Minister of
MMI as head of the PLG. A PMO was organized under the PLG to oversee project
preparation and coordination of various project implementation activities. During project
preparation, PMO established capable technical support and administrative teams to carry
out project implementation. Following additional training in Bank procedures and
guidelines, the administrative team will be responsible for procurement, disbursement,
and financial aspects of the project during implementation. PMO has also appointed two
companies under MMI to assist in carrying out implementation activities: (i) the China
Machine-Building International Corporation (CMIC) will be responsible for procurement
of goods and services for all subprojects; and (ii) the Beijing Clean Combustion
Engineering Co. Ltd. (BCCEC) will be responsible for procurement of the rights to the



- 11 -
advanced technology, and will assist with industry-wide issues related to technology
diffusion of high-efficiency and cleaner industrial boilers, product standardization, and
quality control. During negotiations, assurances were received that PMO be maintained
with sufficient competent staff on a full- or part-time basis, as required, to carry out the
project, including: (a) boiler house design engineer to analyze and evaluate boiler house
design and ensure compliance with design and safety standards; (b) boiler design and
manufacturing engineer to analyze and evaluate boiler and other production facility
designs and provide quality control assurance and monitoring; (c) boiler test engineer to
provide field testing and evaluation of boilers; (d) environmental engineer to work with
enterprises to ensure that boiler house designs are consistent with the project
environmental objectives; (e) lawyer/legal expert to provide advice on legal aspects of
technology  transfer  and  assist  in  subproject  contractual  negotiations;
Go accountant/disbursement expert familiar with Bank disbursement procedures to
handle disbursement, accounting and internal auditing; (g) financial analyst familiar
with Bank reporting requirements to monitor the financial condition and performance of
the participating enterprises and subprojects, and prepare periodic reports for the
Recipient and the Bank; (h) procurement expert familiar with Bank procurement
procedures  to  prepare  procurement  packages  and  bidding   documents;
(i) marketing/commercial expert with boiler sector experience to help develop enterprise
commercial strategies and marketing plans and plans for dissemination of the new boiler
technologies; and (j) training coordinator to plan, coordinate and implement training at
the enterprise and municipal levels. The services of such staff would be obtained prior to
December 31, 1996. PMO will also obtain support from the National Environment
Protection Agency (NEPA) for conducting environmental evaluations during the
verification of boiler demonstration models, monitoring emissions indicators of the
boilers, reviewing and formulating new standards and emissions fee systems, and help in
the establishment of local pilot programs for effective dissemination of the new boiler
technologies.
28.   With Bank assistance, PMO has prepared a PIP (see Project File) and a summary
of key events in the Project Implementation Schedule (Annex 4). The proposed project
would be implemented over a four-year period from 1997-2000. A Grant Agreement
between the World Bank and the Chinese Government represented by the Ministry of
Finance (MOF) establishes the terms and conditions of project implementation. To
ensure that the nine subprojects are implemented smoothly, there will be a Subgrant
Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, for each of the nine subprojects to be signed by the
participating DBMs and MMI. During negotiations, agreement was reached that:
(a) each subgrant shall not exceed 40 percent of any boiler subproject cost, net of taxes;
(b) at least 10 percent of the total cost of any boiler subproject shall be financed by the
enterprise concernedfrom resources raised on its own; and (c) at least 25 percent of the
proceeds of any subgrant shall be allocated to Phase 2 of the project.
29.   Project grant funds will be channeled through a Special Account to be set up by
MOF. MOF will reimburse all expenditures incurred by the enterprises upon approval
and verification by PMO. Estimated disbursements are presented in Schedule C.



- 12 -
Disbursement would be 100 percent for subgrants for foreign technology acquisition,
including proprietary equipment and training. Disbursement for goods for project
management will follow the World Bank's standard disbursement guidelines of 100
percent of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local ex-factory expenditures, and 75
percent of local expenditures for other items procured locally.
Monitoring and Evaluation
30.   Monitoring of project implementation will be the responsibility of PMO. BCCEC
will assist with the monitoring and evaluation of implementation activities and
performance indicators. Implementation activities will be monitored by tracking essential
inputs to the project, including the amount of GEF grant funds received, the progress of
disbursement, the availability of counterpart financing, technology transfer contracts
signed, consultants hired, and equipment purchased, according to the two phases of
project implementation described in the PIP. Reporting of these activities will form part
of PMO's semiannual project implementation progress report.   Two sets of
implementation performance indicators will be monitored: (a) output/outcome indicators
will be used to track the thermal efficiency of the model boilers units, and a final
evaluation of the model units will be undertaken at the completion of Phase 1
(1998/1999); and (b) development impact indicators will measure the success of the
project as they relate to its environmental objectives. The nature of this project is such
that impact of the reduction of CO2 emissions from improved coal use will be measured
only two years after the project is completed (2002), because the reduction in the interim
years will be minimal. Participating boiler manufacturers are therefore being required to
keep track of the thermal efficiency of all the boilers that they produce and sell, including
the model unit, starting in Phase 2 when mass production is initiated, until 2002.
Specifically, as part of their subproject completion report, they should include
information on the amount of coal use per steam-ton of output from a sample of new
boilers that they produced and sold during the project implementation period. During
negotiations, assurances were received that PMO would monitor and evaluate the
progress of the project in accordance with indicators agreeable to the Bank The
output/outcome and development impact indicators are summarized below; the
indicators, as well as additional details, will be included in a supplemental letter to the
Grant Agreement, and are provided in Annex 7. The Bank's project supervision plan is
shown in Annex 11.
(a)   Output/outcome indicators (1999/2000):
* Higher thermal efficiencies in model boiler units
* Reduced dust emissions in model boiler units
* Reduced S02 emissions in model boiler units



- 13 -
(b)   Development impact indicators:
* Reduced CO2 emissions through improved coal utilization: to be
monitored two years after project completion (2002).
* Increased new boiler production and sales volume of each subproject:
* 18,000 tph at project completion (2000)
* 27,000 tph two years after project completion (2002)
* Ratio of new boilers to total boiler production:
* 19,000/100,000 tph at project completion (2000) = 19 percent
* 36,820/105,000 tph two years after project completion (2002) =
35 percent
Reporting and Auditing
31.   PMO would be responsible for the preparation of semiannual reports on progress
of project implementation, disbursement status of each subproject, and annual reports on
the financial status of each subproject enterprise and monitoring and evaluation of the
project.  Auditing of the proposed project will be conducted by the State Audit
Administration's Foreign Funds Application Department.   During negotiations,
assurances were received that the following reports would be submitted to the Bank:
(a) annual audits, within six months of the end of the financial year: (i) audit of project
accounts maintained by PMO; (ii) audit of the Special Account; and (iii) audit of
statements of expenditures (SOEs); (b) annual reports on the financial condition and
operational status of each subproject enterprise, no later than February 15 of each year,
according to parameters agreed with the Bank; and (c) semiannual progress reports on
progress achieved in carrying out the project, and the disbursement status of each
subproject, not later than February 15 and August 15 of each year.
Project Sustainability
32.   Sustainability of the project will depend on the technical strengths and financial
advantages of the new boiler models being introduced, and on the successful marketing
and dissemination of the boilers by Chinese boiler manufacturers, industry associations,
MMI, and local energy and environmental agencies. Major stakeholders in the project
(boiler producers, users, research institutes, government agencies, international agencies)
have been involved in the design and preparation of the project, and will be included in
implementation. Leading and well-established DBMs with sound financial positions
have been selected to participate in the project through an open and competitive process.
Assistance is being provided to DBMs in product marketing and customer service. Prior
to going ahead with the mass production of the new models, DBMs will have to provide
the Bank with satisfactory marketing and financing plans. Technologies that are proven
to be technically and commercially successful will be disseminated to other boiler



- 14-
producers in China. Design and research institutes will be involved in extending the
imnproved international designs into other boiler models, and in improving the standards
for boiler auxiliary equipment. A pilot program involving national and local environment
and planning agencies will be established in Beijing, Chongqing and Harbin for the
purpose of stimulating the demand for more efficient and cleaner industrial boilers. The
intent of the municipal pilot programs is to provide information to boiler consumers on
the benefits of adopting the new boilers, and developing penalties for the continued use of
older inefficient boilers through stricter enforcement of environmental emissions
standards.  During negotiations, assurances were received that a plan for the
implementation of the pilot dissemination in each of the municipalities participating in
the program will be submitted to the Bank no later than February 28, 1997.
Bank Group Assistance Strategy and the Rationale for Bank and GEF Involvement
33.   China ratified the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change on
January 5, 1993. The project is consistent with Operational Program #5 of the GEF
Operational Strategy for climate change, where one of the long-term mitigation measures
is to remove the barriers to energy conservation. The Bank Group's assistance to China
emphasizes environmental protection as articulated in the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) presented to the Board on June 1, 1995 and the Progress Report discussed on
March 26, 1996. The CAS calls for working with the GEF to reduce GHG emissions,
amnong other objectives. The Bank's environmental strategy for the industrial sector
seeks to reduce industrial point source pollution within the context of improvements in
the regulatory incentive structure and reform of the industrial enterprises involved. Bank
sector work underpins and validates this approach. China: Environmental Strategy Paper
(1992) highlights the interrelationships between environmental issues and economic
growth issues, such as technology development and transfer. China: Efficiency and
Environmental Impacts of Coal Use (1991) identifies various means of reducing China's
serious SO2 and TSP problems by using coal more efficiently, especially through
technology transfer and improving the operating efficiency and technical quality of
conventional industrial boilers. Finally, the China Greenhouse Gas Study (1994) and the
1994 prefeasibility study for boilers mentioned above, note the key role of economic
reforms in controlling GHG and other forms of pollution, the need for a parallel
strengthening of the environrental regulatory system, and the importance of technology
transfer for achieving effective energy efficiency and pollution control.
Lessons Learned
34.   As China moves from a planned to a market economy, it is important to design
projects that emphasize market solutions. The Bank's experience in industrial lending
has revealed the importance of early involvement of the enterprises which will have to
operate in such markets. The GEF Efficient Industrial Boilers Project is innovative in
this regard in that proposals on measures to increase thermal efficiency of industrial
boilers were solicited from domestic boiler enterprises. Domestic firms were provided
information about foreign advances in boiler design and production, including the



- 15 -
opportunity to visit international technology suppliers. The final selection of both
domestic and foreign participating firms is being done through an open and competitive
process. The Bank's experience in dealing with the public sector in China has also shown
that it is critical to involve government agencies at both the central and local government
levels. MMI is responsible for implementing the project but will work closely with
provincial and municipal governments in the dissemination of the new boiler technology.
35.   The GEF Efficient Industrial Boilers Project is the first project in a series of GEF
and Bank operations in China designed to improve the efficiency of energy use and to
promote the use of renewable energy. In undertaking a new initiative, it is critical to
identify and obtain the commitment of major stakeholders (see Annex 8). An extended
dialogue during the prefeasibility study and preparation of the GEF project has resulted in
a strong commitment from the Chinese government to this project. Input on project
design has also been sought from a broad range of stakeholders in the boiler industry at
large, and among the municipalities which will be the long term beneficiaries of this
project.
36.   Lessons learned from designing industrial projects, which can reduce risk and
contribute to successful implementation, have been applied to this project. They include:
(a) utilizing market studies to provide clear cost-benefit tradeoffs to introducing and
disseminating new technologies; (b) the phasing of disbursement to make sure that the
phase two financing of mass production of new boiler prototypes only takes place after
phase one model verification is satisfactorily concluded; (c) strengthening regulatory
enforcement governing boiler operations in parallel with the adoption of the new
technology; and (d) ensuring sufficient local counterpart financing is available, including
commitments from lenders and beneficiary enterprises to provide their own resources.
Environmental Aspects
37.   The industrial boiler sector currently accounts for about 28 percent of China's
CO2 emissions, 37 percent of TSP emissions, and 39 percent of SO2 emissions from
energy consumption. As shown in the project benefits section (para. 40), the project will
result in significant reductions of GHG emissions, which will reduce the threat of global
climate change. In addition, particulate and sulfur emissions will be reduced through
reduced coal consumption, coal preparation, the use of advanced cyclones and baghouses,
and the adoption of sulfur-control combustion technology (FBC) in boiler design. In
accordance with the requirements of OD 4.01 (Environmental Assessment-EA), the
project has been assigned an environmental category of "B", and an environmental
analysis report satisfactory to the Bank has been prepared. As with all industrial boiler
installations in China, local environmental clearance will be needed prior to construction
of the nine subproject model boiler units. The pollution control improvements embodied
in the new boiler technologies will be disseminated throughout China's boiler industry,
and will be the basis for reviewing existing enviromnental standards for industrial boilers
and making recommendations for revising such standards (see Annex 13).



- 16 -
Economic and Financial Analysis
38.   The improvement of domestic boiler design and production capabilities through
technology transfer was determined to be one of the most cost-effective and immediately
implementable of the options for improving energy efficiency in the industrial boiler
sector. Without the project, it has been estimated that there would be unnecessary energy
use on the order of 300-500 million tons of coal over the life of the project, and excess
emissions of 600-1,000 million tons of CO2. In addition to the reduction in C02, the
project will generate substantial financial benefits to consumers in terns of lower energy
expenditures and significant, though less easily quantifiable, benefits in terms of reduced
TSP and SO2 emissions.
39.   Market prices of the new boilers were estimated based on price surveys of
existing boiler models and on the cost projections for new boilers carried out in the
project financial and economic analysis. (See Annex 5) The new boiler prices were
between 14 and 20 percent higher than existing (less efficient) comparably-sized boiler
models. Rate of return analysis for both consumers and producers was undertaken using
market prices for coal and the estimated market prices of the new boilers. The
incremental analysis ("with" minus "without" project case) for consumers was found to
generate internal rate of returns (IRRs) of between 20 and 30 percent, depending on the
subproject, and payback periods of four to five years, similar to existing boiler models.
Without the GEF grant, the prices of the new boilers were found to be between 25 and 35
percent higher than existing (less efficient) comparably-sized models, resulting in lower
IRRs and longer payback periods for consumers than for existing boilers.  The
incremental analysis for producers found that the IRR was between six and seven percent
without the GEF grant, and 11 to 13 percent with the GEF grant. The economic and
financial analysis (Annex 5) shows that the IRRs for both boiler producers and consumers
are very sensitive to changes in the price of the new boiler. While increases in the boiler
price will have large positive benefits for boiler producers, price decreases, which are
unlikely, would pose serious financial difficulties for boiler producers. Once the new
boilers have been proven in the market, and the nonfinancial benefits of the boilers
displayed, consumers are likely to accept a higher price for the new boilers. Details on
economic analysis and industrial boiler market survey can be found in Annexes 5 and 10,
respectively.
Project Benefits and Risks
40.   Upgrading the technology of Chinese coal-fired industrial boilers is a critical
element in China's plan to increase the overall energy efficiency of the economy, and in
the process, reduce both local (TSP, SO2) and global (CO2) emissions through reduced
fuel use. The more efficient industrial boilers developed under the project are projected
to account for roughly 35 percent of IB output by the year 2002, and should grow to 50-
60 percent of total IB output in China by the year 2010. Direct coal savings of IB boilers
produced by the participating DBMs are estimated at about 102 million tons (Mt) of coal,
resulting in the reduction of about 181 Mt of CO2. Indirect benefits of the project,



- 17-
through the dissemination of advanced boiler designs and auxiliary equipment to other
boiler producers, are conservatively estimated to be in the range of 230-416 Mt of coal
savings, and a reduction of CO2 of 456-824 Mt. The net cost per ton of CO2 reduced for
the GEF investment for the project is between $0.03 and $0.05 per ton of CO2 (total
direct plus indirect CO2 reductions), which is substantially below $20 per ton that has
been proposed by some developed countries as a shadow value for CO2. Improved boiler
designs will also result in significant reductions of local pollution emissions, especially
TSP and S02, which has been shown to have important benefits to human health. Direct
project reductions alone of TSP and S02 are estimated at 4.5 and 25.4 million tons,
respectively, through both energy efficiency improvements and the introduction of
emission control technologies.
41.   Additional important benefits to China are the safety, reliability, and additional
environmental benefits embodied in advanced boiler technologies from abroad. The
project will address the two other major factors responsible for the relatively low
operational thermal efficiency achieved by Chinese industrial boilers, namely, efficient
boiler operation, and inconsistent and poor quality coal supply. Through technical
assistance components (see Annex 13), the project will strengthen efficiency, safety, and
environmental standards for industrial boilers, establish a training program for boiler
operators, and identify the benefits of, and regulatory measures needed to improve, the
quality of coal supplied to industrial boilers.
42.   The project is subject to technical, commercial, and financial risks. Technical
risks are viewed as limited, in that all of the boiler designs proposed have been
commercially demonstrated abroad. One serious technical risk is the inability of the new
boilers to achieve target operational thermal efficiencies due to poor operation. This risk
is being reduced through the establishment of a boiler operator training and certification
program under the project. Technical risk is also being minimized through competitive
bidding for DBMs, close collaboration between Chinese and international engineers, and
the evaluation of technical performance of the model units at the end of Phase 1, and with
successful evaluation as a condition of Phase 2. Commercial risk will be reduced by
requiring DBMs to have a clear marketing strategy in place, prior to moving to Phase 2
mass production. The use of the GEF grant to purchase foreign technology licenses will
help to ensure the successful marketing of the boilers by limiting the financial cost of
technology transfer, and thus limiting the price increase of the new boiler (see para. 39
and Annex 5). Market price surveys and project economic analysis show that it will be
difficult for the new boilers to be marketed if the price increases for the nine new boilers
is more than 15-20 percent higher than existing comparable models. The price of the new
boilers used in the analysis takes into consideration a pricing level sufficient to induce
boiler users to switch to the new boilers while at the same time minimizing the subsidy
from the grant. This calibration of the pricing level to accommodate both objectives is
inherently risky as noted in the sales price analysis in Annex 5 (para. 8). Commercial and
financial risks will also be reduced by: (a) requiring that DBMs have the required
counterpart funding (including a commitment letter from a bank) as part of their
feasibility study, and a clear and verifiable financing plan prior to going into commercial



- 18-
production; and (b) working with local governments to establish a pilot program for
marketing the energy-efficient and less-polluting boilers by strengthening enforcement of
boiler emission regulations, beginning in municipalities where industrial boilers have
been identified as serious sources of pollution.
Agreements Reached
43.   During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Recipient:
(a)   that the proceeds of the grant would be made available to participating
enterprises on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 19);
(b)   to require that the locations of the model units be identified and that
environmental assessments from appropriate local government agencies be
obtained prior to model unit construction (para. 22);
(c)   to  carry  out the verification  of the technical and  environmental
performance of model units for each subproject according to criteria
satisfactory to the Bank, and to test compliance with domestic and
international safety standards (para. 24);
(d)   to maintain PMO with sufficient competent staff to carry out the project
(para. 27);
(e)   to ensure that each subgrant shall not exceed 40 percent of any boiler
subproject cost, net of taxes (para. 28);
(f)   to ensure that at least 10 percent of the total cost of any boiler subproject
shall be financed by the participating enterprise concerned from resources
raised on its own (para. 28);
(g)   to ensure that at least 25 percent of the proceeds of any subgrant shall be
allocated to Phase 2 of the subproject (para. 28);
(h)   to monitor and evaluate the progress of the project in accordance with
indicators satisfactory to the Bank (such indicators are included in a
supplemental letter to the Grant Agreement) (para. 30);
(i)   to furnish the Bank with independently audited financial statements for the
Special Account, statements of expenditure, project accounts and relevant
records, within six months of the end of each fiscal year (para. 31);
(j)   to submit semiannual progress reports on progress achieved in carrying
out the project, and the disbursement status of each subproject, not later
than February 15 and August 15 of each year (para. 31);



- 19 -
(k)   to submit annual reports by February 15 on the financial condition and
operational status of each subproject enterprise according to parameters
agreed with the Bank (para. 31);
(1)   to prepare and furnish to the Bank no later than February 28, 1997 a plan
for the implementation of the pilot dissemination in each of the
municipalities participating in the program (para. 32).
44.   As a condition of disbursement, the Recipient would:
(a)   ensure that expenditures under Phase 1 are incurred only for subprojects
whose subgrant agreement has been approved by the Bank, and which
have a satisfactory implementation plan (para. 22); and
(b)   ensure that expenditures under Phase 2 are incurred only for subprojects
which have met evaluation criteria satisfactory to the Bank (para. 24).






- 21 -                                Schedule A
SCHEDULE A: COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING PLAN
($'000)
Estimated Costs                         First Phase                Second Phase
Local   Foreign  Subtotal   Local   Foreign  Subtotal   Total
Upgrading of Existing Boilers:
Construction Engineering             -        -        -    3,069         -    3,069    3,609
Equipment                        4,626    1,311    5,937    4,755    3,933    8,688   14,625
Technology Transfer Licensing        -    9,075    9,075        -         -        -    9,075
Engineering Services                -    5,595    5,595                           -    5,595
License                             -    3,480    3,480         -        -        -    3,480
Installation                         -                 -        -         -        -        -
Others                               -        -        -      796         -      796      796
Working Capital                    208        -      208   14,753         -   14,753   14,961
Subtotal                       4,834   10,386   15,220   23,913    3,933   27,846   43,066
Adoption of New Boiler Design:
Construction Engineering             -        -        -    2,544         -    2,544    2,544
Equipment                        3,973    1,160    5,133    4,167    2,520    6,687   11,820
Technology Transfer Licensing        -    8,310    8,310         -        -        -    8,310
Engineering Services                -    4,872    4,872        -         -        -    4,872
License                             -    3,438    3,438        -                  -    3,438
Installation                         -        -        -      347               347       347
Others                               -                 -          
Working Capital                    694        -      694   12,282         -   12,282   13,522
Subtotal                       4,667    9,470   14,137   19,340    2,520   21,860   35,997
Technical Assistance                424      825    1,249      365      469       834    2,083
Project Monitoring & Evaluation     151      610      761      353       195      548    1,309
Project Management                  205      370      575      104      131      235       810
Subtotal                        780    1,805    2,585      822       795    1,617    4,201
Total                          10,281   21,661   31,992   44,075    7,248   51,323   83,265
Physical Contingencies              860    1,986    2,846    1,622      645    2,267    5,113
Price Contingencies               1,494      833    2,327    4,647      439    5,086    7,413
Total Project Cost             12,635   24,480   37,115   50,344    8,332   58,676   95,791
Interest During Construction        314        -      314    5,272         -    5,272    5,586
Total Financing Required       12,949   24,480   37,429   55,616    8,332   63,948  101,377
Sources of Financing
GEF                                  -   24,480   24,480        -    8,332    8,332   32,812
Local Bank Loan                  8,252        -    8,252   19,676        -   19,676   27,928
Working Capital Loan              632         -     632   18,925         -   18,925   19,557
Enterprise Self-raised Fund      4,065        -    4,065   17,015        -   17,015   21,080
Total Sources of Financing     12,949   24,480   37,429   55,616    8,332   63,948  101,377



- 22 -                                 Schedule B
SCHEDULE B: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
($'000)
Direct
Project Components                                       LIB     Contract    Others La      Total
Phase 1
Upgrading of existing boilers                            6,861       5,081          -        11,942
Adoption of new boiler designs                           9,550       1,370          -        10,920
Phase I Subtotal                                     16,411       6,451                   22,862
Phase 2
Production Equipment                                         -       3,910      3,440         7,350
Technical Assistance (TA)
1. Operator Training                                       -          -        234           234
2. Marketing/dissemination                                 -           -        350          350
3. Revision of standards                                   -           -       350           350
4. Boiler Design and Implementation                        -           -        185          185
5. Boiler house standards development                      -           -        175          175
Subtotal                                                  -           -      1,294         1,294
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
1. Project evaluation                                      -          -        122           122
2. Thermal efficiency monitoring                           -           -        127          127
3. Emissions monitoring                                    -           -        157          157
4. Safety validation                                       -           -        200          200
Subtotal                                                  -           -        606          606
Project Management (PM)                                      -           -        450          450
Office and Monitoring & Evaluation Equipment                 -           -        250          250
Total TA/M&E/PM                                           -           -      2,600         2,600
Total GEF financing                                  16,411      10,361      6,040        32,812
da: Others include international and national shopping, and consultant services.



- 23 -                              Schedule C
SCHEDULE C: ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Grant Amount
Category                          ($ million)   Percentage of Financing
1. Subgrants                        26.309     100%
2. Consultant Services               2.350     100%
3. Goods (for project management)    0.250     100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost)
75% of local expenditures for other items procured
locally
4. Unallocated                       3.903
Total                            32.812
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT
IBRD Fiscal Year                  1998           1999            2000           2001
Annual                           17.4            13.0            2.2             0.2
Cumulative                       17.4            30.4           32.6            32.8



- 24 -                              Schedule D
SCHEDULE D: TIMETABLE OF KEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
Key Dates
1. Identification Mission                                                Jan 1994
2. Preparation Mission                                                   Jul 1-15, 1994
3. Project Preparation Advance approved by GEF Operations Committee      Mar 15, 1995
4. Preappraisal Mission                                                  Dec 10-22, 1995
5. GEF Council Endorsement                                               Apr 4, 1996
6. Final Executive Project Summary (FEPS) Review Meeting                 Jun 12, 1996
7. Appraisal Mission                                                     Jun 30, 1996
8. Prenegotiation package to RVP and AGCO                                Sep 25, 1996
9. AGCO and RVP Clearance and initiate Invitation to Negotiate           Oct 2, 1996
10. Send formal invitation to negotiate to borrower                      Oct 10, 1996
11. Submit the revised version of Project Document to GEF Council        Oct 10, 1996
12. Negotiation in Washington                                            Nov 11-15, 1996
13. Clearance from Director                                              Nov 22, 1996
14. Receive letter from GEF CEO clearing the project for final approval  Nov 22, 1996
15. Send approved final package with Cover Form (2337/BP 10.00 Annex I)  Dec 4, 1996
to the Board
16. Board Presentation                                                   Dec 23, 1996
17. Planned Effectiveness Date for the Grant                             Dec 31, 1996
18. Planned Project Completion                                           Dec 31, 2000
19. Planned Project Closing Date                                         Jun 30, 2001



- 25 -
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA                                       Schedule E
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS                                            Page I of 3
(As of September 30. 1996)
-1a1i                                                                                    Amount (USS million)
Credit                                                                                   (net of cancellations)
Number         FY            Borrower         Purpose                                        Bank        IDA  Undisb.(a)
47 loans and 51 credits have been disbursed                         4,596.8     3,432.2
of which SECAL:
2967/1932       88              PRC            Rural Sector Adj.                            200.0        93.2           -
Active Loans
1885          88              PRC            Northern Irrigation                             -        103.0          1.4
2951/1917       88              PRC            Sichuan Highway                                75.0    (50.0)(b)         0.8
2968          88              PRC            Railway IV                                   200.0           -          2.8
1997          89              PRC            Shaanxi Prov. Agriculture                       -        106.0          0.2
2009          89              PRC            Integrated Reg. Health                          -         52.0           1.2
3022          89              PRC            Tianjin Light Industry                       154.0           -          5.6
3060/2014       89              PRC            Inner Mongolia Railway                        70.0    (80.0)(b)          0.8
3066          89              PRC            Hubei Phosphate                              137.0                      33
3073/2025       89              PRC            Shandong Prov Highway                          60.0    (50.0)(b)        15.1
2114          90              PRC            Vocational & Tech. Educ.                        -         50.0           1.7
2145          90              PRC            National Afforestation                          -        300.0          12.3
2159          90              PRC            Hebei Agricultural Dev.                                  150.0          5.3
2172          91              PRC            Mid-Yangtze Agricuitural Dev.                   -         64.0           1.6
3265/2182       91              PRC            Rural Credit IV                                75.0      200.0           1.4
3274/2186       91              PRC            Rural Indust Tech (SPARK)                     50.0        64.3           4.4
3286/2201       91              PRC            Medium-Sized Cities Dev.                      79.4        89.0           6.0
2210          91              PRC            Key Studies Development                                  131.2          10 8
2219          91              PRC            Liaoning Urban Infrastrucrure                             77.8          4.8
2242          91              PRC            Henan Agricul. Dev.                                      110.0          15.0
3337/2256       91              PRC            Irrig. Agricul. Intensif.                     147.1       187.9         15.4
3387          92              PRC            Ertan Hydroelectric                          380.0           -          2.9
2294          92              PRC            Tarim Basin                                     -        125.0          12.2
2296          92              PRC            Shanghai Metro Transport                        -         60.0          8.2
3406          92              PRC            Railways V                                   330.0           -          38.3
3412/2305         92               PRC           Daguangba Multipurpose                         30.0        37.0          4 6
2307          92              PRC            Guangdong ADP                                   -        162.0          75.6
3415/2312         92               PRC           Beijing Environment                            45.0        80.0         43.7
2317          92              PRC            Infectious and Endemic Disease Cont.            -        129.6         74.9
3433          92              PRC            Yanshi Thermal Power                         180.0           -          7 5
2336          92              PRC            Rural Water Supply and Sanitation               -        110.0         27.7
2339          92              PRC            Educ. Development in Poor Provs.                -        130.0         24 0
3443          92              PRC            Regional Cement Industry                      82.7           -          12.3
3462          92              PRC            Zouxian Thermal Power                        310.0                      37 8
3471          92              PRC            Zhejiang Provincial Highway                  220.0           -          84.0
2387          92              PRC            Tianjin Urban Devt. & Envir.                    -        100.0          50 4
2391          92              PRC            Ship Waste Disposal                             -         15.0          10.6
2411          93              PRC            Sichuan Agricultural Devt.                      -        147.0          50.5
3515          93              PRC            Shuikou Hydroeiectric 11                     100.0           -          47.4
2423          93              PRC            Financial Sector TA                             -         60.0          47.0
3530          93              PRC            Guangdong Provincial Transport               240.0           -          57.1
3531          93              PRC            Henan Provincial Transport                   120.0           -          33.0
2447          93              PRC            Ref. Inst'l and Preinvest.                      -         50.0          29.4
3552          93              PRC            Shanghai Port Rest. and Devt.                124.3           -          15.1
2457          93              PRC            Changchun Water Supply & Env.                   -        120.0          82.7
2462          93              PRC            Agriculture Support Services                    -        115.0          29 4
3560/2463       93              PRC            Taihu Basin Flood Control                     100.0       100.0        107.6
2471          93              PRC            Effective Teaching Services                     -        100.0          57 2
3572          93              PRC            Tianjin Industry 11                          134.0           -         110.0
3581          93              PRC            Railway VI                                   420.0                     215.1
3582          93              PRC            South Jiangsu Envir. Prot.                   250.0           -          71.5
2475          93              PRC            Zhejiang Multicities Devt.                      -        110.0          81.3
3606          93              PRC            Tianhuangping Hydroelectric                  300.0           -         232.4
3624/2518       93               PRC           Grain Distribution                            325.0       165.0        456.2
2522          93              PRC            EnvironmentaJ Tech. Assist.                     -         50.0          30.4
2539          94              PRC            Rural Health Workers Devt.                      -        110.0          76.9
3652          94              PRC            Shanghai Metro Transport 11                  150.0           -          20.0
3681          94              PRC            Fujian Provincial Highways                   140.0           -          98.1
3687          94              PRC            Telecommunications                           250.0           -         179.4
2563          94              PRC            Second Red Soils Area Devt.                     -        150.0          72.4
2571          94              PRC            Songliao Plain Agric. Devt.                     -        205.0         113.7
3711          94              PRC            Shanghai Environment                         160.0           -         134.2
3716          94              PRC            Sichuan Gas Devt & Conservatn.               255.0           -         182.3



- 26 -
SchedulH E
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA                                       Page 2 of 3
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1996)
Loan/                                                                                    Amount (US$ million)
Credit                                                                                   (net of cancellations)
Number         FY            Borrower         Purpose                                        Bank        IDA  Undisb.(ai
3718          94              PRC            Yangzhou Thermal Power                       350.0           -         27Tr
B103          94              PRC            Yangzhou Thermal Power                        57.2           -5.7
3727          94              PRC            Xiaolangdi Multipurpose                      460.0           -         209,.5
2605          94              PRC            Xiaolangdi Resettlement                         -        110.0          6t.6
2616          94              PRC            Loess Plateau Watershed Devt.                   -        150.0          8E 7
2623          94              PRC            Forest Resource Devt. & Prot.                   -        200.0         152.1
3748          94              PRC            National Highway                             380.0           -         23' .4
3773/2642       95              PRC            Ent. Housing/Soc Sec Retorm                   275.0       75.0         314.0
3781          95              PRC            Liaoning Environment                         110.0           -          8- .4
3787          95              PRC            Xinjiang Prov. Highways                      150.0           -         1lt .4
2651          95              PRC            Basic Ed for Poor/Minorities                    -        100.0          6!.6
3788          95              PRC            Shenyang Industrial Reform                   175.0           -         15( .8
2654          95              PRC            Economic Law Reform                             -         10.0           E.7
2655          95              PRC            Comp Maternal/Child Health                      -         90.0          5&.1
3846          95              PRC            Zhejiang Power Development                   400.0           -         37C.0
B105          95              PRC            Zhejiang Power Development                    64.3           -          62.3
3847          95              PRC            Technology Development                       200.0           -         195.0
3848          95              PRC            Sichuan Power Transmission                   270.0           -         27C.0
3873/2709       95              PRC            Fiscal TA                                      25.0        25.0         45.4
3874/2710       95              PRC            Yangtze Basin Water Res Devt                  100.0       110.0        146.6
3897          95              PRC            Railway VII                                  400.0           -         40C.0
3906/2744       95              PRC            Southwest Poverty Reduction                    47.5       200.0        215.0
3910          95              PRC            Inland Waterways                             210.0           -         203.4
3914/2756       95              PRC            Iodine Deficiency Dis. Control                  7.0        20.0         23.2
3929          96              PRC            Shanghai-Zhejiang Highway                    260.0           -         219.7
3933          96              PRC            Ertan 11 Hydroelectric                       400.0           -         342.0
8106          96              PRC            Ertan II Hydroelectric                        50.0           -          48.6
2794          96              PRC            Disease Prevention                              -         100.0          9:'.7
3966/2799       96              PRC            Hubei Urban Environment (c)                   125.0        25.0         150.0
3967/2800       96              PRC            Labor Market Development                        10.0       20.0          2'.4
3980          96              PRC            Henan (Qinbei) Thermal (c)                    440.0          -         440.0
3986          96              PRC            Second Shaanxi Prov. Highways                 210.0          -         210.0
3987          96              PRC            Second Shanghai Sewerage                      250.0          -         250..0
2831          96              PRC            Third Basic Education                           -         100.0          92.7
2834          96              PRC            Shanxi Poverty Alleviation                      -         100.0          9" .1
4001          96              PRC            Animal Feed                                  150.0           -          150.0
4027          96              PRC            Second Henan Prov. Highway                   210.0           -         210.0
4028/2870       96               PRC           Gansu Hexi Corridor                            60.0        90.0         14''.2
4044/2886       96               PRC           Seeds Sector Commercialization (c)             80.0        20.0         100.0
4045          96              PRC            Chongqing Ind. Pollution Control (c)         170.0           -          170.0
4055/2892       96               PRC           Yunnan Environment (c)                        125.0        25.0         150.0
4063/2898       97               PRC           Vocational Education Reform (c)                10.0        20.0          20.0
Total                                     16,395.8     8,914.9      10,014 0
of which has been repaid                 1,559.0        42.8
Total now held by Bank and IDA   (a)       14.836.8    8,872.1
Amount sold: Of which repaid                  -            -
Total Undisbursed                          7,635.3     2,378.7      10,014.0
(a) As credits are denominated in SDRs (since IDA Replenishment VI), undisbursed SDR credit balances are converted to dollars at the
current exchange rate between the dollar and the SDR. In some cases, therefore, the undisbursed balance and total credit amount held
indicate a dollar amount greater than the original principal credit amount expressed in dollars.
(b) Fully disbursed.
(c) Not yet effective.



- 27 -
Schedule E
Page 3 of 3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1996)
Loan  Equity  Syndicate    Total
FY   Borrower                 Type of Business            (US$ Million) -
85/92  Guangzhou Peugeot Auto   Automobile          2.8    4.6         -        7.4
88/  Shenzhen China           Bicycle              8.5    3.4         -        11.9
92/94  Bicycles Co. Ltd.       Manufacture
89   Crown Electronics        Manufacturing        3.9        -      -         3.9
93   Shenzhen Tai-Yang PCCP   Construction Material  3.8    1.0      -         4.8
93   Yantai Mitsubishi Cement  Cement              18.7   2.0       10.0      30.7
94   Dalian Glass             Glass               20.5   2.4        40.5      63.4
94   China Walden Investors    Venture Capital        -   7.5         -        7.5
94   Dynamic Growth Fund      Venture Capital         -  12.4        -         12.4
94   Plantation Timber Product  Timber, Pulp & Paper 10.0   1.0     20.0       31.0
95   Newbridge Investment     Venture Capital         -  10.0        -         10.0
95   Nantong Wanfu (EEI)      Agribusiness         6.3    2.7        -         9.0
95   Dupont Suzhou Polyester   Textiles            24.9   3.8       52.0       80.7
96   Nanjing Kumho Tire Co., Lt Motor Vehicles     16.0   3.8       45.5       65.3
96    Weihai Weidongri                                4.9    -        -         4.9
Total Gross Commitments                                                  342.9
Total Comritments now Held by IFC                                        167.1
Total Undisbursed                                                        175.8



- 28 -
Schedule F
Page 1 of 2
China at a glance
POVERTY and SOCtAL                                             East    Low-
China       Aisi  income   Development dlamond.
Populton mid-1906 (nWlAons)                       1,201,4     1.709   3,188                 Life expeocncy
GNP per capiba 199 (US$)                             620        830      480
GNP199E(biHkon.USS)                                 744.9     1,418    1,4668
Average annual growth, 1,100-96
Population (%                                         1.1        13GNP G1oss
Labor force                     *                     1.1        1.4     1.9
por~ ~ ~~~~~~omr
Most recant estimate (lebty0rwfisbied since 199)                                 capis                          lnromnt
Poverty: hedcount indewx(%o(poputedon)                 t11*
Urban population (%:of Jipopuladonj                    30   ~ 31          :28
Lif expectancy at birh (yea                            go):      UG&
Infantimmlity(perlAWhe         1f                      29       -3        oo-;-
Chiddmolnutriio n{osh5 (% ofdMkilw  fnd                177        7Access to saee water
Alo    tsee wat( (% a(o-MM                            ::l 7t     67  C    66f  
Illiteracy (r o(populeWoE,aget15*                      19        17. t    35 
Gro. priny enroiimti (% orcAhoo".agepopulation)       118       117      10        -     n
Mole                                               1 - 4 y -E ,-  L  0  i50       t20  120G    112:    -Low-income group
F mabt.'                                           116        116       968           
KEY ECONOMIC RATIO34and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1966      194    10996  -
:  0           f              0     t; 0 ~~~~~~~Economic ratoes
GOP (b/Wfn. US$)                           160.3   304.9      5222    663O3pn o                          nm
Gros domestic invlnentlGOP                  30.3     37.8       42.1    405O
Exports of goods and nonactorservices(GOP    5.2      9.2       24.0    22.2
Gros domestic savngsliGOP                   30.S    33.1        44.0    43.2
Gros natbnal savings/GOP:                   30.6     33.5       44.0    42.9
Currnt account bianuelGOP:                  -0.2    -3.9         f.4      2.:3'  Savings                              af Irwestrent
Interest paymentslGOP                                 02         0.7      0.8
Toals debtUGOP                                 .      535       19.3    17-uS                      t
Total debt aer4csspofts                       ..    8.3          8       9.2
Preeentv aluofdekbUGOPi  -                              ..      17.1
Present valu   of debtiexpofts                 .        ..                   -                Indabtednes,
1975484  I11-84     13114      199s  1396-04.
(averag, annual g-0tlj-
GOP                                 7.7      9.5    11.8        10.2      8S.      -Chins
GNP per capita                      7.0      80      10.4      :8.        7.7      -Low-income group
Export, of goods and nts           202      13.T    286         1.2    '86       _        _       _      _        _
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GOP)                                 1975     1s8        1W       4106      Growth ate of output and inveaet %
Agriculture                                 32.0    28.4        21.0    20.5    25                          A
Industry                                    42.8     43.1       47.2    48.0     2/-
Iinufacturing                             31.6    35.4        37.0    37.6                                    -
Services                                    25.2    28.5        31.8    31.5
Private consumption                         61.9    53.7        42.7    47.6             to 
Gneral govenment consumption                 7.6     13.2       13.2      9.2            oo   01    *       a     b 
Imports of goods and non-factor services     5.0    13.9        22.0    19.5                 -001  -GOP
(average annual gnmwUl                   1975-84  198-95      1934    1986       Growth rates of exporte and ltporns(%
Agriculture                                  5.1      4.1        4.0      4.0    4I
Industry                                    10.0     12.7       17.4    13.0
Mtanufacturing                             13.1     12.3      17.2    13.0    30
Services                                     8.7      9.4        8.2    10.1
Private consumption                          7.5      8.5        5.7    18.9
General government consumption               8.5      7.7        6.6       O. rs   02    a                         4    0
Gross domestic investment                    8.9      9.4       12.8      8.4    .i       Y
Imports of goods and non-actor services     24.1      9.2        8.9    10.8
Gross national product                       8.5      9.5       1 1.6     9.9                -
Note: 1995 data are preliminary estimates.
' The diamonds show four Ite indicators in the country (in boid) compared Mith its incomegroup aveage. If data are mising, lhe diamond wiMt
be incomplete.



- 29 -
Schedule F
Page 2 of 2
China
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975    1985       1994    1996       Inflaton(%
Damestic pntc2s
(% c2ange)T
Consumer prices                              0.2      9.3       24.1     13.2    20
Implicit GOP deflator                       -0.9    10.1        16.6     11.0
Government finance
(% of GOP)                                                                          __ __._*_ _
Current revenue                                      25.5       12.4     12.3     o             of   02   93             Is
Current budget balance                                6.7        0.4      0.3                -O de nC                    9
Overall surplus/deficit                              -0.5       -1.6    -1.7                -GD          CPI
TRADE
1975    19U        is"      19       - Export and Import levels (mill. US$)
(mrillions USS)
Total exports (fob)                                27.350   121.03S  148,750
Food                                             3,S03    10,017   12,828
Petroleum                                        7.132      4.061    4.152                                    _  1
Manufactures                                     13.522   101.331  127,638
Total imports (cif)                                42252   115,693  132.308
Food                                              1,881      4.996    6.562     ooooe0
Fuel and energy                                     172      4.034    5,244
Capital goods                                    18.694    556720   56.882                 FM
Export price index (1987-100)                 ..       92       1:24     130    1
Import price index (1987f100)                 ..       78       122      128             go  so         02  92 o4   is
Terms of trade (1987-100)                      .      117       102      102                    CExpoet zImra
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(nmilions US5)                              1975    1988       1904     1996      Current account balance to GOP rweo (%j
Exports of goods and non-factor services   7,828   28,163   118,811  147,155      '
Imports of goods and non-factor services   8,097   41,149   111,472  129,279
Resource balance                            -269  -12.986      7,339   17,876     2
Net factor income                              0      932    -1,018   -3.886
Net current transfers                          0      171       836      724         _ o  _ ,    _  _ _ i  _ _  _ _  _   , _
Current account balance.                                                            L011   0   01   92                Is 04 | r
before official transfers                 -269  -11.383      7,157   14.734
Financing items (net)                               9,443    23,370    8.266
Changes in net reserves                             2,440   -30,527  -23,000
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. USS)            ..  16,881    57,794   76,592
Conversion rate (JocalVUSS)                  1.9      2.9        8.6      8.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
(millicns USS)  1975    1 $111115  1" 1    996  Composidon of tUol debt 199 (mill. US$ I
(millins USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed               16,696   100, 53   110.78 8              G          A T
IBRO                                               498      5.933    7.209              17333
IDA                                                 431     6,097    7,038                                 703t   D
Total debt service                                  2.478    11,135   15.506                                     2455
IBRD                                                 26       679      810
IDA                                                   4        s0       63                                        E
Composition of net resource tlows                                                                                  15082
Official grants                                     117       332      296
Ofsficial creditors                               1.117     3,117    2.789
Private creditors                                 2.867     8,353    5,394
Foreign direct investment                         1,659    33,787   38,000             F
Portfolio equity                                      0     3,915    1.297            61671
World Bank program
Commitments                                       1,092     4.077    2.942      A- IBRO                     E- ejateral
Disbursements                                      565      2,060    2.269    | E IDA    0- Other muttatwini   F- PraOt
Pnncipal repayments                                   0       323      364      C.-MF                       G - Shot-twn
Net flows                                          565      1,736    1,905
Interest payments                                    29       406      509
Net transfers                                      U53       1,331    1,396
International Economics Department                                                                                  718&96
Note. The dollar estimates for China's GNP per capita and GOP are taken from the World Development Indicators and are preliminary figures
based on an on-going World Bank study of China's GOP. They were calculated to facilitate inter-country comparisons. Ofricial statistics are used
as the basis for alt other economic analysis contained in this document.






- 31 -
PART II: TECHNICAL ANNEXES






-33-                           ANNEX 1
ANNEX 1: BOILER TECHNOLOGY PACKAGES
The project consists of two parts:
1.   Improvement of existing boilers;
2.    Development of new coal-fired industrial boilers.
1.   Improvement of Existing Boilers
Improved industrial boiler plants (i.e., boilers with their auxiliaries) herein are
defined as 1-20 t/h industrial plants which are built on the basis of the Chinese
industrial boiler designs combined with imported technologies.
1.1   Focal points of improving the existing boilers:
- Improve designs and manufacturing technologies of combustion equipment,
raise manufacturing quality and assembling accuracy of grate, adopt precision
casting techniques to form grate bars and other castings, improve air tightness
of plenum, make wind pressure of plenum be over 50 mm H20, improve
evenness, regulation and effectiveness of air distribution;
- Optimize necessary auxiliary equipment and accessories;
o Furnish necessary and suitable control devices and monitoring instruments;
* Improve tightness of furnace, flue and air ducts, minimize leakage of air
entering flue side; and
* Improve completed boiler quality and its performance, integrate boiler house
system (e.g. automatic loading and unloading systems of coal and ash, and
closed handling systems of coal and ash).
1.2   General technical requirements for improved boilers to meet the following rated
loads:
* Minimum Guaranteed thermal efficiency, 78 percent for Class 2 bituminous
coal (if D<= 6 t/h is given >= 70 percent);
* Maximum flue gas excess air coefficient



- 34 -                         ANNEX 1
* <=1.5 for Class 2 bituminous coal (ca<1.6 when Chinese raw coals are
used)
*  <=1.6 for Class 2 anthracite (a<=1.7 when Chinese raw coal are used);
*  Maximum smoke emission <=100 mg/Nm3;
* Maximum flue gas borne CO emissions <=250 ppm; and
* When burning Class 2 bituminous coal with high sulfur content.
All other performance specifications or indices not listed here should reach or
surpass the Chinese current standards, and be in conformity with related quantity
stipulations for Chinese industrial boiler products. Improved boilers shall perform
well at low load. When a boiler operates at 60 percent of MCR, the reduction
range of its efficiency should be less than two percent, the allowed increased
value of its flue gas excess air coefficient comparing with that at rated load should
not be over 0.2.
1.3   Boiler Product Type
D Subproject 1: Packaged water tube boiler
(All performance specifications are same as Subproject 2)
e Subproject 2: Improved packaged firetube-watertube boiler
Capacity range: 1  6 t/h
Steam pressure: 0.4 - 2.5 MPa
Steam temperature: Saturated temperature - 350C
Type of combustion equipment: chain grate stoker
Automatic control level: based on overseas small boiler and combined
with Chinese condition by importing and absorbing foreign technology, an
automatic control of coal and water feeding, and blow-off and safety and
emission monitoring can be achieved.
Prototype specifications: Capacity >= 4 t/h
Steam pressure = 0.7 -.25 MPa
Steam temperature: saturated temperature - 350C
* Subproject 3: Modular water tube boiler (burning low sulfur coal)
Capacity range: 6 - 20 t/h
Steam pressure: 1.0 - 2.5 MPa
Steam temperature: saturated temperature - 450C



- 35 -                         ANNEX 1
Type of combustion equipment:  traveling grate stoker (louver or
crossbeam stoker)
Automatic control level: automatic control of water feeding and blow-off,
automatic combustion regulation, measuring, safety and emission
monitoring instrumentation.
Prototype specifications: Capacity >= 10 t/h
Steam pressure = 1.0 - 2.5 MPa
Steam temperature: Saturated temperature - 400C
* Subproject 4: Modular water tube boiler burning high sulfur coal
It can be fluidized bed combustion (FBC) boiler or grate boiler with de-
sulfurization in furnace.
Capacity range: 6 - 20 t/h
Steam pressure: 1.0 - 2.5 MPa
Steam temperature: Saturated temperature - 400C
Coal type: Q'dw = 16,250 - 20,335 kj/kg, S' = 2 - 6 percent
Minimum Guaranteed Thermal Efficiency: >= 82 percent for BFC
Emissions control: at ca/s <= 2, minimum de-sulfurization rate >= 50
percent; and S02<200 ppm
Automatic control level: automatic control of water feeding and blow-off,
amplified combustion automatic regulating, measuring, safety and
emission monitoring instrument.
Prototype specifications:
Capacity range: 10 - 20 t/h
Steam pressure = 1.0 - 2.5 MPa
Steam temperature: Saturated temperature - 400C
* Subproject 5: Packaged and modular hot water boiler with water tube
Capacity range: 0.7 - 14 MW
Outlet pressure of water: 0.4 - 1.6 MPa
Outlet/inlet temperature of water: 95/70 -1 50/90C
Type of combustion equipment: < 7 MW, chain grate stoker; >= 7 MW,
Traveling grate stoker.



- 36 -                         ANNEX 1
Automatic control level: simple and convenient automatic control of
water making outlet/inlet water temperature adjusting and instruments for
measuring, safety and emission monitoring.
Prototype specifications:
Capacity = 7 MPa
Outlet water pressure: 0.7 - 1.6 MPa
Outlet/inlet water temperatures = 95/70 - 150/900
* Subproject 6: Packaged and modular extended furnace water and fired
tubes boiler
Capacity range: 4 - 20 t/h
Steam pressure: 0.4 - 2.5 MPa
Steam temperature: Saturated temperature - 400C
Type of combustion equipment: Chain grate stoker
Automatic control level: Simple and convenient automatic control and
necessary monitoring instruments.
Prototype specifications: Capacity = 6 t/h
Steam pressure = 0.7 - 2.5 MPa
Steam temperature: Saturated temperature - 400C
2.    The development of new coal-fired industrial boilers incorporating proven
foreign boiler design. 10 -100 t/h IB plants, suitable for burning Chinese coals, are to be
developed based on such foreign technologies as internationally proven traveling grate
stoker firing, spreader stoker firing and fluidized bed combustion.
2.1   Key points to be considered
*  Overall design technologies of large capacity traveling grate stoker hot water
boiler including fluid flow (especially water circulation) calculations, design
approaches, CAD (computer aid design) software.
*  Calculating methods and CAD software for designing the boiler with a
traveling grate spreader stoker such as stress and strength calculations, thermal
calculation, draft loss calculation.
*  Structural design, manufacture, assembly technology and manufacturing
standards/ code/ criteria for the spreader and the traveling grate stoker.



- 37 -                         ANNEX 1
*  Design approach of secondary air entering a furnace, design approach of
refiring system, structured design and manufacturing technology for both the
secondary air fan and the small flowage wind fan with low noise and high
pressure head.
*  FBC boiler: thermal calculation, draft loss calculation and CAD software.
*  Structural design and manufacturing technology of the gas and solid separator
and material return system.
*  Technology and equipment for crushing and screening coal and limestone.
*  Ash cooling and treating system.
*  In-furnace de-sulfurization and de-NOX technologies.
-  Computerized design approaches of combustion and feeding water control
system;
-  Technology of bag-type collectors and filtering materials.
-  Design and manufacturing technology of measurement meters and monitoring
instruments such as steam flowage meter, online monitors for monitoring
smoke, SO and CO2 emission.
2.2   Types of coal-fired industrial boiler to be developed:
* Subproject 7: Medium capacity steam boiler
Capacity range: 35 - 100 t/h.
Steam pressure: 1.0 - 5.3 MPa.
Steam temperature: Saturated temperature  450C
(The steam parameters should be matched with the requirements of
domestic turbines.)
Suitable coal: Class 2 bituminous coal
Qydw= 17,700 - 21,000 kj/kg (4,228  5,016 kcal/kg), Vr>20 percent
Design coal: Class 2 bituminous coal
Type of burning equipment: spreader and reversed traveling stoker,
matched with the secondary air technology and fly ash reburning device.
Minimum Guaranteed Thermal Efficiency: 80 percent at MCR
Maximum flue gas excess air coefficient: a = 1.5



- 38 -                         ANNEX 1
Maximum dust emission =< 100 mg/Nm3
Maximum CO emission =< 250 ppm
Automatic control level: automatic water feeding and blow-off, automatic
combustion control and automatic monitoring and alarm of over-emission
etc. All of these should reach the current average performance level of the
similar products made in developed countries.
Prototype specifications:  capacity >= 65 t/h, pressure >= 3.82 MPa,
superheat steam temperature = 450C
* Subproject 8: Medium capacity hot water boiler
Capacity range: 7 - 70 MW
Outlet water pressure: 0.7 - 2.5 MPa
Outlet/inlet water temperature: 95.70 - 180/1 10C
Suitable coal: Class 2 bituminous coal
Design coal: Class 2 bituminous coal
Type of burning equipment:  traveling grate stoker, matched with
secondary air system.
Minimum Guaranteed Thermal Efficiency: 80 percent at MCR
Maximum dust emission <= 100 mg/Nm
Maximum CO emission <= 250 ppm
Automatic control level: reach higher performance levels of the similar
products made in developed countries.
Prototype specifications:
Capacity >= 29 MW
Outlet water pressure = 1.25 - 2.5 MPa
Outlet/inlet water temperatures: 130/70 - 180/1 10C
Subproject seven medium capacity steam boiler and subproject six
medium capacity hot water boiler should have good performance at partial
load operation. When they operate at 60 percent of MCR, the reductions
of their efficiencies should be less than two percent compared with design
efficiencies, and their flue gas excess air coefficients should not be over
1.6.



- 39 -                        ANNEX I
* Subproject 9: FBC boiler
Capacity range: 35 -100 t/h
Steam pressure: 1.0 - 5.3 MPa
Steam temperature: Saturated temperature - 450C
Turndown ratio: 50 percent
Suitable coal: Coals having high ash, high sulfur content and low heat
value. Qy = 10,470 - 16,750 kj/kg (2,500 - 4,000 kcal/kg), S3 >= 3
percent, A = 27 -47 percent.
Minimum Guaranteed Thermal Efficiency: >85 percent;
Combustion efficiency: >98 percent.
Maximum flue gas excess air coefficient: a = 1.4
Emissions control:  NOX < 180 ppm
so2 < 200 ppm
CO < 250 ppm
Dust concentration <= 100 mg/Nm3
Automatic control level: combustion and feed water automatic control,
closed handling systems for ash and slag. Stack emission (smoke SO2 and
NOx) monitoring should reach average performance levels of the similar
product made in developed countries.
Prototype specifications:
Capacity >= 35 t/h
Steam pressure = 2.5  5.3 MPa
Steam temperature = 400  4500C
Boiler thermal efficiency at 50 percent of MCR should be higher than 84
percent and flue gas excess air coefficient should be less than 1.5.



-40 -                           ANNEX 2
ANNEX 2: DOMESTIC ENTERPRISE SELECTION
1.    The selection of domestic enterprises to participate in the project was undertaken
in two stages, i.e., the prequalification stage, and the final selection of the enterprises.
2.    Domestic Enterprise Prequalification: The basis of the selection process of the
domestic enterprises has been to introduce as much competition as possible. This is to
ensure that the strongest (technical, financial, and commercial) enterprises for particular
technologies are selected, and that the enterprises have "ownership" of the projects. The
initial stage has been an identification procedure (carried out in parallel with qualification
of international technology providers) based on the following criteria agreed with the
World Bank team:
(a)   technical capability and management efficiency of the boiler enterprise;
(b)   financial viability of the enterprise;
(c)   technical soundness of the proposed project; and
(d)   the ability to present a realistic and viable project financing plan.
3.    The recruitment of qualified domestic boiler manufacturers to participate in the
project was undertaken through an open competition launched by the Ministry of
Machinery Industry's PMO.  Announcement of the project was made in local
newspapers. In addition, direct contacts with enterprises were made to further solicit
their interest to participate in the project. All responding enterprises were asked to
prepare a prefeasibility study stating their project objectives and ways of achieving them.
The enterprises were evaluated by PMO with the assistance of international boiler experts
and a local financial consulting company.
4.    During preappraisal, the Bank team reviewed the evaluation reports and finalized
a short list of 20 prequalified domestic enterprises out of 33 applicants. The prequalified
enterprises were selected to proceed to the next stage of project preparation, i.e., to
undertake an international assessment tour and to prepare a feasibility study,
incorporating the results of the tour and possible technical cooperation arrangements with
foreign firms.
5.    Final Selection of Domestic Enterprises to participate in the Project: The 20
prequalified domestic boiler enterprises have undertaken a technology assessment tour to



-41-                          ANNEX2
visit potential suppliers of technology from a list of 17 prequalified potential foreign
technology suppliers. The results of the visit and discussions with foreign firms have
been incorporated into the feasibility studies submitted by the prequalified domestic
firms, which have been evaluated by PMO based on the following standards with
respective weights.
Weights
(a)   Qualification of domestic boiler enterprises                1/3
*  Technical qualification of the enterprises   5C%
*  Financial viability of the enterprises       50%
(b)   Technology Transfer Content                                 1/3
*  Technical suitability                        25%
*  Licensor's technology transfer experience    10%
*  Licensor's resources                         15%
Personnel
Financial Position
Design Offices and R&D facilities
Manufacturing facilities
*  Licensing arrangements                       25%
Agreement structure
Training program
Technical assistance package
*  Pricing                                      25%
Basic know-how fees
Royalties
Technical Assistance
Critical components
(c)   Subproject Evaluation Criteria                              1/3
*  Thermal efficiency of improved model         30%
*  Economic cost/benefits analysis              30%
Project economic rate of return (40%)
Rate of return to end-users (15%)
Payback period to end-users (15%)
GEF and total cost per ton of C02 removed (30%)



-42 -                         ANNEX 2
*  Local pollution reduction                   20%
Projected TSP, SO2, NOX emissions
*  Others                                      20%
Range of future applications (50%)
Project reliability (50%)
6.    The winning enterprises for each of the nine technology packages are the
following:
(a)   Package Water Tube Boiler (1 to 6 tph capacity)-Tianshan Boiler Works
(b)   Package Water and Fire Tube Boiler (1 to 6 tph)-Yingkou Boiler Works
(c)   Modular Water Tube Boiler (6 to 20 tph)-Sifang Boiler Works
(d)   High Sulfur Coal Boiler (6 to 20 tph)-Jiangxi Boiler Works
(e)   Package/Modular Hot Water Boiler (0.7 to 14 MW)-Changzhou Boiler
Works
(f)   Extended Fire and Water Tube Boiler (1 to 1O tph)-Zhengzhou Boiler
Works
(g)   Combined Heat and Power Steam Boiler (10 to 100 tph)-Jinan Boiler
Works
(h)   Modular Hot Water Boiler (7 to 70 tph)-Hangzhou Boiler Works
(i)   Fluidized Bed Combustion Steam Boiler (35 to 100 tph)-Harbin Industrial
Boiler Company



-43 -                         ANNEX 3
ANNEX 3: PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT,
ACCOUNTING, AUDITING AND REPORTING
Procurement
1.   Identification and Qualification of Technology Providers. With the assistance
of international consultants, MMI identified nine specific technology packages covering a
range of coal fired boiler technologies including boiler designs and important ancillaries
(stokers, combustion air systems, instrumentation systems, etc.). A notice requesting
interested technology holders to submit qualification information was published in
Development Business on December 31, 1994 and the China Mechanical and Electrical
Daily, also in December 1994. Notification letters were also sent to all foreign embassies
in Beijing and to industrial trade associations in various countries. Visits were made by
PMO teams to companies expressing interest, and based on these visits and the
information provided by the companies, technology providers were qualified based on
criteria agreed between PMO and the Bank, and a qualification report was sent to the
Bank.
2.    Contract Provisions. Different technology holders may insist on very specific
contract provisions and specific contract forms, whose acceptability would have to be
carefully reviewed by the Bank before contract approval. Draft documents for the scope
of technology transfer and general contract provisions, based on the standard documents
for China for transfer of process technology have been prepared. These are intended to
provide guidance to both the domestic boiler enterprises and the technology holders on
the scope of services to be supplied and contract provisions that need to be agreed to.
3.    A two-stage bidding process will be used for all subprojects that have two or more
prequalified technology sources. Procurement of design and manufacturing technology
will follow limited international bidding (LIB) procedures according to Bank guidelines.
The procedures will be based on the Instructions to Bidders of January 1995 and revised
in January 1996 from the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Supply and the
Installation of Plant & Equipment, and the Conditions Of Contract For Process
Technology Procurement that have been agreed to by the Bank and Chinese government
authorities.  For subprojects with only one prequalified technology source direct
contracting will be used for procurement. This will also be based on the Bank's Standard
Bidding Documents for Supply and the Installation of Plant & Equipment and the
Conditions Of Contract For Process Technology Procurement. Those documents will be
appropriately modified to meet the needs of the project.



-44 -                         ANNEX 3
4.    MMI, the implementing agency for this project, has designated Beijing Clean
Combustion Engineering Company Limited to act as MMI's agent and coordinate the
procurement of imported advanced-technology aspects of the project for the boiler
manufacturers participating in this project. MMI has also designated China Machine
Building International Corporation (CMIC) to act as agent and coordinate the goods
procurement aspects of the project between MMI and the boiler manufacturers
participating in the project. CMIC is the leading organization in China for procurement
of power and industrial boilers.
5.    Technology Transfer Phase 1. A model technology transfer procurement
document for subproject #9 has been reviewed, and the Bank has informed MMI that it
has no objection to commencement of the bidding process. Bidding documents for the
other eight subprojects are also being reviewed.
6.   In Phase 1, technology rights, goods and services will be procured through limited
international bidding (LIB) estimated to amount to $16.4 million. With the Bank's
agreement, proprietary items are to be procured through direct contracting, estimated to
amount to $6.5 million. Aggregate amounts for LIB and direct contracting cannot be
determined at this stage of technology transfer.
7.    Evaluation. At the end of Phase 1, PMO will undertake an evaluation of the
demonstration units and prepare an evaluation report. The evaluation will investigate
whether the demonstration units and the project enterprises have: (a) met predetermined
technical performance criteria; (b) met domestic and international safety standards; (c)
presented an acceptable Phase 2 production plan, including financing; and (d) prepared an
adequate marketing plan. Only those enterprises that meet all four criteria will be eligible
for financing under Phase 2. Should the rights to any critical components of the
demonstration model be the property of a third party, a separate technology transfer
negotiation would be carried out under Phase 2. Should an enterprise fail to meet the
Phase 1 evaluation criteria, MMI would select an alternative subproject, satisfactory to
the Bank.
8.    Technology Transfer Phase 2. During Phase 2, the boiler enterprises that have
successfully met their subproject performance criteria will procure production equipment
to put the new boiler designs into production. Goods and services procured under
national and international shopping are expected to amount to $3.7 million. Items costing
more than $250,000, but less than $2 million, are to be procured through international
shopping based on quotations from at least three suppliers, from at least two countries, up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,690,000. Items costing less than $250,000 are to
be procured through national shopping, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$1,000,000 equivalent.
9.    Consultants for both Phases will be engaged on the basis of Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and World Bank as Executing Agency



-45 -                          ANNEX3
dated August, 1981. Consultancy contracts will adhere to the Bank's Standard Form of
Contract for Consultant's Services.
10.   Prior review of procurement documentation by the Bank will include goods
contracts costing $200,00 or more, all LIB and proprietary items and all consultancy
services in excess of $100,000 for firms, and above $50,000 for individuals. The
consultancy terms of reference and technical requirements regarding experience and
capacity will be subject to prior review for all consultancy contracts, as will all single
source contracts and amended contracts which exceed these thresholds. About 80 percent
of the proceeds of the grant will be subject to prior review. For contracts not subject to
prior review, post review will be carried out during project supervision, to include a
minimum of 25 percent of such contracts.
Disbursement
11.   The GEF Grant would be disbursed against 100 percent of expenditures for
subgrants under approved subprojects. To facilitate disbursement, a Special Account in
dollars with an authorized allocation of $2,200,000 equivalent (based on four months'
average disbursements) would be established. The initial deposit would be limited to
$1,500,000 equivalent until withdrawals reach SDR 7,000,000. The Special Account
would be replenished monthly or whenever the special account is drawn down to 50
percent of its initial deposit, whichever occurs first. Disbursements would be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs) for (a) consulting service contracts valued
at less than $100,000 for firms or $50,000 for individuals and (b) goods contracts of less
than $200,000 equivalent. PMO would retain documents supporting the SOEs and would
make this documentation available for inspection by Bank supervision missions. The
projected disbursement schedule (Schedule C) is considerably shorter than the
disbursement profile for standard industrial projects. A principal reason for this is that
the bidding process is based on a modular approach, in which one procurement package
will be used as a model for all nine subprojects. Therefore, bidding for all subprojects is
expected to take place more or less in parallel. Another important reason is that GEF
financing will mostly occur in Phase 1, in which the bulk of the funds will be disbursed
relatively quickly for technology transfer through licensing and purchase of proprietary
goods for demonstration units. The grant will finance 100 percent of subgrants to
individual subprojects, 100 percent of consultant services, 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for goods, 100 percent of local ex-factory expenditures for goods, and 75
percent of local expenditures for other items procured locally.
Reporting
12.   During negotiations, assurances were obtained from MMI that it will furnish to
the Bank: (a) an annual audit report, to be presented not later than June 30, of project
accounts, the Special Account and statement of expenditures; (b) an annual progress
report, to be presented not later than February 15, showing levels of achievement of
performance and development impact indicators; and (c) a semiannual subproject



-46 -                         ANNEX 3
progress report, to be submitted by February 15 and August 15, including the physical
implementation and disbursement status (planned versus actual) of each subproject.
Accounting and Auditing
13.   A separate project account will be maintained by MMI. PMO will monitor and
consolidate financial reporting for individual subprojects, obtain annual financial
statements from participating boiler manufacturers and prepare annual financial status
reports for each subproject and enterprise. During negotiations, assurances were provided
that this information would be available for inspection by Bank supervision missions.
Auditing of the proposed project and subprojects financed by the grant will be conducted
by the State Audit Administration's Foreign Funds Application Department. This
arrangement is satisfactory to the Bank.



onol ,e 415d14 u                                          CEf ftlWnf nbir Welt Pt q
GP sP    CM".
P41.4 mardalAM Schts!Lda
t!s" >!s  iW?W __| _____ _ _                                                       04  1 1   00?   Ott)   004    1     2 .00?  00    004| t   >  
______________  0n.Iot   Recu                 r 02  00b3   00il4 1001   00?- 0I     04l.4O 41O       f?IO)10004 I-k2O                 ___ i    ow =.-3    .
._____   __._.                                                                    __ _                                                                                 ~
I  wheyriAm   dIe Cw&ac*g       162d             in r         t        if
;KI-T;l9 ~    ~    ~    ii -c CO ZD I -5                fit:        it                         
0.__ __ep abli _nd Apps,u9 24i
0.lpIenekalhnL'Ss                40*    LOE.IIS                     18            |         tl                                                                         .      t
soul V...,Mcan .n*                     i._ U, --
eald NEw Piedudln FuNeUUe        .4w       L|                                                                                                                                    '
Cbeatp Opuai-lihw T g P.legm     26w       %
Tsa.i a_d Ce.r Op.'.a.... 76.4.            Can
;;;ih nrg fr.maniud e            44w  cD.mo                                              HLJ  g}  ITE                     l 
i.S.e lan Stafflalda             10*       CoZwZI                                                             Nls
SIl3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.~~ ~  ...
hUjeb0eehMd                      1.4.      uo                                      4 tiE| -ittlE|Eit'FiT"io      110
. _ D .___  .   ._                                                         __.t0
local 0.ien*alh11P1i 40            PMO                                              _____________I_____L%12                ne 
__                         __                   _          _____                                                I                        __
P_a-Um o bpgod desi.__   ___    ._       O..2 _2
Key Responsible Organizations
China Machine-building International Corp.     CMIC           Ministry of Finance             MMI
Contractor                                    Con             Ministry ol Machinery Industry  MOF
Global Environmental Facility                 GEF             Project Management Oilice    PMO
Intemational Technology Source (s)            ITS             World Dank                      WD
Leading Boller Entcrerlse (s)                 LCE



-48 -                            ANNEX 5
ANNEX 5: FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Least-Cost Solution
1.    Improving the efficiency of industrial boilers has been identified as a high priority
and low-cost means for reducing greenhouse gas emissions in China.4  Among the
options for reducing fuel use in China's industrial boiler sector are: (i) improving boiler
technology, (ii) improving boiler operation, and (iii) improving the quality and
consistency of coal.  A two-year prefeasibility study, carried out by Chinese and
international boiler experts, assessed these and other factors related to the low operational
efficiency of Chinese industrial boilers and concluded that large improvements in
efficiency could be made through the transfer of technology from abroad.5 In addition,
the improvement of domestic boiler design and production capabilities through
technology transfer was determined to be one of the most cost-effective and immediately
implementable of the options.
Economic Evaluation
2.    The direct benefit to China of undertaking the project is a sustained reduction in
CO2 emissions which reduces the threat of global climate change, affecting both China
and the rest of the world. The "without project" option has been shown to result in
unnecessary energy use on the order of 300-500 million tons of coal over the life of the
project, and excess emissions of 600-1,000 tons of CO2. In addition to the reduction in
CO2, the project will generate substantial financial benefits to consumers in terms of
lower energy expenditures and significant, though less easily quantifiable, benefits in
terms of reduced TSP and SO2 emissions. With the proper marketing and dissemination,
the improved boilers are expected to increase in market share, replacing older less-
efficient designs. An analysis of the industrial boiler market in China is provided in
Annex 10.
China: Issues and Options in Greenhouse Gas Emissions Control, Summaiy Report, Washington, December
1994.
Prefeasibility Study on High Efficiency Industrial Boilers, Subreport 11, China: Issues and Options in
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Control, August 1994.



-49 -                            ANNEX 5
3.    Coal prices. Although detailed nationwide surveys of coal prices in China have
not been carried out, recent studies conducted by the Bank and other institutions show
that coal prices are largely market-determined and that most end-users pay prices for coal
that are close to the marginal costs of supply. Under China's former central planning
system, retail prices of energy and other key commodities were set by the central
government. Consequently, end-use prices were well-known in any locale; however, they
bore little relationship to production, transportation and distribution costs. Since the early
1980s, energy prices have been progressively decontrolled in China. With the change to
a more market-oriented economy, it is necessary to conduct detailed end-use surveys to
obtain information about energy prices. As part of the China Greenhouse Gas Study,
twenty-one industrial energy efficiency case studies, representing a wide range of
industries and locations throughout China, were carried out.6 In all cases, the industries
were found to be paying market prices for their major energy supplies (coal and
electricity). Similar results have been obtained during the preparation of the GEF
Efficient Industrial Boilers Project, wherein boiler consumers were found to be paying
market prices for their coal.
4.    Boiler sales price. A key variable in the project cost-benefit analysis undertaken
for boiler producers and consumers was the sales price of the new boiler. The future
market price for each of the nine improved boiler models was determined by examining
current market prices for boilers with different attributes and through an analysis of
production costs and the benefits to consumers of using the new boiler. A detailed
description of the price determination for the new boilers is provided in Annex 10. The
prices of the new boilers used in the cost-benefit and incremental cost analysis are
presented in Table 6 of Annex 10. In general, the range of prices for the new boiler used
in the cost-benefit and incremental cost analysis are between 14 and 20 percent higher
than the prices for comparable (though less efficient) existing boiler models.
5.    Rate of return analysis.  Detailed financial and economic analyses were
undertaken for each of the nine subprojects. Discounted life-cycle cost-benefit tables
were prepared, using enterprise- and industry-level estimates of investment and operating
costs, and benefits streams based on sales revenues.  Incremental ("with" minus
"without" project) cash flow tables were prepared for the purpose of estimating the
incremental costs of the project. The net present value (NPV), internal rate of return
(IRR), and payback period (PT) calculations were carried out on an incremental project
basis. For each of the nine industrial boiler subprojects, the NPV, IRR, and PT were
calculated for both boiler producers and boiler consumers.
(a)    Consumers. It was assumed that boiler consumers would be willing to
pay a higher initial price for the improved boiler if they were
compensated, over the lifetime of the boiler, through lower operating
6  Ward et al (eds.), "Energy Efficiency in China: Case Studies and Economic Analysis," Issues and Options in
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Control, Subreport No. 4, December 1994.



- 50 -                        ANNEX 5
(primarily fuel) costs. For the new boilers to sell, it was assumed that the
boiler price increase must be compensated by direct financial benefits to
consumers (see Annex 10), and that the payback period for the new boiler
should be no longer than for the older model. The IRR and payback
period for each subproject are given in Table 1.
(b)   Producers. Financial and economic cash flow analysis was done for
producers of each of the nine boiler subprojects, based on projected
lifecycle costs (investment and operating) and benefits (sales revenue)
associated with the new boilers. The rates of return to producers for
investing, developing, and manufacturing the new boilers were found to be
in the range of 5-7 percent (see Table 1), below the 12 percent target rate
of return used for project analysis in China. If the incremental costs,
representing the costs of overcoming the information and technology
transfer barriers for demonstrating and producing the more efficient
boilers, were covered by the GEF, the rates of return for all of the boiler
producers reached approximately 12 percent.
TABLE 1: ECONOMIC INDICATORS FOR THE CASE STUDY ANALYSIS
Producers                   Consumers
IRR (%)              IRR (%)         PT (yrs)
Subproject 1              6.73                 33.74            3.95
Subproject 2              6.79                 29.07            4.41
Subproject 3              6.18                 27.25            4.63
Subproject 4              5.89                 25.67            4.84
Subproject 5              5.70                 30.64            4.24
Subproject 6              6.29                 29.29            4.39
Subproject 7              6.15                 31.94            4.12
Subproject 8              6.53                 28.47            4.48
Subproject 9              5.97                 23.01            5.26
6.    Sensitivity analysis. A number of factors were examined for their impact on the
economic analysis of the project, including the sales price of the new boiler, the market
price of coal, the achieved thermal efficiency of the new boilers, and the discount rate.
The analysis was found to be most sensitive to the boiler sales price and the achieved
operational thermal efficiency of both the new and old boilers. While the boiler sales
price effected both consumers and producers, the achieved thermal efficiency affected
only consumers.



- 51-                            ANNEX 5
7.    Sales price. The sensitivity analysis suggests that small increases in the sales
price of the new boiler may result in a dampening of consumer demand, since the IRR
falls below, and the payback rises above, comparable measures for the "without project"
case. With a five percent increase in the sales price of the new boiler, the average
percentage rate decrease in the IRR for consumers was 33 percent. With a five percent
decrease in the sales price, the average percentage rate increase in the IRR for consumers
was 48 percent. Small decreases in the sales price create financial difficulties for boiler
producers, suggesting that the GEF grant is essential for reducing the risk to boiler
producers, and that the producers' marketing plans must emphasize the nonprice benefits
of the new boilers, such as safety, ease of use, and reduced emissions. For boiler
producers, a five percent increase in sales price more than doubles the IRR, while a five
percent decrease in sales price lowers the IRR to less than zero.
8.    Thermal efficiency. The economic analysis for consumers is very sensitive to
the achieved efficiency of the new boilers since cost savings are directly related to
thermal efficiency gains. A 0.5 percent increase in the efficiency of the new boiler-e.g.,
from 68.0 to 68.5 percent net thermal efficiency-results in an 18 percent increase in the
project IRR for the consumer, while a 0.5 percent decrease in the efficiency of the new
boiler results in a 20 percent decline in the consumer's IRR. Because the operational
thermal efficiency of the new boiler is rather intangible to consumers, especially for new
products, there is considerable financial risk for consumers if the new boilers do not
achieve their rated efficiency levels.



- 52 -                            ANNEX 6
ANNEX 6: INCREMENTAL COSTS
Global Environmental Context
1.    Carbon dioxide from energy consumption currently accounts for roughly four-
fifths of China's total greenhouse gas emissions. Without exceptional policy measures to
stem the increase, carbon dioxide emissions would increase roughly three-fold between
1990 and 2020, based on a high-growth scenario.7 The increase in GHG emissions in this
scenario is due primarily to a rise in coal consumption from 1.05 billion tons in 1990 to
about 3.1 billion tons in 2020. In order to accommodate the three-fold increase in energy
8
use by China, and still keep global CO2 emissions at their 1990 levels , the rest of the
world would need to cut its CO2 emissions by eight percent in the year 2000 and 40
percent by the year 2020.
2.     Chinese researchers have predicted that a doubling of CO2 will have a negative
impact on rice, wheat, and cotton production in China because of the combined effects of
higher temperatures, increased moisture evaporation from soil, and more frequent and
severe storms.9 This prediction is consistent with the most recent modeling work by the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which estimates that agricultural production
could fall by 6-8 percent worldwide, and by 10-12 percent in developing countries, with a
doubling of atmospheric CO2 concentrations. Rising sea level resulting from global
warming is another concern for China and other countries with large populations living in
low-lying coastal plains. According to studies by Chinese researchers, a one-meter
increase in sea level, when combined with storm surge and the astronomical tide, will
flood areas below a four-meter contour line in China's coastal plains, including the entire
cities of Shanghai and Canton.
The high-growth scenario assumes the Chinese economy grows at an average annual rate of 8.0 percent between
1990 and 2020. See China: Issues and Options in Greenhouse Gas Emissions Control, Summary Report,
December 1994.
8  Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change; see Houghton, Jenkins, and Ephraum, 1990.
Potential Impacts of Climate Change on China, China Greenhouse Gas Study, Subreport No. 9, September 1994.



-53 -                           ANNEX 6
Broad Developmental Goals
3.    It has been estimated that primary energy use will need to increase two- to three-
fold over the coming two-and-a-half decades in order for China to achieve average GDP
growth rates slightly lower than those of the past decade. Coal is the only domestic
energy resource that could meet such a large increase in energy demand. In order to
achieve increases in energy supply, but avoid additional pollution-related impacts from
coal burning (including the threat of global climate change), China will need to improve
energy efficiency in all sectors, particularly within industry, invest heavily in clean-coal
technologies and pollution control equipment, and expand the use of non-coal energy
sources, including renewables.
Baseline
4.    Despite the virtual lack of coal-fired industrial boilers in other industrial
countries, the demand for these boilers in China is expected to continue and even grow
over the coming twenty years. The Chinese Ministry of Machinery Industry estimates
that the annual demand for industrial boilers-both new and replacement-is currently 85-
100 thousand tons of steam per hour (ktph), and will rise to 100-125 ktph by 2000, and to
130-160 ktph by 2010.10 Cumulative production of new and replacement boilers over the
next twenty years would be in the range of 2.1 to 2.6 million tph. For the purposes of the
incremental cost analysis, the direct project benefits includes the production of
432,000 tph over 20 years, representing between 17-20 percent of total expected added
capacity. In the absence of global environmental considerations, this capacity would be
met with existing standard boiler designs.
GEF Alternative
5.    The GEF alternative proposes to improve the efficiency of industrial boilers in
China, largely through the transfer from abroad of advanced technologies, designs, and
production methods. In the course of project identification and development, a total of
nine industrial boiler models representing a broad spectrum of sizes and applications have
been identified for improvement. At full production the project enterprises would
annually produce 27 ktph of new boiler capacity, resulting in a cumulative capacity over
20 years of 432,000 tph.
6.    Because the enterprises that will participate in the project are among the leading
boiler manufacturers in China, the efficiency of their existing boilers are already near 70
percent-well above the national average of 60-65 percent. Nonetheless, through the
introduction of advanced technologies and designs from abroad, the efficiency of existing
boilers from advanced producers can be raised to nearly 80 percent. More importantly,
once these advanced designs are demonstrated and put on the market, other producers are
Prefeasibility Study on High Efficiency Industrial Boilers, China Greenhouse Gas Study, Subreport No. 11,
August 1994.



-54-                             ANNEX 6
likely to adopt the new designs and in the process raise the overall thermal efficiency
level of the industry.
System Boundary
7.    One of the major problems with the production of more energy efficient
equipment such as boilers is that while the research and development costs and the
associated commercial risks accrue to producers, the benefits accrue largely to the users
through lower operating costs. In addition to appropriation problems, there is a long time
lag (12 years) between the initial project investment and the time that total energy savings
are sufficient to recoup the investment. Nonetheless, because of the significant national
benefits that accrue to boiler consumers in the form of fuel savings, it is necessary for the
system boundary to be drawn to include both producers and consumers of energy
efficiency equipment.
Incidental Domestic Benefits
8.    The baseline and alternative projects both provide the same level of industrial
boiler steaming and hot water capacity (ktph). However, the alternative project provides
consumers with lower coal fuel bills. These benefits are readily quantifiable and provide
a direct financial benefit to consumers in fuel savings over the lifetime of their boilers.
9.    Other domestic benefits of the alternative project include the reduction in
particulates and sulfur that result from both energy efficiency and improved emission
controls. Epidemiological surveys in Chinese cities have established a clear link between
the increase in morbidity and mortality and high ambient concentrations of particulates
and sulfur. Although, it is difficult to quantify in financial terms the human health and
other benefits of reduced particulate and SO2 emissions, the domestic benefits are
presumed to be quite large as evidenced by the tightening of national air pollution
standards, increasingly strict enforcement of air pollution regulations at the local level,
and the growing number of investments by municipal governments in air pollution
control.
Costs
10.   The incremental cost of the efficient industrial boilers project has been calculated
as the difference between the baseline ("without project") and the GEF alternative ("with
project"). Two sets of incremental costs have been calculated: (a) the theoretical
economic incremental cost to the country as a whole, and (b) the observable incremental
cost to boiler producers along with incremental costs of removing barriers to effective
dissemination.
11.   Theoretical economic incremental cost. The total (discounted) capital costs of
producing 432,000 tph of boiler capacity under the baseline is estimated to be
$1,836 million (constant 1994 dollars), while the total (discounted) capital costs of
producing the same quantity of more energy efficient boilers under the GEF alternative is



- 55 -                                ANNEX 6
estimated to be $2,132 million. For consumers, there is a second important difference
between the old and the new boilers; i.e., the cost of operating the boilers, most
importantly, coal fuel. The (discounted) operating costs, including coal consumption, of
the baseline are estimated to be $11,015 million. In the absence of uncertainty and risk,
perfect information, and fully functioning capital markets, the (discounted) operating
costs of the GEF alternative are estimated to be $10,676 million. While the incremental
capital costs of the project as a whole are $295 million, theoretical operational cost
savings are $339 million. Thus, while not obtainable without removing these barriers,
there is a theoretical negative economic incremental cost of the GEF project of
$43 million. Under this theoretical incremental cost analysis, consumers are assumed to
sacrifice all of their consumer surplus to boiler producers in order for producers to earn an
acceptable rate of return (12 percent) on their investment.
12.    Incremental costs of boiler production and barrier removaL   The largest
component of the incremental cost is the cost to the nine subproject boiler enterprises for
acquiring advanced international technologies, adapting them, and for commercial
demonstration in China. Detailed "with" and "without" project cost-benefit analyses
have been prepared for each of the nine boiler subprojects to serve as the "baseline" and
"GEF alternative" for calculating the project's incremental costs. Limited technical
renovation investments affecting thermal efficiency have been included in the "without
project" case, reflecting the prevailing trend in the industrial boiler market. Cost-benefit
analysis was also conducted for boiler consumers for each of the nine boiler subprojects
for the purpose of calculating the project rate of return, the payback period of the boiler
investment, and the maximum boiler price for consumers; i.e., the price at which the rate
of return and payback period for the "with" and "without" project cases are equal.
13.    For boiler producers, the (discounted) baseline cost of producing 432,000 tph of
capacity over twenty years has been estimated at $1,584 million, while the GEF
alternative has a total cost to producers of $1,862 million, a difference of $278 million."I
Producers also receive different income streams under the baseline and GEF alternative
due to higher sales prices of the improved boilers. The additional (discounted) income
received by producers of improved boilers under the GEF alternative is estimated at
$248 million.   After subtracting benefits from  costs to  producers, there is a net
incremental cost of approximately $30.2 million'2 to boiler producers for undertaking the
GEF alternative. Details of the costs of the subprojects are given in Annex 9, Tables 1
and 2.
The difference in costs between (a) the theoretical economic incremental cost to the country, and (b) the financial
incremental cost to producers, is that (a) assumes that boiler producers earn an acceptable profit on sales (12
percent rate of return on investment) resulting in the price of boilers to consumers set at the maximum (i.e., no
consumer surplus), while (b) sets prices at levels the market can bear (approximately 20 percent less than the price
producers need to earn a 12 percent rate of retum). In addition to rate of return and payback analyses conducted
for producers and consumers, future boiler price estimates were generated based on detailed surveys of the current
industrial boiler market (see Annex 10).
12 The incremental cost was calculated at 256.7 million yuan. The January, 1995 exchange rate of 8.5 Y/$ was used
in the analysis.



- 56 -                         ANNEX 6
14.   A second set of costs of the GEF alternative is for overcoming the numerous
barriers to the broad dissemination of the advanced boilers throughout China and to
ensure that the improved boilers are adopted by consumers. Training programs for
industry representatives, dissemination and marketing activities, targeted policy studies,
are described in the text and are critical to the sustainability of the project.  The
incremental cost of these components-those that would not be undertaken without the
project-has been estimated at $1.29 million.
15.   The project management office (PMO) will oversee both monitoring and
evaluation and project administration functions. The incremental cost of these activities
over the six-year life of the GEF project is estimated at $1.31 million.
Benefits
16.   The financial and economic benefits of the project are discussed in Annex 5,
while the local and global environmental benefits are discussed in Annex 9.



-57 -                          ANNEX 7
ANNEX 7: PROJECT PERFORMANCE,
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
1.    Monitoring of the project implementation progress will be the responsibility of
the PMO. The PMO appointed a company under MMI (Beijing Clean Combustion
Engineering Co. Ltd.) to assist in carrying out the monitoring and evaluation of
implementation performance indicators summarized below:
*  Output/Outcome Indicators will track the predetermined performance
criteria for model boiler units at the completion of Phase 1. Monitoring
indicators include (a) minimum thermal efficiency, (b) reduced dust
emissions, and (c) reduced SO2 emissions of the improved boiler models at
subproject completion, which varies among the nine technical packages in
accordance with the Project Implementation Schedule (PIS). After the model
boilers are built, PMO will undertake an evaluation of each model boiler to
assess whether they meet the predetermined technical performance criteria and
safety standards. Only those enterprises which meet the criteria will receive
funds to allow them to proceed to Phase 2 of mass producing the new boiler.
*  Development Impact Indicators measure the success of the project as they
relate to the objectives of the project. Three sets of development impact
indicators are developed to link to the three objectives of the project as
follows:
(a)   Objective 1: Improvement of thermal efficiency
Improved coal utilization: reduce CO2 emissions due to higher
thermal efficiencies in coal fired industrial boilers
(b)   Objective 2: Mass production of demonstration model boiler
Increased new boiler production and sales volume
(c)   Objective 3: Dissemination of new boiler technologies
Increased the ratio of steaming capacity of new boilers to total
boilers in the industry.
2.    The nature of this project is such that impact of the reduction of CO2 emissions
will be measured only two years after the project is completed (2002), because the
reduction in the interim years will be minimal. Participating boiler manufacturers are



-58 -                         ANNEX 7
therefore being required to keep track of the therrnal efficiency of the boilers that they
produce and sell, including the verification unit, starting in Phase 2 when mass
production is initiated, until 2002. Specifically, as part of their subproject completion
report, they should include information on the amount of coal use per steam-ton of output
from a sample of new boilers that they produced and sold during project implementation.
3.    PMO would be responsible for the preparation of annual reports using the above
project activities and key performance indicators and in accordance with the PIP in
assessing the implementation progress. The report would also identify possible problems
or impediments and make specific recommendations for early remedial actions. The
Bank will monitor the implementation activities during project supervisions and, in
addition, focus on assessing the project outcome and development impact indicators as
they relate to the project development objectives.



CHINA: GEF EFFICIENT INDUSTRIAL BOILERS PROJECT
PERFORMANCE MONITORING AND EVALUATION
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT INDICATORS
Base
Project Objectives       Key Performance Indicators      Unit   Year         1997     1998      1999      2000     2001      2002
1995
1. Improvement of thermal   I. Improved coal utilization:           #1=1,187                                                     1,092
efficiency of small &     reduce CO2 emissions due to     kg/hr   #2=1,187                                                    1,092
medium scale coal-fired  improved coal utilization in             #3=1,857                                                    1,710
industrial boilers       industrial boilers (coal                 #4=3,700                                                    3,408
consumption/kg-hr)                      #5=1,860                                                    1,710
#6=1,190                                                    1,092
#7=14,470                                                   13,319
#8=16,020                                                   14,739
#9=18,160                                                   16,707
2. Mass production and sale  2. Increased new boiler production
of new boilers by project  and sales volume of all subproject  Steam  0       68       2,030     9,620     17,940   23,300   27,200        en
enterprises               enterprises (in steam tons) La  -tons
3. Dissemination of new   3. Increased steaming capacity ratio
boiler technologies       of new boilers = tons of steam   %         0        0.1       2.2      9.8       19        24.8     35.1
throughout China          produced by new boilers / tons of
steam produced by total boilers in
the industry /b
la Steam tons produced by all subproject participating enterprises.
La Steam tons produced by all boiler enterprises in the industry.
XJ



OUTPUT/OUTCOME INDICATORS
Project Objectives            Key Performance Indicators                 Baseline - 1995       Target               Impact
(by subproject)       (by subproject)      (by subproject)
Improvement of thermal        a) Demonstration of higher thermal efficiencies  a) # 1=71%      a) # 1=78/6%          a) July 1999
efficiency of small & medium    in model units at 100% / 60% load           # 2=71%               # 2=78/76%           July 1999
scale coal-fired indus. boilers                                            # 3=71%                # 3=78/76%           Nov. 1999
# 4=75%               # 4=82/80%           Nov. 1999
# 5=72%               # 5=78/78%           Nov. 1999
# 6=71%               # 6=78/76%           Nov. 1999
# 7=72%               # 7=80/78%           Jan. 2000
# 8=72%               # 8=80/78%           Jan. 2000
# 9=78%               # 9=85/84%           Mar. 2000
b) Demonstration of reduced dust emissions in    b) # 1= 400 mg/Nm3  b) 100 mg/Nm3 for all  b) July 1999
model units.                               # 2= 400 mg/Nm3       subprojects except    July 1999
# 3= 300 mg/Nm3       #4                    Nov. 1999
# 4= 300 mg/Nm3                             Nov. 1999
# 5= 300 mg/Nm3     #4 = 200 mg/Nm3         Nov. 1999
# 6= 400 mg/Nm3                             Nov. 1999
# 7= 200 mg/Nm3                             Jan. 2000
# 8= 200 mg/Nm3                             Jan. 2000
# 9= 200 mg/Nm3                             Mar. 2000
c) Demonstration of reduced S02 emission in    c) # 4= zero reduction    c) # 4= 80% reduction  c) Nov. 1999
model units                                # 9= zero reduction   # 9= 90% reduction    Mar. 2000
-J



- 61-                         ANNEX 8
ANNEX 8: SOCIAL ASSESSMENT AND
STAKEHOLDER CONSULTATION
Identifying and Involving Stakeholders
1.    Stakeholder Identification. During project identification and preparation, key
stakeholders were identified. The key stakeholders in the project are: (a) consumers or
users of industrial boilers, both current and prospective; (b) industrial boiler
manufacturers; (c) MMI, in setting design standards, regulating the manufacture of
industrial boilers, and disseminating best-practice within the industry; (d) local
governments involved in commissioning, testing, and monitoring industrial boilers for
safety and environmental compliance; (e) domestic and international research institutes
involved in design and testing of new boiler models; (f) international industrial boiler
technology suppliers; and, (g) the Bank.
2.    An expert group, headed by MMI and composed of major domestic and
international stakeholders, prepared a prefeasibility study which identified the major
technical deficiencies of current Chinese industrial boilers and recommended specific
measures for improvement. The same expert group was involved in the design of the
project, including the selection of the specific boiler models to be included in the project.
Chinese industrial boiler manufacturing enterprises were informed of the project through
a trade publication, and were invited to participate through a competitive review and
selection process. International boiler technology suppliers were also informed of the
project through an announcement in the World Bank publication, Development Business,
and were asked to submit letters of intention and documentation to participate.
3.    The primary grant recipients of the project will be nine competitively-selected
industrial boiler manufacturing enterprises identified in Annex 2. GEF grant resources of
approximately $30.2 million will be used to procure boiler technology licenses,
consulting services, and equipment for the purpose of building a model unit in Phase 1 of
the project, and for upgrading their production lines to mass produce the model unit under
Phase 2. A secondary group of grant recipients will be domestic consulting firms and
research institutes which would carry out the technical assistance under the project for the
purpose of disseminating the efficient industrial boiler technologies. Grant resources of
approximately $2.6 million are allocated for technical assistance and for project
administration.



-62 -                             ANNEX 8
4.    The primary domestic beneficiaries of the project are industrial boiler users, urban
residents currently exposed to high levels of air pollutants from industrial boilers, and all
groups exposed to future climate change impacts in China. Industrial boiler users will
benefit primarily through reduced coal fuel bills, but also through increased safety,
reliability, ease of use, and reduced emissions, achieved through embodied technological
improvements in the new boiler designs. Urban residents will benefit from the project
due to reductions in emissions of particulates and sulfur from the new boiler designs.
The potential impacts of climate change on China, and the affected groups, is contained
in a study by the same name prepared as part of the China Greenhouse Gas Study. 13
Relevant Social Issues
5.    Public information.  The provision of information to all major stakeholders
during project identification and design was a key element in achieving the broad level of
participation in the project. During project implementation, public information will be
provided to prospective boiler consumers on the range of benefits of the improved boilers
through a broad-based marketing and dissemination program. Once the model units have
been proven, information will also be provided to other boiler producers in China to assist
in spreading the technical improvements throughout China.
6.    Local air pollution. Local environmental and planning agencies, especially those
in highly polluted municipalities, will be especially important for marketing and
disseminating the improved boilers. As noted in Part I, energy efficiency improvements
alone are not sufficient to market new  technologies.  However, other attributes,
particularly the potential for major reductions in local air pollutants, will be a critical
factor for disseminating the new boilers if this benefit can be properly demonstrated to
local governments. One of the technical assistance components will establish a pilot
marketing program for the improved boilers in municipalities with severe air pollution
problems, such as Chongqing. With the cooperation of both national and local planning
and environment agencies, measures for promoting adoption of more efficient and cleaner
boilers, including stricter enforcement of environmental regulations, will be evaluated
and implemented on a trial basis.
7.    Behavioral change. Like other energy efficiency projects, full success cannot be
achieved through technology changes alone, but require changes in human behavior. In
the case of industrial boilers, operation of the boilers is an important factor in achieving
the energy efficiency potential of improved boilers. The project will address boiler
operation through the training of the boiler manufacturers in proper operating procedures
of the new boilers, through upgrading of customer service provided to boiler consumers,
and through the establishment of a boiler operator training program and certification
program including a focus on energy efficiency.
13 Chinese Research Institute of Environmental Sciences, "Potential Impacts of Climate Change on China," Issues
and Options in Greenhouse Gas Emissions Control, Subreport No. 9, September 1994.



- 63 -                         ANNEX 8
8.    Equity. Because the reduction of CO2 emissions and the threat of global climate
change benefits all peoples, the broad project goals are very equitable. To the extent that
the demand for industrial boilers remains concentrated in urban areas in China, and in
regions of the country with a concentration of light industrial and space heating
development, the project will disproportionately benefit these regions. However, these
same regions have borne the major costs of inefficient and highly polluting industrial
boilers in the past, as evidenced by above-average rates of morbidity and mortality
resulting from high ambient concentrations of particulates and sulfur.



- 64 -                         ANNEX 9
ANNEX 9: ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
Background
1.   Industrial boilers outside the electric power sector consume approximately one-
third of China's total coal, and are responsible for an even greater share of both
particulate and sulfur emissions. The operational thermal efficiency of Chinese industrial
boilers is low, with the typical average efficiency reaching only 60-65 percent. In
contrast to the typical international situation, where typical small and medium-sized
boilers consume oil or natural gas, more than 95 percent of Chinese industrial boilers
consume coal. In 1990, industrial boilers consumed some 350 million tons (Mt) of coal,
compared to 250 Mt by the electric power sector. If the operational efficiency of Chinese
industrial boilers could reach international industrial boiler efficiency levels (for
similarly-sized units), annual coal consumption by Chinese industrial boilers could be
reduced by some 60 Mt.
Project Description and Objective
2.    The  project will introduce  advanced  international boiler designs  and
manufacturing techniques to China's industrial boiler industry. Coal-fired steam and hot
water boilers with a capacity of between 1-100 tph, and a working pressure from 0.4-
5.3 MPa comprise over 90 percent of China's industrial boilers, and will be the target of
the GEF project. Existing Chinese boiler designs will be upgraded and new international
designs will be introduced through the project. Through technology licensing and other
technology transfer arrangements, Chinese industrial boiler manufacturers will design and
manufacture a model unit during Phase 1 of the project. The model units will be
evaluated according to their ability to meet technical and environmental standards, and
for the boiler manufacturers to demonstrate a viable production, financing, and marketing
plan for Phase 2, which will include the mass production and marketing of the improved
industrial boiler models. Technical assistance will be provided to the industrial boiler
sector for: (i) improving boiler operation through training and the establishment of a
certification program, (ii) introducing new standards for industrial boilers covering
thermal efficiency, safety, emissions, and coal quality, (iii) broadly disseminating the
higher efficiency boiler models throughout the country.



-65 -                           ANNEX 9
3.    The primary objective of the GEF project is to reduce coal use of Chinese
industrial boilers by improving their thermal efficiency. The GEF Efficient Industrial
Boilers project will replace current boilers with higher-efficiency and less-polluting
models. By improving the efficiency of industrial boilers, the amount of coal consumed
by the sector will be reduced, which will result in lower emissions of particulates and
sulfur. In addition to the particulate and sulfur reduction gains from energy efficiency
improvements, the new boilers will introduce a number of emission control technologies,
including multicyclones and baghouses for particulate removal, and precombustion coal
briquetting for both particulate and sulfur control. Two of the nine boiler models will be
FBC-type boilers, which have high sulfur-removal capabilities.  Improving boiler
operation will help to raise the operational efficiency of Chinese industrial boilers. The
quality of coal is another important factor for raising the thermal efficiency of Chinese
industrial boilers; coal quality standards for industrial boilers will be reviewed and
recommendations for revision made under the technical assistance for the project.
Administrative, Institutional, and Policy Framework
4.    Over the past fifteen years, China has taken significant steps in establishing
environmental policies and an environmental regulatory system.   The National
Environmental Protection Agency (NEPA) oversees national environmental policy,
works with the environmental protection units within the ministries and state enterprises,
and sets the overall policies and regulations governing provincial and municipal
environmental protection bureaus.
5.    A national-level Climate Change Coordination Group was created in February
1990 and charged with overall policy formulation on the greenhouse gas issue. Several
climate change mitigation studies have been completed by the Government of China,
including one supported by the GEF.14  The GEF-financed study, which involved a
comprehensive analysis of GHG abatement options in China and their relative costs,
concludes that improving industrial boilers through technology transfer and
demonstration offers the greatest potential for reducing large amounts of CO2 in China in
a very low-cost way.
6.    Although comprehensive laws, regulations and standards for most pollutants
(including TSP and SO2) have been in place in China for many years, enforcement of
these laws and standards at the local level, where the bulk of environmental policy takes
place, remains a difficult challenge. Providing local Environmental Protection Bureaus
with a partial technical solution in the form of cleaner and more efficient boilers would be
an important step in strengthening environmental compliance. The project will also
provide technical assistance to national and local environmental institutions for
establishing a pilot program for disseminating new boiler models at the local level.
14 See China: Issues and Options in Greenhouse Gas Emissions Control, Summary Report, December 1994.



- 66 -                          ANNEX9
Emissions from Existing Industrial Boilers
7.    Carbon dioxide. Emissions of carbon dioxide (C02) from industrial boilers are
directly related to the thermal efficiency of the boiler. The average thermal efficiency
achieved by industrial boilers is very low by international standards due to inefficient
designs and manufacturing techniques, suboptimal operation, and poor and inconsistent
fuel quality. Surveys of boiler operational efficiency conducted in 1992 as part of the
China Greenhouse Gas study found that typical efficiency levels of boilers rarely
surpassed 70 percent, and that the average efficiency of the boilers examined was in the
range of 60-65 percent. Currently, CO2 emissions from the industrial boiler sector in
China amount to about 715 million tons of carbon (Mt C02), or about 28 percent of
China's total CO2 emissions from energy consumption. Simple calculations show that
China could reduce CO2 emissions from the industrial boiler sector by 15-20 percent if
typical international efficiency levels could be reached, which in turn would reduce
China's total CO2 emissions by five percent.
8.    Particulates and sulfur. The control of particulates from industrial boilers is
currently limited to simple and generally inefficient cyclones.  Annual particulate
emissions from industrial boilers are estimated at about 6.2 million tons, accounting for
some 37 percent of total national particulate emissions. There are currently no controls on
the emission of SO2 by industrial boilers in China, though a number of domestic designs
for FBC boilers have been developed, with limited success, and some areas have begun
experimenting with sulfur emission fees. Total annual sulfur emissions by the industrial
boiler sector are currently about 5.1 million tons, contributing about 39 percent of
China's total sulfur emissions.
9.    Given the expectation in China for increasingly strict standards on TSP and SO2
from industrial boilers, existing boiler designs would need to be retrofitted with
additional pollution control equipment (such as cyclones and baghouses for TSP removal)
and some new technologies would gain market share (such as domestically-designed FBC
boilers for SO2 control). Currently, most industrial boilers can only meet the country's
lowest standards (Class III), and thus can generally not be located in urban and residential
locations, where Class I and II standards apply.
Environmental Improvements With The Project
10.   Carbon dioxide. The average thermal efficiency of Chinese industrial boilers is
expected to increase significantly with the project. Whereas the average national thermal
efficiency levels for the nine comparable subproject boilers is in the range of 64 to 72
percent, the target efficiencies for the subprojects is between 78 and 85 percent; a gain of
about 14 percent. It should be pointed out the Chinese boiler enterprises participating in
the project currently produce boilers that have thermal efficiencies significantly higher
than China's national average; for the nine project boilers the thermal efficiency of
existing models is in the range of 71 to 78 percent. China's leading boiler enterprises,
both technically and financially, were chosen to participate in the project since they will



- 67 -                         ANNEX 9
have the highest chance of success in transferring advanced technologies from abroad and
for being able to produce and market the new boiler models. The direct project gains in
thermal efficiency are therefore in the range of seven to eight percent. However, because
the improved boilers are expected to gain market share in China, and replace average and
below-average boilers, the thermal efficiency of China's overall industrial boiler stock is
estimated to increase from 60-65 percent to between 70-75 percent.
11.   Both direct C02 savings and indirect, or programmatic, C02 savings are presented
in Table 3. Direct CO2 savings from the program are estimated to be 181 Mt CO2.
Programmatic CO2 savings are estimated to be 456-824 Mt CO2.  Together, CO2
reductions over the life of the project are estimated to be 637-1,005 Mt CO2.
12.   Particulates and sulfur. Particulate emissions will be reduced in each subproject
through reduced coal consumption, coal preparation, and the use of advanced cyclones
and baghouses. Particulate emissions from the nine boiler subprojects are expected to be
reduced from a range of 200 to 400 mg/Nm3 to less than 100 mg/Nm3 for all subprojects.
Direct TSP reductions from the project are estimated at 4.55 Mt, of which 0.57 Mt is
from reduced coal use and 3.98 Mt is from improved efficiency of collectors. Two of the
nine subprojects will be fluidized bed combustion boilers, which it is estimated will
reduce sulfur emissions by 80-90 percent. Direct SO2 reductions from the project are
estimated at 25.36 Mt, of which 94 percent of the reduction is from the two FBC boiler
models and the remainder is reduced sulfur emissions due to reduced coal consumption.
Particulate and sulfur reductions over time and by subproject, are presented in Tables 1
and 2, respectively.
Demonstration Units
13.   Under Phase I of the project, up to nine verification boilers are to be
commissioned. At present, the exact location of the demonstration units is not known,
since the participating boiler enterprises were not required to submit this information for
their feasibility studies. Prior to construction of the verification units, the appropriate
local environmental approvals must be obtained, as would approvals for any new
industrial boiler.



TABLE 1: SUMMARY: TOTAL INCREMENTAL CASH FLOW
(Y million)
Consumers
Annual   Cumulative            Total incr. Total incr.       Cumulative  Producers    Total                      Emission Reduction
Year  Production  Production  Put to Use  Investment Operating  Net Cost   Net Cost   Net Cost  Coal Saving    CO2  C-CO2    so,    TSP   TSP La   TSP &
(tph)     (ktph)     (ktph)                                                          (ktce)     (k tons)  (k tons)  (k tons) (k tons) (k tons)  (k tons)
I            0          0          0        0.00     0.00      0.00       0.00     470.46          0           0       0        0      0        0         0
2             0          0         0        0.00     0.00      0.00       0.00      146.06          0          0       0        0      0        0          0
3             0          0         0        0.00     0.00      0.00       0.00      113.67          0          0       0        0      0        0          0
4         9,000      9,000         0      152.74      0.00    152.74     152.74       0.17          0          0       0        0      0        0          0
5        18,000     27,000      9,000     305.48    -43.73    261.75    414.49      -31.64        188        507      138      71     13        2         11
6        27,000     54,000     27,000     458.22   -131.19    327.03    741.52      -63.45        564      1,520     415      213     38        5         33
7        27,000     81,000     54,000     458.22   -262.38    195.84    937.36      -94.00      1,128      3,040     829      426     76       10         67
8        27,000    108,000     81,000     458.22   -393.57    64.65    1,002.01    -94.00       1,692      4,560    1,244     639    115       14        100
9        27,000    135,000    108,000     458.22   -524.76    -66.54    935.47      -94.00      2,256      6,080    1,658     852    153       19        134
10       27,000    162,000    135,000     458.22   -655.96   -197.74     737.73     -94.00      2,819       7,597    2,072    1,065    191     24        167
11       27,000    189,000    162,000     458.22   -787.15   -328.93     408.80     -94.00       3,383      9,117    2,486    1,278    229     29        201      00
12       27,000    216,000    189,000     458.22   -918.34   -460.12     -51.32     -94.00      3,947      10,637    2,901    1,492    268     34        234
13       27,000    243,000    216,000     458.22 -1,049.53   -591.31    -642.63     -94.00       4,511     12,157    3,316    1,705    306     38        268
14       27,000    270,000    243,000     458.22  -1,180.72   -722.50   -1,365.13   -94.00       5,075     13,677    3,730    1,918    344     43        301
15       27,000    297,000    270,000     458.22  -1,311.91   -853.69   -2,218.82   -94.00       5,639     15,197    4,145    2,131    382     48        334
16       27,000    324,000    297,000     458.22  -1,443.10   -984.88   -3,203.70   -94.00       6,203     16,717    4,559    2,344    421     53        368
17       27,000    351,000    324,000     458.22 -1,574.29  -1,116.07   -4,319.77   -94.00       6,767     18,237    4,974    2,557    459     58        401
18       27,000    378,000    351,000     458.22  -1,705.49  -1,247.27   -5,567.04  -94.00       7,331     19,757    5,388    2,770    497     62        435
19       27,000    405,000    378,000     458.22  -1,792.95  -1,334.73   -6,901.77  -94.00       7,706     20,768    5,664    2,912    523     65        457
20        27,000    432,000    405,000    458.22 -1,836.68  -1,378.46   -8,280.23   -94.00       7,894     21,274    5,802    2,983    535      67       468
TOTAL      432,000                         7,331.52 -15,611.75  -8,280.23   -8,280.23    -680.73  67,103    180,842   49,320   25,356  4,550     571      3,979
ENPV                                      2,041.28  -3,038.21   -996.93  Payback     -680.73
EIRR                                                           25.43%    11.89        6.23%
La TSP emission reductions due to lower coal consumption.                                                                                                            Z
lb TSP emission reductions due to improved control technologies.



TABLE 2: OVERALL RESULTS SUMMARY
Case I     Case2       Case3      Case4      Case 5      Case 6     Case 7     Case 8     Case9       Total
1. Final Capacity of New Boiler Production (th)          3,000      3,000       3,000      3,000      3,000       3,000      3,000      3,000      3,000     27,000
2. Total New Boiler Operating on Market (t/h)           42,000     42,000      42,000     42,000      42,000     42,000     42,000      42,000    42,000    378,000
3. Efficient Boiler Production Total Investment (Million Yuan)  57.31  8625     74.96      71.71       77.25      83.62     114.13       95.92     159.07    820.22
4. Boiler Production Net Present IC (Million Yuan)       20.99      24.62       23.41      22.10       25.63      25.35      36.05       28.48      50.11     256.74
5. Total Coal Savings (k tce)                         8,989.00   6,191.12    7,522.08    6,278.30    5,579.47    7,176.56    9,836.49    6,457.58   9,071.78  67,102
6. Total Carbon Saving (k t-Carbon)                   6,606.92   4,550.47    5,528.73    4,614.55    4,100.91    5,274.77    7,229.82    4,746.32   6,667.76  49,320
7. Total C02 Reduction (k t-CO2)                     24,225.37   16,685.06   20,272.01   16,920.02   15,036.67   19,340.82   26,509.34   17,403.17  24,448.45    180,841
8. Total S02 Reduction (k t-SO2)                        246.22     169.58      206.04    8,275.76     152.83     196.58     269.43      176.88  15,662.64     25,356
9. Total TSP Reduction (k t-TSP)                        499.96     528.53      475.36     413.79      197.95     334.18     720.99      438.20     941.14      4,550
10. Consumer IRR                                         31.76      26.26       24.02      22.04       28.15      26.53      29.67       25.53      18.54
1.ConsumerPaybackPeriodWithoutProject(years)              7.75       5.91        5.96       4.95        7.87       5.73       4.71        8.71       5.30
12. Consumer Payback Period With Project (years)          7.13       5.72        5.78       4.94        7.15       5.57       4.60        7.77       5.30
13. Boiler Producers IRR Without GEF Grant              6.73%      6.79%       6.18%      5.89%       5.70%      6.29%       6.15%      6.53%      5.97%      6.23%       >
14. Boiler Producers IRR With GEF Grant                11.59%     10.98%      12.76%     11.31%      11.59%     11.31%      12.31%     12.76%     13.15%     12.01%
Case 1: Packaged Water Tube Boiler (6 t/h)
Case 2: Improved Packaged Fireube-Watertube Boiler (6 t/h)
Case 3: Modular Water Tube Boiler Buming Low Sulfur Coal (10 t/h)
Case 4: Modular Water Tube Boiler Buming High Sulfur Coal (10 t/h)
Case 5: Packaged & Modular Hot Water Boiler With Water Tube (10 t/h)
Case 6: packaged & Modular Extended Fumace Water & Fired Tube Boiler (6 t/h)
Case 7: Medium Capacity Steam Boiler (75 t/h)
Case 8: Medium Capacity Hot Water Boiler (40 t/h)
Case 9: FBC Boiler (75 t/h)
NOTE: 1995 Exchange rate = 8.5 Yuan per US dollar.



9                   45          > N    es es   vE vo    ^ -    - -    y t    oE 20   X   rs t    -  0    ID -    t- co    C 00    rl C14  'T en C
|        N mo                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ne    t- %n ON-
o   > F     x b    o rv   vr N    ur t          o-~~C14  I
-o   so     rs o       t    n -~~~~~~~~c r-  tn r- lr   oN
e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 ON                          cn -o       00  mb
M         o           > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N  m   -,  6 -1            6 c^  kA T  
X    es   t           N          -    - v)   - N           N    - ^    vE o F 4 4) Cf)  g
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 N;  enz4k
.    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .



-71-                         ANNEX 10
ANNEX 10: BOILER MARKET ANALYSIS
1.    At the end of 1995, there were approximately a half million industrial boilers in
use in China with an installed thermal capacity of 1,198 thousand tons of steam per hour
(Ktph). There are two dominant types of industrial boilers: steam boilers, used for
industrial process heat, in-plant electricity generation, and a combination of the two
(cogeneration), and; hot water boilers, used for low-temperature process heat for industry
and for space heating for residential and commercial buildings (see Table 1). At the end
of 1995, installed capacity of steam boilers in China was 806 Ktph, accounting for about
two-thirds of total industrial boilers capacity, while hot water boilers reached 392 Ktph,
accounting for the remaining one-third. For comparison, the energy output produced by
industrial boilers (steam-tons) in China is about double that of power boilers, while the
installed capacity is about 2.4 times as large.
TABLE 1: INSTALLED CAPACITY OF INDUSTRIAL BOILERS IN CHINA
Total               Average
Capacity     Sets     Capacity       Steam          Hot Water
(Ktph)               (tphlset)  (Ktph)    %     (Ktph) 
1978      373       200,000      1.86       --     --       --       --
1983      470       280,000      1.68       --     --       --       --
1988      857       369,286      2.31       --     --       --       --
1989      892       384,425      2.32       --     --       --       --
1990      944       410,697      2.30       --     --       --       --
1991      983       432,101      2.28      703    71.5    281       28.5
1992      1,028     442,578      2.32      718    69.8    310       30.2
1993      1,081     464,114      2.33      743    68.7    338       31.3
1994      1,100        --        --        738    67.1    362       32.9
1995      1,198        --        --        806    67.3    392       32.7
2.    The dominance of coal. At present, more than 95 percent of China's industrial
boiler capacity is coal-fired. Given the predominance of coal of China's proven energy
resources, coal will remain the dominant fuel for industrial boilers for the foreseeable
future. Depending on the development of domestic oil and gas resources, and given more



- 72 -                           ANNEX 10
stringent environmental standards, the number of oil- and gas-fired industrial boilers will
probably increase marginally in the future.
3.     Small sizes. Although the average size of industrial boilers has increased in
recent years, industrial boilers in China are still very small relative to international norms.
In 1993, average boiler capacity was 2.33 tph, up from 1.86 tph in 1978. A survey of
13,930 industrial boilers in Beijing conducted in the late 1980s found that 78 percent of
the boilers were less than 6 tph, including 65 percent 2-4 tph, 13 percent less than 1 tph,
and 22 percent greater than 6 tph. By 1994, 67 percent of industrial boilers sold had a
capacity of less than 6 tph, 24 percent were between 10-20 tph, and nine percent were
above 35 tph. Among hot water boilers, the trend has been towards larger sizes, with the
share of medium capacity (>10 tph) boilers increasing from 2.2 percent of the market in
1988 to 12.8 percent in 1994.
4.     As seen in Table 1, the capacity of industrial boilers has grown significantly since
1978, closely paralleling the growth of the Chinese economy. One aspect of industrial
boiler demand has been the increasing need for heat and power by small and medium-
sized industries. A second imnportant trend since the mid-1980s has been increased
demand for space heating, concentrated in China's northern provinces. Industrial boilers
have provided space heating for individual apartment buildings, district residential areas
(district heating), and commercial buildings.   Three areas of the country-North,
Northeast, and East'5-accounted for 70.3 percent of total installed capacity (tph) in China
in 1993. In addition, eight provinces-Liaoning, Heilongjiang, Shandong, Hebei, Shanxi,
Beijing, Jilin, and Jiangsu-accounted for 55 percent of total industrial boiler capacity in
1993. The combination of economic growth and space heating demand explains the
dominance of industrial boilers in these regions and provinces.
5.     Overall, the demand for industrial boilers in China has been strong since the early
1980s. However, there have been rather large variations in annual demand due to: (i) the
removal of the industrial boiler industry from central planning, (ii) fluctuations in the
economy, especially the rate of growth of TVEs and private enterprises, and (iii) changes
in government credit, investment, and energy conservation policies. Between 1983 and
1995, the average demand for industrial boilers was 61 Ktph, with a low of only 19 Ktph
in 1994, followed by a high of 98 Ktph in 1995.  Data gathering and reporting
inconsistencies may explain part of the variability.  In addition to new  demand,
approximately 100 Ktph of small-scale boiler capacity was designated as low-efficiency
during the 1980s and was required to be replaced or retrofit under the State Economic
Commission's energy conservation system.
6.     Boiler production.  Industrial boiler production in China is characterized by
generally low-technology and below-scale production levels, many small boiler
I5 North China (Huabei) includes Hebei and Shanxi provinces, Inner Mongolia autonomous region, and Beijing
municipality. Northeast China (Dongbei) includes Heilongjiang, Jilin, and Liaoning provinces. East China
(Huadong) includes Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Anhui, Fujian, Jiangxi, and Shandong provinces.



- 73 -                       ANNEX 10
producers, and an increasingly competitive market for both demand and supply. Some of
the better boiler makers have gained market share over the past decade, due to products
superior in performance, safety, and environmental controls. The thermal efficiency of
boilers produced by the leading industrial boiler manufacturers is in the range of 70
percent; a great improvement over the 60-65 percent average for the industry as a whole,
but still significantly below the 80+ percent efficiency levels achieved in many developed
countries.
7.    Boilers in China are classified in five grades-A-E-based upon the temperature and
pressure under which the boiler vessels operate. There are 10 boiler works in China with
A-grade licenses, manufacturing mostly large-scale power boilers, with the highest
pressures and temperatures. Industrial boiler production by A-grade boilers works is
minimal. There are also 10 B-grade boiler works in China, which manufacture both
power boilers and industrial boilers. The B-grade boiler works mainly produce combined
heat and power (CHP) boilers above 10 tph, and large-capacity hot water boilers. There
are 27 boiler works with C-grade licenses and 153 boiler works with D-grade licenses.
Both C- and D-grade boiler works produce steam and hot water boilers with low to
medium pressure capabilities. There are a further 353 E-grade boiler manufacturers
which produce very small, low-pressure, and low-temperature boilers; three-quarters of
the output of E-grade boiler works are hot-water boilers. Among the 548 boiler
producers in China (some boiler producers have more than one license), the number that
produced more than 1,000 tph was only 33 in 1988, and only 16 in 1991. The number of
plants with yearly output between 500-1,000 tph was 21 in 1988 and 25 in 1991.
TABLE 2: INDUSTRIAL BOILER PRODUCTION IN CHINA
Total, of which:    Steam Boiler          Hot Water Boiler
(tph)        (tph)        %          (tph)        %
1985            88,237         --          --          --          --
1986            87,005         --          --          --          --
1987            85,483         --          --          --
1988            89,940        73,841       82.1       16,099       17.9
1989            84,875        66,712       78.6       18,163       21.4
1990            55,220        39,427       71.3       15,793       28.6
1991            66,462        47,986       72.2       18,476       27.8
1992            90,020        69,135       76.8      20,885        23.2
1993            99,734        76,596      76.8       23,138       23.2
1994            93,619        63,099       67.4      30,520        32.6
1995            99,423         --          --          --          --



- 74 -                        ANNEX 10
Market Trends
8.    From 1982 to 1991, the total output of industrial boilers was around 320,000 sets,
with a thermal capacity of more than 750 Ktph. Since 1991, an additional 215 Ktph of
new boiler capacity has been installed in China. The future trend in the demand for
industrial boilers will be driven by the growth of light and textile industries, township and
village industries (TVEs), and an increase in the area of space heating in northemn China.
9.    Industrial demand.  The key industries that have driven the demand for
industrial boilers since 1980 have been the light and textile, energy, metallurgy, and
building material industries.
(a)   The light and textile industry has accounted for about 20 percent of
industrial boiler demand over the past decade, and this sector is expected
to continue to provide a strong demand. In addition to the textile industry,
which grew above 10 percent per year during most of the 1980s, other
light industries that use industrial boilers are pulp and paper, refined sugar,
and synthetic detergents.  Cogeneration and hot water boilers will
increasingly be needed for the printing, dyeing, and knitting industries.
(b)   The petrochemical industry has been an important user of industrial
boilers, accounting for about 15 percent of total demand. Among the
processes that require industrial boilers are: synthetic ammonia, ethylene,
rubber, and caustic soda. The petrochemical industry is expected to grow
at approximately 10 percent per year over the coming decade. Future
demand by the petrochemical industry will be for waste-heat recovery,
auxiliary, and cogeneration industrial boilers.
(c)   The metallurgical industry has accounted for about five percent of
industrial boiler demand over the past decade, and, the production of
ferrous and nonferrous metals is expected to grow especially rapidly over
the coming decade. Cogeneration and heat recovery boilers will be the
dominant products demanded.
(d)   Within the building material industry, cement manufacturing has been the
dominant user of industrial boilers, primarily waste-heat and cogeneration
boilers. Other industries in the sector driving the demand for boilers
include glass, asbestos, and cement products. The building material
industry is expected to grow at 12 to 14 percent over the coming decade
and, the demand for cogeneration boilers is expected to double by the year
2000. This trend is reflected in the share of 20-130 tph steam boilers that
can be used for cogeneration, which increased from 15.8 percent in 1988
to 26 percent in 1993.
10.   Space heating. The share of hot water boilers has been increasing steadily since
1980 due to the gradual decontrol of the urban housing market, rising incomes, and



- 75 -                         ANNEX 10
increased demand for larger scale heat generation due to scale economies and government
policy. The central heating area in urban areas in northern China increased from 11.3
2                           2
millionm  in 1980 to 189.8 million m  in 1990.  For the country as a whole, the
percentage of the urban population with central heating was raised from 2.0 percent in
1980 to 12.1 percent in 1990. The share of hot water boilers to total industrial boilers
grew from around 18 percent in 1988 to 33 percent in 1995.
11.   Central and local governments have been promoting the use of central and district
heating and cogeneration in urban areas as an alternative to individual stoves for
residential heating for both energy efficiency and pollution reduction reasons. Harbin, in
Heilongjiang Province, which has an extremely cold climate, expects that the residential
living area that is heated will rise from 10.5 percent in 1985 to some 77 percent by the
year 2000. According to central government plans, city central heating areas will
increase from 0.19 billion m2 in 1990 to 5.4 billion m2 in 2000, bringing the total urban
population with central heating to 40 to 50 percent.
12.   Environmental concerns. Many municipalities in China have enacted stricter
environmental regulations in recent years in response to severe and deteriorating air
quality. Coal combustion by industrial boilers and small residential stoves is often cited
as the dominant source of both TSP and SO2 pollution in Chinese cities, and studies in a
wide variety of cities across the country have confirmed this hypothesis. Policy at both
the national and local levels have been directed at reducing the emissions from residential
stoves and industrial boilers, including: (i) limiting the allowable sulfur and ash content
of the coal supplied to particular regions, (ii) promoting, through subsidies and public
investments, the use of coal briquettes for reducing fly ash and sulfur, (iii) increasing the
supply of LPG, natural gas, and town gas for residential uses, and (iv) investing in
fluidized bed combustion (FBC) boilers for limiting sulfur emissions. The share of FBC
boilers in China increased from 4.6 percent in 1988 to 7.5 percent in 1993. Anecdotal
evidence shows that the number of new orders for FBCs has been growing rapidly
throughout the country over the past five years, particularly in tourist towns and in cities
with severe sulfur pollution problems.
Forecasts of Industrial Boiler Demand
13.   Based on the demand trends for new and replacement boilers, forecasts of future
boiler demand in China to the year 2010 have been estimated under various assumptions.
The original forecasts prepared by the joint Chinese-international expert group,16 have
been augmented by MMI in light of the most recent market information. Assuming an
economic growth rate of 6-8 percent over the coming 15 years, industrial boiler demand
(tph) is conservatively estimated to increase between two and three percent per year to the
year 2010.
16 Prefeasibility Study on High Efficiency Industrial Boilers, Subreport 11, China: Issues and Options in
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Control, August 1994.



- 76 -                          ANNEX 10
14.   Replacement boilers. The current service life of Chinese industrial boilers is
about 15 years, however, this period is expected to rise to 20 years or more in the future
due to the development of water tube boilers and to the improvement in manufacturing
quality. By the year 2010, most of the current stock of industrial boilers is expected to be
replaced, with an average of about 54,000 boilers replaced each year.
15.   Despite the virtual lack of coal-fired industrial boilers in other industrial
countries, the demand for these boilers in China is expected to continue and even grow
over the coming twenty years. The Chinese Ministry of Machinery Industry estimates
that the annual demand for industrial boilers-both new and replacement-is currently 85-
100 thousand tons of steam per hour (ktph), and will rise to 100-125 ktph by 2000, and to
130-160 ktph by 2010.17 Cumulative production of new and replacement boilers over the
next twenty years would be in the range of 2.1 to 2.6 million tph.
Expected Market Penetration of Project Boilers
16.   Industrial boilers are typically classified according to their use, structural
characteristics, combustion method, and fuel type. There are currently 13 types of
industrial boilers in China based on these factors. The five boiler types shown in Table 3,
which are the boiler types that will be produced under the GEF Efficient Industrial
Boilers Project, presently account for about 70 percent of the total boiler market in China.
Although hot water and FBC boilers do not occupy a large portion of the market at
present, the demand for space heating and cleaner industrial boilers will lead to increased
demand for these boilers in the future.
TABLE 3: BOILER PRODUCTION BY MODEL TYPE
198                  1994
(tph)      %        (tph)       %
Total Production                           89,940    100.0      93,619    100.0
1. Packaged water steam                     4,677      5.2       8,492      9.1
2. Packaged water-fire tube                42,281     47.0      33,356      35.6
3. Modulated water tube steam               1,961      2.2       9,025       9.6
4. Packaged modulated water tube hot water  1,727       1.9     11,028      11.8
5. Fluidized bed combustion (FBC)           2,788      3.1       2,793       2.8
17.   Total boiler production by the nine project enterprises is planned to reach
27,000 tph of annual production capacity by the year 2002, accounting for about one-
17 Prefeasibility Study on High Efficiency Industrial Boilers, China Greenhouse Gas Study, Subreport No. 11,
August 1994.



-77 -                          ANNEX 10
quarter of national industrial boiler production. Two scenarios-low and high-for the
dissemination of the new boiler models to other boiler producers were developed to
estimate the potential market penetration of the improved boilers. These scenarios,
presented in Annex 9, Table 3, show that the indirect project benefits of extending the
higher-efficiency boiler designs to other manufacturers is likely to extend to 50 to 70
percent of the industrial boiler market within 15 to 20 years.
Boiler Price Analysis
18.   Boiler prices used in the cost-benefit (Annex 5) and incremental cost (Annex 6)
analyses were determined based on: (i) a recent market price survey of industrial boilers
carried out by MMI, and (ii) a cost-benefit analysis for boiler producers and consumers of
manufacturing and purchasing the new boilers.
19.   Price survey. Sales prices of industrial boilers in China since 1985 have been
evaluated. Prior to the mid-1980s, industrial boilers prices, like most industrial products,
were determined through central planning agencies with little differentiation due to
quality or other characteristics. This situation has changed considerably in the industrial
boiler industry, which is now largely market driven. As can be seen in Table 4, there is
presently a wide range of prices for the same size and type of boiler, with the price
differential due to energy efficiency, safety, reliability, pollution control, or name
recognition. For instance, for a 4 tph industrial boiler, the variation of prices around the
mean was +15 and -19 percent. For a 10 tph boiler, the variation around the mean was
+36 and -24 percent.



- 78 -                           ANNEX 10
TABLE 4: PRICE SURVEY OF INDUSTRIAL BOILERS
4Jv                     L                        10 tPh
variation               variation                variation
Enterprise    103 Yuan   around mean   103 Yuan   around mean   103 Yuan   around mean
(0/%)                   (%/-)                    (%)
1           177         -3          293          +7          524          +13
2           187         +2           280         +2          462          --
3           200         +9           302         +10         509          +10
4           182         -1           310         +13         442          -4
5           186         +2          220          -20         480          +4
6           200         +9          240          -12         410          -11
7           175         -4                                   385          -17
8           192         +5                                   420          -9
9           210         +15                                  470          +2
10          158         -14                                  628         +36
11          148         -19                                  350         -24
Ave.        183                      274                     462
{X)        $21,529                  $32,235                 $54,353
20.   Cost-benefit analysis. The maximum price that consumers would be willing to
pay for the new boiler was determined with reference to the rate of return and payback
period. All other things equal, it was assumed that consumers would be unwilling to
purchase the new boiler unless the financial rate of return was at least as high as with the
older model boiler. Similarly, it was assumed that the payback period for the investment
in the new boiler could be no longer than for the old model. The financial benefits to
consumers of purchasing the new boiler are primarily the lower fuel operating costs due
to the improvement in operational thermal efficiency. A maximum price for boiler
consumers was defined and calculated as the price that would extract all consumer
surplus; i.e., the price of the new boiler is so high that there are no financial benefits to
the new boiler compared to the older model, or, equivalently, the price at which the
internal rate of return of the "with" and "without" project cases are equal. In reality, it is
unrealistic to assume that a new boiler model, unfamiliar to customers, will be able to
gain market share if the sales price is so high that there are no financial benefits to
consumers. For this reason, the price cannot be raised too high, and there is the need for
the other benefits of the new boilers to be provided to consumers. For the producer, a
minimum price of the new boiler was calculated as the price necessary for the boiler
manufacturer to earn a project internal financial rate of return of 12 percent. The
consumer maximum and producer minimum price are shown in Table 5, along with the
current average market price of existing comparable (less efficient) boilers, and the
estimated market price of the new boilers used in the financial/economic and incremental
cost analyses.



- 79 -                              ANNEX 10
TABLE 5: BOILER PRICE DETERMINATION
Current Average      Consumer           Producer        Estimated Market
Subproject           Market Price     Maximum Price La  Minimum Price La   Price of Improved
(1000 Y)                                              GEF Boiler La
1                   294              26.0%              21.4%              16.5%
2                   260               26.0%              22.3%              17.0%
3                   540               18.5%              17.8%              13.5%
4                   460               20.0%              21.2%              17.0%
5                   480               33.0%              19.3%              14.5%
6                   294               22.4%             22.3%               17.0%
7                  4200               22.9%             26.0%               19.5%
8                  1810               35.0%             23.5%               16.5%
9                  4600               15.0%             20.0%               13.5%
LA, Calculated as the percentage increase above the current market average for the given boiler model.



- 80-                                  ANNEX 11
ANNEX 11: SUPERVISION PLAN
Staff Input
Proposed Date               Activities                   Expected Skill Requirement       (SW)
03/97      Project Launch Mission to initiate project  Procurement Specialist, Boiler   13
implementaton,  review   procurement     Specialist, Financial Analyst,
progress  of  the   project,  ensure     Economist
institutional arrangements are in place,
and commence pilot dissemination
programs
09/97      Supervision Mission to review Phase I    Procurement Specialist, Boiler      10
implementation, institutional develop-   Specialist, Economist
ment and status of technical assistance
implementation
03/98      Technical Review Mission to review the   Boiler  Specialist, Financial       10
technical performance of the model       Analyst, Economist
boiler and evaluate enterprises on criteria
which will allow them to proceed to
Phase 2 of project implementation
09/98      Supervision Mission tot review progress  Boiler  Specialist,  Financial       9
of project implementation and status of  Analyst, Economist
TA
1999-2000    At least one supervision mission a year  To be determined depending
and last mission should discuss with     on progress made
MMI the preparation of ICR
Note: Ongoing review of bidding/procurement documents in Washington will require additional SW inputs.



- 81-                                              ANNEX 12
ANNEX 12: DETAILED PROJECT COST AND
FINANCING
DETAILED PROJECT COST AND FINANCING-FIRST PHASE
($'000 or Y'000)
1996                   1997                    1998                   Subtotal
Local(Y)   Foreign (S)   Local(Y)   Foreign (S)   Local(Y)   Foreign (S)   Local(Y)   Foreipn ()
Project Cost:
Upgrading of Existing Boilers
Construction Engineeng                     0                       0                      0                       0            0
Equipment-demonstration unit                           0                     880                       0          0          880
Equipment-production of new boiler         0           0      19,660         206      19,660         225      39,320         431
Technology Transfer Licensing                          0                   5,290                   3,785          0        9,075
Engineering Services                                 0                   3,248                   2,347          0        5,595
License                                              0                   2,042                   1,438          0        3,480
Installation                                                                                                      0            0
Others                                     0                       0                      0                       0            0
Working Capital                            0                   1,770                      0                    1,770           0
Subtotal                                 0            0     21,430        6,376     19,660        4,010     41,090       10,386
Adoption of New Boiler Design                                                                                       0           0
Construction Engineering                   0                       0                      0                       0            0
Equipment-demonstration unit                           0                     880                                  0          880
Equipment-production of new boiler         0           0      16,885         140      16,885         140      33,770         280
Technology Transfer Licensing                          0                   4,850                   3,460          0        8,310
Engineering Services                                 0                   2,870                   2,002          0        4.872
License                                              0                   1,980                   1,458          0        3,438
Installation                                                                                                      0            0
Others                                                             0                      0                       0            0
Working Capital                            0                   5,900                      0                    5,900           0
Subtotal                                 0           0      22,785        5,870     16,885        3,600     39,670       9,470
Technical Assistance
Operator Training                          0           0        250           50        250           50        500          100
Marketing/disseniination                   0           0           0          45       1,000         200       1,000         245
Revision of Standards                      0           0         500         100        500          100       1,000         200
Boiler Design & Implementation             0           0         300          90        300           75        600          165
Boiler House Standards Development                                250          70        250           50        500          120
Subtotal                                    0           0       1,300         355       2,300         475       3,600         830
Monitoring and Evaluation
Project Evaluation                                               250          80        250           80        500          160
Thermal Efficiency Monitoring                                    130          70         130          75        260          145
Emissions Monitoring                                             130          75         130          75        260          150
Safety Validation                                                130          75        130           75        260          150
Subtotal                                                640          300        640          305       1,280         605
Project Management                                                870         195        870          175       1,740         370
Subtotal                                  0            0      2,810         850       3,810         955       6,620        1,805
Physical Contingencies                      0           0       3,655        1,225      3,654         761       7,309        1,986
Price Contingencies                         0           0       4,897         407       7,798         426      12,695         833
TotalProjectCost                          0           0      55,577      14,728      51,807       9,752    107,384       24,480
Interest During Construction                0                       0                   2,673                   2,673           0
Total Financing Required                  0           0      55,577      14,728      54,480       9,752     110,057      24,480
Sources of Financing:
GEF Grant                                              0                  14,728                   9,752                  24,480
Local Bank Loan                            0                  32,816                  37,319                  70,135           0
Working Capital Loan                       0                   5,369                      0                    5,369           0
Self-raised Fund                           0                  17,392                  17,161                  34,553           0
Total Sources of Fund                      0           0      55,577      14,728      54,480       9,752    110,057       24,480



- 82 -                                            ANNEX 12
DETAILED PROJECT COST AND FINANCING: SECOND PHASE
($'000 or Y'OOO)
Total
1988               1999              2000              Subtotal        (Phases I & 11)
Local (Y)  Foreign  Local (Y) Foreign  Local (Y) Foreign  Local (Y) Foreign  Local (Y)  Foreign
Project Cost:
Upgrading of Existing Boilers
Construction Engineering             9,234        0   15,390               6,056             30,680        0    30,680        0
Equipment-demonstration unit                      0                  0                  0        0         0         0      880
Equipment-production of new boiler  11,996     1,864   20,160    2,069     8,264        0    40,420    3,933    79,740    4,364
Technology Transfer Licensing                      0                  0                  0         0        0         0    9,075
Engineering Services                           0                  0                  0        0         0         0    5,595
License                                        0                  0                  0        0         0         0    3,480
Installation                                                                                     0         0         0        0
Others                               1,488              3,384              1,896              6,768              6,768        0
Working Capital                     29,356        0   52,857              43,187            125,400        0   127,170        0
Subtotal                          52,074     1,864   91,791     2,069    59,403       0   203,268    3,933   244,358   14,319
Adoption of New Boiler Design
Construction Engineering             6,506        0   10,810               4,304             21,620        0    21,620        0
Equipment-demonstration unit                      0                  0                  0        0         0         0      880
Equipment-production ofnew boiler   10,776     1,260   17,360     1,260    7,284        0    35,420    2,520    69,190    2,800
Technology Transfer Licensing                      0                  0                  0                  0               8,310
Engineering Services                            0                  0                  0                  0              4,872
License                                         0                  0                  0                  0              3,438
Installation                                      0                  0                  0                  0                  0
Others                                589               1,474               884               2,947              2,947
Working Capital                     13,152        0   43,078              48,167            104,397        0   110,297        0
Subtotal                          31,023     1,260   72,722     1,260   60,639        0   164,384    2,520   204,054   11,990
Technical Assistance
Operator Training                                        400        67      400        67      800       134      1,300     234
Marketing/dissemination                 0         0      400        75      400        75      800       150      1,800     395
Revision of Standards                   0         0      400        75      400         0      800        75      1,800     275
BoilerDesign&lImplementation            0         0      100        20       100       15      200        35       800      200
Boiler House Standards Development                        300        40      200        35       500       75      1,000     195
Subtotal                         0        0    1,600       277     1,500      192     3,100      469      6,700    1,299
Monitoring and Evaluation
Project Evaluation                                       400        42      400        20      800        62      1,300     222
Thermal Efficiency Monitoring                             500        50      500        27     1,000       77      1,260     222
Emissions Monitoring                                     300         7      300         0      600         7       860      157
Safety Validation                                        300        25      300        25      600        50       860      200
Subtotal                         0        0    1,500       124     1,500       72     3,000      196      4,280      801
Project Management                                        440        75      440        55       880      130     2,620      500
Subtotal                               0        0    3,540       476     3,440      319     6,980      795    13,600    2,600
Physical Contingencies                4,059      312    6,858       333     2,869        0    13,786      645    21,095    2,631
Price Contingencies                   8,661      175   20,042       264    10,794        0    39,497      439    52,192    1,272
Total Project Cost                95,817     3,611   194,953    4,402   137,145      319   427,915    8,332   535,299   32,812
Interest During Construction          2,675             16,767             25,370             44,812             47,485
TotalFinancingRequired            98,492     3,611  211,720     4,402   162,515      319   472,727    8,332   582,784   32,812
Sources of Financing:
GEF Grant                                     3,611              4,402                319              8,332              32,812
Local Bank Loan                    39,189              79,313             48,745            167,247            237,382
Working Capital Loan               29,756              67,155             63,948            160,859        0   166,228        0
Self-raised Fund                   29,548              65,253             49,822            144,623        0   179,176        0
Total Sources of Fund               98,493    3,611  211,721     4,402   162,515      319   472,729    8,332   582,786   32,812
USDollarequivalent(Y8.5/S)          11,587    3,611   24,908     4,402    19,119      319    55,615    8,332    68,563   32,812
Total project cost in $ equivalent                                                                                        101,375



- 83 -                        ANNEX 13
ANNEX 13: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1.    Training and institutional support is being provided under the project to ensure
that the advanced boiler technologies are disseminated throughout China and that other
major factors affecting the thermal efficiency of Chinese industrial boilers are addressed.
The following technical assistance programs are planned:
Boiler Operator Training and Certification Program
2.    Previous studies have established that energy efficiency and pollution control
from Chinese industrial boilers can be greatly improved by improving the operation of
industrial boilers. This technical assistance program would seek to improve the skills of
industrial boilers operators through advanced training and to initiate the necessary steps
for establishing a boilers operation certification program in China. Boiler operation
would be improved through: (a) the upgrading of boiler operator training, and (b) the
design and establishment of a boiler certification program.
(a)   Boiler Operator Training. This component would seek to: (i) Improve
the quality of boiler operation in China, including the educational level,
technical training, and system of rewards for boiler operators; (ii) The
primary institutions responsible for training boiler operators in China
would be identified, including technical schools, boiler manufacturers, or
local government departments; (iii) Establish and initiate a long-term
program of training workshops throughout the country, involving both
trainers and trainees. Both intemational and domestic consultants would
be involved in carrying out items (i) - (iii).
(b)   Certification Program. A second component would seek to design a
boiler operator certification program for China, drawing on the
experiences of other countries where such programs exist, and on
certification programs for other equipment operators in China. A leading
group composed of institutions in China concerned with boiler operation
(MMI, Ministry of Construction, Ministry of Labor, Ministry of Electric
Power, insurance companies, trade associations) would be established to
provide guidance in the design and implementation of the certification
program. Design issues could include: basic requirements of prospective
boiler operators, the content, extent, and duration of formal and
apprenticeship training, and; in-service training and recertification.



- 84 -                        ANNEX 13
Implementation issues could include: propaganda to demonstrate the
benefits of the program to the industrial boiler industry (producers, users,
regulators, insurance companies); institutional responsibilities and legal
mechanisms for certification and enforcement.
Marketing and Dissemination
3.    The success of the project is dependent on the sale of new high-efficiency boiler
models, and on the dissemination of the technologies to other producers throughout
China. This program will: (a) assist project enterprises in developing a marketing plan
during Phase 1; (b) establish a pilot program at the local level for disseminating more
efficient and cleaner industrial boilers, through the cooperation of central and local
government environment and planning bureaus; (c) undertake a broad marketing
campaign at the end of Phase 1, through national conferences supplemented by visits to
the demonstration units; (d) assist other boiler producers in China to acquire the advanced
boiler technologies demonstrated under the project.
(a)   Assistance to Project Enterprises. At the end of the demonstration phase
(Phase 1), the nine project enterprises must have a detailed and justifiable
marketing plan in place before they may proceed with mass-production
under Phase 2. This marketing plan would include the number of boilers
to be produced, identification of prospective buyers (including letters of
commitment), pricing of new boilers to maximize sales, and an advertising
campaign.  PMO  would provide assistance to the project boiler
enterprises, as requested, to ensure that a solid marketing plan is in place
at the end of the demonstration phase.
(b)   Pilot Dissemination Program at the Local Level. A pilot program
would be established in three municipalities, including Beijing, Chongqing
and Harbin, in collaboration with national-level environment and planning
agencies. The intent of the pilot programs would be to stimulate the
demand for more efficient and cleaner industrial boilers in municipalities
with severe environmental problems. Local government agencies would
be assisted in:
*  Investigating  the  feasibility  (including  costs)  of  enforcing
environmental standards for industrial boilers;
*  Estimating the environmental and financial benefits of adopting
specific GEF industrial boilers;
*  Identifying prospective buyers of GEF boilers;
* Identifying incentives and penalties to enterprises and government
agencies in adopting cleaner industrial boilers.



- 85 -                        ANNEX 13
(c)   Customer Service. After-sales service, currently a weak link in China's
industrial boiler industry, would be strengthened under the project. Based
on international experience in the industrial boiler industry and domestic
experience in other industries, a best-practice program and action plan
would be prepared and disseminated for providing customer service to
industrial boiler consumers. Among the customer services that would be
upgraded are: postinstallation assistance, long-term performance
guarantees, preventive maintenance, technical upgrades, and operator
training.
(d)   Nationwide Marketing Campaign. At the end of Phase 1, a broad-based
and well-designed advertising campaign would be initiated for marketing
the GEF boilers. In addition to advertising, the campaign would include
the holding of conferences and workshops for industrial boiler producers,
users, regulators, insurance companies, and professional associations.
(e)   Technology Dissemination to Other Boiler Producers. Following the
successful demonstration of the GEF boilers, the technologies would be
disseminated to other boiler producers in China, beginning with the
enterprises identified during the feasibility stage of project preparation,
and then extension to other qualified enterprises.   Among  the
dissemination assistance provided to other boiler producers would be: (i)
provision of information, including technical performance and financial
advantages, of applicable boiler technologies, (ii) site visits to
demonstration units, and technical/financial discussions with domestic and
international boiler experts, (iii) training of enterprise personnel in the sale
and after-sales service for the GEF boiler models, and (iv) introductions
and arrangements for potential domestic and foreign equipment suppliers
for product demonstrations and/or technical training.
Revision of Industrial Boilers Standards
4.    In light of the improvements to be gained through technology transfer under the
project, existing standards for industrial boilers and the related issue of fuel would be
reviewed and new standards proposed. The principal standards that would be revised
include: thermal efficiency, emissions (TSP, SO2, NOJ), safety, and coal quality. While
these standards are largely outside the authority of MMI to revise and enforce, the GEF
project offers a unique opportunity for MMI to spearhead a review, and to make
recommendations on the adoption and implementation of improved standards.
(a)   Review of Existing Standards. Based on the technical performance of
the GEF efficient industrial boilers, and drawing on advanced international
experience, existing Chinese industrial boiler standards and norms would
be reviewed. The review would focus on standards for thermal efficiency,
pollution control, safety, and coal quality, but also cover norms for design,



- 86 -                       ANNEX 13
manufacturing, installation, commissioning, inspection, and monitoring
and testing of industrial boilers.
(b)   Recommended New Standards.  In cooperation with the relevant
institution in China responsible for establishing and enforcing thermal
efficiency, pollution control, safety, and coal quality standards for
industrial boilers, appropriate new standards would be recommended.
Changes in norms for design, manufacturing and other aspects under the
control of MMI would be acted upon directly by MMI.
(c)   Implementation of New Standards and Norms. A schedule for phasing-
in the recommended new standards would be agreed upon with the
relevant agencies. The dissemination of new standards would be first
applied to all boilers produced under the GEF project, followed by
requirements applying to all new industrial boiler installations, and finally
to all industrial boilers in the country. For the norms under the authority
of MMI, the establishment and implementation of the revised norms
would begin immediately.
Boiler Design Implementation Program
5.    Because the GEF project will not cover the entire range of possible boiler sizes
and pressure ranges, it is important to identify the specific design improvements that
result in increases in thermal efficiency and to make these available to other boiler types.
A Chinese design institute, assisted by international boiler design experts, would evaluate
the design improvements embodied in the technology transfer for the project, and help to
extend those design improvements to the entire range of boiler models in China and to
make this information available to all boiler manufacturers in the country.
(a)   Product Design Analysis. The design improvements identified in the
course of the GEF project that are available through routine commercial
transactions, or can be accomplished through the use of technology that is
in the public domain, will be identified and made available to all Chinese
industrial boiler firms. Among the areas to be evaluated are design
procedures, computer programs, the selection/compatibility of auxiliary
equipment and accessories, and the demonstration and verification testing
of prototypes.
(b)   Product Design Extension. Design improvements identified as part of (a)
would be incorporated into design manuals and software for other
industrial boiler products that are expected to have broad market coverage
in the future. This information would then be made available to the
industrial boiler industry through the key industrial boiler design institutes.



- 87 -                       ANNEX 13
Boiler House Standards Development
6.    The design technology for integrated industrial boiler houses in China is rather
obsolete, which has a direct effect on both energy use and pollutant emissions of coal-
fired boilers. The nine demonstration boiler houses of the GEF project will be used as
guides in helping to improve overall boiler auxiliary equipment design in China. This
work will involve investigation of practices in developed countries and the preparation of
design methods, computer programs, and other engineering documents to be made
available throughout the Chinese industrial boiler industry.
(a)   Boiler House Standards Development. Standards will be developed to
improve the practice of designing industrial boiler auxiliaries to bring
them up to international standards, especially those standards which
increase the thermal efficiency of coal-fired industrial boilers. MMI
would ensure that the new standards are disseminated and followed
throughout the country.
(b)   Development of Improved Integrated Technology.  Based on the
international engineering practices used in the nine demonstration units,
boiler technology and equipment for the overall boiler island system
(including coal pretreatment, ash handling, flue gas cleaning, and control
and monitoring) will be investigated and evaluated with the intention of
raising the thermal efficiency and reducing the pollution levels of the
integrated boiler house.



- 88 -                              ANNEX 13
TABLE 1: BUDGET FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
($'000)
Implementation
Schedule
Boiler Operator Training and Certification Program:               234    Jul 97 - Jun 99
Domestic consultants:                       9 person-months        45
International consultant:                   5 person-weeks         35
Investigation abroad:                       5 person. 3 weeks      30
Training costs:                                                    84
Equipment (instrumentation and meters for training):               40
Marketing and Dissemination:                                      395     May 97 - Jun 99
Domestic consultants:                       30 person-months       150
International consultant:                   5 person-weeks         35
Advertising and workshops:                                         120
Training costs:                                                    90
Revision of Industrial Boiler Standards:                          275    Jun 97 - Jan 99
Domestic consultants:                       35 person-months       175
International consultants:                  10 person-weeks        70
Investigation abroad:                       5 persons, 3 weeks     30
Boiler Design Implementation Program:                             200     May 97 - Nov 98
Domestic consultants:                       13 person-months       65
International consultants:                  10 person-weeks        70
Investigation abroad:                       5 persons, 3 weeks     30
Computer equipment                                                 35
Boiler House Standards Development:                               190      May 97 - Nov 98
Domestic consultants:                       13 person-months       65
International consultants:                  10 person-weeks        70
Investigation abroad:                       5 persons, 3 weeks     30
Computer equipment                                                 50
Total                                                          1,294



- 89 -                       ANNEX 14
ANNEX 14: SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE
IN THE PROJECT FILE
1. Project Implementation Plan (PIP) (8/96)
2. Business licenses of the nine enterprises participating in the project (8/96)
3. Commitment letters from  local banks for the counterpart funds for the nine
subprojects(8/96)
4. Report on Preliminary Evaluation of the Feasibility Study (FS) on GEF Boiler Project
(7/96), including:
Annex 1: Evaluation Report of Chinese Enterprise Technical Qualification
Annex 2: Financial Evaluation Report
Annex 3: Evaluation Report of Technology Transfer and Project
5. Scores on the Final Selection of Participating Domestic Enterprises according to FSs
(7/96)
6. Environment Analysis (7/96)
7. Market Survey (Chinese version, 7/96)
8. Financial Reports for all the Enterprises Participating in the Final Selection of their
Feasibility Studies (6/96)
9. Feasibility Study - Terms of Reference (2/96)
10. Technology Transfer - Terms of Reference (2/96)
11. Forecast for GEF High Efficiency Industrial Boilers (12/95)
12. Visiting Report of International Technology Assessment (11/95)
13. Assessment Report of the Qualification for the International Enterprises and Selected
Short List (12/95)



- 90-                         ANNEX 14
14. GEF Efficient Industrial Boiler Prefeasibility Study Report (11/95)
15. Financial Reports for the Prefeasibility Study (10/95)
16. Outline of Environmental Impact Assessment (1995)
17. Incremental Cost Analysis (Chinese version, 9/95)
18. Product Cost and Pricing Study (8/94)



IBRD 28427
RUSSIAN      ,>
'1.n                                       FEDERATION K       ke,
KAZAKSTAN                        ,                            <.                                       i
HEILONGJIANG
Q                                    "' J                                            t/4                         ,       Hoon        Jq1Xiogkon/       
UZBEKISTAN                    -                     )                     MONGOLIA
Choflghun    l>
t'A    _<,   c=    )                             (   *                                                 J        NEI        >\>chogNJILIN
. S  KYRGYZC> 3J9 urumqi                              '                                                    1 MONGOL
/                 @.>                     ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ea of  JAPAN
|    IKISTAN                      SNI'L AIAO N I*N G                                                                                                       Japan
-                   ~ ~ ~ ~~GANSU(@                                             YelowKORE                   -> 
XINJIANG                                                                                       'rnQk-- * 2 2ANDON
Th. ho,on,on.~ ooio, QINGHAI.) doo ot  won
ho ,onop drfo fnnoh o,pndlfof s' w o) NEI8                                                      3o         *      -s -iAGf                Eost Chinar     i 
ooth. egoIrL OO51 iuG5of ony Ornvoqgm,nt o                                               ^ SHAANXI S       HIn                              Sea
btsntoroccepenxafsuch <--a ~~~~~~~~~~~~ n >\6 ,                                          ef n   o,    rB^   inghoi
QINGHAI9 XIZANG   ~   \j                 ,    HUBEI WQhon  r('-             SAH  S-
f t i - tV SICHUAN  3Chendod   .ZHEJIANGS
TE. ='dVk                                                                                                           East Chi> . - na ChOng n,
CHINA                                  *t                ).  HUNA f                   Jho ANGX-     '                             PACIFIC
GEF EFFICIENT INDUSTRIAL -                                     '          )GLnZHSOUH .    ,                                                         OCEA
Y1N I  GANGDN ANH
*  LOCATION OF PROJECT BOILERXMANUFACTURING ENTERPRISES                                       IGXI 
          Ct       '  '2 3onn                   HONG KONG (UK)          off      O    oo -         O - 
o   SELECTED CITIES      -->C  RIVERS/LAKES                  Z      .i'  7________MACO_(ORT_______D_00____D                                                           _ JO
s   PROVINCE CAPITALS    -PROVINCEBOUNDARIES                _;       44 {^     VIETNNPl A                        MAouhChiaO(O                    ___         __D
O   NATIONAL CAPITALS    -        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES    rHAILAN6JDEM- REPYX              4 INAJ                SeEPS
lV22/.t996 HUBE)ClgI IPNPDIP41CIIPUI |3f;ITI' F






I~~~~~~



IMAGIN;'r
Report No:                16132 CHA
Type: PD
%j Printed on recycied paper



