                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 30942




                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                                (TF-28484)

                                                  ON A

                                              GEF GRANT

          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDRs 22.8 MILLION (US$32.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                                 FOR AN

                             EFFICIENT INDUSTRIAL BOILERS PROJECT




                                           December 10, 2004




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

           (Exchange Rate Effective October 31, 2004)

                    Currency Unit = Yuan
                       Yuan 1.00 = US$ 0.12
                        US$ 1.00 = Yuan 8.28

                         FISCAL YEAR
                         July 1   June 30

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CFBC       Circulating Fluidized Bed Combustion
CO         Carbon Dioxide
  2
ESCO       Energy Service Company
GEF        Global Environmental Facility
GHG        Green House Gas
GOC        Government of China
MMI        Ministry of Machinery Industry
NDRC       National Development and Reform Commission
NO         Nitrogen Oxides
  2
PAD        Project Appraisal Document
PMO        Project Management Office
SETC       State Economic and Trade Commission
SMIA       State Machinery Industry Administration
SO         Sulfur Dioxide
  2
TCE        Ton of Coal Equivalent
TPH        Ton-steam per Hour
TSP        Total Suspended Particulates




                  Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din Kassum
                Country Director     David R. Dollar
                 Sector Manager      Junhui Wu
 Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Robert P. Taylor

                                            CHINA
                     EFFICIENT INDUSTRIAL BOILERS PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       14



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             18
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            24
Annex 8. Letter from Government on ICR                                           25

Project ID: P035693                                                  Project Name: EFFICIENT INDUSTRIAL BOILERS
                                                                     PROJ
Team Leader: Robert P. Taylor                                        TL Unit: EASEG
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 22, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: EFFICIENT INDUSTRIAL BOILERS PROJ                        L/C/TF Number: TF-28484
   Country/Department: CHINA                                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: District heating and energy efficiency services (96%); Central
                            government administration (4%)
                  Theme: Climate change (P); Environmental policies and institutions (P);
                            Pollution management and environmental health (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/15/1994                                     Effective: 02/14/1997                02/14/1997
     Appraisal: 06/30/1996                                         MTR:
      Approval: 12/23/1996                                      Closing: 06/30/2001                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOC/MINISTRY OF MACHINERY
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Nicholas C. Hope (Acting)
Country Director:               David R. Dollar                                Nicholas C. Hope
Sector Manager:                 Junhui Wu                                      Jane Loos
Team Leader at ICR:             Robert P. Taylor                               Neil Hughes
ICR Primary Author:             Robert P. Taylor; Feng Liu


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The principal objective of the project was to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, as well as emissions
of total suspended particulates (TSP), sulfur dioxide (SO ) and nitrogen oxides (NO ), through: (a) the
                                                              2                        x
development of affordable, energy-efficient and cleaner industrial boiler designs; (b) the mass production
and marketing of the improved boiler models that have successfully met performance criteria; and (c) the
broad dissemination of more energy-efficient and cleaner industrial boiler technologies throughout China
through institutional strengthening, improved information exchange, and energy efficiency and
environmental policy reform.

The objective of the project was important for China and was responsive to the circumstances and
development priorities of the Chinese industrial boiler sector. It was consistent with the operational
policies of the Global Environmental Facility (GEF), and was closely identified with Operational Program
5 (Removing Barriers to Energy Efficiency and Energy Conservation) under the climate change focal area
of GEF. It also clearly reflected the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for China in facilitating an
environmentally sustainable development process, especially in the promotion of cleaner energy
technologies, urban pollution abatement, and global environmental benefits. Coal-fired industrial boilers
have been critical to China's economic growth. But they were highly inefficient and highly polluting due to
a lack of technical innovation in the industry and low environmental standards. Emissions from coal-fired
industrial boilers were the primary cause of severe ambient air pollution prevalent in Chinese cities and
contributed to serious acid rain problems in much of south and central China, posing serious threats to
public health, eroding labor productivity, and damaging agricultural production and forestry. Coal-fired
industrial boilers also accounted for about 30 percent of carbon dioxide emissions in China, making them a
major target in China's effort to mitigate GHG emissions. This project attempted to address some of the
critical underlying causes of these problems with an assistance program designed to effect a broad impact
on the Chinese industrial boiler sector.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives were not changed.

3.3 Original Components:
The project included the following components (estimated total project cost and GEF financing at
appraisal):

     (i) Upgrading of existing Chinese boiler models ($53.1 million, GEF contribution of $16.5 million)
           through the introduction from abroad of advanced combustion systems and auxiliary equipment,
           especially the application of simple automatic controls;
     (ii) Adoption of new high efficiency boiler models ($44.1 million, GEF contribution of $13.7 million)
           through the introduction of modern manufacturing techniques and boiler designs suitable for
           burning Chinese coals;
     (iii) Technical assistance and training for boiler producers and consumers ($2.1 million, GEF
           contribution of $1.3 million); and
     (iv) Monitoring and evaluation, and project management ($2.1 million, GEF contribution of $1.3
           million).

In a nutshell, the original components (i) and (ii) involved 9 international boiler technology transfer


                                                      - 2 -

packages benefiting 9 domestic boiler manufacturers and 9 domestic boiler auxiliary equipment makers,
aiming to cover the main boiler types and sizes in the Chinese coal-fired boiler market, from small and
medium chain grate boilers to sophisticated circulating fluidized bed combustion (CFBC) boilers. These
technology transfer packages were designed to either improve existing boiler models and technologies or fill
certain technology gaps in the Chinese industrial boiler sector. The selection of technologies and areas of
assistance were made based on extensive market studies and were sensible, given the nature of the sector
and market at the time of project appraisal. The original component (iii) included 9 technical assistance
(TA) subprojects, each with specific purposes and ranging from improving training of boiler operators to
upgrading of design standards. They were designed to remove specific market and institutional barriers
which would either slow the market penetration of energy-efficient industrial boilers or impede the
realization of their energy-saving potential. They were an integral part of the project design. The original
component (iv) addressed the capacity of the implementing agency, including administrative and financial
management capacity, and was important for achieving project objectives.

The investment components (i) and (ii) were designed for implementation in two phases. GEF-supported
technology transfer was to be completed in Phase 1, during which the beneficiaries would acquire the
technologies, develop and test prototypes, and make production, financial and sales plans. Commercial
production and sales of the new boilers would be supported with Phase 2 investments co-financed by GEF.
A beneficiary could proceed with Phase 2 investments only after the Bank's review and approval of the
prototype test results and proposed production, financial and sales plans for the new models. This phased
approach was designed to ensure that only those beneficiaries who had succeeded in adopting the new
technology to meet the project's performance criteria, and who had good technical and financial standing,
could receive additional GEF assistance for commercial production. This mid-course evaluation between
phases proved to be a successful project design feature, as it resulted in intensive dialogue with each boiler
manufacturer on technical results and how best to proceed with commercial production and marketing
plans. It also provided for necessary corrective actions: one of the 9 boiler manufacturers was not granted
Phase 2 GEF financing because its operation was found financially unsustainable.              One auxiliary
equipment maker was granted with additional GEF investment financing because its GEF-supported
product was gaining market share rapidly.

This project was a unique, one-of-a-kind effort for both the Chinese Government and the Bank. The
project also was the first large GEF investment operation to support energy efficiency efforts in China.
The project design benefited directly from a large national study funded by GEF: China - Issues and
Options in Greenhouse Gas Emissions Control (1994), as well as earlier Bank work in coal utilization in
China: Efficiency and Environmental Impacts of Coal Use (1991). Substantial research and investigation
work was done in the China GHG emission control study to evaluate GHG emission sources and mitigation
options. Investment in improving coal-fired industrial boilers was identified as one the most cost-effective
options with a large impact.     The project components addressed some critical needs of the Chinese
industrial boiler sector, from boiler design and manufacture to installation and operation, and were
comprehensive in scope.

3.4 Revised Components:
The original components were not changed.         Two additional TA subprojects were included during
implementation. One was the Sub-licensing Promotion Program designed to assist the planning and
organization of technology dissemination activities beyond the completion of the project. The second was
the National Sales and Marketing Promotion for GEF-supported Industrial Boilers designed to raise the
general market awareness of the specific benefits of acquiring GEF-supported boilers. These additional TA
activities were consistent with the original project design and addressed additional needs which emerged
during project implementation.


                                                    - 3 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated satisfactory. The project objectives addressed critical energy efficiency and
environmental protection needs of China and the development priorities of the Chinese industrial boiler
sector. They were consistent with the operational strategies of the GEF and the Bank's CAS. The project
design was based on solid and extensive knowledge of the sector. The assumptions and choices made at the
time of entry were realistic and to the best knowledge of the project team. With the benefit of hindsight, the
Chinese boiler market did not evolve exactly as the project design had projected, and thus there were a few
misses for the project in the selection of particular boiler types or sizes. For example, since the late 1990s
the small-size end of the coal-fired boiler market has been under intensive environmental pressure and has
been shrinking more rapidly than expected. This development was due largely to the outright ban of
coal-fired boilers below 10 ton-steam per hour (tph) capacity in many medium and large cities. However,
most of the beneficiary domestic boilermakers were able to adapt new designs and technologies to larger
boilers. So the technology transfer was still relevant and effective.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The outcome of the project is rated satisfactory. The impact of the project on the Chinese industrial boiler
sector has been broad and is considered substantial. The technology transfer supported by the GEF was by
far the largest national investment in combustion efficiency improvements in the Chinese industrial boiler
sector over the project period. All nine beneficiary boiler manufacturers successfully completed the
transfer of international technology planned at project appraisal, and built prototypes (verification models)
which met the predetermined and ambitious energy efficiency and environmental performance criteria.
Eight went on to commercial production of GEF-supported boiler models and have achieved initial sales
success. The GEF-financed technology transfers resulted in practical improvements in coal-fired industrial
boiler designs which typically yield increases in fuel efficiency of some 5 percentage points--a large
improvement for this industry. The new boilers are generally well catered to Chinese market conditions. A
trade mark of most of the GEF-supported boilers is the use of the diaphragm wall, which reduced about
50% of the weight of the furnace housing traditionally made of refractory bricks while increasing the
air-tightness of the furnace. This was a major improvement in technology for the boiler industry in China.
The Volund corner-tube technology employed by three of the boiler works is already gaining a wide and
sound reputation in the Chinese market. Other important aspects of the GEF-financed technology transfer
for chain-grate boilers included improved boiler grate design and manufacturing, and use of efficient
secondary air-induction systems. In addition to fuel savings and cost savings in boiler house construction,
the GEF boilers are more amenable to meeting local environmental protection requirements. Three of the
new boilers are specifically geared to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions, including a new CFBC boiler design,
a "differential-speed bed" boiler for burning high-sulfur coal developed for the first time in China, and a
boiler model with an integrated low sulfur coal briquetting device.

In addition to the specific technology transfers, the technical assistance activities of the project broadened
the impact through assistance in revision and formulation of national and sector standards for boiler and
boiler house designs and environmental controls, and by strengthening professional requirements for boiler
operators.   This further resulted in indirect energy efficiency improvements, by enhancing quality
requirements across the industry, and helping to lay a foundation for improved boiler operation. Under
GEF support, one national and four sector standards were formulated and promulgated, and two national
and two sector standards were revised. The project also supported a major sector effort to popularize and
standardize calculation methods for industrial boiler design.         The technical manual and companion
computer software and database developed under this project made it possible for scientific and accurate



                                                      - 4 -

engineering calculations to be implemented at any boiler factory, reversing the situation where only a few
major manufacturers had this capacity.

The main quantitative outcome/impact indicator in the PAD is the annual sales of GEF-supported boilers,
targeted at annual sales of a total boiler capacity of 17,940 tph at project completion, and 3000 tph for
each beneficiary project boiler works within two years after project completion (a total of 27,000 tph of
annual sales). Based on sales contracts completed by the end of October 2004, sales of GEF-supported
boilers from the 8 beneficiary boiler manufacturers which have completed Phase 2 will be about 9,230 tph
in 2004. The boiler works expect substantially increased sales in the coming years, but attainment of the
27,000 tph target for 2006 remains uncertain. Although a useful monitoring indicator for assessing results
at the project's beneficiary boiler works, the ICR team found the tph annual sales outcome too simplistic as
the main measure of the overall outcome of the project. The sales targets set at appraisal also are arbitrary,
and probably, with hindsight, overly ambitious. One problem is the establishment of the same 3000 tph
indicator for each boiler manufacturer. These indicators appear to have been useful targets during project
supervision, to provide a benchmark for individual boiler works to gauge their work. However, with the
changes in the market over the years, and especially the increasing demand for larger sized boilers at the
expense of the smaller boilers, it is not reasonable to expect all of the participating boiler works to achieve
the same sales outcomes. A more major problem with using these sales figures as the main measure of
project impact is that they refer only to the nine boiler works. However, the project also supported
technology transfer and production of high-efficiency boiler auxiliary components, such as boiler grates
and blowers, for use in the nine boiler models, but also more generally in the market. Energy efficiency
gains from some of these components also are major.            One particularly successful example is the
GEF-supported development and production of improved grates for chain-grate boilers at the Yongning
Foundry Factory in Wafangdian City. This factory sold 13,000 tph equivalent of GEF-supported boiler
grates by the end of August 2004, and is projected to reach about 20,000 tph equivalent annual sales in
2004, meaning that GEF-supported boiler grates will equip around 25% of all new chain grate industrial
boiler capacity sold in China in 2004. That is very significant because the improved grates normally
contribute to about 3-4 percentage points increases in boiler thermal efficiency.

The overall market impact at project completion has met the target set in the PAD. If the impact of the
GEF-supported boilers and the energy-efficient boiler grates are considered together, sales of new boilers
with substantial GEF energy-efficient components would total about 21,800 tph in 2004, compared with
the 19,000 tph target set in PAD. By this broader market impact measure, the ratio of new boiler to total
boiler production in 2004 is about 18% (21,800/120,000), compared with PAD estimate of 19%
(19,000/100,000) at project completion. Whether the 35% overall market penetration ratio two years after
project completion can be achieved remains uncertain, however, primarily because of the high mark set for
the direct beneficiary boiler manufacturers.

The other outcome/impact indicator in the PAD, reduced CO emissions per boiler through improved coal
                                                                2
utilization, to be monitored two years after project completion, is likely to be achieved based on currently
reported energy efficiency improvements of the GEF-supported boilers.

As the PAD had anticipated, the price risk of the GEF-supported boiler models has been a key factor
affecting their market penetration. Primarily due to an increase of steel consumption the GEF-supported
boilers cost 10 to 20% more to manufacture, compared to comparable traditional models. But the higher
cost of GEF-supported boiler equipment is compensated by significant operation cost savings from
improved thermal efficiency, and with a pay back time shorter than three years in most cases. Due to
savings in refractory materials and shorter installation time, the installed cost of some GEF-supported



                                                     - 5 -

boilers are lower than those of comparable traditional boilers. These advantages are being confirmed and
gaining wider notice with more GEF-supported boilers being installed. With a bit more time than originally
expected the energy-efficient industrial boilers are likely to capture the market share originally anticipated,
and the project's emissions reduction impact can be achieved.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Upgrading of existing Chinese boiler models. This component is rated satisfactory. As one of the two
investment components of the project, it was designed to improve the thermal and environmental
performance of popular domestic industrial boiler models, in the 1 to 20 tph (small to medium) size range,
which was the dominant market segment at the time of project appraisal. The component involved 6 boiler
manufacturers and 4 auxiliary equipment makers. Five of the six boiler manufacturers have successfully
adopted GEF-supported designs and manufacturing upgrades with good initial sales results. Shanghai
Sifang Boiler Works and Jiangxi Boiler Works have been the most successful so far, with contracted sales
of 3,150 and 2,073 tph in 2004, respectively. A particularly successful story of this component was the
transfer of improved boiler grate technology from Sinto Co. of Japan to the Yongning Foundry Factory,
which has become a major supplier of new, high-efficiency grates to chain-grate boiler manufacturers
throughout China. This component also had its failure in Tianshan Boiler Works, which, after completing
the model development and testing, could not capitalize on the new technology and filed for bankruptcy in
early 2004, due to its inability to compete in a more geographically integrated market place. In addition, all
of the main boiler models of this manufacturer were 1 to 10 tph boilers, which had fallen out of market
favor.

In summary, this component has achieved its sector policy objectives in most respects, and has fully
achieved the physical objectives in boiler thermal efficiency and emissions requirements. Despite the
failure in Tianshan the overall design of the component is considered appropriate for achieving the project
objectives, and all other involved boiler works have been able to adapt GEF-supported technologies to their
larger boiler models to meet the changing demand of the market.

Adoption of new high efficiency boiler models. This component is rated satisfactory. Designed to meet
the emerging demand for relatively large industrial boilers in district heating and manufacturing, this
component tried to cover three important market segments of the large-sized industrial boilers, including a
large-capacity hot water boiler design for district heating, a co-generation steam boiler design suitable for
coal of variable quality as well as for biomass, and a CFBC boiler design that was new in China. All three
technology transfers were successfully completed, met predetermined energy-efficiency and environmental
performance criteria, and turned into marketable products. However, the sales records for the three
beneficiary boiler manufacturers have not been very strong so far. This seems to contradict with the
booming sales of large industrial boilers in recent years. A closer look at the market reveals that the
large-size end of the industrial boiler (40­135 tph) market is now dominated by CFBC boilers, caused
primarily by government policy in sulfur control. But most of these CFBC boilers use a design that has
had a much longer track record in the domestic market than the GEF-supported design.                      The
GEF-supported CFBC boiler is also more expensive to make in part due to its limited initial production
scale and use of more expensive materials. The associated boiler manufacturer has also experienced some
financial difficulties. These issues are being addressed seriously by the beneficiary, which is implementing
a major enterprise reform with drastic reduction of inefficient labor force and other cost cutting measures.
The market acceptance of the GEF-supported CFBC boiler technology is likely to improve as cost control
measures take effect and the specific design becomes more widely known.

The design of this component was sensible at the time of project entry in terms of anticipating a rise in the
demand for large size boilers. However, the popularity of CFBC boilers, and at the same time, the



                                                     - 6 -

lukewarm initial market reception of GEF-supported CFBC boilers affected the short-term outcome of this
sub-component. It is interesting to point out that, Jinan Boiler Works, the beneficiary of the co-generation
steam boiler technology in this component, also has become China's dominant CFBC boiler supplier in the
last ten year. Some industry experts anticipate that the current surge of demand for CFBC boilers will
dissipate, and that a more balanced demand mix should favor the multiplicity of GEF-supported boilers.

Technical assistance and training for boiler producers and consumers.              This component is rated
satisfactory. A total of 11 technical assistance/training projects were completed, covering mainly six areas:
(a) establishment of a systematic training curriculum and certification procedure for boiler operators; (b)
revision of technical and environmental standards and improvement of design for industrial boilers and
boiler houses; (c) verification testing and technical evaluation of GEF-supported boiler models; (d)
production planning and marketing assistance to project beneficiaries; (e) general sales and marketing
assistance to GEF-supported boilers; and (f) replication and dissemination of GEF-supported boiler
technologies. These activities helped ensure that the technology transfers actually delivered on their energy
efficiency and emission reduction expectations, and provided critical support for production scale-up and
marketing. The TA activities generally served their function to strengthen the key links in the development
and deployment of energy-efficient and less-polluting industrial boilers. One small effort--the pilot cities
program designed to showcasing GEF-supported boilers--proved ineffective as the original participating
cities of Shanghai and Jinan initiated policies to restrict the use of coal-fired boilers and withdrew from
participation.

Monitoring and evaluation, and project management. This component is rated satisfactory. Since this
project included over a dozen beneficiaries across China, and each one of them had a unique set of issues,
the support for project monitoring, evaluation and management was important and necessary for achieving
the project's objectives and outcomes. This component also supported the testing and evaluation of the
energy efficiency and environmental performance of the verification boiler models, which was critical to
assure the design quality prior to commercial production.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic justification for this project was based the Incremental Cost analysis required by GEF. The
methodology adopted in the PAD was sound and practical. The main assumptions about the Baseline and
the GEF Alternative were realistic, with the exception of the future sales of GEF-supported boilers. The
main conclusions of the original incremental cost analysis for the project were derived from the two
scenarios (Baseline vs. GEF Alternative) for a cumulative total of 432,000 tph of boiler production and
sales by the 9 beneficiary boiler manufacturers over a 20-year span (including a 3-year development period
at the beginning). The main benefit of this project is the reduction of CO emissions, in addition to the local
                                                                          2
and regional benefits of reduced TSP and SO emissions. The original incremental cost analysis estimated
                                               2
a total reduction of 180 million tons of CO emissions as a result of the cumulative replacement of 432,000
                                             2
tph boiler capacity with GEF-supported, more fuel-efficient industrial boilers. That translates into an
undiscounted unit cost $0.18/ton-CO against the US$32.8 million GEF grant approved, compared with the
                                      2
recent observed international prices for traded carbon credits of about $3-$5/ton-CO -equivalent.
                                                                                      2



Since the project did not follow exactly the path described in the GEF Alternative due to implementation
delays and changes in market characteristics, its impact on CO emission reduction also changed. The ICR
                                                                 2
team reassessed the cost-effectiveness of the project based on current estimate of CO emission reduction.
                                                                                        2
The reassessment included the 8 remaining beneficiary boiler manufacturers and the Yongning Foundry
Factory (boiler grates), and estimates the impact of the new boilers and grates with a more conservative



                                                      - 7 -

projection of new boiler sales (reaching a maximum of 24,000 tph per year by 8 boiler makers by 2009,
compared with the original assumption of 27,000 tph per year by 2002). The reassessment indicates that
the project will be able to achieve about 160 million tons of cumulative CO emission reduction by 2019,
                                                                                2
compared with the original 180 million tons by 2016. The re-estimated CO emission reduction potential
                                                                                2
translates into a unit cost $0.21/ton-CO against the US$32.8 million GEF grant approved (the spent
                                             2
amount was about $1 million less than the approved due to currency exchange losses). The reassessment
very clearly reaffirms the cost-effectiveness of this carbon mitigation project.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of this project was most significant in its TA activities supporting the
formulation, revision and upgrading of national and sector technical standards for industrial boiler and
boiler house designs, and the strengthening of the training curriculum and certification procedures for boiler
operators. The promulgation of key new or revised standards raised the bar for design and engineering for
the entire industrial boiler sector in China.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Market developments and competition affected the performances of participating domestic boiler
manufactures in both positive and negative ways. Many of the nine beneficiary boiler manufacturers
selected at project appraisal have strengthened their market positions during the course of project
implementation. Several have struggled. Tianshan Boiler Works fared worst and filed for bankruptcy in
early 2004. Harbin Industrial Boiler Company, asked to survive on its own by its former parent company
in 2003, is still undergoing restructuring. The loss of Tianshan Boiler Works will have little impact on the
project's overall outcome in the long term because the gap can be filled by other boiler works in the same
technology transfer component (small and medium boilers), such as Shanghai Sifan and Yingkou boiler
works. The lapse at Harbin Industrial Boiler Company may be more significant because it is the only
CFBC technology transfer supported under the project.

The most prominent problem during project implementation was repeated delays in technology procurement
for development of the improved boiler designs in Phase 1. Strictly speaking, this problem was outside of
the Government's or implementing agency's control, as it was necessary to strictly adhere to the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines of the time, and the procurement arrangements agreed with the Bank for the
project were, with hindsight, inefficient.

The implementing agency completed a comprehensive review of potential international suppliers prior to
project appraisal, visiting many countries abroad, identifying many suppliers who expressed a general
interest in participating in the project. The most prominent problem during project implementation was
repeated delays in technology procurement for development of the improved boiler designs in Phase 1. With
17 potential technology suppliers pre-qualified at project appraisal, the project procurement plan opted for
a fully competitive, two-stage bidding process for technology procurement, in line with the principles of the
Bank's Procurement Guidelines for Goods and Works. The first stage of the process involved solicitation
of technical proposals, based on very specific technical requirements listed for each package. The second
stage involved solicitation of financial/commercial bids, and contract award to the least-cost bid. This
system proved highly problematic, as (1) it was far too cumbersome; (2) the technical requirements listed
for each package were very specific and narrow, following the project's design to provide improvements to



                                                      - 8 -

each of the market's main submarkets; (3) the number of truly interested technology suppliers specializing
in small to medium-sized coal-fired boilers turned out to be quite small, as these technologies were being
phased out in most industrialized countries and the perceived risks of doing business in China was
relatively high at that time, and (4) with the large number of individual packages, the contract value for
individual packages proved too small to elicit a strong enough interest from many bidders to overcome the
other problems listed above.

Through the strong and continuous efforts of the implementing agency, sound technology transfer packages
were awarded for each of the 9 subprojects, resulting in successful boiler design developments in every
case. However, the adopted procurement procedure proved inefficient and caused major delays in project
execution. Only one package resulted in more than one responsive commercial bid. Others resulted in only
one responsible bid or none at all. Two subproject proposals received no responsive bids, even after two
rounds of rebidding, and had to be awarded on a sole-source basis. In general, initial responses to the
technical bids were reasonably satisfactory, but once it became clear that contract values were low, bidders
lost interest in continuing with the cumbersome process.          Once contracts were awarded, contract
negotiations proved difficult in some cases, due to difficulties in meeting commercial terms and
performance criteria using Chinese coals.       Coupled with misunderstandings concerning Chinese and
international contracting procedures, all of these factors contributed to delays in finalizing technology
transfer contracts. The eventual number of boiler design technology suppliers was five. Three suppliers
provided technology to two or more boiler works. The entire technology procurement took almost two
years longer than expected, causing the need for first extension of the project's closing date. The ripple
effect of the prolonged technology transfer process led to delays in prototype installation and testing of
most subprojects, as well as a very compressed schedule for Phase 2 procurement. This led to the request
for the second extension of the project closing date.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Government's progressive policies in energy conservation and environmental protection were a healthy
foundation for the achievement of the project's objectives. However, the government's oversight to this
project was affected by four major organizational changes at the ministerial level. The Ministry of
Machinery Industry (MMI), counterpart agency at project appraisal, was dissolved in 1998, and its
responsibility for this project was handed to the State Machinery Industry Administration (SMIA), a
retained regulatory body of the former MMI. SMIA was dissolved in 2001 and the State Economic and
Trade Commission (SETC) took over the counterpart responsibility. SETC was then dissolved in 2002,
and subsequently project oversight moved to the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC).
Although the Government maintained its commitment to the project and strong efforts were made to smooth
transitions, these administrative changes were at times disruptive due to changes in personnel and diversion
of leadership attention.

The executive director position of the Project Management Office (PMO) was changed three times, causing
some disruption to the continuity and consistency of project management. This was somewhat mitigated by
the fact that all the persons who assumed the directorship had been intimated involved in the project. The
initial set up of the project management was to have a relatively lean project management office with just a
few professional staff while most of the technical supervision work would be supported by an expert group.
This arrangement worked relatively well at the beginning.          But with the dismantling of MMI and
subsequent government administrative changes, the cohesiveness of this arrangement deteriorated
somewhat.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Strong efforts were made by the implementation agency to deal with the procurement difficulties



                                                     - 9 -

experienced in Phase 1 implementation.           The flexibility and practical approaches adopted by the
implementation agency helped bring an eventually successful completion of the technology transfer.
During the extended project implementation period, the staff of the PMO changed significantly. The staff
turnovers, while not completely under PMO control, were somewhat disruptive to project management as
the passing of responsibilities were not always seamless.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total project cost was estimated at US$95.79 million at appraisal, including $32.81 million of GEF
financing and $62.98 million of local financing. The reported actual total project cost was $121.11 million
at project closing, including $31.86 million of GEF financing and $89.25 million of local financing. The
GEF grant was fully utilized, and the difference between the appraisal and actual grant support was caused
by fluctuation of the SDR/US$ ratio. The actual reported local cost financed by enterprises (equities or
bank loans), exceeded the appraisal estimate by about 30%. This was mainly due to difficulties in
estimating costs consistently. Many investments made by the boiler manufacturers were for production
equipment which is used for both GEF-supported boiler models, as well as other models. Most boiler works
have reported total investment costs with any relation to GEF boiler production, without attempting to
allocate costs carefully between GEF and other boiler manufacturing, resulting in an over-estimation of
costs, compared to appraisal estimates.

The general schedule of project disbursement was delayed because of the delays in technology procurement.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project's sustainability is rated likely. The initial market reaction to the majority of the boiler models
introduced through GEF support has been positive, and a few models have made substantial inroads in their
respective market segments. Higher energy efficiency and less polluting industrial boilers are expected to
gain further market share as environmental requirements continue to rise. The main factors that support
the project's sustainability include: (a) most of the technologies introduced by the project have proved to be
practical, easily adopted and cost-effective; (b) government commitment to energy efficiency is strong and
air pollution control is a high priority in urban development; and (c) coal will remain a primary fuel for
industrial boilers in China for a long time. In addition, a few on-going projects are likely to extend the
impact of the Efficient Industrial Boilers Project, including the Bank/GEF China Energy Conservation II
Project, which supports the broad-based development of energy service companies (ESCOs), and a United
Nations Foundation project in developing specialized ESCOs for the operation and management of
coal-fired boiler houses. Furthermore, coal prices have been rising sharply due to stricter government
regulation of the coal mining sector for quality and safety as well as a general rise in energy demand. All
this is likely to further strengthen the competitiveness of GEF-supported boilers, as well as wider
replication and dissemination of GEF-supported technical innovations.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Since the technologies transferred through GEF support have already been digested and commercialized by
the project beneficiaries, this project is already under regular operation.       Reaching the sales targets
established at appraisal may take a few more years, but could be quite soon depending on domestic boiler
market conditions. Arrangements have been made to promote wider replication and dissemination of
GEF-supported boiler designs and technical innovations, as well as to continue to support project
beneficiaries in their marketing and product enhancement efforts after the implementation completion. As
part of the technical assistance to the PMO, a business plan for a technical service/consulting company was
prepared before project completion. The company, named BGEF, which includes the project's original
beneficiaries among its shareholders, should help facilitate further dissemination of technologies and


                                                      - 10 -

expand the impact of the project .

The replication and dissemination process is likely to take place in the absence of formal licensing
procedures as many of the new boiler design features are not complicated and can be studied in the open
and replicated without resorting to special instruction and training. In addition, except for the CFBC
technology, all of the original rights to GEF-supported technologies either have expired or will expire
before the end of 2004. However, it is very important for the Government to continue to help raise
awareness in the market concerning the advantages of GEF-supported boilers and design technologies
through special promotion channels and events.            BGEF also should provide specific technical
assistance/support to prospective boiler manufacturers who want to adopt or incorporate GEF-supported
technologies.

The Bank recommended that a follow-up assessment of the project impact (ICR mission) be conducted
before the end of 2006. This follow-up assessment should evaluate the market uptake of GEF-supported
boilers and technologies, measured by actual sales of GEF-supported boilers from beneficiary boiler works
and other boiler works and their share of the industrial boiler market, as well as the market success of
auxiliary equipment makers supported by the project. The overall impact should be assessed based on coal
savings capacity resulting from the project.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's overall performance in the identification, preparation assistance and appraisal of the project
was satisfactory. The Bank's performance in project identification was satisfactory. The project was
consistent with GOC's desire to improve the energy efficiency and environmental performance of coal-fired
industrial boilers, with the GEF's operational program in removing barriers to energy efficiency and energy
conservation, and with the Bank's assistance strategy in promoting environmentally sustainable
development and global environmental benefits.

The Bank's performance in preparation was satisfactory. During preparation the Bank fielded three
comprehensive missions which included expertise in industrial boiler technology, environmental
engineering, financial analysis, economics, operations and procurement. Technically, the project was well
prepared with carefully selected technology and assistance packages, as well as detailed implementation
work plan. The financial and economic analysis were thorough. Project targets were clear.

The Bank's performance at appraisal was also satisfactory.       The Bank's appraisal team included a
comprehensive skill mix required for the project and the members were all involved during preparation.
The Government's commitment was evaluated and documented. Procurement and financial management
capacities were reviewed. All relevant safeguard policies were reviewed and thoroughly discussed and
agreed with Government. Continuity from identification through to appraisal was strong.

7.2 Supervision:
Supervision was adequate.         The Bank met its formal supervision requirements during project
implementation, providing responses and action letters generally in a timely manner, and meeting internal
reporting deadlines. Task management through project preparation, appraisal and supervision changed
several times, causing some disruption but no major problems as all task managers were participants in the
original Bank team.       Project implementation progress was adequately reported and implementation
problems, such as procurement difficulties and delays, were identified early and addressed proactively.
The quality of advice given to the implementing agency, and follow-up on advice and agreed actions, were


                                                    - 11 -

adequate. The task management team showed flexibility in dealing with the problems and difficulties
encountered in procuring international boiler technologies and worked diligently and effectively with the
borrower and implementing agency to resolve various issues. A total of 10 formal supervision missions
were dispatched over the 6 years of project's implementation. No mission was dispatched for a stretch of
about a year during 2002 and 2003, primarily because of the SARS epidemic in Beijing. Judging from the
supervision documentation, however, it appeared that many missions should have allocated more time to
visit the beneficiary boiler manufacturers, and focused somewhat more on driving for the substantive
impact of the project, and somewhat less on procedural issues.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance was satisfactory. There was close cooperation during preparation between
the Government and the Bank, and between the Bank team and the counterpart team.               The strong
commitment of the Government to promoting energy efficiency and pollution control was key to gaining
GEF support for the project. The extensive and effective support provided by the counterpart was essential
to the design of the project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance was satisfactory.             Despite unforeseen changes in
counterpart agencies due to government reorganization, the Government maintained strong policy support
and continued leadership of the project. The project management arrangements at the beginning were
effective and economically efficient.    But as the MMI apparatus was drastically scaled down and
eventually removed from the central government administration, the original project management scheme
was weakened.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementation agency's performance was satisfactory. The PMO was very competent in the technical
aspects of the project and had a clear understanding of the Chinese boiler market. It also maintained good
and communicative relationships with the participating boiler works and other project beneficiaries. It
worked hard, especially in the early implementation stage, to seek practical solutions to the various
problems causing procurement delays, and oversaw a successful completion of the technology transfer
process, despite the many difficulties encountered. Because of the complexity of this project PMO could
have benefited from a more systematic management procedure in terms of work planning, task assignment,
filing and reporting. This was reflected in delays of progress reports and insufficient documentation of
some operations.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The borrower's overall performance was satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

This project resulted in a generally satisfactory conclusion, despite numerous difficulties due to its
complicated structure involving many beneficiaries, an inefficient technology procurement process, and a
number of changes in the Government supervising entity and Bank task management. A key reason for the
success achieved was the steady dedication to the project's goals by the            implementing agency,
participating boiler manufacturers, and Bank team.




                                                   - 12 -

The project was designed and appraised at a time when the boiler manufacturing industry was still largely
subject to central planning. At project appraisal, all nine of the boiler manufacturers were state-owned
enterprises completed owned by their supervising government authorities, and the Ministry of Machinery
Industry was charged with responsible for the direction and development of the industry. The project
design reflected this situation, with a carefully designed set of centrally-guided interventions, aiming to
achieve maximum efficiency gains in each of the main product lines. Technology purchase requirements
were planned in great detail, and procurement was arranged accordingly, using the standard World Bank
procurement methods prevailing at that time. However, over the eight-year period following appraisal,
China made a major transition to a market economy, with central planning in the boiler industry basically
disappearing, and all but two of the nine boiler manufacturers becoming joint-stock companies or privately
owned companies. The market for coal-fired industrial boilers also changed markedly, with demand for
small-sizes diminishing, due to environmental protection measures, and demand for larger sizes increasing.

By adopting practical approaches, the implementing agency, boiler manufacturers and Bank team were able
to adapt to many of these changes. For example, many of the boiler manufacturers have utilized the
GEF-supported technologies purchased for boiler models and sizes outside of the original planned,
narrowly targeted scope.        However, in discussions during the ICR mission, both the Bank and
implementing agency teams agreed that if a similar project were to be designed today, facing today's
radically different economic structure and market, different approaches might be suggested. These could
include (a) design of fewer technology transfer/boiler manufacturing subprojects--totaling perhaps four or
five, and consolidating effort on those packages; (b) use of an output-based approach for procurement,
detailing the core requirements to be achieved in each subproject package (eg. energy savings levels), but
not specific designs, leaving procurement arrangements to be completed by boiler manufacturers using
broad commercial practices, and disbursing against previously agreed performance levels for both Phase 1,
followed by Phase 2; and (c) emphasis on overall energy savings performance indicators, rather than sales
figures for each boiler manufacturer. However, both the Bank and implementing agency teams also agreed
that such approaches could not have been adopted at that time. A flexible, output-based approach, in
particular, could not have been implemented by either the Ministry or the boiler manufacturers under their
control, as this would have been at odds with the current production planning system.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

         The Borrower accepts the findings and assessments of the ICR, and wants to stress the following
   points:

    l The GEF China Efficient Industrial Boilers Project has provided unprecedented support to the
         Chinese industrial boiler sector.         Despite encounting major difficulties and delays in
         implementation, the project stuck to its original goals and reached a satisfactory conclusion. The
         coal-saving objective of the project is fully consistent with China's national characteristics and the
         coal-saving capacity built through this project will have a lasting impact on China's sustainable
         development;
    l The project has markedly improved the design and maunfacturing capacity of all project
         beneficiaries through international technology transfer and investments in advanced production
         equipment. The project has advanced the technical and environmental standards of the entire
         industrial boiler sector in China with financial assistance in the development and commercialization
         of a wide range of upgraded and new coal-fired industrial boilers and auxiliary equipment, as well
         as technical assistance in the formulation and revision of relevant national and sector technical



                                                     - 13 -

        standards;
    l The project has helped propel the technical capacity of the Chinese boiler sector to the forefront of
        countries producing coal-fired industrial boilers. China already exports fuel-efficient coal-fired
        boilers to the international market, extending the project's benign impact beyound borders; and
    l Throughout the extended implementation period of the project, the Bank task team has worked
        diligently with Chinese counterparts to overcome many problems and difficulties during the
        implementation of this innovative project. The Bank persistant support and valuable assistance are
        highly appreciated.

    Further comments from the Government project supervisory agency are in Annex 8.

(b) Cofinanciers:

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Not applicable.

10. Additional Information

Not Applicable.




                                                    - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                              1
                Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                    Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Improved coal utilization: reduce CO2      #1           Not Approved for Phase 2    Not Applicable
emissions due to improved coal utilization in #2             95                        #2              95
industrial boilers ( coal consumption         #3            147                        #3             147
reduction kg/hr) in Year 2004                 #4            292                        #4             292
                                              #5            150                        #5             150
                                              #6             98                        #6              98
                                              #7           1151                        #7            1151
                                              #8           1281                        #8            1281
                                              #9           1453                        #9            1453

2. Increased new boiler production and sales 9478 tph, from 8 boilerworks              9230 tph, from 8 boilerworks
volume of all subproject enterprises (in 2004)

3. Increased steaming capacity ratio of new   10%                                      18% **
boilers (2004)




** Includes boilers equipped with GEF-supported grates.

Output Indicators:
                                                                              1
                Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                    Actual/Latest Estimate
Predetermined performance criteria for model
boiler units at the completion of Phase 1:
Minimum thermal efficiency
at 100%/60% load
                                              #1        78/76%                         #1         78/76%
                                              #2        78/76%                         #2         78/76%
                                              #3        78/76%                         #3         78/76%
                                              #4        82/80%                         #4         82/80%
                                              #5        78/78%                         #5         78/78%
                                              #6        78/76%                         #6         78/76%
                                              #7        80/78%                         #7         80/78%
                                              #8        80/78%                         #8         80/78%
                                              #9        85/84%                         #9         85/84%

Reduced dust emissions
                                              100 mg/Nm3 for all subprojects except #4 100 mg/Nm3 for all subprojects except #4

                                              #4 = 200 mg/Nm3                          #4 = 200 mg/Nm3

Reduced SO2 emissions of the improved
boiler models
                                              #4     80% reduction                     #4      80% reduction
                                              #9     90% reduction                     #9      90% reduction




1End of project




                                                              - 15 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                Appraisal    Actual/Latest        Percentage of
                                                                Estimate        Estimate            Appraisal
                          Component                            US$ million      US$ million
Upgrading of existing boilers                                     43.07              70.04               163
Adoption of new boiler designs                                    36.00              46.64               130
Technical assistance                                               2.08                2.30              110
Project management and M&E                                         2.12                2.12              100

Total Baseline Cost                                               83.27            121.10
  Physical Contingencies                                           5.11
  Price Contingencies                                              7.41
                            Total Project Costs                   95.79            121.10
                             Interest during construction          5.59
                     Total Financing Required                    101.38            121.10
Project Costs and Financing by Component
(thousand US$)

Project Component                        Appraisal Estimate              Actual/Latest Estimate       Percentage
                                    Local      GEF         Total     Local       GEF         Total    of Appraisal
Upgrading of existing boilers        28,747     14,319      43,066     54,894     15,150       70,044        61%
Adoption of new boiler designs       24,007     11,990      35,997     32,753     13,890       46,643        77%
Technical assistance                    789       1,294      2,083       789       1,512        2,301        90%
Project management and M&E              813       1,306      2,119       813      1,306         2,119       100%
   Total baseline cost               54,356     28,909      83,265

Contingencies                         8,623       3,903   1 2,526
   Total project cost                62,979     32,812      95,791

Interest during construction          5,586
   Total financing required          68,565     32,812     101,377     89,249     31,858     121,107         83%
Local = beneficary enterprises and government




                                                   - 16 -

Project Costs (GEF grant only) by Procurement Arrangement (Appraisal Estimate)
(thousand US$)

Project Component                               Procurement Method
                                      LIB         DC          Other    Total
Upgrading of existing boilers           6,861       5,081               11,942
Adoption of new boiler designs          9,550       1,370               10,920
Production equipment                                3,910        3,440   7,350
Technical assistance                                             1,294   1,294
Project management and M&E                                       1,306   1,306
Total                                  16,411      10,361        6,040  32,812
LIB = limited international bidding
DC = direct contract
Other = international and national shopping, and consultant services

Project Costs (GEF grant only) by Procurement Arrangement (Actual/Latest Estimate)
(thousand US$)

Project Component                               Procurement Method
                                      LIB         DC          Other    Total
Upgrading of existing boilers           6,408       4,233          299  10,940
Adoption of new boiler designs          5,981       3,922          168  10,070
Production equipment                    3,089       1,037        3,904   8,030
Technical assistance                                             1,512   1,512
Project management and M&E                                      1,306   1,306
Total                                  15,478       9,192        7,301  31,858




                                                     - 17 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The cost effectiveness of the project was re-evaluated based on re-estimated carbon dioxide emission
reduction potential resulted directly from GEF investment and the approved total GEF grant of US$32.8
million, although the actual spending was about one million US dollar short of the approved amount due to
currency exchange losses.

The following information and assumptions are used in the recalculation of carbon dioxide emission
reduction potential:

    1. Sales of GEF-supported boilers in 2003 and 2004 from the eight beneficiary boiler makers who
        completed Phase 2 investments;
    2. Sales of GEF-supported boiler grates in 2003 and 2004 from Yongning Foundry Factory;
    3. Projected sales of GEF-supported boilers and grates based on recent sales and investment in
        production capacity;
    4. The maximum annual production and sales of GEF-supported boilers from the eight boiler makers
        are limited to 24,000 tph;
    5. The maximum annual production and sales of GEF-supported boiler grates from Yongning are
        limited to 24,000 tph equivalent;
    6. On average the GEF-supported boilers imporve thermal efficiency by 5 percentage points over
        their market alternatives, from 73% to 78%;
    7. On average boilers which use GEF-supported grates improve thermal efficiency by 3 percantage
        points over boilers with alternative grates, from 73% to 76%;
    8. Eighty percent of the Yongning grates supply the eight beneficiary boiler makers;
    9. The average annual operation of industrial boilers (for steam generation and space heating) is
        equivalent of 2500 hours of full load operation; and
  10. The average life of industrial boilers is 16 years.

The following table is a summary of the calculation results:




                                                     - 18 -

              Impact of Eight Beneficiary Boiler Makers                  Impact of Yongning Foundry Factory
         Boiler Sales Boilers in 1tph annual Annual           Total Grate Net Sales Grates in   1tph annual Annual
                      Operation coal savings Coal Savings Sales           to Others Operation coal savings Coal Savings
         (tph)                   (tce)         (million tce)  (tph)                             (tce)      (million tce)
    2000
    2001
    2002
    2003       6,810                      18.9                    13,000      7,552                    11.6
    2004       9,230       6,810          18.9          0.13      20,000     12,616      7,552         11.6         0.09
    2005      12,000      16,040          18.9          0.30      24,000     14,400     20,168         11.6         0.23
    2006      15,000      28,040          18.9          0.53      24,000     12,000     34,568         11.6         0.40
    2007      18,000      43,040          18.9          0.81      24,000      9,600     46,568         11.6         0.54
    2008      21,000      61,040          18.9          1.15      24,000      7,200     56,168         11.6         0.65
    2009      24,000      82,040          18.9          1.55      24,000      4,800     63,368         11.6         0.74
    2010      24,000     106,040          18.9          2.00      24,000      4,800     68,168         11.6         0.79
    2011      24,000     130,040          18.9          2.46      24,000      4,800     72,968         11.6         0.85
    2012      24,000     154,040          18.9          2.91      24,000      4,800     77,768         11.6         0.90
    2013      24,000     178,040          18.9          3.36      24,000      4,800     82,568         11.6         0.96
    2014      24,000     202,040          18.9          3.82      24,000      4,800     87,368         11.6         1.01
    2015      24,000     226,040          18.9          4.27      24,000      4,800     92,168         11.6         1.07
    2016      24,000     250,040          18.9          4.73      24,000      4,800     96,968         11.6         1.12
    2017      24,000     274,040          18.9          5.18      24,000      4,800    101,768         11.6         1.18
    2018      24,000     298,040          18.9          5.63      24,000      4,800    106,568         11.6         1.24
    2019      24,000     322,040          18.9          6.09      24,000      4,800    111,368         11.6         1.29

Subtotal                                              44.93                                                       13.06


       tph = ton-steam per hour (equivalent of 0.7MW)
       tce = ton of coal equivalent, or about 29.3 GJ

       The total direct impact of the project on coal consumption is re-estimated at about 58 million tce
       cumulative savings achieved by 2019, resulting in about 160 million metric ton of CO emission reduction,
                                                                                                2
       compared with the appraisal estimates of 67 million tce and 180 metric million ton of CO , respectively.
                                                                                                      2
       The undiscounted unit cost of CO emission reduction to GEF is re-estimated at about US$0.21/ton-CO ,
                                          2                                                                       2
       compared with the appraisal estimate of about US$0.18/ton-CO . Recent observed international prices for
                                                                         2
       project-based greenhouse gas emission reduction usually fall in the range of US$3-$5/ton-CO -equivalent.
                                                                                                        2
       This reassessment of project impact re-affirms the project's cost-effectiveness in reducing CO emissions.
                                                                                                      2




                                                            - 19 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              January 1994
              July 1994
              December 1995

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              June 1996
              November 1996

 Supervision

              08/28/1997                3    TASK MANAGER (1);                S
                                             ECONOMIST (1); BOILER
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              04/06/1998                3    TASK MANAGER (1);                S
                                             CONSULTANT (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1)
              08/29/1998                3    TASK MANAGER (1);                S
                                             CONSULTANT (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT OFFICER (1)
              06/23/1999                3    TASK MANAGER (1);                S
                                             CONSULTANT (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
              10/22/1999                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              10/22/1999                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S
                                             INDUSTRIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); TECHNOLOGY
                                             TRANSFER SP (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT SPCIALIST
                                             (1)
              03/22/2001                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S
                                             INDUSTRIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT OFFICER
                                             (2); BOILER CONSULTANT (1)
              10/27/2001                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S
                                             INDUSTRIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                             DISB. SPECIALIST (1)
              06/18/2002                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S
                                             INDUSTRIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); DISB. SPECIALIST (1);
                                             BOILER SPECIALIST (1)
              11/07/2003                4    LEAD ENERGY SPECIALIST           S



                                              - 20 -

                                           (1); SR.OPERATIONS OFFR
                                           (1); CONSULTANT (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1)


 ICR
               10/18/2004             2     LEAD ENERGY                       S    S
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            cONSULTANT (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision
  ICR
  Total




                                            - 21 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. Aide Memories and Project Status Reports;

2. Borrower's Evalauation Report, draft received on September 26, 2004;

3. Sales reports from project beneficiaries;

4. Consultant Study Reports financed under the project; and

5. Project Document: China Efficient Industrial Boilers (Report No. 16132-CHA).




                                                  - 24 -

Additional Annex 8. Letter from Government of China on ICR

Dear Mr. Taylor:

     The GEF China Efficient Industrial Boiler Project was completed on July 30, 2004. The project
management team of the World Bank has summarized the implementation states of the project, and drawn
out ICR of GEF China Efficient Industrial Boiler Project (for discussion) (hereinafter Report). Based on
hearing the work report of Project Management Office, I have carefully read the total content of the Report.
In my opinion, the Report has evaluated the implementation course and final achievements of China
Efficient Industrial Boiler Project more roundly and objectively. It is the conclusion that the gains of China
Efficient Industrial Boiler Project are successful in these different aspects such as project content,
achievements, effect on the Chinese industrial boiler industry, the sustainability of project and so on. Both
my colleagues and I in National Development and Reform Committee basically agree with the conclusions
of the Report, and the suggestions we put forward are listed as follows:

    I.   GEF China Efficient Industrial Boiler Project is one of the projects which are earliest supported by
         GEF with the largest amount of grant, broadest scope concerned, most project content and
         strongest effect on all aspects up to now. From investigation and research, design, implementation
         and final accomplishment, GEF China Efficient Industrial Boiler Project has passed the whole
         course basically in terms of the scheduled target and path, although the implementation course,
         resulted by many factors, was extended twice. There were two factories (one boiler maker and one
         auxiliary equipment maker) which did not enter the second stage after the first stage ended.
         Because of bad performance, one announced bankruptcy and one was sold to a foreign company.
         All kinds of assessment indexes of the project have reached the requirements in the grant agreement
         and its appendixes.

    II. All contents of GEF China Efficient Industrial Boiler Project are conducted around coal burning
         boiler, which is completely corresponding to the basic national condition of China. As one large
         country with plentiful coal resource, the resource policy with the coal as main body is the
         fundamental national policy of China. Population, resource and environment are the three
         significant problems that the whole world must face, especially to China, their importance is more
         prominent. Beginning with the resource and environment, the contents of the project have become
         one significant part of the sustainable development of Chinese national economy. As to the features
         of the project itself, its sustainability is more obvious. With the continuously quickening step of
         industrialization and urbanization, the actual quantity demanded for industrial boiler will
         continuously increase. According to statistical information, the market sales volume of industrial
         boiler in 2003 has approximately come to 120,000 t/h, among which the proportion of coal burning
         boiler is over 80% and increase by approximately 15% than that of 2002. All the measures taken,
         including this project, to increase the coal burning efficiency of industrial boiler and spare no effort
         to reduce pollution will contribute greatly to realize the comprehensive basic wealth targets of
         China.

    III. GEF China Efficient Industrial Boiler Project has played a compelling and great pushing role in
         adjusting the product structure of Chinese industry boiler manufacturing, transiting the design
         idea, improving the technology level, enlarging the productivity and perfecting the marketing
         system. The resulting scale of technology reformation is unprecedented, such as fixed asset
         investment, introduction of design and manufacturing technology, training of all kinds of
         management personnel and engineering technicians and even the abroad reviewing and studying of



                                                      - 25 -

    various management experiences, their effects are also obvious to all. The beneficiary boiler
    manufacturing factories, whether judged by enterprise scale, production capacity, or technology
    level, are among the strongest in the Chinese industrial boiler industry. From the aspect of
    enterprise quantity, their proportion in the total quantity of industrial boiler industry is 1.3%,
    however, their market sales volume has been near to 30% of the total sales volume of the whole
    industry. With the complete finish of technology reformation of project support, their production
    capacity will still be improved obviously. At the same time, with the continuous popularization of
    technology introduction of the project, the market share of new model boiler which conforms to the
    energy conservation and environmental protection requirements will be increased significantly. It is
    sure that the contribution of the project to Chinese industrial boiler industry is very satisfactory. In
    this point, the project deserves high emphasis and appropriate evaluation.

IV. GEF China Efficient Industrial Boiler Project has helped Chinese industrial boiler industry to
    exploit international market. The markets of coal burning boiler in the world are located
    fundamentally in west Asian, East Europe and Southern American. In current, the technology and
    quality level of Chinese industrial boiler has kept ahead in these regions, and have been accepted
    by the market. As the export scale keeps enlarging, the project will produce satisfactory
    achievements about the effect on popularization of the technology of high performance industrial
    boiler in the whole world, environmental protection, especially on reducing the emission of carbon
    dioxide.

V. As the governing organization of the implementation of GEF China Efficient Industrial Boiler
    Project, the World Bank has provided great help to the related departments and enterprises of
    China, which was important for this was the largest, most complex and broadest representative of
    the earliest bulk items of GEF, and there was no support from referenced successful experiences.
    Especially in the stage of technology introduction, all of the current purchase manual, payment
    procedure and standard contract model were not applicable to the project. The project manager of
    World Bank and project management office have worked together, accompanying exploiting and
    concluding at the same time, to solve every concrete problem encountered at any time. Proved by
    the nearly ten years of cooperative work experience, the work of project management team and
    project manager of World Bank, project manager and those of the project management office of
    China are successful. As a result, I think that GEF China Efficient Industrial Boiler Project can act
    as one successful case of co-operation between Chinese government, World Bank and GEF.
    Herein, I express great respect and unfeigned admiration to the work of all concerned departments
    of the World Bank and all the staff of the project management team of China Efficient Industrial
    Boiler Project. I also offer faithful thanks to their support and help for all counterparts in China,
    and I expect wider co-operation in more fields in the future.


                                                                                                Liu Xianfa
                             Deputy Director of Department of Environment and Resource Conservation
                                                           National Development and Reform Committee

                                                                                        November 8, 2004




                                                 - 26 -

- 27 -

