Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF 028484 CHA
Global Environment Facility
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Efficient Industrial Boilers Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
Dated February 14, 1997
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF 028484 CHA
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 14, 1997, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting 
as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant 
funds provided to the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund (GEF Trust Fund) by 
certain members of the Bank as participants of the GEF.
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of 
the global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development;
(B)
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements are continued 
in place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank establishing the GEF Trust Fund; and
(C)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested assistance 
from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund in the financing of the Project, and the Bank 
has determined that such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of 
Resolution No. 94-2 referred to above; 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), 
(18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 and 
6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; 
(x)
Article XI.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: "the term "Special Drawing Rights" and the symbol 
"SDR" mean special drawing rights as valued by the International 
Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement";
(ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting as an 
implementing agency of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, the 
term "Bank" shall also include the Bank acting in its own 
capacity;
(iii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan" and "loan", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant;
(vi)
the term "Loan Account", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account;
(vii)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read: "Except 
as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods 
produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any 
import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of 
the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations.";
(viii)a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (j) in Section 6.02 
of the General Conditions, as follows: "an extraordinary situation 
shall have arisen in which any further disbursement under the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant would exceed the resources available for 
disbursement from the GEF."; and
Page  3
(ix)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Recipient to make withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account shall have 
been suspended with respect to any amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant for a 
continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, 
after consultation with the Recipient, that an amount of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant will not be required to finance the Project’s costs to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, or (c) at any time, the Bank 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in 
by 
representatives of the Recipient or of a beneficiary of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant 
during the procurement or the execution of such contract, without the 
Recipient having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank 
to 
remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect 
of 
such contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of 
the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, or (d) at any time, the Bank 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant is inconsistent with the procedures set 
forth or referred to in the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement and establishes the 
amount 
of expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have 
been eligible 
for financing out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, 
or (e) after 
the Closing Date, an amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall 
remain 
unwithdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, or (f) the Bank 
shall 
have received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with 
respect to an amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the Bank may, by notice to 
the Recipient and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, such 
amount 
of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be cancelled."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) 
"Participating Enterprise" means a company to which the Recipient 
proposes to make or has made a Sub-grant;
(b) 
"Boiler Subproject" means a specific development project to be carried 
out by a Participating Enterprise under Part A of the Project and financed in part 
from  the proceeds of a Sub-grant, in accordance with Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(c)
"Boiler Subproject Implementation Agreement" means, in respect of each 
Boiler Subproject, the agreement referred to in Part F of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, to be entered into between MMI on behalf of the Recipient and the 
Participating Enterprise which proposes to carry out said Boiler Subproject, as said 
agreement may be amended from time to time;
(d) 
"MMI" means the Recipient’s Ministry of Machinery Industry, and any 
successor thereto;
(e)
"PMO" means the project management office in MMI set up for the 
management of the Project as provided to in Part A.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(f)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(g)
"Sub-grant" means any grant made, or proposed to be made, by the 
Recipient, out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, to a Participating 
Enterprise for a Boiler Subproject.
ARTICLE II
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty two million eight hundred 
Page  4
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 22,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of (i) Sub-grants under Part A of the Project and (ii) the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for carrying out Parts B and C of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant.
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of  the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through MMI with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate boiler manufacturing, financial, administrative, energy efficiency and 
licensing practices and with due regard to ecological and environmental factors, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
Page  5
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness, Termination
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the 
parties.
Section 5.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all 
their obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China
Page  6
Cable address:
Telex:
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as 
of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Pan Xiaojiang
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
  as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility
By /s/ Nicholas C. Hope
Authorized Representative
East Asia and Pacific Region
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
1
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
GEF Trust Fund Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Subgrants under
   18,220,000
100% of amounts
Part A of the Project
disbursed
(2)
Consultants’ services:
(a)  Under Part B of 
the Project
900,000
100%
(b)  Under Part C of 
the Project
      740,000
100%
(3)
Goods under Part C of 
the Project                   180,000                 100% of foreign
Page  7
expenditures, 
100% of local 
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and  
75% of local 
expenditures for
other items 
procured locally 
(4)
Unallocated
   2,760,000
TOTAL
  22,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule 1:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of Recipient for goods or services supplied from the territory 
of any country other than that of Recipient; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of Recipient.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; (b) a Sub-grant under Part A of the Project, unless the Boiler Subproject 
Implementation Agreement providing therefor has been approved by the Bank pursuant to 
Part E of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (c) payments under Category 1 for expenditures 
in connection with Phase 1 of any Boiler Subproject (as described in Part D.1 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement) unless an implementation plan for such Subproject has 
been found satisfactory by the Bank; and (d) payments under Category 1, for the 
carrying out of Phase 2 of any Boiler Subproject (as described in Part D.2 of Schedule 
4 to this Agreement), unless  Phase 1 of said Boiler Subproject (as described in Part 
D.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement) has been completed to the satisfaction of the 
Bank and the Bank has advised PMO accordingly.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures:
(a) goods under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; and
(b) Contracts for the employment of consulting firms costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each and contracts for the employment of individuals costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent each; 
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.
5.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal 
to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions and 
other air pollutants through the introduction of more efficient and clean boiler 
technologies to improve the thermal efficiency of small and medium sized industrial 
boilers.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives.
Page  8
Part A:
Efficient Boilers Subprojects
The carrying out of subprojects for the design and manufacture of highly 
efficient and clean industrial boilers, including the introduction of new 
technologies.
Part B:
Dissemination of Advanced Boiler Technologies
Dissemination of the clean and high efficiency boiler technologies developed 
under Part A of the Project through, inter alia:
(1)
the upgrading of boiler operator training and boiler operator certification 
programs;
(2)
 the organization of a nationwide marketing campaign;
(3)
the establishment of a pilot dissemination program in the municipalities of 
Beijing, Chongqing and Harbin, in collaboration with national-level environment and 
planning agencies;
(4) 
the development and dissemination of a best-practice program and action plan for 
providing customer service to industrial boiler consumers;
(5)
provision of information, domestic site visits and training for boiler 
manufacturers other than Participating Enterprises, for disseminating the advanced 
technologies demonstrated under the Project; 
(6)
the development and implementation of revised standards for industrial boilers, 
including those regarding thermal efficiency, emissions, safety and coal quality; 
(7)
the preparation and dissemination of design manuals and software incorporating 
design improvements resulting from Part A of the Project including, design procedures, 
the selection and compatibility of auxiliary equipment and accessories, and the 
demonstration and verification testing of prototypes; and
(8)
the development of (i) improvements in overall boiler house design in line with 
international standards, and (ii) improved integrated boiler technology.
Part C:
Strengthening Project Management
Strengthening of PMO through:
(1)
the development of monitoring and evaluation systems, including the provision of 
monitoring equipment; and 
(2)
the carrying out of training and workshops for PMO staff in marketing, finance 
and management.
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods 
Part. A.
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
Page  9
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B.
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Recipient .
(b)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Design and manufacturing technology for Part A of the Project, which the Bank 
agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the 
cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods (other than design and manufacturing technology for Part A of the Project) 
estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 but more than $250,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,690,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. National 
Shopping
Goods (other than design and manufacturing technology for Part A of the Project) 
estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Direct Contracting
Design and manufacturing technology for Part A of the Project that can only be 
purchased from one supplier, and goods which are of a proprietary nature, may, with 
the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Page  10
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.
Project management and monitoring
1.
The Recipient shall implement the Project through MMI and shall ensure that MMI 
shall establish and maintain throughout the implementation of the Project a Project 
Management Office (the PMO) staffed by competent staff in adequate numbers to be 
responsible for overall coordination and supervision of Project execution, the 
supervision of the procurement of goods and services thereunder, the overall 
assessment of the quality and impact of the Project and the preparation and furnishing  
to the Bank of reports and other information thereon.
2.
The Recipient shall, through 
MMI, maintain policies and procedures adequate 
to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with 
indicators acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project as well as the 
achievement of the objectives thereof. 
3.
The Recipient shall, through MMI, submit semi-annual progress reports, including 
the disbursement status of each Boiler Subproject, not later than February 15 and 
August 15 of each year on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the immediately preceding semester. Said reports shall integrate the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 1 above and 
set out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof in the then current semester. After 
furnishing each such report, the Recipient shall review said report with the Bank and 
promptly take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
Page  11
recommendations of said report and taking into account the Bank’s views on the matter.
4.
The Recipient shall, through MMI:
a)  submit to the Bank annually not later than February 15 a report on the 
financial condition and operation status of each Participating Enterprise, in 
accordance with parameters agreed with the Bank; and
b)  prepare and furnish to the Bank no later than February 28, 1997 a plan for 
the implementation of the pilot dissemination program in each of participating 
municipalities.
B.
Sub-grants 
The Recipient shall ensure that MMI carries out Part A of the Project in 
accordance with the following procedures:
1.
Sub-grants shall be made by the Recipient to Participating Enterprises selected 
by MMI for the financing of Boiler Subprojects. The proceeds of the Sub-grants shall 
be used to procure goods (including design and manufacturing technology) and services 
required for the carrying out of the Boiler Subprojects. At least 25% of the proceeds 
of any Sub-grant shall be allocated to Phase 2 of the Boiler Subproject concerned, as 
described in Part D.2 below.
2.
Sub-grants shall be denominated in SDRs and payable in Dollars and shall be made 
available to Participating Enterprises on a non-reimbursable basis.
3. 
Each Participating Enterprise shall be limited to one Sub-grant, the amount of 
which shall be available to finance up to 40% of goods and services procured for 
Boiler Subproject implementation, net of taxes.  At least 10% of the total cost of any 
Boiler Subproject shall be financed by the Participating Enterprise concerned from its 
own resources.
4.
A Participating Enterprise may, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Recipient and the Bank, enter into arrangements with one or more auxiliary equipment 
manufacturers to assist the Participating Enterprise in the carrying out of its Boiler 
Subproject including the procurement of appropriate auxiliary equipment technology.
C. Participating 
Enterprises
Each Participating Enterprise shall be selected by MMI to implement a Boiler 
Subproject based on the following criteria:
(1)
its technical capability and management efficiency;
(2)
its financial viability;
(3)
the technical soundness of the proposed Boiler Subproject; 
(4)
the technology transfer arrangements of the proposed Boiler Subproject;
(5)
the thermal efficiency and pollution reduction resulting from the proposed
Boiler Subproject; and
(6)
cost benefit analysis of the proposed Boiler Subproject. 
D. Boiler 
Subprojects
Each Boiler Subproject shall consist of the design and manufacturing of high 
efficiency and clean boilers in two phases as follows:
(1)
Phase 1, comprising:
(a)
the design and production of a demonstration boiler unit;
(b)
verification of said demonstration unit to test compliance with specific 
technical and environmental performance criteria and domestic and international safety 
standards, and
(c)
the preparation of production, financing and marketing plans for Phase 2. 
Page  12
(2)
Phase 2: conversion of the Participating Enterprise’s production facilities to 
bring the  demonstration unit into production.  
E.
Boiler Subproject Approval
No expenditures incurred in connection with the implementation of any Boiler 
Subproject shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant unless: (i) the Boiler Subproject Implementation Agreement for such Boiler 
Subproject (as referred to in Part F of this Schedule 4) shall have been approved by 
Recipient and the Bank; and (ii) the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it 
that the Participating Enterprise has no objection to the signing on its behalf of the 
technology transfer arrangements with respect to such Boiler Subproject.
F. 
Boiler Subproject Implementation Agreements
Sub-grants shall be made on terms whereby the Recipient shall obtain, by a 
written agreement with the Participating Enterprise rights adequate to protect the 
interests of the Bank and the Recipient, including the right to:
(1)
require the Participating Enterprise to carry out and operate the Boiler 
Subproject in accordance with this Agreement and with due diligence, efficiency as 
well as sound technical, financial and managerial standards, and to maintain adequate 
records;
(2)
require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and (ii) such goods and services shall be used 
exclusively in the carrying out of the Boiler Subproject;
(3)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall 
so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included in the 
Boiler Subproject, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(4)
require that: (i) the Participating Enterprise shall take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall 
be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the 
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to the place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made 
payable in a currency freely usable by the Participating Enterprise to replace or 
repair such goods;
(5)
obtain all such information as the Bank or the Recipient shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the Participating Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the 
Boiler Subproject;
(6)
suspend or terminate the right of the Participating Enterprise to the use of the 
proceeds of the Sub-grant upon failure by such Participating Enterprise to perform its 
obligations under its Boiler Subproject Implementation Agreement with the Recipient;
(7)
require that the locations of the demonstration units be identified and that 
environmental assessments from appropriate local government agencies be obtained prior 
to demonstration unit construction; 
(8)
require that the technical, environmental and safety standards for the 
verification of the demonstration unit are satisfactory to the Bank; and
(9)
require that each Participating Enterprise submit to the Recipient, no later 
than January 31 in each year, the financial statements for the immediately preceding 
year for such Enterprise. 
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 through 3 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
Page  13
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$2,200,000,  to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, 
that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited 
to an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions  shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 7,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the  Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the  Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the  Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents 
and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
Page  14
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated 
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the  Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the  Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
