Document of
The World Bank
FOR OF'FICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 18086
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURKINA FASO
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SUPPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1979-BUR)
June 26, 1998
Rural Development III
Country Department 15
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 1998)
Currency Unit = FCFA Franc (CFAF)
CFAF 100 = US$0.16
US$1 = CFAF 614
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
Vice President!    Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:    Hasan Tuluy
Sector Manager:    Jean-Paul Chausse
Task Team Leader:    Turto Turtiainen
Ibrahim Nebie-
The exchange rate of the CFAF is fixed at 100:1 to the French Franc which is a floating currency.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATrION AND ACRONYMS
BPAF           Bureaux de Promotion des Activites Feminines
(Office for Promotion of Women's Activities))
CFFA           Centre de Formation des Formateurs Agricoles
(Agricultural Trainers Training Center))
CFJA           Centre de Formation des Je unes Agriculteurs
(Young Farmers Training C:enter)
CPAF           Coordination Provinciales ies Activites des Femmes
(Provincial Coordination of Women's Activities))
DVA            Direction de Vulgarisation Agricole
(Directorate of Agricultural Extension)
DRARA          Directions Regionale de l 'Agriculture et des Ressources Animales
(Regional Directorate of Agriculture and Animal Resources)
FAAGRA         Fonds d'Appui aux Activites Generatrices de Revenus des Agricultrices
(Fund for Women's Income Generating Activities)
MAE            Ministere de l 'Agriculture et de I 'Elevage
(Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock)
MACP           Minist&e de l 'Action Cooperative Paysanne
(Ministry of Farmers' Cooperative Action)
M&E            Monitoring and Evaluation
PAPEM          Points d'Appui de Prevulgarisation et d'Expl rimentation Multiple
(Multilocational Experimentation Sites)
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
T&V            Training and Visit
VEW            Village Extension Worker
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
IIURKINA FASO
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SUPPORT PROJECT
(Credit 1979-BUR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Preface ................................i
Evaluation Summary ............................... ii
PART 1: ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ...............................I
A. INTRODUCTION .I
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES                                          .2
Description of Objectives                              .2
Evaluation of Objectives and RFisks .....................................:.3
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES                                        .3
Agricultural Extension                                .3
Livestock Services                                  .7
Functional Literacy                                 .7
Studies and Pilot Operations                             .7
Monitoring and Evaluation                               .8
D. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING                                        .8
E. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT                                      .8
F.  PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .....................................,.9
G. BANK PERFORMANCE ........................... 0
H. BORROWER PERFORMANCE .......................... 11
I.  IMPLEMENTING AGENCY .........................                                               11
J. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .........................                                              11
K. FUTURE OPERATIONS .........................                                                  11
L.  KEY LESSONS LEARNED .........................                                              12
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES .........................                                          13
Table 1. Summary of Assessments .........................                                      13
Table 2. Related Bank Loans/Credits I.......................... 14
Table 3. Project Timetable .........................                                           15
Table 4.: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .................. .............. 15
Table 5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation . .................................................... 16
Table 6. Key Indicators for Project Operations ..................   .................................. 17
Table 7. Studies Included in Project .................................................... 17
Table 8. A. Project Costs ....................................................                 18
B. ProjectFinancing ....................................................             18



TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)                                                                              Page
Table 9.  Economic Costs and Benefits .......................................... 18
Table 10. Legal Convenants .......................................... 19
Table 11. Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .........................              ................. 30
Table 12  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .......................................... 30
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ..........................................                                 31
APPENDICES
ICR Mission Aide-Memoire
Completion Report prepared by Borrower
MAPS: IBRD 21004
IBRD 21005



- i -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BIURKINA FASO
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SUPPORT PROJECT
(Credit 1979-BUR)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion report for the Agricultural Support Services
Project, for which Credit 1979-BUR in the amount of SDR 31 million (equivalent to US$42
million) was approved on January 17, 1989, signed on January 28, 1989, and made effective on
May 26, 1989. The Credit was closed on December 31, 1997, three years after the original
closing date of December 31, 1994. The last disbursement took place on June 11,1998.
The completion report was drawn by Yves-Coffi Prudencio, Agriculturist, AFTR3. It
was reviewed by Hasan Tuluy, Director of Operations for Burkina Faso . Preparation of this
report was begun during a mission to Burkina Faso in February 1998; the aide-memoire of that
mission is attached.  The implementation report is based on the project documents,
correspondence, supervision reports, the appraisal report, and the credit agreement.  The
Borrower contributed to the preparalion of the ICR by drawing up its own project
implementation report in February 1998, which was updated in June 1998, and by submitting
comments on the draft completion report,
2 Editorial assistance were kindly provided b) Isabelle Girardot-Berg and Dirk N. Prevoo



- ii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BUlRKINA FASO
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SUPPORT PROJECT
(Credit 1979-BUR)
EVALUALTION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    This Implementation Completion Rteport evaluates the Agricultural Services Support
Project in Burkina Faso, which was executed by the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock.
Project Objectives
2.    The project constituted the first phase of a long-term national program aimed at
strengthening agricultural services. It had three main objectives: (i) to improve the effectiveness
of agricultural and livestock extension services in transferring technology to farmers, (ii) to
strengthen animal health services, and (iii) to provide functional literacy training to farmers,
thereby enhancing their ability to participate more directly in technology generation and
dissemination. The project's three development objectives were coherent with Government's
strategy which focused on technology transfer as the means for achieving the goal of agricultural
productivity growth.
Achievements of Objectives
3.    The project substantially achieved its first two stated objectives of improving the
effectiveness and impact of the extension services in transferring technology to farmers,
strengthening adaptive research programs and improving animal health services. The project,
however, failed to fully achieve its objective of providing functional literacy training to farmers.
Given the relatively small weight of the latter objective in terms of funding and expected output,
the project is rated as having satisfactorily achieved its objectives. Project implementation was
much slower than expected, and there were three one-year extensions of the closing date.
4.    Agricultural Extension and Training. Agricultural extension services were in charge of
transferring crop, livestock and environment management technologies to farmers. A Training
and Visit (T&V) type of extension system was successfully implemented across the thirty
provinces of the country by a thousand Village Extension Workers (VEW). The introduction of
participatory diagnosis from 1993 onwards considerably helped improve the relevance of
training and research themes, and overtimne the project significantly adapted the technological
packages to farmers' needs. Training and mass-communication objectives of the project were
also met.
5.    Overall adoption rates were satisfactory.  Most successful extension themes were
soilVseedbed preparation, row planting, use of organic manure, animal traction, organic manure



- iii -
production and post harvest crop conservation. The most successful livestock technologies were
crop residues conservation, habitat hygiene, and cutting and conservation of forage. The
adoption of animal production technologies, particularly thle nutrition technologies, led in the
studied sample to an improvement in key production parameters (e.g. lactation periods, birth
intervals, and death rates. These have resulted in a wide spread adoption of small ruminants
fattening practices, particularly by women, across the countr y.
6.    Adaptative research was carried out largely as expected with the construction or
rehabilitation of 17 multilocational experimentation sites (PAPEMs), and on-farm research trials
in about 700 plots per year. Nevertheless, more decentralized consultation workshops between
research and extension staff would have enhanced the efficiency of the linkage between both.
7.    Livestock Health Services.  An important means to strengthening livestock health
services was the privatization of the veterinary profession. Legislation was enacted as planned to
achieve this important objective. Investments (livestock clinics, warehouses for drugs and feed,
vaccination pens, field labs, virology unit, livestock documentation center) were largely executed
as planned. Also staff training, including high level technicians and livestock village extension
workers, took place as expected. As a result, the country's capacity to analyze livestock
samples, diagnose diseases, and conduct vaccination campaigns increased substantially. This is
evidenced by the reduced death rates (from 6 to 2 percent for cattle, 17 to 9 percent for small
ruminants and 70 to 25 percent for poultry), which were brought about by both nutrition and
animal health interventions.
8.    Functional Literacy. Despite a good start, this component had only a negligible impact.
Half the physical investments and most of the training of traiiners was carried out, but only some
5,500 farmers received literacy training, or less than 10 percent of the appraisal target.
Following a lack of transparency in the management of project funds by the Ministry in charge
of the component (Ministere de l'Action Cooperative Paysanne, MACP), the component was
suspended, and most of its resources were reallocated to other components. Remaining resources
were used to provide financial contributions to the liteiracy activities of the Ministry of
Education.
9.    Other Components. A pilot microcredit scheme, initiated in 1993, to benefit women
farner organizations was highly successful. The funds were used for income generating
activities. About 18,000 women farmers benefited. Repayment rates were close to 100 percent.
The experience gained with this and another similar component in the parallel IDA-financed
Food Security Project will serve to design a microcrediit component for the forthcoming
Community-Based Rural Development Program.
10.   The Monitoring and Evaluation component was carried out as planned. Apart from
some disruptions caused by the justifiable use of project-funded enumerators by the national
statistical service, the M&E Unit played its role well. In retrospect, more impact indicators
could have been included in the M&E system. This wEas largely compensated for by the
implementation of two independent impact studies.
Plans for Future Operation and Sustainability
11.   In view of the continuously satisfactory status of the project, a follow up second phase
operation, the Second National Agricultural Services Development Project, was prepared and a



- iv -
new development credit agreement, Cr.2974-BU, was signed in December 1997. This second
project will contribute to the sustainability of project investments by further strengthening the
efficiency and relevance of the country's extension service.
12.    The role of the existing broad-based government extension service is expected to evolve
overtime in two directions. First, there will be increasing devolution of responsibility to farmers'
organizations, especially for specialized, higher value crops and livestock products. This will
lower the cost borne by the Government (estimated at US$9 per farm family). Second, VEW
will be called increasingly more to support the on-going process of participation by village
communities in the identification and execution of village development plans.
Borrower and Bank Performance
13.    The Borrower's performance  was mixed  but is deemed  satisfactory  overall.
Performance by the MACP, which was in charge of a relatively minor project component, was
deficient. Performance by the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, in charge of all the other
components, was satisfactory throughout, and became fully satisfactory after the establishment
of a full-time coordination unit in 1992.
14.    Bank performance is deemed saitisfactory. It was fully satisfactory on all counts, except
on procurement reviews which were the cause of sometimes lengthy delays. The involvement of
field staff in project supervision was an important factor in the Bank's overall positive
performance in supervision.
Major Lessons Learned
15.    Key lessons gained from this prcject are:
(a)    Participation by farmers in the definition of extension themes increases the
relevance and effectiveness of the extension system;
(b)    Regular meetings between research and extension at regional level are essential
to capitalize on the participatory diagnosis carried out with farmers, and to
strengthen research-extension linkages;
(c)    The use of existing village organizations as a basis for the creation of farmers'
contact groups increases the cost-effectiveness of the public extension service;
(d)    Decentralization of project management to the regional and sub-regional level
increases the responsiveness and effectiveness of field extension services;
(e)    Extension of low-input, low-risk technologies in a risky semi-arid environment
where productivity growth is essential for survival, can result in substantial
adoption and impact;
(f)    The establishment of a full-time project coordination unit, with direct reporting
to the Minister's office, has been key to the good implementation of the project.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BJRKINA FASO
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SUPPORT PROJECT
(Credit 1979 BUR)
PROJECT IDENTITY
Name of the Project:             Agricultural Services Support Project
Name of the Project:             1979-BUR
Amount of Credit:                SDR 31.2 million (equivalent to US$ 42million)
Vice-President's Office:         Africa Region
Country:                         Burkina Faso
Sector:                          Rural Development III
PART I: ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
A.    INTRODUCTION
1.    At the time of project preparation (1988/89) agriculture was, and still is, the most
important broad-based productive sector in Burkina Faso, contributing to over 40 percent of
GDP and employing 80-90 percent of the population. High population density of over 100
individuals per square kilometer on arable lands and signs of land degradation, combined with
high population growth (3.5 percent), were major concerns to Government and to the donor
community in general. The Government's sector strategy was consequently aimed at: (i)
stopping environmental degradation and improving the management and sustainability of
production systems; (ii) raising rural productivity, production and incomes; and (iii) improving
food security by diversifying sources of food and incomes. Government's strategic objectives
were, however, severely constrained by the low productivity of the traditional crop and livestock
production technologies used. The Bank, first contributed to efforts to disseminate improved
technologies by funding in 1986 and 1987 a pilot program for the strengthening of extension
services in selected regions of the country. The experience turned out to be positive.
2.    In 1988, the Government decided to implement the successfully tested extension system
nationwide, and requested and obtained financial assistance from IDA for such purpose under the
Agricultural Services Support Project (Cr. 1979 BUR). The project was part of an overall
development strategy complemented by four other IDA-supported operations: the Agricultural
Research Project (Cr.1896-BUR), the Environmental Management Project (Cr.2229-BUR), the
Food Security and Nutrition Project (Cr. 2414-BUR), and the Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Credit (Cr.2381-BUR).



-2 -
B.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Description of Objectives
3.     The project constituted the first phase of a long-term  national program  aimed at
strengthening agricultural services. It had three main objectives: (i) to improve the effectiveness
and impact of agricultural and livestock extension services in transferring technology to farmers,
(ii) to strengthen animal health services and adaptive research programs, and (iii) to provide
functional literacy training to farmers, thereby enhancing their ability to participate more directly
in technology generation and dissemination.
4.     The project had the following components:
(a)    Agricultural Extension: (i) reorganizing and strengthening of national, regional
and provincial extension institutions; (ii) developing and implementing a
training program for extension staff at all levels; (iii) promoting adaptive
research by improving the links between agricultural research and extension and
strengthening the adaptive research units and programs at national and regional
levels, including rehabilitation or establishment of 17 multilocational
experimentation sites (PAPEMs: Points d'Appui de Prevulgarisation et
d'Experimentation multiple); and (iv) improving mass communication and
audio-visual programs in support of extension services.
(b)    Livestock Services: (i) strengthening of livestock services at the national and
regional levels; (ii) improving the distribution system of veterinary supplies,
drugs and animal feeds; and (iii) developing and implementing training
programs for livestock services staff at all levels.
(c)    Functional Literacy: Capacity building for the delivery of literacy training to
farmers. It focused on rehabilitation and equipment of Young Farmers Training
Centers (CFJAs, Centres de Formation des Jeunes Agriculteurs), of Trainers'
Training Centers (CFFAs, Centres de Formation des Formateurs Agricoles), and
on training of trainers and extension workers.
(d)    Studies and Pilot Operations: (i) carrying out studies on other services that
would support or complement the agricultural and livestock services (input
supply, credit, marketing), and (ii) implementing pilot operations for the design
and preparation of future projects within the agricultural services sector.
(e)    Monitoring and Evaluation:  Establishing and strengthening monitoring and
evaluation units at national and regional levels, as well as the statistics services
within the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAE, Ministere de
I'Agriculture et de l'Elevage).
(f)    Strengthening   MAE's   Administrative   and   Managerial  Capabilities:
Strengthening the central project management unit within MAE, and providing
management training to extension services managers at national and regional
levels.



-3 -
Evaluation of Objectives and Risks
5.    The project's three development objectives were coherent with Government's strategy.
They were clearly defined as seeking to improve the ability of the extension system to
effectively transfer technologies to farmers, to adapt such technologies to the farmers'
environment and needs. Farmer's capacity to participate effectively in the technology generation
and transfer process, so as to have an impact, was also to be improved. The development
objectives thereby focused precisely on technology transfer as the means for achieving the goal
of agricultural productivity growth, although a direct link with the goal of productivity or income
growth was missing in the objective statement. The objectives properly integrated elements of
supply, demand and adaptation of technologies, but assumed that putting adapted technologies in
the hands of the farmer would be sufficient to achieve the desired impact. Consequently, the
objectives were narrowly defined, in view of the expected impact, by focusing only on transfer
and overlooking farmers' ability to adopt the improved technologies through access to inputs
(including credit) and output markets. Nevertheless, the resulting components, although too
much input and activity oriented, facilitated by their details and precision a straight forward
implementation of the project. The level of detail limited, but not totally prevented, flexibility in
project implementation.  Finally, although the objectives were adequately linked with
government's development strategy, their relationship with the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy was not clearly pointed out in Ihe Staff Appraisal Report (SAR). Furthermore, project
performance indicators and benchmarks were not specified in the SAR.
6.     The project risks identified during preparation were all pertinent, but incomplete. They
included the: (a) possible inability of extension and research services to provide workable
solutions; (b) problem of inter-agency coordination; and (c) possible failure of Government
and/or donors to sustain the long-term commitment required to achieve durable improvements in
the effectiveness of agricultural support services. The first two risks in particular did affect the
project, but were properly managed by the mid-term implementation review and the country-
based permanent supervision, as correctly foreseen in the SAR. However, the risks of non-
adoption of improved technologies because of limited access to modern inputs (improved seeds,
fertilizers, etc.) and credit, and poor access to output markets were not mentioned, but limited the
impact of the project.
C.    ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECT'IVES
7.     The project fully achieved its stated objectives of improving the effectiveness and
impact of the extension services in transferring technology to farmers, and strengthen animal
health services and adaptive research programs. The project, however, failed to fully achieve its
objective of providing functional literacy training to farmers. Given the relatively small weight
of the latter objective in terms of funding and expected output, the project is rated as having
satisfactorily achieved its objectives.
Agricultural Extension
8.    Agricultural extension services were in charge of transferring crop, livestock and
environment management technologies to farmers.
9.    A decentralized nationwide agricultural extension system with a central directorate, the
Directorate for Agricultural Extension (DVA, Direction de la Vulgarisation Agricole) and twelve



-4 -
regional directorates (DRARA, Directions Regionale de I'Agriculture et des Ressources
Animales) was effectively established and fully operational during the project period. A
Training and Visit (T&V) type of extension system was implemented across the thirty provinces
of the country. In 1997, the system was implemented by 1,007 Village Extension Workers
(VEW), 521 district level extension agents (chefs de zone) including 181 extension supervisors,
213 animal health services agents, 127 literacy and cooperative education services agents who
traditionally assist village cooperatives (Groupements Villageois, GV). In addition there were
120 subject-matter specialists. All of the above were reporting to 30 provincial extension service
chiefs, who in turn were reporting to the 12 regional extension service directors. Subject matter
specialties included at the provincial level were crop production, livestock production and soil
restoration (one specialist of each per province); and farmers' organization at the regional level
(one specialist per region of 2 to 3 provinces). There were in addition 12 regional Research-
Development (R-D) unit heads, each reporting to a regional director, and three R-D workers (one
chief and two observers) on each of the 17 PAPEMS. 120 enumerators in charge of collecting
monitoring-evaluation and statistical data were based in the regional directorates (10 per region).
The latter had in addition staff in charge of implementing the audio-visual, functional literacy
and M&E components. The above figures reflect slight modifications of the staffing levels
projected in the SAR, which occurred during negotiations and implementation in order to
increase the efficiency of the extension system, such as the recruitment of full-time instead of
part-time subject matter specialists in 1993.
10.   Extension personnel was generally well qualified, most (60 percent) with basic training
in agricultural schools and colleges. About half of the VEWs had a high school level Agents
Techniques de  'Agriculture degree, the supervisors, the sulbject matter specialists and the R-D
unit heads had generally college level Technicien Superieur degrees, while provincial chiefs and
regional directors had generally bachelor and post graduate level Ingenieur Agronome degrees.
11.   The extension parameters have positively evolved over the project period. At present,
about 5,5000 villages (out of a total of 8,377), or 66 percent of villages receive extension
services, up from about 40 percent at the start of the project. The number of farmers receiving
directly the extension services increased from 5 to 25 percent of farmers for crop production and
from 7 to 10 percent of farmers for livestock production. For crop production about 170,000
men-farmers were receiving extension services in 1990/91 compared with about 967,000 men
and 272,000 women in 1996/97 for a total of about 209,000 farm households (5.9 farmers per
household). For livestock production, about 82,000 men and 9,500 women were receiving
extension services in 1991/92 compared with 324,000 men and 141,000 women in 1996/97 for a
total of about 21,000 farm households. The number of contact groups increased from 8,500 to
13,000 for crop production and from 2,000 to about 5,000 for livestock production. Supervision
ratios remained relatively stable throughout the project period, with about 6 villages or 250 farm
households per VEW, 5 VEWs per extension supervisor and 3 to 5 subject matter specialists per
province. Apart from a reduced number of farm households per VEW for efficiency reason (620
farms for 4 to 8 villages, estimated at appraisal) the actual extension ratios generally coincide
with those projected at appraisal.
12.   Until 1994, farmers participation in fortnightly working sessions within contact groups
was unsatisfactory. Starting in 1994, the size of the groups was scaled down from an average of
45 members to an average of 25 farmers, diagnostic methods to identify constraints of interest to
the group members were introduced, and field schools were replaced with demonstration plots.
For crop production average farmer participation subsequently rose steadily from 49 percent in



-5-
1994 to 78 percent in 1997. Over the same period livestock farmer participation declined by 23
percent (from a peak of 80 percent to 57 percent), mainly due to a lack of sufficient livestock
production themes and technologies relevant to farmers' needs. The number of farmer-managed
test/demonstration plots for crop productlion techniques increased by 52 percent between 1991/92
and 1996/97 (from 22,646 to 34,531) with the involvement of 15 percent of contact farmers.
For livestock production techniques, the number of farmer-managed test/demonstration livestock
herds increased threefold between the tvwo above mentioned seasons from 970 to 3,419, but with
the involvement of only 4 percent of contact farmers. During the same period, there were 50,000
to 70,000 follow-up visits per year for crop production, with 130,000 to 195,000 farmers visited
on such occasions, 20 to 40 percent of whom were women. There were 15,000 to 20,000 follow-
up visits per year for animal production with 20,000 to 50,000 farmers visited on such occasions,
30 to 100 percent of whom were women,
13    Training objectives were overall satisfactorily achieved. Monthly training of subject
matter specialists by research scientists -took place regularly on the basis of constraints identified
during diagnostic discussions with farmers. The VEW training school (Matourkou) was
equipped and training was provided to about 300 VEWs under the project. National and regional
extension service managers benefited from 74 training tours abroad. Exchange visits of farmers
to the PAPEMS and visits between farrmer organizations to share experiences also took place
under the project.
14.   The research-extension linkage and mass communication objectives of the project were
also completed as planned. The 17 PFAPEMs were constructed (9) or rehabilitated (8) and
equipped as planned; the national and. regional research-development units, as well as the
national and regional audiovisual units were established and equipped to a large extent as
planned. Staff training and mobility for such units was however below expectations at the
regional level because of insufficient resources availability. Monthly training of subject matter
specialists by research scientists took place on a regular basis (10 to 12 per subject matter
specialty per year). About 700 on farm research plots were established yearly across the country.
Livestock off-station research was mainly conducted in the PAPEMs. Monitoring of on-farm
research and research conducted in the PAPEMs in collaboration with research scientists was
effective until 1996 and became rare afterward, as a result of lower financial resources
availability following the closing of the research project in 1996. Efficiency of the research-
extension linkage was diminished by a lack of sufficiently decentralized annual consultation
workshops to jointly identify demand drliven training and on-farm research themes and to review
results. The mass communication units (one central and 12 regional units) produced several
drawings and slides shown in villages and used to train farmers. They also produced several
local radio programs and movies shown iin regional directorates and on national television.
15.   The introduction of participatory diagnosis considerably helped to improve the relevance
of research and training themes. There was a decentralized themes selection process with three
research regions (each corresponding to three or more extension regions), but such level of
decentralization appeared to have been insufficient. In particular, the lack of sufficiently
decentralized coordination mechanisms between Research-Development staff, extension services
staff and agricultural research scientists resulted in a loss of pertinent training and research
themes during the themes synthesis and selection process.
16.   Two impact studies were done during the project. The first was conducted in 1990/91 by
Bank staff. The study was conducted naltionwide on a random sample of 3,600 farm households.



- 6 -
Findings from the study indicated that adoption rates for different practices were generally
modest: 67 percent for organic fertilizer and seed treatment, 60 percent for soil preparation; 33
to 50 percent for crop rotation, seed drilling, anti-erosion methods, animal draft, and chemical
fertilizer; 21 percent for improved cultivators; 14 percent for agro-forestry; and I percent for
motorized draft. However, the study acknowledged that a major portion of the total adoption
reported by farmers in 1990/91 had occurred prior to the introduction of T&V as the credit had
only become effective in 1989. The contribution of T&V varied from 42 percent for improved
cultivators to 34 percent for agro-forestry and pesticides. The study also found that in general,
total adoption was higher for T&V contact group members and literate farmers, and productivity
levels of T&V contact group members were 20 to 25 perce:nt higher than those who were not.
Marginal rates of return estimated using various regression techniques were in the range of 91 to
361 percent (return on project investments). The second impact study was conducted in
November 1997 by the project in eight out of the country's twelve regions, with a sample of 90
contact groups, 103 crop production households and 88 livestock production households.
Relative Adoption rates (by contact group members) obtained for twelve leading extension
themes were between 60 and 80 percent (see Table 5.B. in Part II).
17.   The relative adoption rates, based on project M&E data were more modest, about 30
percent on average, and their evolution suggests that most adoption within the contact groups
occurred from 1993/94, following the downsizing of contact groups and the introduction of
participatory diagnostics.  The evolution of the adoption rates suggest that the project
significantly adapted the technological packages to farmers' needs. The evolution of adoption
rates within contact groups is shown in Table 5.C., Part II. Most successful extension themes
were soil/seedbed preparation, row planting, use of organic manure, animal traction, organic
manure production and post harvest crop conservation.  The most successful livestock
technologies were crop residues conservation, habitat hygiene, cutting and conservation of
forage. These have resulted in a wide spread adoption of small ruminants fattening practices,
particularly by women, across the country. The adoption of animal technologies, particularly the
nutrition technologies, led in the studied sample (second impact study) to a reduction in the
lactation period from 9 to 5 months, birth intervals were reduced from 19 to 15 months for cattle,
from 11 to 9 months for sheep and from 11 to 8 months for goats. Moreover, death rates
dropped from 6 to 2 percent for cattle, from 17 to 9 percent for small ruminants, and from 70 to
25 percent for poultry.
18.   The second impact study found that yields are higher by 25 to 30 percent for contact
group farmers, compared with yields by non-contact group farmers. It also found that among the
farmers studied by the farming systems research program of :NERA, depending on the year, the
income of farmers benefiting from extension was 50 to 147 percent higher than the income of
farmers who did not benefit directly from extension services. The data indicated that between
1992/93 and 1995/96, the average net income of households members of contact groups, with
less than 5 active farmers, increased from 163,000 CFAF (US$326) to about 680,000 CFAF
(US$1,360) compared with an increase from 121,000 CFAF (US$242) to about 300,000 CFAF
(US$600) for households non-members of contact groups with less than 5 active farmers.
According to estimates in the Government's project completion report, returns to investment in
the T&V-based extension system during the project period varied by region and would be in the
range of 86 to 187 percent.



-7 -
Livestock Services Livestock services were mainly animal health services.
19.   Legislation was enacted as planned to privatize the veterinary profession (details in
government report in annex), and a documentation center on livestock was established and
equipped at the central Directorate of Animal Production and Industries (DPIA). At the regional
level, 42 livestock clinics (postes d'elevage), with houses for livestock services agents, as
planned, 10 warehouses (out of 20 planned) for drugs and feed, and 56 vaccination pens were
constructed or rehabilitated. (out of 100 planned, target reduced to construct with steel instead of
wood as planned). In addition a virology unit was constructed, equipped and staffed as planned.
As a result the number of livestock samples analyzed by the livestock services increased from
3,363 in 1991 to 10,433 in 1997. Field diagnostic units of the national veterinary laboratory
were. constructed or rehabilitated in four towns, but some were only partly equipped, the
remaining equipment having been planned for the second phase of the project. Rehabilitation of
installations of the national veterinary products distribution company (ONAVET), such as the
above mentioned warehouses, was started but interrupted following a Government decision to
privatize the company. Staff training was executed as planned. Twelve high level technicians
were trained mostly in Africa and France, others benefited from four study tours to C6te d'Ivoire
and Mali. In addition 170 VEWs benefited from locally organized training.
Functional Literacy
20.   The component was suspended in 1991, following a lack of transparency in the
management of project funds by the Ministere de l'Action Cooperative Paysanne (MACP), in
charge of implementing it. Before then, 93 percent of the planned extension staff training had
been achieved and about 50 percent of the civil works and equipment procurement were
completed. However, only 5,484 farmers out of a target of 60,500 farmers (about 9 percent) had
received literacy training. The component was not redesigned, most (over 80 percent) of its
resources was reallocated to benefit other components. The remaining (about US$30,000 per
year) was managed by the national extension directorate (DVA) and was used to support literacy
programs of the Ministry of Education in each extension region in collaboration with NGOs.
Studies and Pilot Operations
21.   None of the originally planned studies was carried out, because such studies had already
been carried out by other projects, including previous Bank-funded projects.
22.   A pilot operation entitled Support Fund for Income Generating Activities for Women
Farmers (Fonds d'Appui aux Activites Generatrices de Revenus des Agricultrices, FAAGRA)
designed to provide women farmer organizations with micro credit, literacy/numeracy and
business management training was initiated following the mid-term review and a first impact
study that found that only 15 percent of women had access to extension services and identified
credit as a main constraint to women's access to and adoption of new technologies. The
operation started in 1993. By the end of the project credit worth about half a billion CFA Francs,
was extended to about 18,000 women farmers. Repayment rates have been close to 100 percent.
Money reimbursed was put in a revolving fund and used to provide credit to additional women
farmers organizations, so as to insure sustainability of the credit and training scheme. In the
process, the project also staffed the office for promotion of women activities (Bureaux de
Promotion des Activit6s Feminines, BPAF) with 12 professionals, and funded the operating cost



-8 -
of such regional offices as well as the operating cost of provincial offices (Coordination
Provinciales des Activites des Femmes, CPAF).
23.   The preparation of a second phase was also successfully carried out and led to a new
credit agreement signed in December 1997 before the final closing date of the project.
Monitoring and Evaluation
24.   Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) units were effectively established and equipped as
planed at national and regional levels. The project also staffed and equipped the national
agricultural statistics service as planned. Although not mentioned in the SAR, a Bank mission
helped design performance indicators, but no baseline study was carried out and impact
indicators were insufficiently developed. Nevertheless, as previously mentioned, two
independent impact studies were carried out during the project period. Performance of the M&E
units was generally satisfactory. Two fair to good quality activity reports were produced
annually (one mid-term and one annual) and provided sufficient data (most of the data used in
the present report) to assess the performance of the project. Such a performance was somewhat
disrupted by sometimes conflicting but justified use of enumerators in data collection for the
statistical services.
D.    PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
The total project costs were estimated at appraisal in 1988 to be 12.6 billion CFAF or US$44.9
million to be financed at 94 percent by IDA (US$42.0 or CFAF 11.8 billion) and at 6 percent
(US$2.9 million or CFAF 0.8 billion) by the Government. The amount of the credit was SDR
31.2 million or US$42.0 million. About 99.26 percent of the credit was disbursed when the
account was closed on June 11, 1998. The project actual cost funded by IDA was SDR 30.97
million or US$ 43.51 million, corresponding to CFAF 17.4 billion (86% of total). The actual
contribution by the Government (Government report) was CFAF 1.39 billion (14 percent of
total). Such changes in figures are mainly due to the CFA franc devaluation in January 1994, and
to fluctuations in the exchange rate of the US dollar. The project costs were adequately estimated
at appraisal, and given the fact that disbursement started in 1990, the projection at appraisal of 8-
1/4 years for a full disbursement of the proceeds of the crediit was accurate. .
E.    MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJEICT
25.   Extension of the Closing Date. The credit, approved in January 1989, was initially
expected to be closed by June 30, 1994 but was finally closed on December 31, 1997, after three
one-year extensions of the closing date. The extensions allowed the project to apply lessons
learnt within the first five years to correct mistakes and consolidate its actions, particularly by
taking a better care of the livestock production component of the project and by starting to
demonstrate impact.
26.   Project Management.  Initially, project implementation was slower than expected
because the staff managing the project were not doing so on a full-time basis and therefore had
conflicting priorities. Moreover, they gave a heightened emphasis on agricultural extension
activities over livestock. The creation of a full-time project coordination unit by the government
in 1992, following a mid-term review recommendation was a major determinant of project
success.



-9-
27.   Funding of Research. The simultaneous funding and implementation of the national
agricultural research project together with the extension project contributed positively to the
success of the extension project until 1995, when the credit supporting the Agricultural Research
Project (Cr.1896-BU) was closed. It allowed the national agricultural research system to have
sufficient resources to provide the technologies, training and technical assistance needed under
the adaptive research and training components of the project. After 1995, problems arose with
the monitoring of adaptive research trials by research staff.
28.    Unified command of agricultural extension and livestock services. The fact that the
project was housed by a single ministry of agriculture and livestock affected the project both
positively and negatively. It enabled the project coordination unit within the ministry to
minimize transaction costs in dealing administratively with both subsectors. However, the bias in
favor of agriculture and the agriculturists vs. veterinarians rivalry within the ministry negatively
affected the design and implementation of the livestock services and extension component.
29     Livestock services component imrplementation delays. A desire by livestock services
managers, during initial project preparation, to maintain the autonomy of livestock (veterinary)
services and to keep them separate from agricultural extension services resulted in an insufficient
involvement of livestock services field staff and farmers in the initial identification and design
of the livestock services component. Observations related to insufficient technological progress
in animal production led to national workshops on the issue in 1993 and to the re-definition of
the component four years after project implementation had begun. This in turn resulted in a
limited number of livestock related extension themes and a sub-optimal impact of the project.
30.    Reduced size of contact groups, participatory diagnosis and demonstration plots. These
reforms effected in 1994, as previously mentioned, significantly improved farmers participation
and the impact of the project.
31.   Delays in Procurement. Long delays in the responses of Bank staff to procurement
issues (comments, non-objection, etc.) contributed to delays in procurement. The limitation of
the maximum cost of items purchased directly under prudent shopping, below one million
FCFA, also contributed so such delays by increasing the number of procurement requests and
thus procurement transaction time and costs.
32.    Contact groups within traditional farmers associations. The long time tradition of
farmers organizations in Burkina Faso, the relatively high level of discipline within such
organizations to face a relatively high environmental and socio-economical hardship, made
contact groups created within such organizations more responsive to technology transfer.
33.   Franc CFA Devaluation. The CFA franc devaluation in January 1994 most likely had a
positive impact on the project by restoring the competitiveness of domestic agricultural and
livestock products, thereby increasing farm;ers' demand for improved technologies.
F.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
34.    Project sustainability is likely in the long term. The probability that the project will
maintain the achievements generated in relation to its major objectives will depend mainly on the
ability of the national extension system to sustain recurrent costs. However, the project was not



- 10-
expected to be financially sustainable. The project supported the strengthening of a public
service, which is characterized by relatively high recurrent operational cost, which is about 1.12
billions CFAF ($2.2 million) per year for the maintenance of buildings, vehicles and equipment
alone. Burkina Faso, which depends upon foreign assistance for a substantial share of recurrent
expenditures, cannot be expected to sustain it at present time. All salaries, except for those of
contractual agents, are paid by the Government. Project additionally was for non-salary
expenditures. The total budget for extension during the final year of the project (1997) was
about CFAF 1.5 billions for about 1,000,000 farm families (on average 5.9 persons per family),
of which 32 percent (for crops and livestock) receive extension services directly. The cost of
extension per farm family is therefore about 4,688 CFAF (about $9).
35     Several actions taken during project implementation are expected to progressively lead
to reduction in recurrent costs, including salaries, and progressively pave the road for financial
sustainability of the extension system.  Such actions include: (i) the privatization of the
veterinary services sector; (ii) the training and promotion of village vaccinators and of village
extension assistance farmers ("paysans auxilliaires de la vulgarisation"); (iii) the creation of
revolving funds for motorcycle maintenance; and (iv) support to farmers organizations.
36.    The institutional sustainability of the project is likely as a result of the well trained
human resources assets, the well tested and proven national T&V based extension system, and
the decentralized institution setting put in place to implement it across the country. The
sustainability of impact is also likely through the durability of knowledge transferred to farmers
and through the durable effect of the mostly adopted soil fettility management technologies.
G.  BANK PERFORMANCE
37.    Project Preparation. Bank's performance during project preparation was satisfactory.
The project design was consistent with the rural development strategy of the government. Project
activities were unambiguously defined in details which facilitated project implementation and
supervisions/evaluations. Although the detailed specifications introduced some rigidity in
project implementation, mid-term review and supervisions were used to make the necessary
adjustments. The project design complemented adequately other IDA funded agricultural sector
investment operations in a timely manner, such as the agricultural research and natural
resources/environment management projects.
38.   Project Supervision.   The Bank's performance during project supervision was
satisfactory.  Day-to-day supervision of the project was ensured by field staff who had
previously played a leadership role in the national agricultural extension system as a civil servant
and who consequently had a good knowledge of the system and of its socio-political
environment. In addition, supervision missions from headquarters provided back-up and
participated in the mid-term review and regular supervision missions. This allowed for major
necessary and innovative changes in project design, such as the creation of the full-time
autonomous coordination unit, the cancellation of the functional literacy component, the creation
of a credit scheme for women, the recruitment of contractual accountants, funds reallocations,
etc.
39.    Procurement, Disbursement and Audit Reports Reviews. The Bank's performance with
respect to procurement was marginally satisfactory, mainly as a result of long delays in granting
non-objections.  Performance with respect to audit reports reviews was also generally



satisfactory with adequate follow-up actions and recommendations to improve project
management.
H.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
40.   The performance of the government during preparation and implementation was
satisfactory, required legislation was enacted and counterpart funds were made available to the
project on time or with acceptable delays. The government also complied satisfactorily with all
legal covenants. Moreover, changes suggested by supervision missions were generally adopted.
I.    IMPLEMENTING AGENCY
40.   The performance of the project coordination unit was also satisfactory since its creation
in 1992. Before then project management, particularly by MACP was less satisfactory, and
resulted in qualified audits and the canceillation of the functional literacy training component as
stated above. No change has occurred in the project management team since 1992 because of
satisfactory performance. Audit reports have since been in general unqualified.
J.    ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
41.   Overall project status has been rated satisfactory by all supervision missions from May
1992 until the December 1997 closing (late of the credit. The project clearly satisfactorily
achieved its objectives and had a major production impact. The project's outcome can therefore
be rated satisfactory.
K.    FUTURE OPERATIONS
42.   The Government viewed the project as the first phase of a long term support to
agricultural services. It consequently prepared and requested a second phase assistance from IDA
to sustain the achievements of the first phase. In view of the continuously satisfactory status of
the project, a follow up development creclit agreement, Cr.2974-BUR, was signed in December
1997. The credit was expected to become effective in June 1998. The new project takes into
account the lessons learned in the first phase and integrates both agricultural research and
agricultural extension in a single operation.
43.    The components of the new four.-year project include: (i) agricultural research: and (ii)
agricultural and livestock extension. , both components will pay a greater attention to new high
value crops such as vegetables and to livestock so as to help increase farmers' access to cash
income and modern inputs; gender-specific and literacy programs are also included to support
the effectiveness of the extension program; (iii) animal health and pastoral promotion: to further
promote the privatization of the animal health subsector and to improve the remaining public
sector services; (iv) pilot programs to help farmers' organizations gain professional and financial
strength so that they can provide services to smallholders and take part in adaptive research, and,
potentially become able to transfer technologies and know-how to their members. Also on pilot
basis there will be a program for small rural infrastructure.
44.   In addition, the experience gained with the pilot microcredit FAAGRA and another
similar component in the parallel IDA-financed Food Security Project, will serve to design a
microcredit component for the forthcoming Community-Based Rural Development Program.



- 12 -
45.   In its assessment of the quality at entry of the new agricultural services operation, the
Quality Assurance Group noted that the design of the project remains relatively traditional and
contrasts with the design of recent agricultural services projects, characterized by greater
autonomy of research and extension services and more active roles of farmers organizations and
of the private sector in influencing the research and extension decision making processes and in
paying for part of the services. The agricultural services managers in Burkina Faso hold the
view that the low level of professionalism and the food security/subsistence orientation of most
farmers' organizations in the country warrant, at the moment, the approach adopted with the new
project. There will be increasing involvemet of farmers' organizations (FOs) in the delivery of
agricultural services, as experience is gained with the pilot FOs support program.
L.   KEY LESSONS LEARNED
46.    The key lessons learned under the project may be summarized as follows:
(a)    It is essential to ensure full participation of stakeholders of all project components
including farmers in the design of the project, right from the beginning during project
preparation to avoid failure of some components, and continue to consult stakeholders
during project implementation. In the present case, the fact that effective participation of
all major livestock services stakeholders in the project design did not occur until 1993
led to inferior accomplishments and impact of the component.
(b)    Regular meetings at regional levels between reseaLrch and extension staff, to discuss
constraints identified during participatory diagnostics with farmers, and identify the
themes for training and on-farm research, are essential to strengthen research-extension
linkages and ensure that research and training are actually addressing farmers' needs.
(c)    The use of existing organizations at the village level for the creation of small (10 to 25
farmers) contact groups increases cost-effectiveness, efficiency and impact of extension.
(d)    Decentralization of the management of all project components at regional and sub-
regional levels, increases the effectiveness of the extension system.
(e)    The creation of a full-time coordination unit within the ministry in charge of
implementing the project, with full time assignment of ministry staff to project
management functions, and with direct reporting to the minister' s office, may result in a
more cost effective project management than part-time assignment of project
management to a high ranking ministerial officer.
(f)    Despite poor access to modem inputs, extension of low-input and low risk technologies
in a risky semi arid environment where productivity growth is essential for survival, can
result in substantial adoption and impact.
(g)    It is difficult for the ministry, which is the main implementing agency of a project, to
exercise sufficient control over the management of a component of the project by
another ministry, so as to insure a successful completion of all project objectives.



- 13 -
IMPLEMENTAT][ON COMPLETION REPORT
BlIRKINA FASO
AGRICULTUIRAL SERVICES PROJECT
(Cr.1979-BUR)
Part II: ST'ATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: SuLimmary of Assessments
Substantial   Partial   Negligible   Not applicable
A. Achievement of objectives       (X)        (X)        (X)            (X)
Macroeconomic policies                                                X
Sector policies             =                                         X
Financial objectives                                                  X
Institutional development        X
Physical objectives              X
Poverty reduction                X
Gender issues                    X
Other social objectives                                               X
Environmental objectives                                              X
Public sector management                                              X
Private sector development                                            X
Other (specify)                             _                         X
Likely         Unlikely       Uncertain
B. Project sustainability                 (X)              (X)            (X)
Highly
satisfactory    Satisfactory    Deficient
C. Bank performance                       (X)              (X)            (X)
Identification                                           X
Preparation assistance                                   X
Appraisal                                                X                    l
Supervision                                             X



- 14-
Highly
satisfactory     Satisfactory   Deficient
D. Borrower performance                   (X)              (X)            (X)
Preparation                                              X
Implementation                                _          X
Covenant compliance                                      X
Operation (if applicable)                     _          X
Highly                                     Highly
E. Assessment of outcome   satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
(X)          (X)           (X)             (X)
x
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/'Creditsl
Loan/credit title            Purpose        Year of approval     Status
Preceding operations
1. Boucle du Mouhoun          Increase agricultural  July 27, 1982    Closed on June
Agricultural Development       production and rural                 30, 1988
Project (Cr. 1284-BU)          incomes through more
effective extension.
2. Hauts Bassin Agricultural  Integration of       July 27, 1982    Closed on June
Development Project (Cr. 1285-  livestock with                      30, 1988
BU)                            agriculture and
improve reach of
extension service
3. Koudougou Pilot Project (Cr.  Test of soil fertility    September 21,   Closed on March
1293-BU)                      conservation          1982            31, 1989
techniques
4. Agricultural Research (Cr.    Develop agricultural   April 19, 1988    Closed on
1896-BU)                      technologies                          December 31,
1996
Following operations
1. Agricultural Sector        Structural Adjustment June 9, 1992    Closed on
Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2381-BU)                                     December 31,
l______________  1995
2. Agricultural Services II (Cr.   Agricultural    July 1, 1997     Ongoing,
2974-BU)                      technology                            effective as of
development and                      June 14, 1998
transfer



- 15 -
Table 3: ]Project Timetable
Date actual/
Steps in project cycle           Date planned_     latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                  March 11, 1987
Preparation                                                 March-October 1987
Appraisal                                                   November 1987
Negotiations                                                November 1988
Letter of development policy (if applicable')               N.A.
Board presentation                                          January 17, 1989
Signing                                                     January 28, 1989
Effectiveness                             April 28, 1989    May 26, 1989
First tranche release (if applicable)                       N.A.
Midterm review (if applicable)                              March 22, 1992
Second (and third) tranche release (if applicable)          N.A.
Project completion                                          March 1998
Credit closing                            December 31,      December 31, 1997
1994
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(U'3$ millions)
FY89 FY90 FY91 FY92 FY93 FY94 FY95 | FY96 | FY97 1 FY98 | FY99
Appraisal        0.0   1.0   5.0 12.00 20.00 27.00 33.00  38.00  41.00  42.00  42.00
estimate
Formally         0.0   4.5   5.5  10.4  16.3  20.9  27.3   31.5   37.9   40.4   42.0
revised                                    I               I
Actual           0.0   4.5   5.5  10.4  16.3  20.9  27.3   31.5   37.0   42.2   43.5
Actual as % of  100.0 452.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 | 100.0   97.6  104.5  103.6
formally revised
Date of final    June 11, 1998
disbursement



- 16-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Activity                                Plan                      Actual
Start- Finish              Start        Finish
Establish CRPA monitoring    Q3 1989                    Q2 1989       Q3 1989
units
Recruitment of training      Q2 1989- Q4 1989           Q2 1989       Q4 1989
specialists
Consolidation of procurement    Q2 1989 - Q3 1989       Q2 1989       Q3 1989
needs
Preparation of construction  Q2 1989 - Q3 1989          Q2 1989       Ql 1990
program
Execution of construction    Q3 1989 - Q4 1993          Q2 1990       Q4 1996
program
Reorganization of PAPEM
network
- Topo and soil surveys      Q3 1989 - Q4 1989          Q3 1989       Q4 1989
- construction and equipment    Q3 1989 - Q2 1990       Q3 1989       Q4 1996
Establish mass communication/
audio-visual regional units
- strengthen existing 8 teams  Q3 1989 - Q4 1991        Q3 1989       Q4 1990
- create 4 new teams         QI 1992 - Q4 1992          Q1 1992       Q4 1993
Annual audits and reviews           Q3 each year        Q3 each year
Mid-term review                       Q3 1991           Ql 1992       Ql 1992
Working agreements                  Q2 each year        Q2 each year
Table 5B. Technology Adoption Rates (% farmers) from 1997 Impact Study
Technology          Members of CG        Non-CG members    Effect of CG
membership
Soil improvement            64.9                 35.1               29.8
/seedbed preparation
Seeds treatments            65.3                  34.7              30.6
Improved Seeds              71.7                  28.3              43.4
Organic manure              60.7                  39.3               21.4
Mineral fertilizers         74.5                  25.5               49.0
Pesticides                  81.2                   18.8              62.4
Animal Traction             69.5                  30.5               39.0
Motorisation                0.0                   0.0                 0.0
Crop rotations              71.4                  28.5               42.9
Anti-erosion devices        67.2                  32.8               34.4
Agro-forestry               78.4                  21.6               56.8
Source: Etude sur l'Impact de la Vulgarisation Agricole au Burkina Faso, page 34
CG = Contact Group



- 17-
Table 5C. Evolution of Average Adoption Rates of Extended Themes within the
Contact Groups
1991-92  92/93  93/94  94/95   95-96  96/97
15 Crop production technologies   11%     n.a    33%    30%       28%    32%
9 Animal Production technologies  4%      n.a.    24%    22%      14%    26%
Source: Etude sur l'impact de la Vulgarisation Agricole au Burkina Faso, pages 36, 37.'
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I. Key operating indicators in SAR/President's Report      Estimated    Actual
Staffing Ratios
Farmer households per extension agent                    620          250
Supervisor to extension agents                            5           5
Training Schedules
Bi-weekly                                                 24           12
Monthly                                                   12          9 to 10
Farmer Groups Contacted                                   7,600        18,000
Percent of all farmers organized                          n.a         32
Percent of all organized farmers contacted                n.a          100
Percent of contacted farmers adopting technical themes    n.a          Tables
_SB, SC
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study           at appraisal/redefined      Status       Impact of study
1.          Etude sur l'acces des femmes aux  completed FAAGRA pilot project
services de vulgarisation agricole         18,000 women farmers
benefited from credit
I program



- 18 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
(in US$ million)
Appraisal estimate        Actual/latest estimate
(US$ millions)             (US$ millions)
Local  Foreign   Total    Local    Foreign   Total
Items            costs   costs              costs     costs
1. Civil Works               3.7      2.4     6.1        n.a       n.a    4.5
2. Equipment                 0.9      2.0     2.9        n.a       n.a    2.6
3. Vehicles                  0.6      5.0     5.6        n.a       n.a    6.6
4. Technical Assistance      0.0      0.4     0.4        n.a       n.a    0.8
5. Training                  2.2      0.7     2.9        n.a       n.a    3.8
6. Studies/Pilot Operations  0.4      0.1     0.5        n.a       n.a    1.6
7. PPF                       1.6      0.0     1.6        n.a       n.a    0.6
8. Incremental Salaries      5.2      0.0     5.2        n.a       n.a    3.4
9. OperatingCosts            9.6      4.0    13.6        n.a       n.a   21.8
Total Base Costs            24.2     14.6    38.8        n.a       n.a
Physical/Price               3.9      2.2     6.1
Contingencies                                                _
Unallocated                                                                1.7
Total Costs                 28.1     16.8    44.9                         46.6
(4) Including Technical Assistance and training
n.a = not available
Table 8B: Project Financing
(in millions of US$)
Source                            Appraisal estimate      Actual/latest estimate
IDA                                     42.0                      43.5
Government                               2.9                       3.1
TOTAL                                   44.9                      46.6
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
The economic rate of return or net present value for the project was not estimated. No
indicators were established to judge cost-efficiency of thle project.  Available data was
insufficient for reliable estimate over the project period.



- 19 -
Table 10: LEGAL CONVENANTS
Covenant  Original       Entry/Form       Revised            Status Description of Covenant      Comments
Class(s)    Fulfill Date   590 Date       Fulfill Date
Agreement: CREDIT
Covenant: 3.01 (A)                                           The Borrower shall carry out the
project as set forth in Schedule 2,
03                                                           namely: (a) Parts A, B, D, E & F
through MAE, (b) Part C through
MACP, with due diligence and
efficiency.
T          (V)P)f~lhl M  AAA                                                       ANA /rf L-- L-
in June 1993. The new
Ministry of Agriculture and
Animal Resources combines
the previous MAE and
MCAP
09/22/1994                    C
Covenant: 3.01 (b)(i)                                        Except as the Borrower & IDA
10,09                                                        otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
carry out the Project as set forth in
Schedule 5 and to that effect take
necessary measures to enforce:(i) the
Protocoles d'Accord entered into
between (a) DVA/MAE & INERA to
carry out Parts A.2 & A.3, (b)
ONAVET & DPIA/MAE to carry out
Part B.2



- 20 -
Covenant  Original       Entry/Form       Revised             Status Description of Covenant      Comments
Class(s)    Fulfill Date   590 Date        Fulfill Date
09/22/1994                    C                                          Mid-Term Review proposed
improvement of the
"Protocoles".
05/22/1996                    C                                          Mid-Term Review proposed
improvement of the
"Protocoles".
10/22/1996                    C                                         Mid-Term Review proposed
improvement of the
"Protocoles".
06/27/1997                    C                                          Mid-Term Review proposed
improvement of the
"Protocoles".
Covenant: 3.01 (b)(ii)                                        The Borrower shall carry out the
10                                                            Project as set forth in Schedule 5 and to
that effect shall take necessary
measures to enforce:(ii) the accords
fonctionnels entered into between: (a)
INA & DEFOC to carry out Part C, (b)
DVA/MAE & other ministries/agencies
responsible for training of extension
staff.
09/22/1994                    C                                         CRPA/DVA and INA to
carry out Part C.
05/22/1996                    C                                         CRPA/DVA and INA to
carry out Part C.



-21 -
Covenant  Original      Entry/Form      Revised            Status Description of Covenant     Comments
Class(s)    Fulfill Date  590 Date       Fulfill Date
10/22/1996                  C                                        In compliance
06/27/1997                   C                                       In compliance
Covenant: 3.02                                             Except as IDA otherwise agrees,
03                                                         procurement of goods, works &
consultants' services shall be governed
by Schedule 3 to DCA.
09/22/1994                   C                                       In compliance
05/22/1996                   C                                       In compliance
~~nTI A/,,  _ AA,T
lU1/C 4Z177U                                                         III A1 WIIIHIWINlX
06/27/1997                   C                                       In compliance
Covenant:  09/30/1989                                      The Borrower shall, not later than Sept.
3.03 (a)                                                   30, 1989, exchange views with IDA on
the cost structure applicable to the
distribution of veterinary products to
livestock owners by the CRPAs
09/22/1994                   C                                       In compliance
05/22/1996                   C                                       In compliance
10/22/1996                  C                                        In compliance
06/27/1997                   C                                       In compliance
Covenant:  12/31/1989                                      The Borrower shall, not later than
3.03 (b)                                                   12/31/89, furnish to IDA for review a
draft agreement to be entered into
11                                                         between ONAVET & the CRPAs to
carry out the distribution of veterinary
products & animal feed, incl. inter alia
the payment, by ONAVET to the
CRPAs, of at least 50% of the
difference b/t the price of acquisition



- 22 -
Covenant  Original       Entry/Form      Revised            Status Description of Covenant     Comments
Class(s)    Fulfill Date   590 Date      Fulfill Date
and resale of the vet. products
distributed by the CRPAs.
09/22/1994                   C                                        OVANET is being
privatized. Review CRPA's
role in distribution of
veterinary products and
animal feed
05/22/1996                   C                                        OVANET is being
privatized. Review CRPA's
role in distribution of
veterinary products and
animal feed
10/22/1996                   C                                        OVANET is being
privatized. Review CRPA's
role in distribution of
veterinary products and
animal feed
06/27/1997                   C                                        OVANET is being
privatized. Review CRPA's
role in distribution of
veterinary products and
animal feed
Covenant;  03/31/1990                                       The Borrower shall, not later than
3.03 (c)                                                    March 31, 1990, finalize the agreement
ref. to in (b) above taking into account
the recommendations made by IDA.
|________  |_____ _    09/22/1994  |      | C   |_| In  compliance
05/22/1996                   C                                        In compliance



- 23 -
Covenant  Original      Entry/Form      Revised            Status Description of Covenant     Comments
Class(s)    Fulfill Date   590 Date     Fulfill Date                                                                    l
10/22/1996                   C                                       In compliance
03/31/1997                   C                                       In compliance
Covenant:  09/30/1989                                      The Borrower shall (a) not later that
3.04                                                       09/30/89, furnish to IDA, for review, a
draft detailed first year's training
05                                                         program for MAE & MACP staff; and
(b) implement said training program
taking into account the
recommendations made by IDA.
09/22/1994                   C                                       In compliance
05/22/1996                   C                                       In compliance
10/22/1996                  C                                        In compliance
06/27/1997                   C                                       In compliance
Covenant:                                                  The Borrower shall, no later than May
3.05 (a)(i)                                                31 of each year, conduct with IDA
09                                                         Project implementation reviews to: (i)
discuss annual Project evaluations
carried out upon request of the Project
Coordinator according to provisions of
Section I, 2(b) of Sched. 5 to DCA.
09/22/1994                   C                                       Mid-Term review found the
necessity of autonomous
Project Coordination Unit to
strengthen and improve
project overall management
05/22/1996                   C                                       Mid-Term review found the
necessity of autonomous
Project Coordination Unit to
strengthen and improve



- 24 -
Covenant  Original      Entry/Form      Revised            Status Description of Covenant     Comments
Class(s)    Fulfill Date   590 Date     Fulfill Date                                                                   l
project overall management
10/22/1996                  C                                        Mid-Term review found the
necessity of autonomous
Project Coordination Unit to
strengthen and improve
project overall management
06/27/1997                   C                                       Mid-Term review found the
necessity of autonomous
Project Coordination Unit to
strengthen and improve
project overall management
Covenant: 3.05 (a)(ii)                                     The Borrower shall, not later than May
31 of each year, conduct with IDA
Project implementation reviews to : (ii)
monitor progress made in achieving
Project objectives, in particuular: design
of training programs for MAE &
MACP staff; prep. of work programs &
budgets (for DVA, DPIA & DEFOC);
design & approv. of pilot operations to
be implemented to carry out Parts D.2
&D.3                             l      __             _
09/22/1994                   C                                       A Project Coordination Unit
was set up in November
1992.
05/22/1996                   C                                       A Project Coordination Unit
was set up in November
1992.
10/22/1996                  C                                        In compliance



- 25 -
Covenant  Original       Entry/Form       Revised            Status Description of Covenant      Comments
Class(s)    Fulfill Date   590 Date       Fulfill Date
06/27/1997                    C                                         In compliance
Covenant: 3.05(iii)                                          The Borrower shall, not later than May
09                                                           31 of each year, conduct with IDA
Project implementation reviews to:
(iii) exchange information among staff
responsible for Project implementation
and propose solutions to any current
problems.
09/22/1994                    C                                         In compliance
05/22/1996                    C                                         In compliance
i U/22/1996                  C                                          In compliance
|         | ~~06/27/1997  ||C || In compliance
Covenant: 3.05 (a)(iv)                                       The Borrower shall, not later than May 3
09                                                           of each year, conduct with IDA Project
implementation reviews to: (iv) update
|_ _  |_ _Project timetables and cost estimates.
|________    |09/22/1994                     C                                         In compliance
|________  |____ _  05/22/1996               C                                         In compliance
___________   ___________ |10/22/1996    |              C                                         In compliance
11 _________ L __________ |06/27/1997                   C                                         In compliance
Covenant: 3.05 (b)                                           The Borrower shall promptly
09                                                           thereafter, carry out those
recommendations arising out of said
reviews, as agreed between the
Borrower and IDA.
| 09/22/1994    |              C                                         In compliance
05/22/1996      _             C                                         In compliance
10/22/1996      _       _    C    __| In compliance
06/27/1997                    C                                         In compliance



- 26 -
Covenant  Original        Entry/Form        Revised             Status Description of Covenant        Comments
Class(s)    Fulfill Date   590 Date         Fulfill Date
Covenant:  12/31/1991                                           The Borrower shall (a) not later than
3.06                                                            December 31,1991, conduct, with IDA
and other donors financing the PRSAP,
a Mid-Term review; (b) promptly there
-after, implement the findings &
recommendations of this Mid-Term
review.
09/22/1994                     C                                           Mid-Term review took place
in March 1992. Action Plan
l__________                                                                                            is being implemented
05/22/1996                     C                                           Mid-Term review took place
in March 1992. Action Plan
l______________   ____________                                              is being  implemented
10/22/1996                     C                                           Mid-Term review took place
in March 1992. Action Plan
is being implemented
06/27/1997                     C                                           Mid-Term review took place
in March 1992. Action Plan
_______________ I__I_l_       l_|_| is being  implemented
Covenant: 3.07                                                  The Borrower shall ensure that all staff
05                                                              having received training abroad remain
in their assignments until a suitable
________________ l____________ l____    replacement is  appointed.
09/22/1994                     C                                           Needs continuous follow-up
05/22/1996                     C   l__                                     Needs continuous follow-up
|__________ |10/22/1996                       C   |_| In compliance
06/27/1997      |I|_C C                                                    In compliance
Covenant: 3.08                                                  The Borrower shall cause the CRPAs to
10                                                      I       enter into Cahiers de Charge with the



- 27 -
Covenant  Original      Entry/Form      Revised            Status Description of Covenant     Comments
Class(s)    Fulfill Date  590 Date      Fulfill Date
respective GVs and Producers'
associations to carry out the
construction program referred to in
Parts A.1 (b)(ii) and B.1 (b)(ii).
09/22/1994                   C                                       No action required
05/22/1996                   C                                       No action required
10/22/1996                  C                                        No action required
06/27/1997                   C                                       No action required
Covenant: 3.09                                             The Borrower shall maintain CAPU
05                                                         during Project execution with such
functions and staff as are specified in
Schedule 5, Section II to DCA.
l___________ 09/22/1994                   C                                        No action required
05/22/1996                   C                                       No action required
l___________ 10/22/1996                   C                                        No action required
06/27/1997                   C                                       No action required
Covenant                                                   The Borrower shall maintain records
4.01 (a)                                                   and accounts adequate to reflect, in
accordance with sound accounting
practices, the operations, resources and
.____________              _____    expenditures.
l___________ 09/22/1994                   C                                        No action required
l___________ 05/22/1996                   C                                        No action required
10/22/1996                  C                                        No action required
l___________ 06/27/1997                   C                                        No action required
Covenant:                                                  The Borrower shall have these records
4.01 (b)(i)                                                and accounts, including those for the
01                                                         Special Account, for each FY audited
by independent auditors.



- 28 -
Covenant  Original      Entry/Form       Revised            Status Description of Covenant     Comments
Class(s)    Fulfill Date   590 Date      Fulfill Date                                                                    I
09/22/1994                   C                                        No action required
05/22/1996                   C                                        No action required
10/22/1996                   C                                        No action required
06/27/1997                   C                    _                   No action required
Covenant: 4.02 (b)(ii)                                      The Borrower shall furnish IDA, not
later than 6 months after the end of
each FY, this certified audit report.                        l
09/22/1994                   CP                                       Special Account Audit
overdue
05/22/1996                   C                                        Problems found in previous
audit reports have been
I_________                    ____________ _____ ___________________________________ adequately corrected
10/22/1996                   C                                        Problems found in previous
audit reports have been
__________ ___________  ____  ____________________adequately corrected
06/27/1997                   C                                        Problems found in previous
audit reports have been
I_________ ____________                          ___________________________________ adequately corrected
Covenant: 4.02 (b)(iii)                                     The Borrower shall furnish IDA other
information concerning such records
and accounts at IDA's request.
l___________ 09/22/1994                    C C                                      No action required
__________  ____________ 05/22/1996                C                                        No action required
10/22/1996                   C                                        No action required
l_________ ____________ 06/27/1997                    C                                        No action required
Covenant: 4.02(c)                                           For all expenditures made on the basis
of SOEs, the Borrower shall:
(i)maintain records & accounts of such
____________________________  __________________    ______________  _____  expend.;  (ii)retain   all  records



29 -
Covenant   Original        Entry/Form        Revised              Status Description of Covenant        Comments
Class(s)    Fulfill Date   590 Date          Fulfill Date                                                                            l
evidencing such expend. for at least 1
yr. after completion of audit for FY in
which last disbursement was made;
(iii)enable IDA to examine such
records.
09/22/1994                      C                                            No action required
05/22/1996                      C                         _No action required
10/22/1996                      C                                            No action required
06/27/1997                      C                                            No action required
For all expenditures made on the basis
of statements of expenditures (SOEs)
the Borrower shall: (iv) include such
records & accounts in annual audits and
ensure that audit report contains a
l___________    _______________    ____________    ____    separate  opinion  on  reliability  of SOEs.                  l
09/22/1994                      C                                            No action required
05/22/1996                      C                                            No action required
l___________ 10/22/1996                        C                                            No action required
l_________                  06/27/1997                      C                                            No action required



-30 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title      Describe and comment on lack of compliance
All Operational Manual Statements
|were complied with.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned        Revised          Actual
Stage of Project Cycle     Weeks  US$   Weeks  US$   Weeks    US$
Preparation to Appraisal                        _                    56   101,668
Appraisal                                                            74   131,659
Negotiations through Board                                           26    52,887
Approval                                        _
Supervision                                     _                   354   544,270
Completion                                                           10    25,000
TOTAL                                                               520   855,484



Table 13: Bank Ressources Missions
Stage Of Project Cycle     Month/Year  Number of Days in  Specialized staff skills   Performance    Performane
persons    field     represented 11      rating 12       rating
Implementation  Development
status       objective
Through Appraisal               ___
Appraisal through Board Approval
Supervision Mission                  89           2        14        Agricullturist          2             1
Supervision Mission                  1/90         2        13        Agriculturist           2             1
Supervision Mission                 3/90          2        21        Agriculturist           2             I
Supervision Mission                 6/90          2        17        Ag Extension            2
Supervision Mission                 3/91          2        10        Agriculturist           2             1
Supervision Mission                 4/92          6        10       Agri / Finances          2             1
Supervision Mission                 9/92          2         7         Agricultirist          2              1
Supervision Mission                 2/93          2         8        Agr / Econo.            2             1
Supervision Mission                 12/93         3        10         Ag/Finances            2
Supervision Mission                 8/94          3         7        Agriculturist           2             I
Supervision Mission 0               3/95          3        10        Ag. Extension           2              1
Supervision Mission 1               10/95         2        10     Extension / Finance        2              I
Supervision Mission                 1/96          2        14          Extension             2             1
Supervision Mission                 6/96          4         4      Ag / Ext. / Econo.        2             1
Supervision Mission 2               9/96          3        12        Agri / Finance          2              1
Supervision Mission 3               2/97          3        10      Ag / Eco / Finance        2             I
Supervision Mission 4               12/97         4                  Ag / Finance            2             1
Completion                          2/98          2         14       Ag / Finance            2
Performance ratings: 1 = Highly satisfactory; 2 = Satisfactory



REPUBLIQUE DU BURKINA FASO
BANQUE MONDIALE
AIDE-MEMOIRE
MISSION D'A.CHEVEMENT DU PRSAP
(du 23 f6vrier au 6 mars 1998)
La mission du rapport d'achevement du Projet de Renforcement des Services d'Appui
aux Producteurs (PRSAP) a eu lieu atu Burkina Faso du 22 fevrier au 7 mars 1998. La
mission etait conduite par M. Yves-Coffi Prudencio, Specialiste de la Recherche et des
Services Agricoles au siege de la Banque A Washington. La mission etait composee en
outre du cote Burkinab6 de Messrs Boureima Compaor6, Coordonnateur du PRSAP,
Michel Ouedraogo, Directeur de la DPIA, Joseph Ouedraogo de la DVA, Issouffou
Ouattara de la DVA, de M. Zona Isidore du Service de Suivi/Evaluation de la DVA, et de
Mme. Awa Mouhoun, Directrice de la Vulgarisation et des Transferts de Technologie au
Ministere des Ressources Animales. M. Ibrahim Nebie, Charge du projet A la mission
Residente de la Banque, prealablemenat indispose s'est joint a la mission au milieu de la
deuxieme semaine.
La mission a recu le rapport d'avancement du projet et a eu A Ouagadougou des
discussions avec les responsables des differentes institutions chargees de 1'execution des
differentes composantes du projet e a effectue des visites de terrain dans les Directions
Regionales du Centre Nord (Kaya) et du Nord (Ouahigouya). Les observations faites sur
le terrain dans l'ouest et 1'est du pays par quelques membres de la mission, dont le chef
de mission, lors de la derniere mission de supervision du projet ont ete egalement prises
en compte dans les debats.
La mission a choisi de passer en revue les objectifs assignes A chaque composante du
projet dans l'Accord de credit, de fait le point sur les resultats obtenus, les insuffisances,
les correctifs apportees ou A apporter et de tirer A chaque etape les lecons de l'experience
du PRSAP. Les resultats de cet exercice ont ete les suivants.
Partie A: VULGARISATION AGRICOLE
1 - Reorganisation et Renforcement de la Vulgarisation
L'objectif principal de cette composante etait la reorganisation et le renforcement des
institutions de vulgarisation aux niveaux national, regional et provincial.



-2 -
Objectifs spicif ques. Acquis et Insuffisances
A- Au niveau national et r6gional
(i) Application a l'echelon national des resultats de l'opiration Test de Renforcement de
la Vulgarisation Agricole (OTR VA)
La mission a constate l'existence effective de 12 Directions Regionales de l'Agriculture et
des Ressources Animales (DRARA) (correspondant aux anciens CRPA) couvrant
1'ensemble du territoire national qui ont e  soutenus par le projet. La mission a constate
la mise en place effective d'un dispositif d'encadrement base sur le systeme de Formation
et Visite (F&V) et comprenant de la base vers le sommet des Agents Vulgarisateurs de
Base (AVB) en charge d'Unites d'Encadrement Agricoles (UEA) ou d'Unites
d'Encadrement d'Elevage (UEE), supervises par des Chefs de Zone et formes par des
Techniciens Specialises (TS) qui sont A leur tour sous la supervision d'un chef de Service
Provincial de l'Agriculture (SPA) qui A son tour rend compte au Directeur Regional. II a
e  egalement constate la mise en place effective de cellules Recherche Developpement
(R/D) au niveau des Directions Regionales.
Le dispositif a evolue de la maniere suivante en termes d'effectifs des agents
Agents                                 1991                      1997
AVB                                    932                       1007
Chefs de Zone                         331                       521
TS-PV                                  80                       43
TS-Elevage                             60                       35
TS-DRS                                -                          12
TS-OP                                 -                         30
Chefs SPA                             30                        30
Agents R/D                             12                        12
Directeurs Regionaux                   12                       12
La plupart des agents sont issus d'ecoles d'agriculture et de medecine veterinaire. Les
AVB sont generalement des ATAS (Agents Techniques de l'Agriculture), les chefs de
zone des Techniciens Superieurs, les TS des Techniciens Superieurs, les chefs SPA des
Ingenieurs Agronomes.



- 3 -
La mission a constate, sur la base du rapport d'avancement du projet que le taux
d'encadrement des producteurs a augment6 de 5% a 25% pour la production vegetale et
de 7% a 10% pour l'6levage entre 1990/91 et 1996/97. Le taux d'encadrement village est
demeure relativement constant pour les productions vegetales et animales, oscillant eritre
66% et 74% au cours de la meme periode.
Concemant les outils de vulgarisatiorn, il y a eu une augmentation sensible du nombre de
groupes de travail (GT) de pres de 8500 a pres de 13000 en production vegetale et de
2000 a presque 5000 en production animale. Toutefois les taux de participation aux ATG
et la progression des UD etaient peu satisfaisants jusquven 1993/94 .
Un redimensionnement des groupes cle travail au niveau de l'encadrement en production
vegetale pour ramener les effectifs entre 10 et 25 paysans au lieu de 45 et plus, le choix
des themes des ATG sur la base des pr6occupations des paysans telles que identifiees lors
d'un diagnostic des contraintes, et l'elimination des champs-ecoles au profit des parcelles
de demonstration ont permis une arnelioration du taux de participation aux ATG en
production vegetale qui est passe en moyenne de 49% a 78% apres la campagne 1993/94.
Concernant la production animale le taux de participation aux ATG a diminue de pres de
30% malgre une reorganisation du travail en 1993/94 par integration des agents des
postes d'elevage et une plus grande animation par les chefs de zone d'elevage, ce qui avait
conduit a un doublement du nombre de groupes de travail et de l'effectif des GT, ainsi
qu'a un triplement des demonstrations. A ce niveau le probleme d'identification de themes
et de disponibilite de technologies correspondant aux preoccupations des eleveurs semble
se poser. De meme la non concordance des zones d'encadrement agriculture et elevage
limite l'utilisation rationnelle des AVB sur le terrain.
Selon le rapport d'avancement du projet soumis a la mission, le nombre de micro
parcelles de demonstration (test pour le paysan) de technologie en production vegetale a
regulierement augmente de 22646 en 1991/92 a 34531 en 1996/97, soit une
augmentation de 52% entre ces deux campagnes; Environ 15% des paysans encadres
implantaient ces demonstrations chaque annee. Dans le domaine de la production animale
le nombre de troupeaux test a plus q[ue triple de 970 en 1991/92 a 3419 en 1996/97.
(pages 14 et 15) avec environ 4% des eleve'urs encadres conduisant des demonstrations
individuelles.
Les TS et les AVB se sont plaint a la imission de manque d'equipement didactiques et de
materiel agricole tels que charrues, pulveriseurs, etc., pour faire des demonstrations en
milieu paysan. Ils ont indiqu6 avoir de serieuses difficultes pour trouver des paysans
disposant des equipement necessaires et desireux de les mettre a la disposition des agents
pour des demonstrations. Neanmoins, les tests sont supposes concerner seulement les
producteurs ayant les moyens de les appliquer.
II a aussi ete note dans le cas des activites de suivi visite exploitation (ASVE) un
accroissement regulier du nombre d'exploitations visitees aussi bien en production



-4 -
animale qu'en production vegetale, avec une plus grande attention pret6e aux
productrices.
En resume l'augmentation du niveau d'effort de vulgarisation a beaucoup plus paye par
adhesion des producteurs au niveau de l'agriculture que de l'elevage. Toutefois, la
vulgarisation en elevage , bien qu'accusant des insuffisances, s'est progressivement
amrlioree.
(ii) achat d'environ 68 vMhicules a quatre roues pour les CRPA et la DVA, defournitures
et mate'riel de bureau
Cet objectif a ete realise. 34 vehicules ont ete achetes et renouveles une fois, soit un total
de 68 vehicules.
B- Au niveau provincial
(i) achat d'environ 300 motocyclettes et 1400 mobylettes
Cet objectif a ete atteint par l'acquisition de 1452 motocyclettes. Les mobylettes ont ete
remplacees par des motocyclettes a 100 cc jugees plus resistantes et plus adaptees aux
conditions de terrain.
Les TS qui ont recu des motocyclettes SUZUKI 125 cc se plaignent du cout eleve
d'entretien de ces motos et d'une faible disponibilite des pieces de rechange sur le
marche. Ils auraient prefere des motos YAMAHA a 100 cc comme les AVB. les cofits
d'entretien de ces derni&es sont moindre, elles sont reparables sur place en milieu paysan
par la plupart des reparateurs et les pieces de rechange sont plus disponibles.
(ii) construction d'environ 400 logements pour les vulgarisateurs.
378 logements d'encadreurs ont ete construits, soit un taux de realisation de 95%. Une
r6duction de la ligne budg6taire lors d'une re-allocation en accord avec la Banque et
surtout une augmentation des cofits de construction sont ; la base de ce d6ficit.
(iii) achat de fourniture et de materiel de bureau pour le personnel de vulgarisation
La mission n'a enregistre aucune plainte des agents sur ce suj et.
(iv) recrutement de trente encadreurs additionnels
Il y a eu recrutement de 28 encadreurs contractuels travaillant precedemment dans des
projets finances par la Banque. II y a eu recrutement d'un encadreur par province. Parmi
les 30 provinces 2 n'en ont pas eu besoin.



-5 -
Lecons et Correctifs
La mission a remarque au cours des visites sur le terrain que les groupes de travail ayant
les taux de participation les plus elev6s sont ceux constitues au sein de groupements
villageois existants et dans des perimetres maraichers ou rizicoles ou la proximite de
parcelles et la concentration des producteurs, particulierement des productrices est un etat
de fait. La programmation des ATG sur la base de contraintes exprimees par les paysans
au cours du diagnostic a constitue un facteur preponderant dans toute amelioration du
taux de participation.
Ceci confirme l'hypothese selon laquelle le diagnostic des contraintes et la vulgarisation a
travers des groupes de travail constituies au sein d'organisations paysannes sur la base de
contraintes identifiees permet d'acciroitre l'efficacite et l'impact de la vulgarisation.
L'efficacite et l'impact sont encore plus grands lorsque les producteurs disposent de
champs collectifs ou interviennent dans des perimetres agricoles caracterises par une
proximite des parcelles individuelles.
La mission a egalement constate dans les zones visitees une absence de diagnostic global
village et /ou une focalisation du diagnostic aux aspects production animale et vegetale, et
un certain delaissement des contraintes en amont et en aval de la production. Cependant,
plusieurs directions regionales, en utilisant la programmation participative arrivent A
recenser et a communiquer aux partenaires concernes les problemes non- agricoles. Les
Techniciens Specialises en Organisation Paysanne traditionnellement charges d'aider les
OP A resoudre ces contraintes sont relativement peu nombreux dans le pays ou on
denombre un grand nombre d'OPs. Il y en a seulement un par province ou les OP se
comptent par centaines ou par milliers. Les AVB re,oivent peu de formation specifique
dans le domaine d'organisation cooperative et sont peu ou pas outilles pour gerer l'apres-
diagnostic global.
II y a necessite d'harmnoniser les zones d'encadrement d'agriculture et d'elevage pour une
utilisation rationnelle des agents.
L'existence d'un dispositif etatique parallele de protection des vegetaux n'a pas permis
l'utilisation la plus rationnelle possible des ressources de l'Etat dans l'appui au monde
paysan. L'integration de ce dispositif au dispositif d'encadrement s'impose par exemple
par l'integration des specialistes en protection des vegetaux comme TS, tel que prevu
dans la deuxieme phase du projet.
Le choix des moyens de d6placement des agents de vulgarisation devrait faire l'objet
d'enquetes pour eviter les problemes cites plus haut, et des criteres tels que reparabilite
sur 1'ensemble du territoire devrait apparaitre dans les dossiers d'appel d'offre. Une autre
alternative serait un dep6t de caution saisissable par les fournisseurs pour guarantir la
disponibilite reguliere de pieces de recliange



-6 -
2- Formation
L'objectif etait la mise au point et 1'execution d'un programme de formation destine au
personnel de vulgarisation A tous les niveaux..
Objectifs Spcif igues, Acquis et Insuffisances
A- Equipement du Centre de Formation de Matourkou
Le centre a e  effectivement equipe avec du materiel d'internat (lits, matelas, plats, etc..)
et du mat6riel audio-visuel de 1990 A 1993, et encore recemment en 1997, en plus de
materiel informatique.
B- Formations diverses
(i) organisation d'une mise a niveau pour environ 300 vulgarisateurs devant etre admis
dans / 'administration
292 encadreurs ont effectivement beneficie de sessions de remise A niveau
(ii) organisation d'un recyclage annuel et d'une formation reguliere deux fois par mois
destinee aux vulgarisateurs et a leurs superviseurs
Les recyclages annuels et les formations de quinzaine ont eu lieu regulierement.
(iii) organisation d'une formation locale dans les stations de recherche destinee ai
environ 150 TS, aux chefs des services provinciaux de la vulgarisation et a leurs adjoints
Il n'y a pas eu une formation, mais plutot des formations regulieres AMRT pour les TS.
Suivant les recommandations d'un atelier regional et d'um guide de la Banque designant
les TS seuls comme groupe cible pour les AMRT, les chefs SPA n'ont pas ete inclus dans
les AMRT. Il n'y a pas eu d'adjoints aux chefs SPA. Ceci avait ete prevus pour les
grandes provinces, mais n'a plus e  effectif.
Des ateliers mensuels (AMRT) regroupant chercheurs et TS ont effectivement e
regulierement programmes par zone de recherche agricole sur la base des contraintes
identifi6es au cours des diagnostics, et ont ete realises en grande partie. La mission a e
informee sur le terrain d'un taux de realisation de 8/12 pour la campagne 1996/97 du a
l'indisponibilite ou A un manque de moyens de d6placernent des chercheurs. Ceci a ete lid
A une insuffisance de ressources disponibles au niveau de la recherche , suite a la cloture
du projet de recherche.



-7 -
(iv) organisation de visites educatives effectuges par les representants des G V dans les
stations de recherche, les PAPEM et d'autres GV
II y a eu des visites commentdes au niveau des PAPEM  et au niveau de stations de
recherche. Le projet a egalement finance le deplacement de GVC A GVC pour partage
d'experiences.
(v) participation de cadres superieurs cle la vulgarisation ai des seminaires et sessions
d'etudes et deformation ai l'etranger
70 stages de formations diverses A l'Ntrznger ont et finances
Lecons et Correctifs
Comme indique lors de la derniere mission de supervision du projet il y a necessite de
decentraliser un peu plus les AMRT au besoin de maniere A prendre en compte des
themes specifiques A certaines provinces et qui se perdent souvent dans les syntheses.
En dehors des instituts de recherche plusieurs institutions de formation telles que IPD,
CESAO, etc. ont eu A participer A la formation des agents.
Les formations A 1'etranger sont difficiles a gerer, concernent un ou tres peu dtindividus,
les couits sont eleves et difficiles A justifier au niveau superieur de I'administration qui
souvent s'y oppose.
11 manque des specialistes pour la formiation des adultes. la formation des formateurs se
fait sur le tas.
II est souvent difficile de definir clairement les groupes cible pour chaque formation,
plusieurs types d'agents reclament la mime formation.
Les formations specifiques visent souvent des objectifs tres varies, selon les demandes
des agents et sont difficiles A gerer.
Les agents formes sont souvent affectes par l'Etat A d'autres postes au sein du projet ou
en dehors du projet, ce qui conduit A un recommencement perpetuel de la formation des
agents nouvellement affectes A leurs postes.
II y a une tendance des agents bases dans les directions centrales et regionales A vouloir
devenir des agents de terrain A cause de meilleures incitations en matieres d'indemnit6s et
d*acquisition de motocyclettes. Ils profitent des formations specifiques pour changer de
postes.
Par ailleurs le paiement de perdiems aux agents lors des formations incitent beaucoup
d'agents A demander la formation.



-8-
L'heterogeinite du niveau de formation ou de dipl6mes des agents rend difficile la
forrnation.
Pour resoudre la plupart de ces problemes il serait utile d'avoir des plans de carriere
clairement definis pour les agents, de definir clairement les formations requises pour
chaque type d'agent et de construire les plans de formation en consequence. Ces plans
devront etre portes A la connaissance des commissions d'affectation et tout agent recevant
une formation devrait s'engager A respecter le plan de carrire qui lui donne droit A la
formation sous peine de penalite. Lorsque les conditions le permettent une gestion
autonome du personnel du projet par la structure chargee d'executer le projet devrait etre
requise.
3- Recherche-Developpement
L'objectif principal etait une amelioration des liaisons entre la recherche agricole et la
vulgarisation, grace au renforcement des unit6s de recherche-developpement.
Obiectifs Spicifiques, Acquis et Insuffisances
A- Remise en Etat des PAPEM
(i) exdcution d'etudes topographiques et pedologiques pour de nouveaux sites
Ces etudes ont ete realisees pour 9 nouveaux sites pour lesquels des titres fonciers. ont
ensuite ete obtenus.
(ii) execution de travaux de genie civil et preparation de 20 hectares de terre dans neuf
PAPEM
Des constructions de bureaux, magasins, aires de s6chage, 6tables etc. ont effectivement
ete effectuees ainsi que la preparation de terre (operations de labour) comme prevu dans
les 9 nouveaux PAPEM
(iii) fourniture d'animaux de trait et de materiel agricole
Tous les PAPEMs ont recu des animaux de trait, des charrues, des motoculteurs, pesons,
etc comme prevu.
(iv) achat d'environ 2 vehicules automobile, 34 motocvclettes, 68 mobylettes, matiriaux,
meubles etfournitures de bureaux
1 vehicule a ete achete en 1991, base au niveau central. et renouvele en 1995. Dix sept
(17) motos ont ete acquises pour les 17 responsables de PAPEM et 34 mobylettes pour
les observateurs des PAPEM (2 par PAPEM pour un total de 17 PAPEMs). les motos et
mobylettes ont ete renouvelees une fois, ce qui fait le compte comme prevu.



- 9 -
(v) visites d'change dans d'autres PAPEM et formation destineie au personnel des
PAPEM
Les agents des PAPEM ont re,u de iormations specifiques sur la conduite de tests et
demonstrations.
B- Renforcement du Programme de Recherche-Developpement
(i) creation de 12 unites regionales de Recherche-Diveloppement au sein des CRPA
La mission a constate 1'existence effective des cellules R/D au sein des Directions
Regionales 'ex-CRPA)
(ii) achat de vehicules, materiaux, mobilier et fournitures de bureau destines aux unites
nationales et regionales de Recherche-Diveloppement
La mission a constate qu!il n'existe dauns aucune Direction R6gionale de vehicules mis
exclusivement A la disposition des cellules R/D. Celles ci font usage du pool de vehicules
disponible dans les DRARA sur la base de requetes et programmation. C'est
principalement le vehicule du Service Formation Vulgarisation qui est mis A la
disposition de l'agent R/D au besoin.
Les agents R/D rencontr6s se sont plaint de difficultes de mobilite et particulierement du
fait qu'ils ne disposent meme pas de rnotocyclettes A titre individuel comme les autres
agents appeles A intervenir sur le terrain.
La n6cessite de doter les agents R/D de motocyclettes A defaut de vehicules a e
reconnue par la mission.
(iii) formation a l 'tranger destinee awu cadres superieurs de recherche-developpement
Les agents R/D ont indiqu6 A la mission qu'ils n'ont pratiquement pas beneficie de
formation A l'etranger., mais il y a eu la formation en France d'un agent R/D qui a ete
affecte. I1 y a egalement eu un voyage d'etude en Cote d'Ivoire pour tous les agents R/D.
Acquis et Insuffisances
Selon les agents d'elevage rencontres sur le terrain il y a eu tres peu de tests en
production animale faute de technologies suffisantes proposees par la recherche dans ce
domaine, mais la recherche pense autreinent. I1 s'agirait plut6t d'un manque d'information
et de concertation suffisante sur le sujet.
La mission a constate que plusieurs intervenants proposent des tests au dispositif de
vulgarisation, que le niveau d'interaction entre chercheurs et vulgarisateurs est faible,
peu de tests en PAPEM ou en milieu paysan ont de repondants au niveau de la recherche



- 10-
qui interviennent dans la formulation de protocoles, le suivi des tests et I'analyse des
donnees, le feed-back des resultats vers les chercheurs et les paysans.
La raison principale de ces maux a ete identifiee comme etant le manque d'un cadre de
concertation entre les differents intervenants et la vulgarisation pour programmer
rationnellement les tests et discuter les resultats obtenus. La synthese des themes de
formation et de recherche se faisait initialement au niveau de deux zones de recherche
pour l'ensemble du territoire. I1 y a eu une evolution vers 5 zones de recherche dans
lesquels sont organises des Comites techniques de la recherche pour selectionner les
themes devant faire l'objet de recherche et de formation chaque campagne. Toutefois il a
ete note un phenomene de deperdition dans la synthese qui conduit a la selection de tests
peu pertinents pour certaines provinces; La solution preconisee a et l'organisation de
journ6es R/D par province ou par direction regionale pour mieux focaliser et augmenter
l'efficacit6 de la recherche en milieu paysan
Le niveau de formation relativement faible de plusieurs agents R/D (niveau ATS), la
non participation des agents R/D aux AMRTs, et la non responsabilisation formelle des
TS dans les activites de recherche avec obligation de rendre compte a l'agent R/D,
constituent autant de facteurs limitant le succes des actions R/D, sans compter des
problemes de mobilite et d'equipement adequat des cellules R/D qui se retrouvent
souvent sans calculatrices et ne disposent pas d'ordinateurs pour la saisie et l'analyse des
donnees.
Lecons et Correctifs
I1 est necessaire de (i) creer un cadre de concertation aussi decentralise que possible entre
la recherche et la vulgarisation pour les activites R/D; (ii) recruter des responsables R/D
ayant au moins un niveau d'Ingenieur Agronome, de DEA ou de doctorat (cadre
superieur) capable de dialoguer valablement avec les chercheurs; (iii) inscrire
formellement la recherche en milieu paysan dans les termes de reference des TS avec
obligation de participer au cadre de concertation avec la recherche, executer avec l'aide
des AVB les tests et rendre compte au responsable R/l); (iv).. doter les responsables R/D
de vehicules et d'ordinateurs pour l'accomplissement correct de leurs taches; (v) faire
participer les responsables R/D aux AMRTs pour leur permettre de s'informer et de
s'instruire sur les nouvelles technologies au meme titre que les TS..
La possibilite de faire en sorte que la cellule R/D soit le demembrement de la recherche
au niveau de la vulgarisation a e  examinee. II ressort des discussions que la non
appartenance des deux structures (recherche et vulgarisation) au meme ministere rend
difficile cette alternative dans le cas du Burkina Faso.
I1 a ete reconnu le fait que comme consequence du PAS, il n'y a plus de recrutement dans
la fonction publique et le stock de ressources humaines disponibles diminue
progressivement. Ce stock ne contient pas suffisamment de cadres de haut niveau pour la
R/D au niveau des Ministeres de l'agriculture et des ressources animales. Neanmoins une



- 11 -
solution a envisager pourrait etre le detachement de chercheurs du ministere de la
recherche pour occuper les postes de responsables R/D.
Une autre solution serait le degrevement de la fonction publique du personnel incapable
de s'adapter au systeme de vulgarisation et de recruter les nouvelles competences
necessaires a son bon fonctionnement.
Si necessaire, un recrutement de contractuels pourrait aussi etre envisage.
4- Communication de Masse et Progiramme Audio-Visuel
L'objectif principal etait l'amelioration des capacites de communication de masse et des
capacites audiovisuelles des services de vulgarisation.
Objectifs Spevfiaues. Acquis et Insu i7sances
A- Au niveau national
(i) renforcement des capacites des services de communication de masse de la DVA a
produire du materiel didactique et technique de vulgarisation
Des affectations et recrutement de corLtractuels ont permis de renforcer les capacites au
niveau central en passant de trois a six cadres de conception. I1 y a egalement eu
acquisition de materiel audio visuel. I1 y a eu production d'affiches, de films, d'emissions
radiophoniques, de fiches techniques en francais et en langues locales, ainsi que la
production d'un journal de liaison en fn9nais.
B - Au niveau regional
(ii) renforcement et/ou creation d'environ 12 unites regionales de communication de
masse et d'audio-visuel
La mission a constate l'existence effective des unites audio-visuel dans les directions
regionales visitees. II a ete fait etat de projections de diapositives dans les villages,
d'emissions radiophoniques ainsi que la production et la projection de films video au
niveau de certaines Directions Regionales.
(ii) achat de materiel et d'equipement de base qui sera utilise par les TS pour former les
vulgarisateurs et les exploitants agricoles
Les productions audio visuelles seraient a la disposition des TS qui l'utiliseraient
rarement et qui se sont plaint a la missi.on d'un manque de materiel didactique. Toutefois
ces productions ont ete utilisees par le service pour la formation des producteurs en
collaboration avec les AVB..
(iii) achat d'environ 20 vehicules a quatre roues , d'equipement et de materiel pour les
12 unites regionales d'audio-visuel



- 12 -
Il y a eu achat d'un vehicule au niveau national et de 9 vehicules pour 9 unites regionales,
soit dix vehicules renouveles une fois (total 20 vehicules). les autres regions ont beneficie
de l'appui d'autres projets dans ce sens.
Les cellules audio-visuel disposent d'equipement pour des prise de vues et projections de
diapositives. Cet equipement est juge insuffisant par le personnel audio-visuel qui
voudrait en plus des cameras mobiles , magnetoscopes et ecrans de television,
(iv) formation des cadres de ces unites aux techniques audiovisuelles
Les agents ont et6 form6s a la DVA et a l'IPD/AOS.
Lecons et Correctifs
La decentralisation du service a permis d'adapter les productions au besoins aux niveaux
national et regional. La mobilite du personnel en raison des affectations a perturbe le
fonctionnement du service de meme que le fait que le service ait eu a partager le vehicule
qui lui est affecte avec d'autres services. La non modemisation progressive des
equipements a egalement constitue un handicap
Partie B - SERVICES D'ELEVAGE
Obiectifs Specifiques. Acquis et Insuffisances
1- renforcement des services dilevage aux niveaux national et rigional.
A- au niveau national
(i) revision du cadre de reglementation veterinaire afin d'etablir des orientations
encourageant l'exercice prive de la profession veterinaire
Plusieurs textes de loi sur la privatisation   de la profession veterinaire ont ete
effectivement adoptes en novembre 1989 et en mai 1994. Une soixantaine de veterinaires
ont pu s'installer a titre prive. Il existe toutefois un certain des6quilibre dans leur
repartition geographique. La plupart se trouvent dans les regions au centre et au sud ouest
du pays. II y a une tendance a abandonner le nord pour des raisons de faible rentabilite de
l'activite veterinaire liee aux moindres maladies du betail et au deplacement des
troupeaux vers le sud du pays.
(ii) creation dun centre inter-service de documentation ai la DPIA
Le centre a ete effectivement mis en place avec plus de 450 documents et recoit plusieurs
periodiques. L'agent charge de la gestion du centre a egalement recu une formation au
Centre National de la Documentation Agricole (CNDA), dans le cadre du projet.
.B- au niveau regional
(i) construction, ameublement et equipement d'environ 42 postes d'elevage, 50 bureaux et
20 magasins pour les medicaments, les intrants et les aliments de betail.



- 13 -
Les 42 postes d'elevage ont ete effectivement construits (bureau/logement), il n'y a pas eu
de construction separee de bureaux. L'equipement des postes d'elevage s'est fait au fur et
a mesure de leurs reception (essentiellement des appareils de froid et du mobilier de
bureau) Dix (10) magasins sur 20 ont ete construits. La construction des magasins a et
suspendue en raison d'une sous utilisation de ceux dejA construits et constatee a la revue a
mi-parcours, et plus tard suite & la decision de privatisation de 1'ONAVET.
(ii) construction d'environ 42 logements pour le personnel et de 100 parcs de vaccination
pour les bovins
Les logements ont et combines avec Iles postes d'e1evage, il n'y a pas eu de construction
separee de logements Quant aux parcs de vaccination 56 ont ete construits . L'objectif a
et reduit a 56 postes au lieu de 100 pour pouvoir construire en materiaux plus solides et
couitant plus cher que prevus (tubes en acier galvanis6).
(iii) remise en etat de 100 postes d'elevage et d'autres infrastructures
Une quarantaine de postes ont e  refectionnes, il n'y avait pas de besoin de refection pour
d'autres postes. En plus un parc de vaccination a ete transfere en dehors de la ville de
Gaoua.
(iv) achat d'environ 20 vehicules, 400 inotocyclettes, de materiel et mobilier
200 motocyclettes ont et achetes et affectes aux agents qui ont egalement recu du
materiel de travail (estampilles, pinces, blouses, lits de camp, pulveriseurs, etc.). Les
motos ont ete renouveles une fois. Tous les vehicules ont ete acquis, soit 8 au niveau
national et 12 au niveau regional.
2- Amilioration du systeme de distribution de produits veterinaires, de medicaments et
d 'aliments pour le betail
(a) construction et equipement d'une unite de virologie au LNV de Ouagadougou, et
achat de deux vehicules automobiles
L'unite de virologie a ete effectivement construite (1993) equipee et inauguree plus tard
en avril 1997 en raison d'une insuffisance dans les predictions en equipement.. Un
vehicule a et achete en 1991 et a et renouvele en 1995.
les pr6levements provenant d'animaux sont passes de 3363 en 1990/91 a 10433 en
1996/97 .11 y avait un seul virologiste, Le projet a recrute trois veterinaires contractuels
pour renforcer l'unite...
(b) construction et equipement des unites de diagnostic de terrain du LNV a Bobo-
Dioulasso et a Fada Ngourma



- 14 -
Ces unites ont e  construites et receptionnes provisoirement en mai 1993. Elles ont ete
partiellement equipees. Le reste des equipements est prevu dans la deuxieme phase
(PNDSA II).
(c) equipement des unites de diagnostic de terrain du LNV en place a Ouahigouya et
Tenkodogo, et achat d'environ six vehicules pour les quatre unites
Ces unites ont e  construites et ont e    equipees par d'autres partenaires au
developpement. Le projet a finance une partie des equipements et a achete pour ces
unites deux vehicules en 1991 et quatre en 1995..
(d) renforcement de la production et de la distribution d 'aliments pour le betail par
l'ONA VET
Un protocole d'accord d'approvisionnement avait ete signe entre l'ONAVET et sept
CRPA et a ete execute jusqu'A l'annonce de la privatisation et liquidation de l'ONAVET
en 1993.
(e) remise en etat d'installations  a Bobo-Dioulasso pour une succursale locale de
l'ONA VET
D'importants travaux de rehabilitation avaient et effectues a la succursale de l'ONAVET
A Bobo-Dioulasso
3- Formation dupersonnel des services d'elevage
Des formations ont et effectivement programmees et executees. Une douzaine d'agents
au niveau central et regional ont subi des formations de courtes durees (1 mois a 1 an) en
Afrique ou en France. environ 170 agents ont subi des formations de recyclage dans le
pays. Par ailleurs, 4 voyages d*tudes au profit des cadres au niveaux central et regional
ont et effectues au Mali et en Cote d'lvoire.
Lecons et Correctifs
Les objectifs de renforcement des services veterinaires n'ont pas e  clairement definis. Le
projet dans son ensemble est beaucoup plus axe sur des intrants a fournir et des activites
& entreprendre que sur des impacts a rechercher.
Le projet a prevu des renforcements en equipement et a neglige le renforcement
quantitatif et qualitatif en ressources humaines.
Le projet n'a pas tenu compte de la non existence de spt cialistes dans plusieurs domaines
pour proposer les formations adequates. II y a eu insuffisance de formation a cet effet
Ceci est aggrave par le probleme de mobilite de personnel. Le seul virologiste mentionne
plus haut a eu un poste international et a quitte le laboratoire, un des contractuels est en
formation pour le remplacer..



- 15 -
II est necessaire de creer un cadre de concertation et de collaboration pour permettre A la
recherche de se servir des infrastructures utiles pour la recherche telles que le laboratoire
de virologie.
Dans le domaine de la formation, les centres de formation ne font plus que le recyclage
du personnel de la fonction publique dont effectif s'amenuise de jour en jour. La
suggestion des operateurs prives du secteur selon laquelle les centres de formation
professionnelles devraient etre ouverts A des candidats proposes par le secteur prive pour
renforcer la qualite des ressources hurnaines du secteur prive devrait etre prise en compte.
Partie C: ALPHABIETISATION FONCTIONNELLE
Objectifs Sp&cifiques. Acquis et Insuffisances
(1) remise en etat d'environ 70 CFJA et equipement d'environ 177 CFJA
Sur les 70 prevus , 34 ont ete remis en etat (environ 50%). le programme de remise en
stat du reste a ete suspendu suite A la supervision de la composante par le BEP/MACP,
parce que les centres n'6taient pas utilises et que les travaux etaient mal faits. Plus de
70% des centres etaient vides en raison de la non integration des jeunes agriculteurs
formes dans la fonction publique conime souhaite par la plupart.
Concemant l'equipement des 177 CFJA. les equipements (meubles scolaires surtout) ont
*te entierement acquis et dispatches aux CRPA. Ceux ci ont equipe les CFJA
fonctionnels et utilise le reste dans leurs centres de formation des agents et dans les
centres d'alphabetisation.
(2) remise en etat des trois CFFA A Kamboinse et A Farako-Ba, et acquisition d'ouvrages
et de materiel pour leurs bibliotheques.
Le laboratoire National des Travaux Public a effectue une etude et a recommande la
destruction du centre de Farako-Ba et la concentration de la formation au centre de
Kamboinse qui serait remis en etat. La recommandation ne correspondant pas aux termes
de l'accord de credit, il y a eu des hcsitations et rien n'a ete fait jusqu'A la suspension de
la composante en 1991. Neanmoins quelques foumitures de bureau avaient ete livrees en
appui a la formation. La suspension cle la composante avait et decidee surtout en raison
d'une non transparence dans la gesticn de la composante par le Ministere de la Question
Paysanne d'alors.
(3) achat d'environ 4 vehicules automobiles pour les services centraux, et d'environ 30
motocyclettes et 20 mobylettes pour les services regionaux du MACP
Sur les 4 vehicules 2 ont ete acquis et ont e  revers6s A la Coordination du PRSAP suite
A la suspension de la composante et son transfert aux CRPA. Les 2 vehicules ont ete
ensuite reformes, c'est A dire sortis du. parc du projet et verses dans le parc de l'Etat.



- 16 -
Les 30 motocyclettes ont e  acquises et mises a la disposition des specialistes en
organisation paysanne et formation des producteurs (SPOFPP), a raison d'une moto par
province.
Les 20 mobylettes n'ont pas e  acquises
(4) action d'alphabetisationfonctionnelle destinee aux nouveaux alphabetises et aux
membres des GJA.
Sur un total de 60500 auditeurs, seuls 5484 ont e  effectivement formes (9%) pour
plusieurs raisons: (i) objectifs irrealistes; (ii) la suspension de la composante depuis 1991;
(iii) le nombre limite de centres par province (5 a raison (le 30 auditeurs par centre).
(5) formation de responsables regionaux du MACP, d'animateurs, deformateurs et de
personnel d'appui
II y eu des formations de formateurs a l'INA (Institut National d'Alphabetisation) , soit
une formation de 600 superviseurs en 1989, un recyclage de 258 superviseurs et
animateurs en 1990/91, et un recyclage de 190 animateurs en 1993/94.. le taux de
realisation de 1990 a 1994 est evalue a 93%.(page 38 du rapport d'avancement)
(6) Renforcement de la capacite de la Direction de i'Education et de la Formation
Cooperative (DEFOC) pour determiner les besoins specifiques de formation et etablir
des programmes et pour l'execution du programme d'alphabitisation.
Rien de precis n'a ete fait, en raison de la suspension de la composante en 1991.
Toutefois, une equipe pluridisciplinaire de cinq cadres du MACP ont effectue une
vingtaine de missions au cours de la campagne 1990/91 dans les 12 CRPA pour appuyer
les directions regionales de l'ACP dans le cadre de l'execution des activites de formation
des producteurs.
Lecons et Correctifs
II y a eu des faiblesses dans la preparation de la composante . Il aurait par exemple
d'abord fallu s'assurer qu'une alphabetisation initiale avait eu lieu dans la plupart des
villages afin de s'assurer une bonne disponibilite d'alphabetiseurs locaux .
Le projet, initialement con,u pour un seul ministere s'est retrouve eclate au sein de
plusieurs ministeres par composante avec une forte autonomie de gestion par minist&e,
ce qui rendait tres difficile la coordination... I1 est diffiicile a la DAAF d un ministere
d'aller contr6ler la DAF d'un autre ministere, ce qui a conduit a une mauvaise gestion de
la composante.
Des experiences au Burkina Faso, y compris dans le cadre du projets pilote FAAGRA,
demontrent qu'il est plus efficient de faire executer une composante alphabetisation par
des ONG sous contrat.



- 17-
Partie D: ETUDES ET OPERATIONS PILOTES
Objectifs specifiques . Acquis et Insuffisances
(1) Execution  d'etudes pour d'autres services qui soutiendront ou complkteront les
services agricoles et zootechniques comprenant entre autres: la fourniture d'intrants, le
credit, les techniques de micanisation appropriees et la commercialisation.
Aucune des etudes prevues n'a et realisee dans le cadre du projet dans la mesure oui
beaucoup d'etudes existaient sur les sujets mentionnes et etaient realises dans le cadre
d'autres projets. y compris des projets finances par la Banque tel que le projet "engrais
vivrier". Il y a eu une etude pour l'elaboration d'un plan d'action pour Y'acces des
femmes aux services de vulgarisation
(2) Ex&cution d'operations pilotes pour concevoir etpreparer desprojetsfuturs dans le
secteur des services agricoles.
L'initiative la plus importante pouvant faire partie de cet objectif en qualite d'operation
pilote est le Fonds d'Appui aux Activites Generatrices de Revenus (FAAGRA). le fonds
a ete mis en place suite a un constat de faible acces des femmes aux services agricoles
(15%) selon la premiere etude d'impact du projet. Le fonds a servi a octroyer des credits
pour fmancer des projets individuels ou collectifs de femmes agricultrices (organisees en
groupements cooperative).. les dossiers sont recus et  selectionnes au niveau des
Directions Regionales (ex-CRPA) avant d'etre soumis a l'approbation du Comite national
de selection A Ouagadougou. Les remboursements sont verses dans un compte bloque
pour creer un fonds de roulement afin de perenniser l'activite A la fin du projet.
Des cours d'alphabetisation fonctionielle et de gestion sont donnes aux beneficiaires du
credit comme mesures d'accompagnement. Des ONG interviennent independamment
comme parrains pour suivre la gestion du credit par les femmes. Plus de 18000 femmes
ont beneficie de ce credit.
De 1993 a 1997 trois tranches de credits ont et deboursees. les deux premieres tranches
pour un montant total de pres de 112 millions CFA ont beneficie A plus de 4000 femmes.
La troisieme tranche de pres de 390 millions a beneficie A 13720 femmes sur toute
l'etendue du territoire.
(3) Elaboration d'une phase ulterieure du PRSAP
Cet objectif a ete atteint par la preparation et la signature d'un accord de credit pour une
deuxieme phase (PNDSA-II) avant la fin de la premiere phase.



- 18 -
Lecons et Correctifs
II vaut mieux laisser ouverts les themes des etudes de maniere a ce que les termes de
references s'adaptent aux besoins du projet au fur et a mesure de son evolution.. I1
conviendrait egalement de faire un inventaire des etudes realisees dans le pays et entrant
dans le domaine du projet pour eviter toute duplication. et gaspillage de ressources sur
des etudes.
Un projet se limitant seulement a l'appui institutiomiel est insuffisant, des mesures
d'accompagnement peuvent etre prises sous la forme de ]projets pilotes dans des domaines
tels que le credit, la multiplication des semences, l'acces aux engrais chimiques, etc.
Partie E: SUIVI ET EVALUATION
Objectifs sWecif Iues . Acquis et Insuffisances
(1) Creiation ou renforcement etfonctionnement: (a) du Service de Suivi et d'Evaluation
de la DVA; (b) d'une equipe de suivi regional dans chaque CRPA; et (c) d'un service
statistique a la DEP du MAE
La mission a observe 1'existence effective de services de suivi et evaluation au niveau de
la Coordination du projet, de la DVA et au niveau des Directions Regionales (ex-CRPA)..
Pour ce qui conceme la statistique le projet a pris en charge deux cadres contractuels de
la Direction de la Statistique Agricole (le service a ete erige en direction). Le projet a
6galement mis a la disposition de cette direction un vehicule avec frais de
fonctionnement.
(2) Achat d'environ 28 vehicules automobiles, 160 mobylettes, 48 motocyclettes,
d'equipements de base et de micro-ordinateurs pour la DVA et les CRPA.
La mission a constate dans les DRRA visitees un vehicule par service de suivi au niveau
regional, soit 12 vehicules. En plus un vehicule a ete mis a la disposition de la DVA au
niveau central pour le suivi/6valuation. Un vehicule a egalement ete achete pour la
Direction de la Statistique Agricole, soit au total 14 vehicules renouveles une fois, donc
un total de 28 vehicules comme prevu.
Quant aux engins a deux roues, 92 motocyclettes ont ete achetees pour les enqueteurs et
69 ont 6te renouvelees, soit un total de . 161 motocyclettes.
Lecons et Correctifs
Bien que non mentionne dans le rapport d'evaluation initiale du projet, des indicateurs de
performance avaient ete mis en place, mais les indicateurs d'impact etaient insuffisants..
I1 n'y a pas eu de donnees de base donnant une situation de reference au demarrage du
projet. Ceci pourrait se faire avec le PPF et etre une condition de mise en vigueur du



- 19-
projet. La legon sera appliquee pour la deuxieme phase (PNDSA II), l'etude d'impact de
la premi&e phase servira de situation de reference.
Le recrutement a long terme et l'6quipement d'enqueteurs n'est pas necessairement
efficace. Dans le cadre du projet ils ont ete mis a la disposition des directions regionales
ou ils sont prioritairement utilises pour la statistique agricole plut8t que pour le
suivi/evaluation.. Une solution plus efficace serait de faire des recrutements ponctuels
pour les enquetes de suivi/evaluation aussi bien que pour les enquetes statistiques.
Partie F: RENFORCEMENT DES CAPACITES ADMINISTRATIVES ET DE
GESTION DU MAE
Objectifs sWecifi'ues . Acquis et Insuffisances
(1) Installation et exploitation d'un systeme central informatise de comptabilite et de
gestion.
Ces deux elements ont ete realises initialement au niveau de la DAF du Ministere de
tutelle (MAE).
(2) Creation et renforcement de la Ceilule de Gestion Financiere et d'Approvisionnement
du projet (CGFA) a la DAAF du MAE
Suite a la revue a mi-parcours du projet une cellule de gestion autonome du projet a ete
mise en place , en remplacement d'une gestion ancree au sein du MAE par le Secretaire
G6n6ral du Ministere. Le systeme central informatise a e  transfere a la Coordination du
projet.
(3) Formation aux techniques de gestion destin&e aux directeurs des CRPA
Cet objectif a ete realise en deux etapes, au moment du lancement du projet et suite ai la
revue a mi parcours. La formation a eui lieu localement et a ete completee par des voyages
d'etudes. La formation a ete egalemenat dispensee aux cadres de gestion, y compris les
comptables.
Lecons et Correctifs
L'echec de l'incorporation du service de gestion dans les structures administrative
etatiques demontre que lorsque le proj et couvre plusieurs departements techniques et
administratifs il est necessaire d'avoir uine unite de coordination et de gestion autonome.
Les formats de presentation des etats financiers ne sont pas clairement definis par la
Banque. Un flou total persiste dans ce domaine. Chaque auditeur de la Banque ou du
prive a son opinion sur la question en passant de l'orthodoxie de la comptabilite priv6e a
celle de la comptabilite publique. Les opinions sont divergentes et creent une confusion
dans la gestion et la tenue des livres c omptables. Les manuels de comptabilite proposes



- 20 -
par la banque n'ont aucun caractere directif. Il est donc necessaire de clarifier cette
situation.
IMPACT DU PROJET
La mission a recu le rapport de 1'etude sur l'impact de la vulgarisation agricole  au
Burkina Faso (1992-1997) commanditee par le projet.. La mission a note la petitesse de la
taille de 1'echantillon, I'absence de donnees de reference de base depuis le debut du projet
et l'impact globalement positif du projet par rapport aux objectifs de developpement du
projet, tel que suggere par le rapport. II a ete entendu que les resultats de l'etude ainsi que
les resultats de l'etude effectu&e en 1992 par Bindlish, Evenson et Gbetibouo seront
exploites dans le rapport d'achevement du projet.
La mission a constate lors des visites d'exploitations agricoles l'application effective par
les paysans de plusieurs themes de la vulgarisation tels que la fabrication de compost,
l'embouche ovine, les sites anti-erosifs, les techniques de maralichage, etc. A travers les
entretiens avec les producteurs et les productrices la mission a 6te informee de l'impact
positif de la vulgarisation sur les revenus et sur le niveau de vie des producteurs et des
productrices.
PERFORMANCE DU PROJET
La performance du projet a ete jugee comme etant globalement satisfaisante. Toutefois
les insuffisances notees devront faire l'objet de corrections dans les plus brefs delais,
c'est a dire immediatement ou au plus tard dans les trois premiers mois suivant la mise en
vigueur de la deuxieme phase.
VIABILITE DU PROJET
II a 6te reconnu que sans financement ext6rieur, le Gouvemement Burkinabe aurait bien
du mal A faire fonctionner le dispositif de vulgarisation dans son etat actuel, surtout a
cause des cofits recurrents eleves, lies aux 6quipements et au personnel supplementaire
acquis sous le projet. Neanmoins certaines actions du projet telles que la privatisation des
services veterinaires, la mise en place de paysans auxiliaires de la vulgarisation et
vaccinateurs villageois, la mise en place de fonds de roulement pour l'entretien des
motos, l'organisation et le soutien aux organisations paysannes, contribuent positivement
A renforcer la viabilite de la vulgarisation. I1 a ete estime que cette viabilite ne serait
acquise qu'au delA d'une troisibme phase du projet qui assoirait les bases d'auto-
encadrement des producteurs.
LE RAPPORT NATIONAL D'ACEHEVEMENT
La mission a constate avec beaucoup de satisfaction que le rapport national d'achbvement
a e  redige et est en cours de finition. La mission a recu une copie du rapport A titre



- 21 -
provisoire. Le rapport definitif sera officiellement communique A la Banque dans les
meilleurs delais.
SU:ITE DU PROJET
La mission a e  informee de l'etat d'avancement des mesures A prendre pour la mise en
vigueur de I'accord de credit de la deuxieme phase du projet, A savoir la ratification de
l'accord lors de la prochaine session de l'assemblee nationale, le decret portant mandat
sanitaire qui a dejA e  adopte en conseil des ministres. A ce sujet la mission a ete
informee par Monsieur le Ministre des Ressources Animales que des rectifications du
texte sont en cours en collaboration avec le Ministere de la Justice pour que les sanctions
prevues dans le decret soient conformes au code penal. Les comptes requis ont ete ouverts
au Tresor et A la BIB. Toutes les conditions devraient etre remplies pour une mise en
vigueur au mois d'avril 1998.
CALENDRIER D'ACHEVEMENT
Le calendrier des dernieres operations devant conduire A la finalisation du rapport
d'achevement se presente comme suit:
31/03/98:    Le rapport national d'achevement recu a la mission residente de la Banque
15/04/98    Rapport preliminaire d'achevement circule pour observations et discussion
au sein de la Banque.
01/05/98    Rapport provisoire envoye au Gouvemement du Burkina Faso pour
commentaires
15/05/98    Commentaires du Gouveemement du Burkina Faso recus A la mission
residente.
15/6/98     Rapport final d'achevernent remis au Conseil d'Administration de la
Banque.
Les deux parties s'engagent a faire en sorte que ce calendrier soit respecte
REMERCIEMENTS
La mission remercie les autorites du Burkina Faso, en particulier le Ministre des
ressources Animales et les Secretaires Generaux des Ministeres de l'Agriculture et des
Ressources Animales pour I'accueil chaleureux et les audiences accordees A la mission.
La mission remercie tous les agents de la vulgarisation et de la recherche agricole , ainsi
que les paysans qui ont tous contribue au bon deroulement de cette mission.
Fait a Ouagadougou le 6 Mars 1998



BURKINA FASO
UNITE - PROGRES - JUSTICE
MINISTERE I)E L'AGRICULTURE
SECRETARIAT GENERAL
PROJET DE RENFORCEMENT DES SERVICES
D'APPUI AUX PRODDUCTEURS (P.R.S.A.P)
RAPPORT DE FIN D'EXECUTION DU P.R.S.A.P.
DE MAI 1989 A DECEMBRE 1997
PREFACE
Ce document constitue le rapport de fin d'execution du Projet de Renforcement des
Services d'Appui aux Producteurs (P.R.S.A.P) au Burkina Faso qui a fait l'objet du Cr6dit N 1974
BUR du 28 Janvier 1989 pour un montant de trente un million deux cent mille (31.200.000) DTS.
Le cr6dit est clos le 31 Decembre 1997 au lieu du 30 Juin 1994 prevu initialement dans
I'Accord de Credit.
Ce projet , qui aura permis le renforcement des services techniques charges de
l'encadrement des producteurs, la couvertuire technique de 70% des villages du Burkina et une
augmentation des rendements des cultures de l'ordre de 32% plus elevee chez les producteurs
encadres que ceux non encadres a ete ex6cut6 a la satisfaction de l'Emprunteur.
C'est ici le lieu de saluer le partenaire financier ( la Banque Mondiale) pour tous les appuis
apportes pour l'atteinte des objectifs du Projet.



I. DESCRIPTION ET DEMARRAGE DU PROJET
TITRE                      :      PROJET DE RENFORCEMENT DES SERVICES
D'APPUI AUX PRODUCTEURS ( P.R.S.A.P.).
ACCORD DE CREDIT:                 N 1979 BUR du 28 Janvier 1989
COUT DU PROJET             :      - 31,20 millions de DTS soit:
- 12.645.454.500 F.CFA avant devaluation
- 17.472.000.000F.CFAr6vise apres devaluation
BAILLEURS DE FONDS         :      - IDA/Banque Mondiale
- Etat Burkinabe (50%, frais de personnel local)
DATE DE DEMARRAGE          :      26/05/1989
LOCALISATION               :      Envergure nationale (l'ensemble des 12 DRARA et les
Directions centrales irnpliquees
PERSONNEL IMPLIQUE         :      1935 agents de terrain (agents des CRPA) et 109 agentsdes
services centraux sontl impliques dans 1'execution quotidienne
du proj et; 346 agents sont des contractuels du projet (services
centraux et agents de terrain)
DUREE                      :      contractuelle               5 ans (1989-1994)
1lre prolongation accord6e  1 an (1995)
2eme prolongation           1 an (1996)
3 eme prolongation          1 an (1997)
1.1.   Historigue
L'historique du developpement rural, celui de la vulgarisation agricole,des organisations
paysannes et du Projet sont intimement lies. Le cadre du projet est une breve sequence du
cheminement du developpement rural au Burkina Faso.
Une mission d' identification du Projet de Renforcement des Services d'Appui aux Producteurs
est executee en 1984. De 1986 a 1988,un rapport d'evaluationainsi qu'un rapport d'actualisationet un
projet d'accord de credit sont elabores et serviront de base de discussion aux negociations qui ont eu
lieu du 28 Novembre au 2 Decembre au siege de I'Association Internationale de Developpement
(IDA) a Washington-DC.
Le 28 Janvier 1989, l'Accord de Credit de developpement est conjointement signe par les
Autorites de la Banque Mondiale et celles du Burkina Faso sous le N 1979 Bur.
Les Ministeres de l'Agriculture et de l'Elevage (MAE), de l'Action Cooperative Paysanne
(MACP), de l'Enseignementde Base et de l'Alphab6tisationde Masse (MEBAM) etaient charges de la
mise en oeuvre du Projet.



2
L'Accord de cr6dit avait prevu la cl6ture du projet le 30 Juin 1994, mais la date de mise en
vigueur du projet a e  confirmee par la Banque Mondiale a la date du 26 Mai 1989.
Contexte du Projet.
Le Burkina Faso a une 6conomie a vocation essentiellement agricole et pastorale.Le secteur
agricole (sous secteurs agricole et elevage) occupe 87% de la population active et contribue en
moyenne a 38 % du P.I.B.
La politique de developpement du Bu:rkina Faso s'est fixee pour objectifs:
. I'autosuffisance et la securite alimentaires.
l la protection et la gestion rationnelle des ressources naturelles.
. la promotion des activit6s generatrices de revenus.
Dans le cadre de la mise en oeuvre de cette politique, plusieurs mesures ont ete prises dont:
. Elaboration des plans et programmes:
. Second Plan de D6veloppementQuinquennal ( 1990-1995),
. Progranume d'Ajustement Structurel ( P.A.S ),
. Programme d'AjustementSectoriel Agricole ( P.A.S.A),
En 1989, apres deux (2) annees de mnise au point et une phase experimentale de trois (3) ans,
le Burkina Faso generalisait un Systeme National de Vulgarisation Agricole (SNVA) applicable sur
1'ensemble de son territoire.
Le SNVA, base sur le systeme Training and Visit (TV) adapt6 au contexte national qui
assure des formations/visites selon un calendrier precis, par des vulgarisateurs a des groupes de
producteurs devrait permettre la diffusion des technologies appropriees pour ' elevation du niveau de
technicit6 des producteurs et par dela, I'augmentation de la productivite et de la production agro-
pastorale nationale.
C'est pour soutenir les programmes de vulgarisation suivant cette strategie que le PRSAP a
mis en oeuvre .
1.2. Ob]jectifs du projet
Le Projet visait a:
a) ameliorer 1'efficacit6 des services dle vulgarisation agricole et zootechnique en transferant
des techniques aux exploitants agricoles
b) renforcer les services de sante animnale et les programmes de recherche-developpement;
c) offrir aux agriculteurs des cours d'alphabetisationfonctionnelle pour accroitre leur aptitude
a participer a la conception des techniques et a leur diffusion.
1.3    Les Composantes du Projet.
Pour sa mise en oeuvre, le projet s'est execute a travers quatre composantes:
- La Composante Vulgarisation/Fornnation.
- La Composante Renforcement des Services de 1' Elevage.
- La Composante Alphabetisation Fonctionnelle.



3
- La Composante Gestion Administrative et Financiere.
1.3.1. La ComposanteVulgarisation
Les objectifs de la Composante Vulgarisation etaient:
- la reorganisation et le renforcement des services de vulgarisation aux niveaux central et
regional,
- la mise en oeuvre d'un programme de formation continue des personnels de
vulgarisation a tous les niveaux,
-  'amelioration des liaisons entre la recherche agricole et la vulgarisation par le renforcement
des unites de Recherche-developpement aux niveaux central et provincial ainsi que des
PAPEM,
- le renforcement des moyens de communication et audiovisuel au benefice du personnel
d'encadrement et des producteurs,
- l'ameliorationd'un systeme de suivi-6valuation.
Resultats attendus
Au demarrage du Projet, seulement cinq(5) volets etaient prevus (Vulgarisation, Formation,
Recherche-Developpement, Communication et Audiovisuel et Suivi-Evaluation). Mais, en cours de
programme deux autres volets ont e  pris en compte eu egard aux besoins des producteurs. Il s'agit
des volets Acces des Femmes aux services de vulgarisation et Technologie Alimentaire.
Les resultats attendus etaient:
Vulgarisation
a) La reorganisation du reseau d'encadrement de fagon a le rendre rationnel et operationnel
tout en assurant la mobilite des agents.
b) L'elaboration de progranmmes de vulgarisation adaptes aux besoins des producteurs
encadres.
c) Le transfert de technologies et d' innovations simples et adaptees chez les petits exploitants a
travers des outils de vulgarisationperformants soutenus par des mecanismes coherents.
Formation
a) L'amelioration des competences techniques des Agents dans l'appui-conseil aux
producteurs.
b) L'amelioration de la capacite d'identification et de prise en compte des contraintes et des
potentialites des producteurs.
Recherche-Developpement
a) La remise en etat du reseau PAPEM.
b) Le renforcement du programme Recherche-Developpement.



4
Communication et Audiovisuel
a) Le renforcement de la capacite du Bureau central A produire des supports didactiques, A
former et assister les services provirciaux.
b) L'amrliorationde la circulation de l'informationentre les services A tous les niveaux.
c) Le renforcement des services provinciaux par la dotation de moyens et par la formation
necessaire pour produire localement des supports audiovisuels
Acces des Femmes aux services de vulgarisation
a) La mise en place d'un systeme (le formation fonctionnel au profit des productrices et des
agents de vulgarisation.
b) Le soutien technique et financier aux initiatives des productrices.
c) La mise au point et la diffusion de technologies appropriees.
Technolobie Alimentaire
a) La valorisation des produits locaux et la promotion des technologies de traitement, de
conservation et de transformationde ces produits.
b) L'education et la formation des agents de terrain et des groupements villageois en nutrition
et alimentation.
Suivi-Evaluation
a) Les services effectifs de vulgarisation fournis aux producteurs.
b )L' appreciation de l 'utilite des services par les beneficiaires.
c) L'appreciation de 1'adaptation des services dans les conditions paysannes.
d) L'appreciationdes resultats de l'utilisationdes services fournis par la vulgarisation.
1.3.2. La Composante Renforcement des Services de 1'Elevage.
Les objectifs etaient entre autres:
- le renforcement des services de 1'Olevage aux niveaux national et regional
- 1'am6lioration du systeme de diistribution des produits veterinaires, de medicaments et
d'aliments pour betail
- la mise au point et application de programmes de formation destines au personnel des
services de l'elevage A tous les niveaux.
Resultats attendus
Les documents de base du Projet prennent en compte les previsions de realisation aux niveaux
central et regional.
Au niveau central
II etait prevu:
- 1'equipement des directions centrales en vehicules, meubles et petit equipement
- la mise en place d'une bibliotheque inter-service;



5
- la revision des textes en matiere de sante animale par un consultant juriste;
- la construction d'une unite de Virologie et son equipement;
- 1'amenagement des infrastructures de l'ONAVET;
- le fonctionnement de la coordination de la composante 6levage par un appui en personnel;
- I'appui les Directions Centrales dans leur fonctionnement.
Au niveau regional
II etait prevu:
- la constructionde 42 postes-logements, de 20 magasins et de 100 parcs de vaccination
- la refection d'une centaine d'infrastructures;
- 1'acquisition de 400 motocyclettes pour les agents d'e1evage;
- I 'equipement des agents en materiel d'elevage;
- 1'6quipement des nouveaux postes en materiel et meubles;
- le fonctionnement des motocyclettes acquises.
- la construction de 2 laboratoires r6gionaux
- 1' quipement de 4 laboratoires regionaux.
Formation
Sur ce plan, il etait prevu d'assurer:
- au niveau central, la formation "outremer" de 6 cadres et la formation locale de 1' agent de la
bibliotheque;
- au niveau r6gional le recyclage des agents de vulgarisation, la formation
d'enqueteurs d'elevage.
1.3.3. La Composante AlphabetisationFonctionnelle
Les objectifs du PRSAP en matiere d'Alphabetisationfonctionnelle 6taient:
A travers la mise en place de la composante Alphabetisation Fonctionnelle, le PRSAP visait
les objectifs suivants:
* offrir aux producteurs des cours d'alphab6tisation fo:nctionnelle en vue d'accroitre leurs
capacites a participer directement A la production des technologies et des actions de
vulgarisation, A leur gestion et A leur diffusion en milieu paysan et pastoral;
* consolider le Systeme National de Vulgarisation Agricole (SNVA) grace A un programme
adapte d 'alphab6tisation fonctionnelle.
Resultats attendus
Au regard des objectifs fondamentaux ainsi definis, l'alphabetisation fonctionnelle dans le
cadre du PRSAP devrait contribuer ebtre autre a assurer une autonomie des producteurs dans la
gestion de leurs affaires au sein de leurs Organisations Paysannes.



6
1. 4. Organisation et realisation du proj,et au sein du Ministere de 1'Agriculture. Minist6re de
tutelle et les autres Minist6res inpliques dans 1'execution du Projet.
Le Minist6re de 1' Agriculture et des Ressources Animales avec un ministere delegue charg6
des ressources animales, s'occupe de la mise en oeuvre de la politique agricole, coordonne ses
activites avec le concours d'autres Departements Ministeriels notamment ceux charges de la
Recherche  Scientifique,  de  1' Envirornement,  des  Amenagements  Hydro-agricoles,  de
l'Alphabetisation, de l'Economie, des Finances et du Plan.
Douze directions centrales ont en charge: les etudes et la planification, les statistiques agro-
pastorales , les finances et 1 'administration, la formation professionnelle, la sante animale,
l'organisation de l1'levage traditionnel, la production et les industries animales, la promotion
cooperative, la formation professionnelle des producteurs, la protection des vegetaux et le
conditionnement, la mecanisation agricole et les intrants et la vulgarisation agricole.
Les structures decentralisees du Ministere, sont les Centres Regionaux de Promotion Agro-
Pastorale au nombre de douze (12). Les CRPA sont organises en Services Provinciaux des Ressources
Animales, et d'Organisation des Producteurs, en  Zones d'Encadrement, puis en  Unites
d 'Encadrement.
Sur le terrain, plusieurs projets et ONG soutiennent  'action du Ministere.
2. CONCEPTION. EXECUTION, REALISATION ET IMPACT DU PROJET.
2.1.   Evaluation de la conception du projet.
Evaluation globale.
L'evaluation globale a montre le bien fonde et l'efficacite du Projet.
a. Bien fonde du Projet.
Le PRSAP s 'inscrit parfaitement dans la politique de developpement rural du Burkina Faso. Il
repond a I'attente des services techniques et des producteurs.
Le Projet est aussi le resultat d'une longue experience de la Banque Mondiale en matiere de
vulgarisation agricole au Burkina Faso .
b. Efficacit6 du Projet.
L'impact du SNVA sur les communautes villageoises et les services techniques est important
et se traduit de la fagon suivante:
- 70 % des villages du Burkina sont couverts;
- 30 % des exploitations sont touchIs;
- 32 % des producteurs sont encadres par la vulgarisation..
L' Etude sur 1'evaluation de l'imrpact 6conomique de la vulgarisation agricole au Burkina
Faso a montre que la productivite globale en terme de rendement s'avre etre de 32 % plus
elevee chez les producteurs encadr&s que celle de ceux non encadres.
Le taux de rentabilite des investissements de la vulgarisation du type F&V se situe entre 86 et
187 %.



7
2.2. Principaux resultats obtenus dans chacune des composantes du projet.
2.2.1. Composante Vulgarisation /Formation.
Volet Vulgarisation /Formation.
Les realisations.
Les differentes formations qui ont ete dispensees en vue d'atteindre des resultats en matiere de
vulgarisation sont:
a) La formation des Agents Vulgarisateurs
b) La formation des Techniciens Specialises (TS)
c) La formation continue des AVB et des Superviseurs.
d) Les formations specifiques et les recyclages.
e) La formation des cadres de la Vulgarisation par des stages, ateliers, seminaires et voyages
d'etude.
R6sultats et acquis.
La mise en oeuvre du PRSAP a permis, au titre du volet vulgarisation, d'enregistrer
d' importants acquis notamment:
a). Un reseau d'encadrementfonctionnel est mis en place
b). La structuration et l'organisation du reseau sont uniformisees sur 1'ensemble du pays
c) . Un calendrier et un programme de travail sont elabores et executes par chaque AVB.
d). L'acces de la femme aux services de la vulgarisation est ameliore
e). Les activites d'elevage sont mieux prises en compte par la vulgarisation
f). La productivite du travail agricole s'est amelioree chez les producteurs encadres.
Volet Recherche-Developpement
Les realisations.
Les principales realisations en matiere de Recherche-Developpementse  resument comme
suit:
a). La mise en place du reseau des PAPEM.
b). Le renforcement du programme Recherche-Developpement.
c). Les formations.
Volet Conmnunicationet Audio-visuel
Les r6alisations
a). Les cellules audio-visuelles ont e  equipees
b). Les formations ont ete dispensees aux agents
c). Plusieurs supports audio-visuels ont ete produits



8
Volet Suivi-Evaluation.
Les realisations.
a) Des formations ont ete dispensees aux agents
b) Des methodes et outils de collecte et de circulation de l' information ont ete con,us
c) Des indicateurs de Suivi-Evaluationont e  mis au point
d) La methodologie de programmatic n des activites de vulgarisation est acquise.
2.2.2. Composante Renforcement des Services de l'Elevage.
Les realisations
Niveau central:
- Equipement des services
- Reglementationveterinaire :adoption de textes portant:
* code de sante animale;
* reglementation de la police zoo-sanitaire au Burkina Faso.
* reglementation de la sante publique veterinaire au Burkina Faso.
* autorisation et organisation de 1 'exercice a titre prive de la profession veterinaire .
* creation et attribution de l'ordre Na.tional des Wterinaires.
* d6crets portant code de deontologie, mandat sanitaire, pharmacie veterinaire
- Centre de Documentation inter-service.
- Fonctionnement
Niveau regional
- Mise en place d' infrastructures (10 magasins, 42 postes d' 6levage, 56 parcs de vaccination)
- Travaux de refection des infrastructures d'elevage'
- Equipements
- Appui au fonctionnement
- La constructionde l'unite de virologie:
- Construction de laboratoires regionaux:
2.2.3. Composante Alphabetisation Fonctionnelle.
Les realisations
- Equipement des CFJA.
- Equipement des services du MACP en vehicules automobiles (4) et des services regionaux
en motocyclettes (30).
- Formation des responsables regionaux, d'animateurs, de formateurs et du personnel d'appui.
- Actions d'alphabetisationfonctionrnelle destinees aux nouveaux alphabetises et aux membres
des GJA



9
3. ANALYSE CRITIOUE DE L'ACTION DE LA BANOUE. DU GOUVERNEMENT ET DE
L'ASSISTANCE TECHNIOUE.
3.1. Appreciation de I'action de la Banque au cours de l'execution du projet.
a). Principales decisions avant favorise 1' execution du projet .
- la suggestion de creer une coordination autonome pour la gestion du PRSAP;
- la decision de recruter des comptables PRSAP au profit des structures d'execution;
- la decision de recruter des cadres BPAF pour faciliter l'acces des femmes aux services de
vulgarisation;
- la decision d' octroyer des cr6dits pour les activites generatrices de revenus des agricultrices;
- les diff6rentes d6cisions de prorogation du projet;
- les differentes decisions de reallocations des fonds par categories.
b). Principales decisions ayant frein6 1'ex6cution du projet.
- la lenteur des reponses relatives aux avis de non objection ont entrainm des retards dans 1'execution
des marches;
- le relevement du niveau moyen des paiements directs a cree par moment des problemes de
tresorerie;
- la decision de retenir 100 % des demandes de remboursement pour justifier 1' avance initiale a bloque
les dernieres activites du projet pour insuffisance de tresorerie.
c). Suivi du projet.
Le suivi du projet par des missions de supervision et d'appui/conseil tres rapprochees a permis de
solutionner des problemes aussi bien techniques que financiers.
La formation des responsables et comptables du projet a releve la capacite de gestion du personnel et
partant favorise 1'execution du projet.
Le changement de responsables a souvent freine les reponses de certaines correspondances mais n'a
pas notablement influence negativement l'execution du projet.
d). Lecons a tirer.
Il ressort de ce qui precede que l'action de la Banque dans son ensemble a ete positive et peut se
poursuivre dans ce sens tout en limitant les decisions qui cr&ent des problemes de tresorerie.
3.2. Appreciation de I'action du Gouvernement au cours de IIex6cution du projet.
a). Principales decisions avant favorise 1' execution du projeet.
- la creation effective d'une coordination autonome du PRSAP a relev6 le niveau d'execution du
projet;
- la revision des textes sur les marches publics et la creation de cellules d'attribution des marches au
niveau de chaque ministere et de chaque province a ameliore le taux d'attribution des marches;
- le pilotage du projet par un comite interministeriel.



10
b). Principalesdecisions avant freine l'ex6cutiondu projet.
- la limitation des achats directs par bon de commande a moins d'un million de FCFA a conduit les
responsables A fractionner certains marches dont les besoins sont tres urgents
- l'immatriculation des vehicules A 4 et 2 roues du projet en IT pose constamment le probleme de
renouvellement des cartes jaunes dont tous les retards sont passibles d' amendes assez elevees.
- la suspension de la location-vente des motos cree des problemes d'entretien sur le terrain.
c). Difficultes de tresorerie de la contrepartie du Gouvernement.
- l'allocation des fonds au titre de la contrepartie a connu un retard A la premiere annee mais a partir
de la deuxieme annee, les allocations ont ete regulieres jusqu'A la fin du projet.
- la mobilisation des fonds a 6te souvent frein&e pour insuffisance de tresorerie mais le Gouvernement
a toujours use de tous les moyens pour respecter ses engagements. ainsi, a ce jour, la balance entre les
d6penses de la contrepartie et les fonds debloqu6s par le Gouvernement degage un ecart positif de
118.288.864 F CFA.
d). Suivi du proiet par le Ministere de I'Agriculture.
Le projet est suivi par le Ministere de l'Agriculture A travers les rapports d'avancement, le
remplissage des fiches de programme d'investissement public (PIP) et A travers les cadres des services
centraux qui participent aux differentes missions de supervision internes et de la Banque.
e). Changement de Gouvernement et consequences sur le suivi du projet.
Les differents changements de Gouvernement n'ont pas influence negativement le suivi du projet parce
que le projet a conserve la meme equipe de gestion depuis le debut du projet jusqu'A nos jours. Cette
equipe qui a acquis une exp6rience de sept ans sur le meme projet arrive a surmonter les difficult6s qui
se posent A elle.
f). Lecons A tirer.
Il resulte de ce qui precede que le Gouvernement s'engage a consentir plus d'effort dans la
mobilisation des fonds au titre de la contrepartie et surtout A solutionner le probleme de la location-
vente des motos.
Il s'engage aussi A trouver une solution A l 'immatriculationdes vehicules du projet.
3.3. Evaluation de lefficacite et de la qualite des relations entre la Banque et le Gouvernement.
Le projet s'est execute pendant sept ans sans aucun rejet de demande de remboursement et de
suspension de retrait de fonds. La qualite de ces resultats permet de dire que le gouvernement et la
Banque ont travaille dans une symbiose parfaite.
3.4. Evaluation des performances des differentes institutions, bureaux d'etudes et consultants
ayant participe a la realisation du projel1 (cofits, benefices).
Au titre de l'Audit, le projet a connu trois auditeurs externes et chacun a pu travailler conformement
aux termes de reference qu'on lui a attribues. Au titre des etudes, tous les bureaux qui ont participe A
la realisation des etudes commandees par le projet ont produit des rapports parfois bien apprecies par
la Banque et le Gouvernement.



11
Tableau N 1: Execution financikre par cat6gorie et par bailleur au 30/11/1997.
Categorie         DESIGNATION              PREVISIONS        EXECUTION           EXECUTION            TOTAL               %
(Couits revises    PERIODE             PERIODE           (Avril 1989 a   REALISATION
PRSAP)       (Avril 1989 a Mars   (Avril 1989 A Nov.    Nov.1997
(1)              97)                1997)                          (5) (4)xO00/(1)
(2)                                (4)= (2+3)
(3)
I. BAILLEUR IDA
1     - Travaux de Genie civil              1 160 780             726 507               9 518          736 025            63%
2A     - Whicules4+2 roues                   2 984 835           3 030 882                    -       3 030 882            102%
2B     - Equipements                         1 212 355             891118               73 719          964 837            80%
3A     - Logements encadreurs                  592 900             654 363               3 500          657 863           111 %
3B     - Logements + parcs d'elevage           284 000            318 400               33 906          352 306           124%
4     - Assistance technique +formations    2 794 951           1 341 914              182 132        1 524 046            55%
5A     - Etudes                                158 750             128 311              30 070          158 381           100%
5B     - Operations pilotes                    859 470            247 270              404 523          651 793            76%
6     - Fonctionnement                      8 799 936           6453 317             1365376         7 818 693             89%
7     - Salaires indemnites personnel local  1 447 663          1156 407               137 103        1 293 510            89%
8     - P. P.F (estimation)                         -             205 000                    -         205 000             0%
SOUS-TOTAL IDA                       20 295 640          15 153 489           2 239 847       17 393 336            86%
II. AUTRES BAILLEURS
7     Etat-50% Sal.Indemnites personnel      1 290 000          1 156 410              137 104        1 293 514           100%
8     local                                         -              82 170               15 081          97 251
Depenses Ressources propres Projet                                                          _     _ _
SOUS-TOTAL CONTREPARTIE               1 290 000           1 238 580             152 185        1 390 765           108%
TOTAL       GENERAL         AU       21 585 640          16 392 032           2 392 032       18 784 101            87%
30/1111997                      ___



4                             T                                         *                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 21004
MAU,R TAN A
BURKINA FASO                                                                                                                         N r,GER
PRO JEL[ DE RENKJRCEMENT DES SERVICES                           OUDALAN                                    BARKINA FASO~~~~~~~~~~~~Y  BUKINAFASO
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES  PROJECT                                                                            ( UDALAN,  'N
D'APPUI AUX  PRODUCTEURS                                 I                                         'DIITAIE   NT  OM) AO   AU OE/AA~I      E
DIVISIONS ADMINISTRATIVES                          '         oDi"ibo8
(91 DORI      14'      TT/  ~
A
l OSA,TOMST410-S           (     YATENGA                                               SENO
QOAUAH-IGOIUYA        'TAMO 
BAM           '~~~NAMENTENGA,              A eb
M ALI                                                 Koogovssi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~SANIV,A b,6                               I G   E  R
TJ0U         PASSORE                                                               N                               13T-
Nouno  A To   A                                                                           ('"N~~~~~~~~~~~~A.d
Nouna       A            ~~~~~Kolbilo                           ous
<N                                  CEo(    .E
DEDOL)GOLU'-,~                       AKADIOGO
-~~~                 OKOUDOUGOU             /4                                   /~~~*06.br L)GORM
C' L, iiOUN  ~       -TAPOA
MOLIHOUUDOUGURU
A Ki.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
AKIn 7  K        s-   BAZEGA            \ ANZOURGOU KOUPE            FADA NG~~~~~        ~       ~~~~~~OURMA  oDiapaga
12'                    MOU110UN ~~~~~~~~~~A                 A GAa9oG
noOAogy
.KENEDOUGOU 
UA     .      J10Uf                                      SISL                   UNDWEO O                 A 
ronm9-<jSSSL                                                                                  BOULGOU
Ororkoc -v
A
BOBO-DIOULASSOLNR                                          NAHOURI        CE TE            5
BOUGOURIBA  ~ ~     ~       ~      0A \    Bitou
j  Orodoro~~~~~~~~~~~",O
COroodour                                                                PAEM                                        L E VE
-"DIEBOUGOU ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ REIN  ONDRE
A  ADAPTIVE RESEARCH SITESINTERNTONV               BONARE
C 0 T E   Q'IVOIRE                                                                                    FRON17~~~~~~~~~~~~LEUDEREIO  LMIEDEREG NEN ION AE
AUGUST 1988



IBRD 21 005
MAUR IANIA
//          (,                                            r~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~ ~ NIrER
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT                                                                                                                  Mok                                                  URUKINA ASO<
PROJET DE RENFORCEMENT DES SERVICES                                                                            .
D'APPUI AUX PRODUCTEURS                                                                                                    Gorom-Gomo                                             GUINEZ NiGRIA
Agroecological Zones                                                                                                                                                      ' So'V.IR O ElE (GHAoIAI
Regions Agro-Ecologiques                                  ja,-a                                                                                                                LIBCERIA
I    20   410   60    Ra  0 ,L           tg        4l T1j ;N         6     S                                   '                        /
M   A  L I
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~s W0                           Kos0si              KOUPEUY  A                  FAD N,OUM                                    t o o oooj 
Dl>,i            "I-        D iT>       G_o7                 u                                       fh                              /                                     N     I  G      E   R
mn                                        TO rIW ay
/  Nleno<__ J ,j, . Bor~~~~~~- ;\. 8\ 2~T                                                                                    '\ aB[odsog  u S 
Kouroumo(E                       /    ou                                                       asO rgy                                                                 1/
.J                                                        / f y Ororkoua                          o rf; 0  1T'9:}eErvT                   c    TRSEk-  ES?7                         'Pm
BO  BOb DcIULASSO                                                                  )                                                         Po      ,/Zobre   |Bitou < 
j   "-too       FakObA                                     inor
S                                                  To T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~on 
1      AFR                                          T[-OIT1 OREO        S                        AGRICU,TRAL ZONES
A KingolokP - *SP PETS EN MHZ/METRES ( SUANTE SE PLUIE ONE ANNEE SE ASUR  NO)                                                                      CENTRE REGIONAL SE REC/HERCHES AGRICOLES
\>                t           - .               ,j)                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~EAVES ROADS                                                        A     AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND TRAINING CRNTER
_v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GTE R IToUr EVMEES                                                                                                               CENTRE OE REC/HERCHES AGRICOLES Er DE PORMA SON
'  kt  0                           }    ~~~~        ~     ~~/H L ~ oA I    -       ____   SE/ < t t   'PAVED ROADS [AETIONAElNL, PRIMARY  ECODAUA WEONATIRES  USAE  ROSS/OSEGIONAL DEVELOPEMENT CENTERS CRPA)                        ;_
. r    /        >    h            v                   UN ~~~~1  JPAVED ROADS PRIEMARPYARS AND  SECONDA/RINESMTE-TUSA   E KEMrN             LuEDS CRPA EUDRE
wt J                       n       \                   ~~~~~~~C/HEM INS SE fERU                                                         -   RONS/ERES INTERNASIONALES
u                                                                                                                 EST,  |  '  '  '                        AUGUST I 9A S



