Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ClZ 217
Report No. 7397-BTR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BURKINA FASO
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
DECEMBER 16, 1988
Africa Region
Sahelian Department
Agriculture Division
This document bas a retcted dib on mad may be used by rents only in the peiformue of
their official dulis. Its contents may  ot oterise be disclosed  Wodd Bank al



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit: CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$ - 281.25 CFAF (as of April 1, 1988)
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIJA           Centre de Formation des Jeunes Agriculteurs
(Young Farmers Training Center)
CNCA           Caisse Nationale du Credit Agricole
(National Bank for Agricultural Credit)
CNRST          Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique et
Technologique
(National Center for Scientific and Technological Research)
CRPA           Centre Regional de Promotion Agro-Pastorale
(Regional Center for Agricultural and Livestock Development)
DAAF           Direction des Affaires Administratives et Financieres
(Directorate for Administrative and Financial Affairs)
DEFOC               Direction de l'Alphabetisation Fonctionnelle des Paysans
(Directorate for Functional Literacy Training)
DEP            Direction  des Etudes et de la Planification
(Directorate for Studies and Plauning)
INERA          Institut National d'Etudes et de Recherches Agricoles
(National Agricultural Research Institute)
IRBET          Institut de Recherche en Biologie et Ecologie Tropicale
(Research Institute for Tropical Biology and Ecology)
MAE            Ministere de l'lgriculture et de l'Elevage
(Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock)
MACP           Ministbre de la Quest;ion Paysanne
(Ministry of Rural Affairs)
ORD            Organisme R6gional de Developpement
(Regional Development Authority)
OTRVA          Operation Test de Renforcement de la Vulgarisation Agricole
(Pilot Program for the Strengthening of Extension Services)
PAPEM          Point d'Appui de Prevulgarisation et d'Experimentation
(Adaptive Research Station)
ONAVET         Pharmacie Natinale Vet6rinaire
(National Veterinary Pharmacy)
SAF            Service Administratif et Financier
(Administrative and Financial Service)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performane
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



BURKINA FASO
AGRICULTJRAL SERVICES PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE ......................    ii
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .   . .........................,      v
I.   BACKGROUND  ...........................................   1
A. Introduction   .     .................. ...............   1
B. The Agricultural Sector  ...      ........................    1
C. Government Sector Stratety  .....................       4
D. The Institutional Environment  .................        4
E. Bank Strategy    ......................................  7
F. OTRVA (Pilot Extension Programs)  ..................    8
II.   AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND OTHER SUPPORT SERVICES  ....   10
A. Introduction  .............. ........................  10
B. Agricultural Extension  ............................  10
C. Livestock Servi:es  .........    .......................  12
D. Literacy Programs  ..........   .......................  13
E. Agricultural Research  .......   ......................   14
F. Credit, Input Supply and Marketing .....   ............  14
G. Accounting and Financial Management .....   ...........  16
III.  THE PROJECT    ..........................................   17
A. Objectives and Rationale  ....... ...................  17
B. Summary Description  ......... ......................   17
C. Detailed Features    .     ................................  18
1. Agricultural Extension Services                     16
2. Livestock Services   .           .22
3. Functional Literacy   .           .23
4. Studies and Pilot Operations   .      .             24
5. Monitoring and Evaluation     .      .24
6. Accounting and Financial Management  . .24
D. Project Costs and Financing       .    .    .25
E. Procurement       ...... .............. .. _   27
F. Disbursements ............   29
This report is based on the findings of two Bank missions: a main appraisal
from November 23-December 15, 1987 conducted by Mr. D.H. van der Sluijs
(mission leader), Mesdames J. Murphy and T. Genta Fons and Messrs. M.B.
Rambocus, D.D. Dawit (IDA); J.F. Poulain (CIRAD, Abidjan); B. Esteulle and
E. Leroy (consultants); and a post-appraisal from April 18-27, 1988, after
the reorganization of the two major participating ministries. The latter
mission eas composed of Messrs. D.H. van der Sluijs, M.B. Rambocus, J.Y.
Maillat, and R. Le Breton (IDA), and Mr. B. Esteulle (consultant). This
report was processed by Florence Le, AFTAG, and Sylvie Danant and JoAnne
Nickerson, AF5AG.



- ii -
Table of Contents   (continued)
Page
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ...       ...........................  ?.
A. Overall Project Management and Financial Monitoring   31
B. Organization and Management of Extension Services .  32
C. Organization and Hanagement of Livestock Services .  33
D. Organization and Management of Literacy Programs ..  34
E. Monitoring and Evaluation ...... ...................  34
F. Accounting and Financial Management    ...............  35
G. Audits and Reporting Requirements    .................  35
H. Implementation Schedule  ...     .......................  36
I. Environmental Impact .........              ..    37
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS .39
A. Project Benefits .39
B. Project Risks .39
VI.   ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION  .... ...................  40
ANNEXES
1.  Organizational Structure of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock (MAE).
1-1 MAE's Common Services
1-2 MAE's Special Services for Livestock
1-3 MAE's Special Services for Agriculture
2.  Project Management Organization
2-1 Project Coordinator - Terms of Reference
2-2 Central Accounting and Procurement Unit - Terms of Reference
3.  Special Accounts and Flow of Funds
4.  Cost Tables
- Table 1: Summary Account by Project Component
- Table 2: Summary Accounts Cost Summary
- Table 3: Project Components by Year
- Table 4: Project Components by Year
5.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
6.  Implementation Schedule
7.  Government Project Related Cash Flow
MAPS
IBRD No.  21004 and 21005



- iii -
BURKINA FASO
AGRICuLTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
PROJECT FILE
A.   Selected Background and Preparation Documents
1.   'Gestion Financibre et Comptable", Alain Waddell.  15 juillet,
1987.
2.   'Reactualisation du Volet Vulgarisation Agricole et Synthase du
Projet', J.F. Coatanlem, 15 juillet, 1987.
3.   (a)  Principales conclusions et recomtandations de la mission
effectuOe par Guy Belloncle du ler au 17 mai 1987 dans le cadre
de la prdparation du Projet National de Renforcement des Services
d'Appui aux Producteurs (ao0t 1987).
(b) Projet de Renforcement des Services d'Appui. Volet
Minis_re de la Question Paysannet AlphabOtisation-Vulgarisation
(juillet 1987).
(c) Projet de Renforcement des Services d'Appui aux Producteurs.
Volet Ministere de la Question Paysanne: Alphab4tisation,
Cooperativation, Vulgarisation (octobre 1987).
4.   *L'encadrement agricole des paysannes', aide-memoire (fevrier
1987), Constantina Safiliou.
5.   'Projet National de Vulgarisation Agricole.  Rapport interimaire
de pr4paration", 3 octobre 1985. FAO/CP (1985), Burkina Faso.
6.   (a)  Atelier d'Evaluation de 1'Operation-Test de Renforcement de
la Vulgarisation Agrico'e (OTRVA), Rapport de Synthese.
Bobo-Dioulasso, 18 au 21 novembre 1986.
(b) Annexes: Rapports des ORD concernes et de l'Equipe
d'animation.
B.        Staff Working Papers (prepared by appraisal/post-appraisal
missions) of December 1987 and April 1988.
1.   Composante Vulgarisation Agricole, B. Estsulle (IBRDIIDA,
Ouagadougou).
2.   Composante Communication-Moyens Audio-visuels, B. Esteulle
(IBRDIIDA, Ouagadougou).



- iv -
3.   (a)  Le Renforcement des Points d'Appui, de Pr4vularisation et
d'Experimentation multilocales (PAPEM), T.F. Poulain (CIRAD).
(b)  Updated Cost.s Research-Development/PAPEM, April 1988.
4.   Servines de 1'Elevage, Dr. E. Leroyi(Consultant), janvier 1988.
5.   Suivi et Evaluation, J. Murphy (IDA).
6.   Functional Literacy and Staff Training, D. Deguefu Dawit, IDA.
C.   Project Cost Tables (COSTAB), December 1988.



BURKINA PASO
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Burkina Faso
Beneficiary:   Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAE) and
Ministry of Rural Cooperative Action (MACP)
Amount:        SDR 31.2 million
Terms:         Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity.
Description:   This project is the first five-year phase of a long-term
program aimed at improving support services to farmers and
herders. The project has three components: (i) extension
services, incorporating lessons learned during a two-year
pilot operation, to make such services more responsive and
more  effective   nationwide;   (ii)   livestock   services,
including the strengthening and reorientation of prevelutive
and curative animal health services, to owners and herders
of cattle and smallstock nationwide; and (iii) functional
literacy services which will provide representatives of
farmers' groups nationwide with functional literacy skills.
The project would provide funding for vehicles, equipment
and infrastructure; manpower development and training cocls;
and operating costs.
Economic Rate of Retunr: n.a.
Benefits
and Risks:     The main benefits would be:  (a) increased crop and
livestock output, arising from improved land and animal
productivity in the more densely populated areas, and from
improved labor productivity in less densely settled areas;
(b) more sustainable farming systems as recently-introduced
practices become more widely adopted; (c) training of a
large number of farmers, herders and staff in management and
commanications skills as well as technical matters, whereby
new techniques will be more effectively identified, tested
and transmitted. The risks are: (a) the possible inability
of extension and research services to produce workable
solutions to farmers' and herders' problems; (b) problems of
inter-agency coordination; and (c)  t'te possible failure  of
Government and/or donors to sustaini tne long-term commitment
required to achieve durable imprr~vements in the



- vi -
effectiveness of agrLultural support services. To minimize
these risks, a two-year pilot operation was undertaken and
the  lessons   have   been  built   into   project   dSesign;
inter-agency coordination has been simplified between the
departments of MAE and MACP, whete financial and management
capabilities will be strengthened; and annual reviews of
work  plans   and  budgets,   as   well  as   the   mid-term
implementation review, will provide good opportunities for
program  review  and  long-term  commitment  building.    I:-
addition, a Bank staff member has been assigned to the
Resident Mission for the first three years of the project
specifically to advise on its implementation.



- vii -
Estimated Costs (not of Identifiablo taxes and duties)
Of
Local       Fore ln       Total       Base Cost
..................... (USS 000) .
A. Agricultural Extension                   16.4           9.8        24.7              64
B. Livestock Services                        a.a           8.4         6.7              17
C. Functional Literacy Progrm                8.0           1.8         4.3              11
D. Studies and Pilot Operations              2.0           0.1         2.1               6
E. Pro3ect Mansagment and Administration     0.5           0.6         1.0               3
TOTAL BASE COSTS                        24.2          14.6        86.8             100
o. which
A. Civil Works                               3.7           2.4         6.1              16
B. Equipment                                 0.9           2.0         2.9               8
C. Vehicles                                  0.6           5.0         6.6              14
D. Technical Assistance                                    0.4         0.4               1
E. Trfning                                  2.2           0.7         2.9               8
F. Studies/Pilot Operations                  0.4           0.1         0.6               1
0. PPF                                       1.6            -          1.6               4
H. Salarlie  (local)                         6.2            -          5.2              13
l. Operating Costs                           9.6           4.0        18.6              85
Physital Contingencies                   0.9           0.7         1.6               4
Price Contingencies                      8.0           1.6         4.b              11
Total Project Costs                     28.1          16.8        44.9             115
=r                        =sz
FINANCING PLAN
US$ Million
Government                             2.9
IDA                                   42.0
44.9
Estimated IDA Disbursmente
FY89     FY90      FY91      FY92      FY98     FY94      FY95      FY98      FY97
Annual          0         8         6         7        8         7         6         4         2
CumulatIve      0       3.0       8.0       15.0     23.0      80.0      36.0      40.0      42.0



BURKINA FASO
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
A.   Introduction
1.1       With its per capita GNP of $200  in 1986 and a population of  8.1
million, Burkina Faso is one of the poorest countries in the world and one
of the most densely populated in Western Africa. The corntry's population
growth rate of 3.5Z per annum is barely matched by the economic growth rate
(5.02 for i983-1988). A population growth rate of 2.92 is projected for
the rest  of  the century.   Of  the approximately  60 ethnic  groups,  the
sedentary Viossi make up 512; the pastoral and nomadic Peuhl, the second
I rgest group, account for 1OZ. The three major languages -- Moore, Jula
and Ful/Fulde -- are together spoken by 962 of the country's population,
and Moore alone is spoken by 602.
1.2       Improving the performance of the  agricultural sector will be  of
crucial importance for future growth in Burkina Faso, since the sector
zcounts for about 402 of GDP and almost all exports. Agriculture employs
80-902 of the population.   Soils are generally poor  and rainfall is  both
scarce and erratic with frequent droughts. The lack of permanent water
flow in most of the country's river systems severely limits the potential
for irrigation. Burkina's landlcckea position and the poor road network
further constrain development in all sectors.
1.3       Agricultural growth  is  severely  limited by  several  of  those
factors. The degradation of ecological conditions, particularly in the
Central Plateau where over half the population is concentrated, is becoming
acute. The reorientation of traditional agricultural technology and animal
husbandry practices in the direction of increased productivity and greater
protection of soils and grazing resources is a structural problem to be
addressed on a priority basis.
B.   The Agricultural Sector
1.4       Land is  becoming increasingly  scarce,  notably in  the  Central
Plateau, and fallows are fast disappearing. The many signs of degradation
are indications that the population already exceeds the carrying capacity
of  the  land with  traditional  production  techniques.   Techniques  are
_..hanging, however, and there are today, partly as a result of a pilot
program in improved extension, many encouraging instrnces of improved water
harvesting and soil conservation techniques. As land becomes scarcer
still, the returns to .e-h techniques, and the farmer training required to
teach them, will be further improved. Land has also been the subject of
recent legislation, in August 1984 and August 1985, whereby all lands
became the exclusive property of the state. Titles of usufruct ("titres de
jouissancea) may, however, be conferred to groups of farmers or to
individuals, and such titles convey most of the property characteristics,



- 2 -
including, for example, the land's ability to serve as collateral for
loans.                                                                  I
1.5       Based on climate, soils  and socio-economic factors, the  country
can be divided into five agro-ecological zoness the Sahel, the Central
Plateau, the West, the Southwest and the Southeast (Map IBRD No. (1)). The
Sahel, in the North, is the driest region. It receives less than 600 mm of
erratic rainfall per annum. Extensive grazing (transhumance) is the main
economic  activity  and  human  population  is  sparse:   fewer  than   ten
inhabitants per km2. The Central Plateau is the most populous region with
30  to  40  inhabitants  per  km2.   The  area,  which  fall- within   the
Sahelo-Sudanian climatic zone, is mainly devoted to cereal cropping and
average rainfall ranges from less than 600 mm in the North to 900 mm in the
South. Due to population pressure and the breakdown of the traditional
system of shifting cultivation, the area is suffering severe environmental
degradation.  The West receives from 600 mm to 800 mm of rainfall, and  its
main activity is  also livestock production.   The degree of  environmental
degradation ranges from moderate to severe. The Southwest, which falls
within the Sudano-Guinesn climatic zone, enjoys more regular rainfall
ranging  from  900  mm   to  1200  mm,  has   good  water  resources,   and
environmental degradation  is, as  yet,  limited.  However,  following  the
successful eradication of riverblindness, it has become the major receiving
area for immigrants from the Central Plateau and the Sahel regions.
Finally, the East is the leaGt developed, least populous and also the least
degraded part of the country. Rainfall ranges from 600 to 900 mm per
annum.
1.6       Most agricultural  production is  carried out  on small  (two  to
seven ha), fragmented farms, whereby a family's holding consists of several
different plots, including a mix of more and less Zavorable sites according
to slope and soil. While production conditions sre quite diverse, cereals
are predominant in cropping patterns: sorghum, millet and maize account
for nearly 90Z of the land cultivated and for approximately 802 of the
gross value of agricultural output.
1.7       Cotton acreage has expanded markedly since 1968 due to a shift to
more fertile areas in the Southwest, increased use of fertilizers and
insecticit$es, and  improved extension.   Cotton's  share in  total  exports
increased from 2Z in 1960, to 33Z  in 1978, and 542 in 1985.  Total  output
has been 'teadily increasing to 170,000 T of seed cotton for the 1986/1987
crop season. Whereas cotton was taxed in the early 1980s, large subsidies
have been paid by Government in the last two years, to shield producers
from the sharp decline in world prices aggravated by the appreciation of
the CFA  franc against  the dollar.   Recent improvements  in world  market
prices have brought partial relief, however, and plans to expand the
country's ginning capacity are in an advanced stage.
1.8       Livestock production is one of  the most important act-vities  in
the economy, and crop and livestock production greatly deperd upon one
another. The livestock sector is estimated to contribute about 252 of the
agricultural GDP and 20Z of all exports. The national herd is estimated at



- 3 -
nearly three million head of cattle, nearly two million sheep and 2.5
million goats. In addition, there are between 20 and 30 million head of
poultry.   Cattle  are  managed  in  extensive  pastoral  or  agro-pastoral
systems, which are characterized by low calving and high mortality rates,
year-round low nutritional levels, and deteriorating grazing resources.   A
recent study 1/ reports that more than two-thirds of the nation's cattle
are managed in about 30,000 separate pastoral herds, i.e., an average ot 70
cattle per herd.
1.9       Grazing and  soil resources  are degrading  due to  inappropriate
agricultural and grazing practices, while natural grazing lands are
shrinking due  to  the expansion  of  cultivated areas.   Public  livestock
services are inadequate as they are oriented mainly towards animal health
interventions rather than animal husbandry; in addition, the livestock
service has suffered from particularly low funding for infrastructure,
transport and operating costs.
1.10      The six major cattle diseases  in Burkina Faso are:   rinderpest.
trypanosomiasis, pleuropneumonia. anthrax, pasteurellosis and helminthosis.
Vaccination coverage varies widely, with rinderpest and pleuropneumonia
relatively well under control. Anthrax, a potential threat to humans
through infected meat, was recorded in several localities in 1985 and 1986.
Pasteurellosis was recorded in 1985, and to a lesser extent in 1986.
Internal parasitism is believed to be a serious problem in Burkina, but
limited  data  is  available  on  its  extent.   Other  diseases  such   as
brucellosis, tuberculosis, sheep pox, salmonellosis, Newcastle disease and
trichomoniasis (poultry) are known to exist, but their epidemiology is
difficult to assess due to limited data.
1.11      One of  the  aims  of  the 1984-1985  land  reform  was  to  make
livestock herders/owners responsible fot the long-term preservation of the
nation's grazing resources. A medium to long-term Government objective is
to  help  pastoral   livestock  producers  manage   'their"  resources   by
encouraging the creation of pastoral associations as an organizational
instrument. The livestock services of MAE are responsible for seeking to
attain the objectives embodied in the reform laws and for assisting
pastoral associations.
1.12      The pilot  program for  the strengthening  of extension  services
(OTRVA) (paras 1.23 - 1.26) has shown the importance of, and scope for,
appropriate technology and technical knowledge to Burkina's agricultural
development. The new land legislation is now providing a starting point
for finding answers to the increasingly important issues of resource
management through, e.g., the Environmental Management Project, now under
preparation by Government with IDA assistance.
1/   Clanet, J. et Meyer, J.F. (1986):  Mouvements Pastoraux au Burkina
Faso. Synthc%se des Enquetes 1984-1985.



- 4-
C.   Government Sector Strategy
1.13      The Government  has three  main  objectives for  the  agriculture
sector: (1) to stop the degradation of the environment and improve resource
management and the sustainability of production systems; (2) to raise rural
productivity, production and incomes; (3) to improve food security and
diversify the sources of food and incomes. To attain tnese objectives,
Government's strategy is to provide sound incentives to rural producers,
having flirted with, but abandoned, the idea of state farms. After phasing
out the subsidy on chemical fertilizers, Government resisted the pressure
to re-introduce the input subsidy as world cotton prices fell; znstead, a
plan to deal with the output price was successfully worked out, including a
reduction in the producer price of cotton. In addition, in order to
increase  consistency   and  effectiveness   in  agricultural   development
strategy, the Government's orientation has shifted from an area-specific
development approach with individual financing to a more sectoral approach
emphasizing nationwide projects with global financing.
1.14      Part  of  the  Government   strategy  is  also  to   decentralize
responsibilities and to encourage and prepare villagers to manage and use
their land, water, grazing and forest resources on a sustained basis.   The
recent agrarian reform and the Government's stated policy of strongly
encouraging local participation in decision making through village groups,
such as the "Groupement Villageois' (GV), are the foundation of this
approach.
D.   The Institutional Environment.
1.   Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAE)
1.15      Until 1986, the Ministry of  Agriculture and Livestock (MAE)  had
sole responsibility for sectoral policy and the overall development of the
agricultural and rural sectors. Two new ministries were created in 1986,
to deal  with  rural  issues:   the  Ministry  of  Water,  responsible  for
hydraulic resources and infrastructure, and the Ministry of Rural Affairs,
responsible  for   rural  institutions,   such   as  village   groups   and
cooperatives, as well as for such national programs as the functional
literacy program (paras 2.14 - 2.18).
1.16      MAE  continues  to   be  the  main   institution  for:   planning
agricultural and livestock production; providing extension services to crop
farmers and livestock producers; training agricultural and livestock
technicians;  adaptive   research  in   the   PAPEM  (Points   d'Appui   de
Prevulgarisation  et   d'Experimentation  Multi-locale)   planned  by   and
implemented in collaboration with researchers of the Institut d'Etudes et
de Recherches Agricoles (INERA); input distribution (including improved
seed, veterinary drugs and supplies, and agricultura'l chemicals); and the
distribution of credit. Until early 1987, those support services were
provided by MAE's eleven decentralized structures (Organismes Regionaux de
Developpement, ORD). Their directors, nominated by the Cabinet, reported



to the Secretary Genaral of MAE. The ORDs were dissolved in May 1987, and
in April 1988, a new decree was issued defining the Ministry's new
organizational  structure  (Annex 1).   The  main  features  of  this   new
structure are:  (a) the  creation  of  four types  of  setvices  under  the
Secretary General;   (b) the  reintroduction  of  a  similar  institutional
framework as the ORDs called Centres Regionaux de Promotion Agro-Pastorale
(CRPA); and (c) the reorganization of the livestock services, involving
the creation of a post of Secretary of State for Livestock (Secretaire
d'Etat a l'Elevage), and the integration of the livestock services' field
personnel into the CRPA structure.
1.17      The  Secretary   General   of   MAE  is   responsible   for   the
administrative and technical coordination of all central, external and
*adjunct, services ("services rattach4sw). He is also responsible for the
technical liaison between MAE and other ministries, and with the Cabinet.
He has a small technical staff of two agronomists and two livestock
specialists. Over 30 directors - including the 12 CRPA directors -
report to him as follows:
(a)  the four "common services" directorates:
-    Directorate for Administrative  and Financial  Affairs (DAAF)  in
charge of the Ministry's human, financial and material resources.
It has three services: Administration, Finance, and Supply.
-    Directorate of Studies and Plannizig  (DEP), in charge of  studies
and  planning;  monitoring  and   evaluation  of  projects;   and
agricultural statistics.   It has  five services:  Administration
and Finance; Studies and Programming; Monitoring and Evaluation;
Agricultural Statistics; Management Support to Institutions and
Projects. The latter service used to be a separate directorate
under the Secretary General;
-    Directorate for Professional Training and Scholarships (DFPS);
-    the Directorate of Agricultural  Extension (DVA) responsible  for
extension dealing with crops, livestock and the transformation of
agricultural products. It has five services: Administration and
Finance, Training and Extension; Monitoring and Evaluation; Food
Technology; Communication Methods and Audio-Visual Aids;
(b)  the three 'special services' livestock directorates:
-    Directorate for Reorganizing  the Traditional Livestock  Industry
(DRET), responsible for the identification and planning of
pastoral zones in the context of the agrarian reform; and
assisting traditional livestock owners in organizing themselves.
It has services dealing with the planning of pastoral zones; with
animal feeds; and with support to the extension services;



-    Directorate for Animal  Health  (DSA),  with  an  animal  health
service and a service dealing with public health aspects of
veterinary services;
-    Directorate of Livestock Production  and Industries (DPIA)  whose
main responsibility is the planning, coordination, monitoring and
technical control of the nation's livestock industry. It has a
service dealing with livestock development in general; with
poultry  and  small  livestock;  and with  the  processing   and
marketing of animal products;
(c) the three 'special services' agricultural directorates:
-    Directorate for Plant Protection and Product Conservation  (DPVC)
with three services;
-    Directorate for Agricultural  Inputs and Mechanization  (DIHA),
dealing with the planning, production and promotion of inputs
(fertilizer, improved seed); and agricultural equipment. It has
three services, one dealing with inputs, one with agricultural
mechanization and  one,  which,  in collaboration with  DVA,  is
responsible for the training of users of improved equipment;
-    Directorate  of  Plant  Production  (DPV)  responsible  for   the
elaboration cf sub-sectoral programs, with four services  dealing
with cereal crops; horticultural crops; fiber, oilseed and
rootcrops; and with irrigated crop production.
(d) The 12 "external service" directorates, which are the CRPA. Each
CRPA  consists  of  four  services:  extension;  monitoring   and
evaluation;  support  services;  and   rural  works.   The   CRPA
Directcrs,  like  their  predecessors  the  ORD  Directors,   are
nomina-ted by the Cabinet and report to the Secretary General of
MAE. The CRPAs are public enterprises that handle activities
dirdctly linked to the promotion of agricultural and livestock
development, as described in para. 1.16.
2.   Ministry of Rural Cooperative Action (Ministere de l'Action
Cooperative Paysanne (MACP)
1.18      The Ministry of  Rural Cooperative  Action was  formed in  August
1988, to  succeed the  former Ministry  of Rural  Affairs.  It  has  twelve
regional antennae based on the same geographic boundaries as the CRPA of
the MAE.   Its principal  executive  service, responsible  for  superiising
adult literacy lies the Directorate for Education and Cooperative Training,
which is responsible for adult and young farmer functional literacy
training, literacy training research and evaluation, and supervision of the
Training of Trainers Centers (CFFA) and other functional literacy training
facilities attached to the Directorate.



-7-
3. Ministry of Basic Education and Mass Literacy (Ministere de
l'Enseignement de Base et de l'Alphab6tisation des Masses (MEBAM)
1.19      This ministry was  also created  in August 1988  when the  former
Ministry of National Education was restructured, and assumed responsibility
for all  primary  education  and basic  literacy  programs.   The  National
Literacy Institute, which comes under the charge of this Ministry, is
responsible for developing training materials in local languages.
1.20      Farmers' organizations have  been very active  in Burkina at  the
village  level  and  they  enjoy  the  support  of  the  Government.    The
approximately 4,500 'Groupements Villageois (GV) are voluntary farmer
organizations which are active in input supply, credit, and marketing
activities at the village level. The most successful of them are getting
gradually involved in local civil works (such as small irrigation schemes).
Experiences in the Hauts Bassins and Boucle du Mouhoun areas indicate that
they should be able progressively to take over some of the functions
currently performed by extension workers (such as agricultural data
gathering or input demand estimation), thus allowing the latter to
concentrate more fully on their extension function.
1.21      Other agencies concerned with  agricultural production are:   the
Office National des C6rdales (OFNACER), responsible for cereal marketing;
the Societe des Fibres et des Textiles (SOFITEX) for cotton; the Caisse
Nationale du Credit Agricole (CNCA), for medium-term credit; the Caisse de
Stabilisation  des   Prix  des   Produits  Agricoles   (CSPPA)  for   price
stabilization of export crops other than cotton; the Office National de
l'Exploitation  des  Ressources  Animales  (ONF-RA),  for  meat  and   dairy
products; and the Societe de Financement et de Vulgarisation de l'Arachide
(SO"VA), for the financing of groundnut production and for extension.
E. Bank Strategy
1.22      Agriculture, the  predominant sector  of Burkina's  economy,  has
received considerable  Bank support.   Lending for  agriculture  represents
more than 40Z of total Bank lending to the country. As of November 30,
1988, 16 IDA credits, amounting to US$ 140 million, had been approved for
the agricultural sector, and eleven have been successfully completed.
Projects under execution include three area-specific projects, which are
nearing completion, a sectoral adjustment operation, the Fertilizer Project
(Cr.1550-BUR), under which the subsidy on chemical fertilizers was phased
out as scheduled,  and a nationwide   operation, the Agricultural  Research
Project (Cr. 1896-BUR).
1.23      In  contrast  to   experience  in many   other  countries,   the
area-specific projects  in  Burkina  have  been  quite  successful.   These
projects concentrated on cotton production and were located in the cotton
area in the Southwest; the earlier projects have been analyzed by OED in



- 8 -
two cross-country studies. 2I Notwithstanding these successes, the Bank's
strategy has evolved towards nationwide operations, as exemplified by the
recently-approved  Research  Project.   The  proposed  project,  with   its
long-term  perspective,  is  a  key  part  of  this  strategy.   Based   on
preparation, thorough collaborative planning, and two years of experience
with OTRVA, the project has generated enthusiastic support among Burkinabe
officials. A key to the success of the project will be maintaining this
commitment.
F.   OTRVA (Pilot Program for the Strengthening of Extension Services)
1.24      In September 1985, following a three-day national seminar on  the
improvement of Burkina's extension services, the Government, with the
financial and technical support of the Bank, initiated the 'Op4ration Test
de Renforcement  de  la  Vulgarisation  Agricole"  (OTRVA)   for  the  1986
cropping season. Five ORDs in different ecological zones (Hauts-Bassins,
Mouhoun, Bougouriba. Yatenga and part of the ORD de l'Est) were selected to
conduct the pilot operation (MAP IBRD No (2)).
1.25      The objectives of this pilot operation were:  (i)  to  reorganize
and  improve  the  agricultural   extension  services;   (ii)  to  form   a
multi-disciplinary  team   of  subject   matter  specialists   (Techniciens
Spfcialis6s) within the extension structure; (iii) to establish direct
links with agricultural research; (iv) to intensify staff training at all
levels; and (v) to improve farmer/extension worker contacts. The Service
de Vulgarisation Agricole et de l'Animation Rurale (SVAR) -- now the
Direction de la Vulgarisation Agricole (DVA) -- of the MAE, was charged
with the  overall implementation  of  the operation.   Within the  SVAR,  a
multi-disciplinary team was set up to back-stop field staff and strengthen
the links with research at the central level.
1.26      Results of the OTRVA, reviewed during a seminar in November 1986,
were generally  judged positive.   The organization  of work  programs  and
motivation of the extension staff were much improved, as were relations
with research. During the first season of pilot operations, farmers set up
11.700 test plats and found that substantial y4eld increases could be
obtained through the introduction of simple techniques. On the other hand,
the  seminar  also   identified  a  number   of  problems.   For   example,
backstopping of the extension agents by the subject matter specialists and
other supervisors was judged insufficient, as were field visits by research
teams, largely due to lack of  operational budgets and means of  transport.
Also, livestock production themes should have received more attention. The
21   "Agricultural Sector Operations Review : Burkina and Halawi", Report
No. 5387, December 28, 1984; and 'Cotton Development Programs in
Burkina Faso, COte d'Ivoire and Togo", published as a Bank Operations
Evaluation Study in March, 1988.



- 9 -
technical themes were not always adapted to farmers' priorities and the
training of  extensior. agents  was  too  theoretical.   Finally,  all  the
participants stressed the need for better feedback from producers to
research.
1.27      Based  on  the   averall  satisfactory   results,  however,   the
Government decided to coztLinue the operation during the 1987 season and to
extend it to the ex-ORDs of Centre-Ouest and Centre-Est, and to all the
ex-ORDs of the East, plus some sectors of the Sahel and the Centre.
Results obtained in the 1987 season were reviewed in a seminar in January
1988, at which  good  progress was  recorded.   Continuing  problems  were
observed in the effectiveness of subject matter specialists, although there
was a consensus that the problems were much less acute than in 1986.
Similarly, backstopping of field extension agents by other supervisors was
still judged  imperfect,  although  much  improved.   Livestock  production
themes, too, were still judged to warrant more attention, but good progress
was reported in promotion of manuring. Overall, the seminar found sound
progress on many fronts, but also several areae in which improvements could
be made by further refinements in what ii now proclaimed to be the
Burkinabe system of extension. The objective of the Government under the
proposed project is to ref:-.e further the Burkinabe system of extension and
to extend the coverage nationwide.



- 10 -
II. AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND OTHER SUPPORT SERVICES
A.   Introduction
2.1       Agricultural extension and  other support services  began in  the
19509, mostly with the help of international agencies. A national program
of extension services was eventually launched in the 1970s by the
Government through parastatal agencies such as the ORDs (para. 1.16) and
the Volta Valleys Management Authority.
2.2       The initial focus  of agricultural exter.sion  in Burkina was  the
promotion of basic agricultural techniques, including animal traction, and
the judicious and more sustained use of inputs, with emphasis on cash
crops, i.e., cotton  and groundnuts.   Then, from  1975 onwards,  extension
messages shifted towards the protection of productive resources and the
environment. However, despite heavy commitments of manpower and funds, the
earlier efforts to improve support services to farmers failed to produce
significant results, except in the cotton areas.
2.3       Since the late  1970s, three  Bank-funded area-specific  projects
have introduced to Burkina some of the basic principles of the training and
visit (T & V) system of extension. The main idea of the T & V system is to
have competent, well-informed agricultural extension workers visit farmers
regularly to provide them with relevant technical messages and advice, and
at the same time convey farmers' problems back to technical specialists
and, through them, to researchers.
2.4       Major weaknesses of  the existing extension  services in  Burkina
include: inadequate training of extension agents; failure to translate
existing technological information into recommendations to be promoted
among farmers; weak linkages with research; the demands on the extension
workers' time for other duties; and lack of coordination among extension
authorities, even within the same agricultural area.
B.   Agricultural Extension
2.5       Agricultural extension is the  responsibility of the  Directorate
for Agricultural  Extension (DVA)  of HAE.   As of  April 1988,  its  field
staff, distributed over the 11 ex-ORDs, numbered about 1,300, composed of
949 extension workers (818 male and 131 female); 226 subsector chiefs and
"chefs   de    Service   Ddpartemental    Agricoles;  53 sector    chiets;
32 coordinators and  37 regional  headquarters extension  staff.   However,
agentlfarmer ratios vary widely from one region to another, from 350:1 in
BougourTha to well over 1,000;  In Yatenga and with an average of 627:1 for
the country. The sector and subsector chiefs are usually civil servants,
whereas the field extension workers until recently were contractual
employees without  any formal  training.   Since late  1986, a  process  of
certification of extension agents has been initiated by which the latter
become civil servants after training and satisfactory completion of an
entrance examination. As of early 1988, some 350 field extension workers
remained to be certified.   Training for these people  will be included  in
the proposed project.



- 12 -
2.6       The   PAPEM   (Points   d'appui   et   de   prevulgarisation   et
d'experimentation multilocales) are small, adaptive research sites
managed by the CRPAs. Their role is three-fold: (i) they are part of the
adaptive research program for a specific area; (ii) they serve as training
ground for extension staff and farmers; and (iii) they participate in
whatever seed multiplication cannot be done on seed multiplication farms.
2.7       Of the 20 PAPEMs,  which are unevenly  distributed over eight  of
the CRPAs (MAP IBRD No (2)), only 13 (including six PAPEMs of Centre-Est)
are considered to have  the minimal infrastructure.   The training of  most
PAPEM  personnel  is  considered  inadequate.   In  addition,   links  with
research are still inefficient, except in those CRPAs where the OTRVA
operation was implemented.
2.8       Formal training  for extension  persc.mel  is provided  at  three
levels. The highest level is provided by the Institut de Developpement
Rural (IDR) of the University of Ouagadougou. IDR graduates (about 20 per
year) fill positions at central ministerial level and at CRPA headquarters.
For mid-level training, the Centre Agricole Polyvalent at Matourkou offers
two degrees, one for 'Conducteur de Travaux Agricoles Spdcialis6' (about
30 gradua'es per year, they may also fill positions at the ministry level
and typically act as extension service sector chiefs in the CRPAs), and the
other for "Agent Technique Agricole' (with about 35 graduates per year,
they generally fill the position of subsector chief). The Matourkou center
is  under-equipped,   under-funded  and   short-staffed.   Finally,   field
extension workers have mostly been  trained by the ex-ORDs themselves,  but
only the few ex-ORDs receiving donor  assistance have been able to do  this
effectively.
2.9       One of the features of an efficient extension system is a  strong
linkage with research, allowing farmers to convey their problems to
research and receive adequate answers, but present links between research
and extension  services  are  poor.   Extension  agents  are  often  poorly
informed about  the  latest  research  findings, and  the  return  flow  of
information also  needs  to be  improved.   Many extension  agents  do  not
properly understand farmers' thinking, and many farmers have benefitted
little from contact with extension workers. Ensuring better communication
between extension and the farming community is a formidable challenge,
which is formally the responsibility of the Communications and Audio-visual
Service. This service does good work, but the challenge will have to be
addressed by many other agencies too.
2.10      At the national level, the DVA has played only a limited role  in
the monitoring and evaluation of extension, and the ex-ORDs had M&E units
with diverse levels of resources and different understandings of their role
and fun ions. The DEP of the MAE is responsible for monitoring (in broad
terms) ae implementation progress of all donor-funded projects, and for
compiling agricultural production statistics. The DEP has no field staff
for this latter task and relied on  the ex-ORDs to collect the data.   This
has sometimes been done by the extension agents, at the detriment of their
extension duties; often, the collection of production data has been done by
I



- 12 -
staff of the M&E units, a task which can severely constrain the rest of
their work program.
C.   Livestock Services
2.11      The  various  livestock  directorates,  which  until  the  recent
reorganization of the Ministry in April 1988 were headed by a Director
General reporting to the Secretary General of MAE, now all come dirp:_L.y
under the  Secretary  General.   Under the  new  structure,  the  'Services
Specifiques de l'Elevage" are composed of three directorates as described
in para. 1.17.   The National Veterinary  Laboratory (Laboratoire  National
V4t4rinaire) is one of several adjunct services (services rattaches) of the
Ministry. The National Veterinary Office (ONAVET), established in 1988, to
succeed the former PHANAVET, is in charge of the import, storage and resale
of veterinary drugs and animal feeds.    The DPIA, established in 1960,  is
responsible for overall planning, monitoring, coordination and technical
control of  nationwide  veterinary  programs  and  services.   The  central
laboratory is presently supplemented by two regional laboratories, one in
Ouahigouya and one in Tenkodogo. The latter, recently established under an
PAO project,  is  well equipped  though  not yet  fully  operational.   The
Ouahigouya  laboratory  (funded  by  the  European  Development  Fund)   is
under-staffed and sparsely equipped. There is a need for additional basic
diagnostic units in the major livestock production areas.
2.12      Disease transmission among livestock in Burkina is favored by the
extensive,  transhumant  husbandry  practices   which  bring  cattle   from
different areas into contact at comuon grazing areas and watering points.
The veterinary department and diagnostic laboratory have for years tried to
limit outbreaks of rinderpest and pleuropneumonia through obligatory
vaccinations. Most of the vaccines used in Burkina Paso are purchased in
the region, specifically at the Dakar Hann laboratories in Senegal.   Other
vaccines, e.g., for rabies and Newcastle disease, are purchased in Europe.
Local vaccine production would not be economically viable.
2.13      Livestock extension services suffer  from a lack of  professional
staff and from the logisticsl p::oblems involved in providing regular
services to mobile pastoralists. Livestock services provided thus far have
mainly dealt with the provision of vaccination and mobile veterinary
services to farmers and herdsmen. A very msdest extension unit consisting
of two extension agents and two vehicles equipped with projector2 was set
up in 1979, but it provided only animal health services without advice on
herd management,  animal  husbandry,  or  crop-livestock  management.   The
mobility of the pastoralists poses special problems for the design of
effective livestock extension, since frequent, regular visits - a key



- 13 -
feature of  crop  extension  -  cannot bc  readily  organized.   There  are
nonetheless  several   promising  possibilities   for  organizing   regular
schedules of visits, even though they may not be, nor need be, as frequent
as in crop extension; such schedules can be organized around livestock
markets and veterinary product distribution centers and, above all,
post-harvest and dry-season grazing areas when the cattle are much more
spatially concentrated than in the rainy season.
D.   Literacy Programs
2.14      Burkina's literacy rate of less than  15Z is a major obstacle  to
economic development and to effective communication among extension staff,
researchers  and  farmers.   The  National  Institute  for  Adult  Literacy
Train;-kg (INAFA) estimates that there are at present about 15,000 fully
literate farmers. The Government's long-term objective is to have farmers
manage their own resources.   This means, for  exas.ple, that farmers  would
prooressively take over the accounting and management of the GVs, and that
they  would   also  progressively   relieve  extension   workers  of   such
non-extension duties as statistical data gathering and administration. The
strategy for achieving this objective strongly emphasizes functional
literacy training.   Two  steps are  involved:  the first,  basic  literacy
training, aims at teaching a core group of farmers in every village to read
and write in their own vernacular; the second will see this core group use
its literacy skills for the benefit of the remaining villagers.
2.15      MACP is in  charge of  farmers' functional  literacy through  the
Directorate  for  Education   and  Cooperative   Tra:ning  (DEFOC).    This
directorate  is  responsible  for  elaborating  a  national  strategy   for
functional literacy training; for training trainers and supervisory staff;
and for supporting local initiatives aimed at establishing functional
literacy  trLining  centers,  strengthening  existing  CFJAs  (Centres   de
Formation des Jeunes Agriculteurs) as rural centers for farmer training and
the development of literacy skills.
2.16      Two literacy  operations were  conducted in  1986/1987 under  the
names 'Operation Alpha-Commando' and "Operation Post-Alpha'. The results
were encouraging; evaluation showed that targets had largely been met,
mainly due to farmers' eagerness to learn, but stressed the inadequacy of
programs for women's literacy.
2.17      A major weakness in the program is the lack of monitoring of  the
performance and progress of new literates. This deprives GVs and farmers
of  'lie  institutional   support   they   need   to   assume   their   new
responsibilities.   The  monitoring  of  these  newly  trained  farmers  is
therefore of crucial importance and should be a priority.
2.18      The Young Farmers' Training Centers (CFJA) come under the  DEFOC.
Their original purpose was to provide rural youth with training in basic
agricultural skills and teach them to read and write in their local



- 14 -
language and in French. Since mid-1986, however, the Government has been
studying ways to reorient ths CFJAs towards rural adult literacy training.
Three groups of farmers would use the CFJAs' most: the secretaries of GVs
and  farmers'   associations   who   need  training   in   management   and
administration; women personnel of these GVs; and young adults and
adolescents who would follow a literacy program PA la carte". These "A la
carte' programs would respond to the variety of needs found among the GVs.
CFJAs  would   eventually   become   CFAPs:   Centres   de   Formation   et
d'Alphabetisation des Paysans (para. 2.15).
E.   Agricultural Research
2.19      The  Ministry  of  Higher   Education  and  Scientific   Research
(Ministere de l'Education Superieure et de la Recherche Scientifique,
MESRS) is the overseeing Ministry for the National Center for Scientific
and Technical Research (Centre National de la Recherche Scient'fique et
Technologique, CNRST). INERA (para 1.16) and IRBET (InFtitut de Recherche
en Biologie et Ecologie Tropicale) are specialized institutes of CNRST.
INERA's  responsibilities   include   the  planning,   implementation   and
coordination of on-going national agricultural research programs and
activities (including livestock), and the coordination of research programs
undertaken or funded by international institutions and other donors.
Forestry and environmental research are the responsibility of IRBET, which
was created in 1985.
2.20      In April 1988, the Bank approved a US$17.9 million equivalent IDA
Credit (Credit 1896-BUR) for an Agricultural Research Project as the first
phase of a long-term program to develop and strengthen the country's
agricultural research organization and programs. One of the high priority
research programs to be funded, the Farming Systems Research Program (RSP),
will be a major link between research and Lxtension. Its researchers will
play a leading role in the training of subject matter specialists for
extension work and in the dissemination of research results to extension.
F.   Credit, Input Supply and Marketing
2.21      Until 1979, practically all  official seasonal credit for  inputs
was provided to farmers through the ORDs, and repayment on short- and
medium-term credit was reportedly good. Unfortunately, man7 of the ORDs
utilized the repayment money to overcome their own liquidity problems and,
by 1979, official credit had become almost unavailable. In 1980, the
Caisse Nationale du Credit Agricole (CNCA) was set up to finance ORD credit
operations. CNCA has 54? of its equity held by the Government and allied
institutions and 46Z by international development banks. With repayment
rates having deteriorated progressively from about 90? in 1980/81 to about
552 for medium-term credit and to about 702 for short-term credit in
1985/86, improving credit recovery rates is one of the main challenges in
promoting technologies involving inputs purchased by farmers.
2.22      Almost all  fertilizers  and  insectitldes used  in  Burkina  are
imported. SOFITEX (para 1.22) is the main importer, especially of cotton



- 15 -
fertilizer which accounts for about 752 of all fertilizer used in the
country. Input distribution was theoretically financed and effected by the
ex-OD Ds, but in actual practice SOFITEX delivered them to farmer groups
under various  financial  artangements  with the  ex-ORDs.   While  current
arrangements  are  satisfactory   with  regard  to   the  availability   of
fertilizers and pesticides to the farmer, extension work should serve to
increase and rationalize their use.
2.23      The importation at wholesale distribution of veterinary drugs and
supplies  is  the  responsibility   of  the  Office  National   Veterinaire
(ONAVET,  para. 2.11).    The  CRPAs   are  responsible   for  the   retail
distribution and sale of veterinary drugs, and have the right to collect
revenues on  products sold  and  services offered.   They also  handle  the
distribution of  animal feeds  derived from  agricultural production.  i.e.
molasses, cotton press cake, bran.
2.24      A national seed service was set up with USAID assistance in 1974.
Research stations supply foundation seed which is multiplied by the ex-ORDs
on publicly-owned farms to produce certified seed. In 1985, an average of
about 325 tons of certified (F2) and foundation (Fl) seed were produced.
However, it is estimated that only about 2-32 of all cereals planted are of
improved varieties and it is said that seed multiplication has been of
unsatisfactory quality.
2.25      It is estimated  that only  10t of the  annual cereal  production
reaches the official market through the state-sponsored OFNACER (para
1.20). Private trade, largely controlled by some two dozen families, is
said to be fairly competitive and is responsible for the commercialization
of most of the production. OFNACER tends to disrupt markets by prematurely
annonncing official grain prices without adequate information or purchasing
ability. As a result, farmers tend to hold back surpluses and are
frequently left with substantial stocks, resulting in production cuts the
following season. Cereals marketing in general, and the role of OFNACER in
particular, are presently being studied by a Government-led working group
which includes the main foreign financiers of agriculture, including the
Bank.
2.26      Cotton marketing is handled  efficiently by SOFITEX.   Groundnuts
are also efficiently marketed by both the private trade and the (CSSPA, but
low world prices have nearly eliminated groundnuts as a major cashcrop.
Fruits and vegetables are marketed informally or through the National
Cooperation Union, UBOCAM. There is a need for further studies in support
of  producers  of  new  crops  (such  as  soybeans  or  sesame)  who   face
difficulties in finding satisfactory markets for such commodities.
2.27      As indicated  in the  above six  paragraphs, performance  of  the
credit,  input  supply  and marketing  support  services  is  mixed.   The
priorities for public funding, however, have clearly to be in those types
of services where the public sector incontestably has a large role to play,
i.e., research and extension. In ,ther services, the operational role that



- 16 _
the public sector might play has to be assessed in light of the
capabilities of the private sector; often, the role ef the public sector
should be regulatory  rather than operational.   Thus the proposed  project
will  concentrate   on   extension  and   traling   services.    Increased
effectiveness of these services will certainly generate further demands for
other support services such as credit, input supply and marketing, to which
the responsiveness of the public and private actors will be monitored; but
the proposed project does not include any provision for further public
investment in such services, other than funds for monitoring and pilot
operations. At the same time, pilot operations in improved public credit
are being undertaken. Financed by France, and drawing on the experience of
the  Grameen  Bank  in  Bangladesh,   these  pilot  operations  could,   if
successfully evaluated after a few years, warrant significant new public
investment in credit.
G.   Accounting and Financial Management
2.28      Financial management  in MAE  is structured  around national  and
local services. The Directorate of Administrative and Financial Affairs
(DAAF) and the Administrative and Financial Service (SAF) of all other
directorates of MAE (Annex 1) are responsible for financial management and
accounting. The DAAF is responsible for the management of MAE's human,
material and financial resources. A "Service Administratif" is in charge
of personnel, and a "Service Financier" is in charge of financial
resources. The Service Financier can only engage expenses, whereas actual
disbursements are made by the Treasury. The SAFs bhndle accounting and
financial management within the various d-rectorates.
2.29      Equipment and structures of the DAAFs and SAFs are inadequate and
most tasks are handled  manually.   The MAE  is in charge  of more than  80
egricultural  development  projects.   In  addition,  the  system  is   too
centralized to ensure efficient  financial management and accounting.   For
example, livestock services around the country used to be almost totally
deFendent on what is now the DPIA (para 1.17), and each expense incurred by
these services  required a  time-consuming authorization.   With the  April
1988 restructuring of MAE, the livestock services directorates lost any
accounting capacity they had previously had. The improvement of financial
management  and  accounting  should   therefore  aim  at  the   progressive
strengthening of accounting capability at the field level.
2.30      MACP is organized along the same  lines as MAE.  At the  national
level, the  DAAF  and the  SAFs  are in  charge  of financial  ratters  and
accounting.  However, the DAAF of MACP is strongly reinforced by its Bureau
des Projets d'Appui General.  This bureau  is under the supervision of  the
Secretary General, and supervises all administrative and technicAl  aspects
of projects assigned to it.  It  has two main divisions:  a Management  and
Accounting division, which keeps the individual project accounts, prepares
budgets and issues payment orders; and  a division in charge of  contracts,
civil works  and   bidding  procedures.   Projects   under  the   Bureau's
supervision (the Bank's third education project and the 'Projet d'appui  du
56me FED A la fonction et a l'organisation du monde rural") have been well
managed.



- 17 -
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Objectives and Rationale
3.1       The project constitutes the first tranche of a long-term national
program aimed at  strengthening agricultural services.   It has three  main
objectives:
(a)  to improve  the  effectiveness  and impact  of  agricultural  and
livestock  extension  services,  in  transferring  technology  to
farmers;
(b) to strengthen animal health services and adaptive research
programs;
(c)  to provide  functional  literacy  training  to  farmers,  thereby
enhancing  their  ability   to  participate   more  directly   in
technology generation and dissemination.
3.2       The project is part of an overall development strategy  supported
by both  the  Government  and  IDA.   It  complements  other   IDA-assisted
projects in  Burkina Faso:   the nationwide  Agricultural Research  Project
(Credit 1896-BUR), and the nationwide Environmental Management Project
(under preparation). The proposed project also reflects design principles
agreed on by the Government and IDA, namely that (i) technical assistance
in general, and resident expatriates in particular, should be minimized;
and (ii) upgrading the skills of staff at all levels should have high
priority.
B.   Summary Description
3.3       The  project   nas  three   main  components:    (a) agricultural
extension;  (b) livestock  services;  and  (c) functional literacy.   These
main components will be complemented by (d) a small studies and pilot
operations component; (e) strengthened monitoring units; and (f) a national
accounting and procurement unit to be established under the project.
3.4       Agricultural extension.   The  agricultural  extension  component
includes four elements: (i) reorganization and strengthening of national
and regional extension structures; (ii) training for staff at all levels;
(iii) improvement of research/extension links by strengthening the adaptive
research units, including the PAPEM; and (iv) improving mass communication
and audio-visual systems in support of extension.
3.5       The project  would  finance:   additional  personnel;  renovation
and/or creation of 17 PAPEMs; the construction of offices and field staff
housing; the purchase of office equipment, vehicles, motorcycles and
mobylettes; incremental operating costs; training and specialized technical
assistance.
3.6       Livestock services.  This component includes:  (i)  strengthening
of livestock services at the national and regional levels; (ii) improving



- 18 -
the distribution of veterinary supplies and drugs and animal feeds (by
ONAVET) ; and (iii) training of staff at all levels.
3.7       The  project would  provide  fuids  for  additional  staff;  the
addition of a virology unit to the National Veterinary Laboratory; the
construction of housing, offices, warehouses, cold rooms, vaccination
posts, field laboratories and the repair and maintenance of existing
structures; the purchase of motor vehicles, office and laboratory equipment
and  supplies;  staff  training;   specialized  technical  assistance   and
incremental operating costs.
3.8       Functional literacy.  The project would provide support to MACP's
Directorate for Education and Cooperative Training (DEFOC, para. 1.18) in
its young farmer training and adult functional literacy programs. Existing
training centers would be rehabilitated and equipped, and some material and
training support would be provided also to the ministry.
3.9       Complementary Components.  Funding would be provided to (a) study
the responsiveness of existing public and private actors in credit, input
supply and marketing to new demands expected to be generated by more
effective extension, and to undertake pilot operations in the provision of
such other support services, (b) strengthen monitoring and evaluation,
prima' ily  of  extension   services,  and  (c)   strengthen  the  DAMF   by
establishing a Central Accounting and Procurement Unit.
C.   Detailed Features
1. Agricultural Extension Services
3.10      The project would reinforce  and reorganize the agricultural  and
livestock extension services by applying nationwide the experience gained
during  the   past   two   years  through   the   OTRVA   pilot   operation
(paras. 1.24-1.27). The three basic principles underlying the system of
extension adopted  by Burkina, are that:   (i) each extension  worker  will
follow a  clearly defined  work schedule;   (ii) staff at  all levels  will
receive continuous training;   (iii) links between  extension and  research
will be strengthened.
3.11      The project will make rational use of the existing structures and
personnel. This includes the 950 extension workers already available in
the CRPAs: an additional 30 will be recruited to replace those who will be
leaving field service for long-term training. Each extension worker would
be responsible for  four to  eight villages (about  620 farms).   Extension
workers will ')e under the authority of local supervisors. Each supervisor
would, on average, support and monitor the work of five extension workers.
The number of supervisors would therefore total 190. Thirty provincial
coordinators and 15 assistants will monitor the system. At the regionel
(CRPA) level, 12 regional staff will coordinate and prepare the work
program of the field staff. These 'Chefs de service' will also be in
charge of the research-development and audio-visual units that support the
extenaion services of each CRPA.



- 19 -
3.12      For  every  province,  one  subject-matter  specialist  will   be
recruited.  This specialist  will have  three main duties:   to help  train
extension workers and supervisors; to make regular field visits and provide
technical support to extension workers; and finally, to be responsible for
the contact between research and extension. The equivalent of 80 part-time
subject-matter specialists  will  also  be needed.   The  specialists  will
provide training for extension workers every two weeks. The themes then
discussed will be  passed on to  farmers over the  next two weeks.   Female
extension workers will be fully integrated in all extension activities.
They will receive six months of special basic training in crop and
livestock production.
3.13      Each of the eight extension  areas will be visited bi-weekly  and
on the  same  day by  the  extension worker.   The  typical program  of  an
extension worker would entail:
(a)  discussions  with  farmer   groups  and   demonstration  of   new
techniques.   Themes   would  deal   with  crop   and   livestock
production, as well as with village resource management in
general. Those themes are chosen to coincide with the major
operations the farmers are involved in at any given time. If a
farmer group is too large, or the level of agricultural knowledge
too varied, the extension worker would split the group into
homogeneous sub-groups. Cultural constraints may also make it
desirable for the extension agent to conduct separate meetings
for men and women; and
(b) follow-up visits by the extension worker during which he or she
would monitor and discuss individually with male and female
farmers the implementation of recommended techniques in their own
fields and any problems encountered.
3.14      During each two-week period, the extension worker will have eizht
days of work in the field, plus two days for office work, training and
seminars. Staff at all levels will receive specific and regular in-service
training.   A  short-term  consultant  (three  man-months)  would   provide
technical assistance to the DVA in determining specific training needs and
programs.
3.15      The research/extension  linkages would  be enhanced  through  the
creation of adaptive research units in each regional (CRPA) extension
service and the establishment or rehabilitation of a total of 17 PAPEMs.
The heads of those 12 units would maintain regular contact with researchers
at INERA.  Their main tasks would be to:
-    elaborate, together with  research staff,  the  yearly  adaptive
research program to be conducted on the PAPEM;
-    monitor the implementation of the program;



- 20 -
-    decide, together with research  staff, on the technical  messages
to be conveyed to farmers and help prepare the technical
materials for extension workers and farmers; and
-    participate,  together   with  researchers   and   subject-matter
specialists, in the training of extension field staff.
3.16      Overall coordination of the nationwide adaptive research  program
would be  assured by  the  central unit  of the  DVA,  which will  also  be
strengthened under the project.   Within each CRPA,  a committee will  meet
twice a year under the chairmanship of the CRPA director to coordinate the
program. Research staff, the heads of the regional extension service and
of the R & D unit would be members of the committee.
3.17      To enhance the capacities of the extension services, the  project
will:
(a) strengthen the capacity of DVA's Communications and Audio-visual
Service to produce didactic and technical extension material; to
provide assistance and training to regional staff; and to improve
the flow of information among the various services;
(b)  strengthen  and/or  establish  a   total  of  12  regional   mass
communication and audio-visual units (as part of the regional
extension  services)   enabling  them   to  produce   their   own
audio-visual aids and programs, in collaboration with, for
example, the adaptive research units and specialists of the Rural
Radio network;
(c) provide some basic equipment and materials to be used by
subject-matter specialists in the training of extension workers
and farmers.
3.18      At the provincial level, the project will finance the purchase of
30 motor vehicles, including six four-wheel drive vehicles for the Northern
and Eastern  prov'.nces.    About  150  motorcycles  will  be  provided  for
subject-matter speAialists, supervisors and provincial coordinators and
assistants. About 7,fl mobylettes will be purchased for those extension
workers who  do not  already  have them.   Motorcycles and  mobylettes  are
provided to  staff  under the  project  on a  50  loan, 502  grant  basis,
repayable over 3 years. The project will assume the cost of replacement,
operation and  maintenance  of  these  vehicles.   Four  hundred  extension
workers' houses would be built with villagers' participation in those
provinces which have received  no previous funding  or donor support.   The
project will also provide for incremental office supplies and equipment.
3.19      At the regional and national levels, the project will finance the
puirchase of 14 four-wheel drive vehicles (one for each of the CRPAs, and
two for the DVA), and office supplies and equipment.



- 21 -
3.20      Staff Training.  The project will also finance:
(a)  the up-grading of  the training of  300 extension agents  (former
contractual employees, both male and female, who are to become
civil serv4nts) and minor re-equipping of the Matourkou  training
center;
(b)  retraining of  extension  agents  and  supervisors  (14 days  F--
year);
(c)  bi-monthly training for extension agents and their supervisors;
(d)  retraining of  subject-matter specialists,  provincial  extension
service heads and assistants at research stations (two weeks per
year);
(e)  visits by  GV representatives  to  research stations,  PAPEM  and
other GVs, and
(f)  seminars and study sessions, plus  study abroad for senior  staff
(11 man-months).
3.21      Adaptive Research.  In order to strengthen the adaptive  research
program, the project will provide funds for the rehabilitation of the PAPEM
network as follows:
(a)  topographic and reconnaissrnce soil surveys (for new sites);
(b)  civil works construction and the preparation of 20 ha of land  ac
nine PAPEM;
(c)  draft animals for 12 PAPEM;
(d)  agricultural equipment; 17 motorcycles, and 34 mobylettes;
(e)  incremental and  general  (PAPEM) vehicle  operating  costs;  and
incremental staff salaries.
3.22      The project  would provide  for the  purchase of  one  four-wheel
drive vehicle for the national adaptive research unit, and materials and
office furniture and supplies  for the central  and regional units.   Staff
training for PAPEM staff would be funded under the project as well as
exchange visits to other PAPEM and elsewhere, and three man-months of staff
training abroad.
3.23      Mass Communication and Audio-Visual  Program.  The project  would
provide for funding at the national level for:
(a) four additional technicians and one four-wheel drive vehicle;
(b) additional equipment;



- 22 -
(c) vehicle and equipment operation and maintenance costs;
(d) a total of six man-months of short-term consultancies to train
DVA's  headquarters  and  regional  specialist  staff,  to   help
initiate new programs and to install new equipment;
(e) three months training abroad for the head of the unit and one
month of local training for each of six techricians.
3.24      Funding at the regional level would be for:
(a) 12 four-wheel drive vehicles;
(b) materials and equipment for the 12 regional audio-visual units,
including some basic materials and equipment for each of the
30 provinces. Eight existing regional units will made fully
operational during the first three years of the project, followed
by the establishment of the remaining four units during years
four and five;
(c)  incremental operating  and  maintenance costs  for  vehicles  and
equipment; and
(d) training of regional and provincial staff.
2. Livestock Services
3.25      At the national level, the  project would strengthen services  by
recruiting an agro-economist to serve as coordinator of the Livestock
Services component, an accountant and two livestock production offi:ers.
The project would pay for salaries and incremental operating costs of these
four incremental staff and for a short-ternm consultancy in year 2 to help
the Government review the regulatory framework of the veterinary services,
in order to produce guidelines that would encourage the establishment of
private  veterinary  practices.   Three  months  of  short-term   technical
assistance would determine specific training needs and programs for
livestock services staff at the headquarters and field levels. One station
wagon and three pick-ups will be provided (one for each livestock
directorate). A small library and documentation center will be created
within the DPIA. The project will cover staff training expenses as well as
incremental  operating   costs  and   equipment  for   the  three   central
directorates.
3.26      At the field level, the project would undertake the  construction
of 42 livestock posts (80 m2 each) and 42 staff houses (50 m2 each);
100 vaccination pens; 20 stores (of 100 m2 each) for drugs, agriculturil
inputs and animal feed; and the rehabilitation of 100 existing livestock
posts and other infrastructure. Funding will be provided for equipment,
furniture and incremental operating and maintenance costs for the livestock
posts and the recurrent costs  for the 200 veterinary field staff.   Twelve



- 23 -
vehicles and 200 motorcycles (including replacements) will be purchased,
and the project would cover their operating and maintenance costs.
3.27      Services  provided  by  the  national  veterinary  laboratory  at
Ouagadougou would be expanded  by adding a virology  unit (195 m2).   Small
field diagnostic units would be built, in Bobo-Dioulasso in Year 3 and Fada
Ngourma, in addition to those already existing at Ouahigouya and Tenkodogo.
Equipment and a vehicle would be provided to each.
3.23      The Livestock  Production and  Industries Directorate  (DPIA)  is
responsible for the distribution  of animal feeds.  It would operate on  a
commercial basis in  a market  open to private  sector participation.   The
distribution system of veterinary products, which is the responsibility of
ONAVET, would be expanded under the project by the creation of a local
branch of ONAVET at Bobo-Dioulasso through the rehabilitation of the
existing installations of the completed Volta West-Livestock Project; and
by expansion of cold storage facilities in Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso.
Four support staff will be recruited for the above-mentioned ONAVET branch,
and equipment  and  one  pick-up  vehicle would  be  provided.   Funds  are
provided  for  training  of  staff   at  all  levels  within  the   various
directorates and services: a total of six man-years of training abroad for
higher-level staff and about 6,500 man-days of local training for field
staff. Staff in charge of the regional diagnostic units would have
received in-service training at the Central laboratory.
3. Functional Literacy
3.29      The project would provide funding for the following activities:
(a) the rehabilitation of 70 training centers for young farmers
(CFJAs) and equipping a total of 177 CFJAs;
(b)  the  rehabilita:ion  of  and  library  materials  for  the  three
national Training of Trainers Centers (CFFA) at Kamboinse and
Farako-Ba;
(c)  two vehicles (for MACP  headquarters staff), ten motorcycles  and
ten mobylettes and their replacement (plus operating costs) for
the provincial services;
(d) costs involved in providing functional literacy training for
38,000 newly literate people; and for 22,500 members of young
farmers' associations, and  in the training  of 12 regional  MACP
coordinators, 480 village development workers and support staff;
(e) salary and allowances for an additional secretary and accounts
clerk for MACP headquarters; three months of technical assistance
(to DEFOC) for determining specific training needs and programs,
and a total of eight man-months of technical assista.xce (to the
Directorate for Functional Literacy Training); four months of



- 24 -
training for the director and a total of 54 man-weeks of local
training for middle-level field staff.
4. Studies and Pilot Operations
3.30      The project would  provide funds  for studies  of other  services
that would support or complement the agricultural and livestock extension
services, such as input supply, creuit, or marketing, and for the
implementation of pilot operations identified by these studies that could
eventually lead to their inclusion in a second phase project. Funds are
also included for the preparation of a second phase project.
5. Monitoring and Evaluation
3.31      The  project  irill  provide  the  funds  needed  to  make   DVA's
Monitoring & Evaluation Service operational, staff and equip a regional
monitoring team for each CRPA and strengthen the Agricultural Statistics
Service  of MAE/DEP.    The  regional  teams   will  focus  primarily   on
agricultural extension activities, but they will also conduct surveys
related  to  livestock  services  and  literacy  programs  as  needed.    A
Coordinating Committee for Monitoring Systems will meet periodically to
ensure the standardization of methodology and a regular exchange of views
among M & E staff.   Limited funding, including 14 man-months of  technical
assistance, will be provided to complement the support already provided by
other donors to MAEIDEP, for strengthening the DEP statistics service and
to cover the extra costs of the project's mid-term evaluation (Year 3) and
Completion Report preparation. Specifically, the project will fund the
following additional staff: one statistician and one computer technician
(for MAE/DEP); one socio-economist, a computer technician, secretary and a
driver for the Monitoring  and Evaluation Service.   Also included are  the
costs of two vehicles (one each for DEP and DVA), equipment, training and
incremental operating costs.   At the  regional (CRPA)  level, the  project
would finance salaries for a total of 40 additional full-time enumerators,
10 additional controllers plus funds for hiring part-time staff, and
salaries for an additional four unit chiefs to complement ex-ORD staff
already in place. The project would, moreover, provide for one vehicle per
regional monitoring unit, 80 additional mobylettes and basic equipment for
up to 120 enumerators (ten per CRPA), and motorcycles for each of 24
controllers (two per CRPA) and operating costs. Those CRPAs not already so
equipped would be provided with a computer.
6. Accounting and Financial Management
3.32      A computerized central management and accounting system would  be
installed. Funds under the IDA-funded Fertilizer Project (Cr. 1550) are
being used to ensure that the system would be in place, and the local staff
hired  and  trained,  by   project  effectiveness.   Short-term   technical
assistance would be engaged for installing the system and training of
personnel.



- 25 -
3.33      The project  would  finance  the  additional  personnel  for  the
Central Accounting and   Procurement Unit  (para 4.3)  within the  DAAFIMAE
(one Head; one Chief Accountant; two senior accounting officers, one
assistant accountant; one data processor; two internal auditors; one
procurement officer; one secretary and two drivers), and one accountant
each for the DVA, livestock services and the DAAF of the MACP. One vehicle
for use by the control unit would be purchased and the project would
provide funds for the incremental operating costs. Staff training would be
funded uncur IDA Cr. 1550.
3.34      A Special Account  would be established  in foreign exchange  and
hell in a commercial bank. The Special Account would be maintained and
managed by  the  Central Accounting  and  Procurement Unit.   Each  of  the
implementing agencies at the central level, i.e., DVA, Livestock Services
and MACP. and each of the 12 CRPA's would have a sub-account. Funds from
the Special Account would be transferred to the Directorate concerned,
e.g., for agricultural extension, mass communication, and PAPEMs to the
Administrative and Financial Service of the DVA. Each directorate or
service would then distribute the funds based on approved work programs and
budgets. The advance would represent about three months of eligible
expenditures. Replenishment of the sub-accounts from the Special Account
would only be made by the Central Accounting and Procurement Unit upon
receipt of all documented expenses as approved by the Director and
accountant of the Directorate or service concerned. The Head of the
Central Accounting and Procurement Unit may seek further explanations or
call for an audit if he deems this necessary before replenishing the
sub-account. Internal auditors of CAPU would carry out periodic cinecks to
ensure that the sub-accounts are being -roperly managed.
D.   Project Costs and Financing
3.35      Total  project  costs,  net  of  taxes  and  import  duties,  but
including contingencies, are estii-iated at CFAF 11.3 billion (or US$40.3
million equivalent), with a foreign exchange component of 372. On the
basis of t.e standard disbursement profile for agricultural projects in
West Africa, it is projected that it would take 8-1/4 years to disburse the
proceeds of the credit. Through the increase in price contingencies, this
would  increase   total   project   costs  to   CFAF   12.6   billion   (or
US$44.9 million).  Project costs by components are summarized below.   More
detailed cost tables by component and type of expenditure a.e in Tables 1-4
of Annex 4 and in the Project File.



- 26 -
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
.....  n CFAF oillions ....    .... .inUS8 Ell IIon.... X Foreign X Total Bse
Locl    Foreln      Tota I    Locel ForeIrn  Total Exchango    Costs
A. Ag. Extension                 4,t45      2,617     6,962   16.4   9.8  24.8   s8          64
0. Livstock Services               9S6       945      1,661    8.     .4   6.7   50          17
C. Functional Lit. Prog.           886        6       1,201   8.0   1.8   4.3   g0           11
D. Studies (ncl. IPF and Pilot
Operations)                      564        J1       5S6   1.0   0.1   2.0       5         C
E. Project Ibnegesont and AdaIn.   169       136       20    0.6   0.5   1.1   46             3
Total aseline Costa              6,0        4,094    10,924  24.2  14.6  38.8   87          100
Phystcal Contingencies           248        199       448   0.6   0.7   1.6   46            4
Price Contingencies               886       442     1.278    8.0   1.6   4.5   as          12
Total Project Costa              7,900     4,738    12,645   28.1  16.6  44.9   37         1i6
3.36      Project costs  have been  estimated on  the basis  of April  1988
prices, adjusted to November 1988. the date of negotiations.  They  include
physical contingencies equal to 102 of base costs for civil works, and 4Z
for  all   equipment,  vehicles,   training   and  operating   to   reflect
uncertainties regarding  detailed quantities  and possible  design  changes
1t!ing  implementation.   Price  escalation  factors  follow  forecasts  of
international inflation for foreign goods and services and estimated annual
inflation in Burkina Paso for local costs. Total contingencies amount to
approximately 152 of  base costs and  131 of total  project costs.   Annual
inflation rates were estimated as follows:
1988      1989       1990      1991      1992    1993
Local                5.0       5.0        5.0        5.0       5.0      5.0
Internationa'.       3.0       5.3        5.3        4.1       4.1      4.1
3.37      The project represents a major  part of the Government's  overall
strategy and investment program to  strengthen support services to  farmers
and livestock producers. The strengthening of extension services and human
resource development programs are clearly long-term endeavors requiring
continuous commitment  and  assured  funding.   The  proposed  project  is,
therefore, considered as the first five-year phase of a long-term program.
This will require substantial and sustained donor support particularly for
the funding of operating costs, since a key element of the program is to
make and keep mobile  all the existing staff.   During the first  five-year
phase, therefore, no attempt will be made to decrease donor funding of
operating costs progressively, whereby Government would take on the whole
burden in Year 6. Instead, increased cost-sharing by Government would be
sought in the second  and subsequent phases of  the long-term program.   In



- 27 -
the first phase, Government would continue to fund all costs of basic
remuneration of existing staff, i.e., maintain in real terms the 1988
budget of CFAF 3.1 'billion (US$ ll million) for agricultural and livestock
services. In addition, Government would fund the continuing costs of the
four IDA-funded area-specific projects due for completion in 1988 or early
1989 (CFAF 150 million per year or USS 0.6 million). Furthermore,
Government would contribute 52 to project costs defined in the sLrictly
incremental sense. This participation would be made to salaries only.In
addition, 502 of the capital costs of motorcycles and mobylettes would be
recovered from staff through repayment of loans. This brings Government's
total contribution to CFAF 0.8 billion (USe 2.9 million) over the proiect
life. The Government cash flow at Annex 7 shows an average deficit of CFAF
220 million per year in the first five years, corresponding to Government's
contribution to project costs defined in a strictly incremental sense, plus
the commissions and charges on the loans. The cash flow also indicates
what would happen in the absence of a second-phase project, i.e., an
average deficit of about CFAF 1.7 billion (US$ 6 million) per year in year..
6 to  10.   Project-generated  recurrent expenditures  would  be  CFAF  1.6
billion (US$ 5.7 million) per year, or about a 602 increase over
Government's 1988 budget for agricultuLal and livestock services.  Clearly,
a second and subsequent phases with substantial donor support will be
required.
3.38      The project would generate only limited Government revenue, since
farmers' output is not taxed. However, some indirect public revenue
generatiour  cau  be   expected  through  increased   spending  by   project
beneficiaries on consumer goods, services and imports subject to tax,
although quantification  is  virtually impossible.   Bilateral  donors  and
other institutions have indicated their interest in parallel cofinancing on
a grant basis. However, specific financing plans have not yet been agreed
upon. Accordingly, the financing plan is as follows:
FINANCING PLAN
CFAF Billion        Us$ million             (2)
Government                     0.8                  2.9                6
IDA                           11.8                 42.0              94
12.6                44.9              100
z==:       es=              ~~===
The proposed credit of US$ 42.0 million would be on standard IDA
terms, with 40 years maturity.
E.   Procurement
3.39      All goods  and  services  financed under  the  project  would  be
procured in accordance with Bank guidelines. Procurement would be handled



- 28 -
by the Central Accounting and Procurement Unit (para. 4.5) except for small
purchases under US$1,000. Procedures are summarized below:
PROCURk4ENT ARRANGEMENTS
Procurement Method
Total
Category                                ICB     LCB    Other   N.A.    Cost
------------US$ million -------
Civil Works                              -      5.4       -       -      5.4
Vehicles                                6.4      -        -       -       6.4
Other Equipment and Furniture           1.0     1.7      0.5      -      3.2
Construction Materials                   -       -       2.0      -      2.0
Training and Consultants                 -       -      3.8       -      3.8
Studies & Pilot Operations               -       -      0.6       -      0.6
Other operating costs                    -       -        -     16.0    16.0
Incremental staff salaries               -       -        -      5.9     5.9
PPF                                      -       -      1.6       -      1.6
Total                                   7.6     7.8     7.6    21.9    44.9
Note:     IDA finances 1002 of all categories except salaries of which 502
would be financed.
3.40      Contract review.  Bidding  documents for  contracts estimated  to
cost US$100,000 equivalent or more would be cleared with IDA before
tendering and recommendations for contract awards would be submitted to IDA
for comments prior to award. This would cover about 752 of the total
estimated value of civil works and goods contracts to be awarded for
funding by IDA. Vehicles and equipment would be bulked to the extent
possible and procured following international competitive bidding (ICB)
procedures in accordance with IDA guidelines. Local suppliers would be
allowed a 15X margin of preference or the applicable customs duty,
whichever is lower. Contracts of between US$50,000 and US$100,000 would be
procured through local competitive bidding (LCB), up to a total limit of
US$ 500,000. For this, (i) invitations to bid would be advertised locally,
(ii) all bids would be opened in public and the presence of bidders'
representatives permitted, (iii) criteria for evaluating bids would be



- 29 -
clearly set out and communicated to all bidders, and (iv) no preference
margin would be granted to domestic manufacturers and reliable suppliers.
Equipment which cannot be suitably bulked and other small items such as
materials and supplies costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each, up to a
total limit of US$300,000, would be procured through competitive quotations
from at least three domestic suppliers whenever practicable. Foreign firms
would be allowed to participate in LCB.
3.41      Civil works would be procured on the basis of LCB procedures,  up
to the  total limit  of  US$7.4 million.   The  relatively small  size  (no
contract is expected to be over US$0.3 million equivalent) and dispersed
nature of civil works funded under the project make it unlikely that they
would attract foreign bids except from firms already represented in
Burkina. Bidding documents would provide alternative tendering for lots or
for general contracts to attract participation by large local contractors.
Interested foreign firms represented in Burkina would be allowed to
participate in the bidding.   Construction materials, consisting mai..ly  of
galvanized iron roofing sheets, cement and other small items, would be
purchased in small quantities at the places and times required.   Operating
costs would consist chiefly of fuel, maintenance and spare parts of
vehicles,  spread   out  over   the  project   period.   Consultants   with
qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA would be recruited for the
various technical asbistance positions under the project in accordance with
the Bank's 'Guidelines for the Use of Consultant3".
F.   Disbursements
3.42      IDA would  finance  10OZ  of  costs  of  civil  works,  vehicles,
equipment, consultants, and studies and pilot operations, training cost:
(including overseas training), and operating costs. The IDA Credit would
also re-finance the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of US$ 1.5 million.
3.43      Disbursements  against  recurrent  zosts  and  purchase   orders,
contracts and training programs of less thaD US$25,000 equivalent would be
submitted against statements of expenditures (SOE) and certified by the
Project coordinator  and chief  accountant.   Full documentation  would  be
retained for inspection in the course of normal project supervision and by
independent auditors. The Central Accounting and Procurement Unit would be
responsible for the preparation and presentation to IDA and cofinanciers of
withdrawal applications for all categories of expenditures incurred under
the project. The withdrawal applications would be signed jointly by the
Project coordinator and chief accountant of the Central Accounting and
Procurement  Unit  for  all  expenditures  relating  to  the  Ministry   of
Agriculture and Livestock Services and by the Project coordinator and
Accountant of MACP for all expenditures relating to the functional literacy
programs. An estimated schedule of disbursements is given in Annex 5.
Consistent with the disbursement profile for projects in Burkina Faso, an
8-1/4 year disbursement period is projected.
3.44      The IDA credit and cofinanced funds would be disbursed as
follows:



- 30 -
(a) 1002 (IDA) of the costs of rehabilitation and civil works (SDR
3.5 million or US$4.7 million);
(b) OOZ (IDA) of the costs of vehicles, and equipment including
trucks, cars, motorcycles and mobylettes (SDR 7.4 million or
US$10.2 million);
(c) 10OZ (IDA) of building materials for works executed by village
groups (SDRl.9 million or US$2.6 million);
(d) 10O2 (LIA.j cf expenditures on staff training (including overseas
training), consultant and specialist services including audits
(SDR 2.8 million or US$3.7 million);
(e) 10O2 (IDA) of expenditures on studies and pilot operations (SDR
0.4 million or US$0.5 million);
(f)  502 (IDA)  of incremental  local salaries   (SDR 2.1  million  or
US$2.8 million);
(g)  100Z  (IDA)   of   operating   costs   (SDR   million   10.6   or
US$ 14.4 million);
(hj 10O2 (IDA) of expenditures out of the Project Preparation
Facility (SDR 0.6 million or US$0.7 million); and
(i)  an   unallocated   amount   representing   physical   and   price
contingencies  on   the   above   (IDA   SDR   1.8   million   or
US$2.4 million.
3.45      IDA would  deposit  US$3.0 million  in a  Special  Account  (para
3.34),  for which   operating  terms   and  conditions   were  agreed   at
negotiations.



_ 31 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Overall Project Hanagement and Financial Monitoring
4.1       The project  will  be implemented  in  two ministries:   (a)  the
extension and livestock services components in the Ministry of Agriculture
and Livestock (MAE); and (b) the functional literacy component aL.d the
studies ar.d pilot operations in the Ministry of Rural Cooperative Action
(MACP).   The   involvement  of   many  entities   requires  good   central
coordination combined with pood monitoring and evaluation systems, and
firancial autonomy for the major implementation entities. In MAE, the
responsibility for both extension and livestock components will rest mainly
with the 12 regional CRPAs; however, the Ministry's DVA will handle the
planning and monitoring of the extension component and a coordinator in the
DPIA  will  do  the  same  for  the  livestock  component.   In  MACP,  the
responsibility for the implementation of the literacy component will rest
with the 12 regional directors, with the DEFOC responsible for planning and
follow-up and the DEP  for monitoring and evaluation.   The DEP of the  MAE
will be responsible for the project evaluation and will chair the
Coordination  Committee  for  Monitoring  Syetems  (para  4.12).    Overall
responsibility for financial management and accounting of the project
(including auditing, reporting and project-related major procurement) will
rest with the Central Accounting and Procurement Unit attached to the DAAF
of the MAE. The overall coordination of the project is the responsibility
the Secretary General of MAE.
4.2       Project Coordinator.  Given  the  project's  complexity  and  its
three important components, and despite the provisions made within each
component for planning, monitoring, evaluation and coordination, there is a
need for  good  overall  coordination and  financial  monitoring.   In  the
interest of both the Government and the lending agencies, the Government
has  nominated  the  Secretary  General  of Agriculture  as  the   Project
Coordinator. The day-to-day management of the Project would be the
responsibility of  the  heads of  the  executing departments,  notably  the
Director of the DVA, and the Project Coordinator would as far as possible
delegate his supervising responsibilities  to these managers.  The  Project
Coordinator would  therefore in  general only  intervene when  some  action
beyond the competence of the service heads is necessary.
4.3       Central Accounting  and  Procurement Unit  (CAPU).   The  Project
Coordinator will not be able to ensure the financial monitoring of the
project by himself.  Nor  will the existing  staff of the  DAAF be able  to
handle the accounting and procurement  load that the project will  generate
(much of  this  load has  hitherto  been  handled by  management  units  of
area-specific projects).   The CAPU  will therefore  provide the  necessary
specialized support to the Project Coordinator, with the staffing indicated
at para.  3.33  and under  the  terms of  reference  at Annex  2-2.   Legal
establishment of the CAPU within DAAFIMAE and appointment of its key  staff



- 32 -
(Head, Chief Accountant and Procurement Officer) would be a condition of
effectiveness.
4.4       Training of  CRPA Directors.   The success  of the  project  will
largely depend on how well the CRPA are managed and how they function. The
CRPA directors are generally technicians promoted to managerial level, who
will need some management training. The program would start with a short
seminar on the principles and practice of management, followed by regular
one-day sessions held at the same time as regular coordination meetings
between the Project Coordinator and CRPA directors (once every two to three
months). These sessions should concentrate on real problems commonly
experienced by the CRPA directors and should be led by a professional
management trainer/facilitator. One of the early priorities of the Project
Coordinator will be to supervise the preparation of such a management
training program by MAE's DFPS (para 1.17) or by the Service d'Appui a la
Gestion and/or by a specialized management training firm or institute.
B.   Organization arl Management of Extension Services
4.5       The DVA will  have  sole  responsibility  for  coordinating  and
monitoring  day-to-day   operation   of   extension   services,   including
extension-related training programs, the coordination of the adaptive
research (PAPEM) program, and the audio-visual services. Staff training
will be the responsibility of the Training and Extension Service of DVA.
Responsibility for implementation of the field extension and the adaptive
research program, including planning and execution of the program of
construction of up to 400 field staff houses and reorganization of the
PAPEM network, would be the responsibility of the regional training and
extension services. Similarly, the regional monitoringlevaluation services
would be responsible for the monitoring of the field extension programs,
under overall coordination of DVA (para. 4.13). Agreements ('protocoles
d'accord") would be drawn up between the CRPAs and village groups
concerned, spelling out in detail their respective responsibilities ard
contribution in terms of skilled and unskilled labor and materials that
would be required to implement the staff housing construction program
discussed with and agreed in advance by the village group. This practice
has been successfully used in recent Bank-financed and other projects, and
an assurance was obtained at negotiations that this practice would be
continued under the proposed project.
4.6       Linkages between Extension and Research would be strengthened  in
order to ensure a sound technical content in the extension program, and a
more  precise  orientation  of  research.   Technical  problems,  noted  by
extension agents during the course of their contacts with farmers would be
brought to the attention of research workers by the subject matter
specialists (SMS). In the periodic training sessions, the research workers
would give the SMS the appropriate responses to the problems, which the SMS
would  pass  on  to  the  extension  agents  to  transmit  to  the  farmer.
Additional points of contact would be the adaptive research farms (PAPEMs,
where  research  and  SMS,  and  SMS  and  extension  agents,  would   meet
periodically), and at biannual workshops at regional and local levels



- 33 -
during which annual  work programs  would be formulated  and reviewed.   An
assurance was obtained at negotiations that the DVA would, as a condition
of effectiveness, enter into agreements with INERA and IRBET, respectively,
to assure the participation of these Institutes in the SMS training
program. An additional condition of effectiveness would be that the
Government  would  have  attributed  to   MAE  legal  tenancy  ("titre   de
jouissance") of the land required for the implementation of the adaptive
research program (PAPEM).
C. Organization and Management of Livestock Services
4.7       Implementation  of  the  livestock-related  activitie3  will   be
coordinated at the national level by an agro-economist in the Directorate
of Animal  Production and  Industries.   At the  regional level,  the  CRPA
directors would be responsible for the planning and coordination of
livestock services programs. The project would also fund the position of
an accountant.   Rehabilitation and  operation of  the national  veterinary
diagnostic laboratory and field diagnostic units will be the joint
responsibility  of  the  head  of   the  laboratory  and  the  DPIA.    The
distribution of animal feeds, of veterinary drugs and vaccines, is the
responsibility  of  ONAVET  and  the  CRPA.   Agreements  of  understanding
(protocoles d'accord) would be signed between ONAVET and the respective
CRPAs defining conditions under which the CRPAs would distribute, on behalf
of ONAVET,  those  products  to livestock  owners.   The  agreements  would
provide for payment by ONAVET to the CRPAs of a commission equivalent to at
least 5OZ of the difference between ONAVET's wbolesale price and the CRPA's
retail price for veterinary products distributed to livestock producers, on
ONAVET's behalf, by livestock services' field staff under an agreement to
be approved  by IDA.   Assurances were  obtained during  negotiations  that
Government would: (i) not later than September 30, 1989, exchange views
with IDA on the cost structure applicable to the distribution of veterinary
products to livestcck owners by the CRPAs; (ii) not later than December 31,
1989, prepare and furnish to IDA, for its review and comments, a draft
Protocole d'Accord to be entered into between ONAVET and the CRPAs,
spelling out their respective obligations to carry out the distribution of
veterinary products, including, inter alia, the payment by ONAVET to the
CRPAs, of at least 502 of the retail price margin on veterinary products
effectively distributed; and (iii) not later than March 31, 1990, take all
measures necessary to finalize said Protocole d'Accord, including the
recommendations made by IDA.
4.8       Planning execution  of  the construction  of  livestock  services
infrastructure (vaccination yards, livestock posts) will also be the
responsibility of the individual CRPAs. In recognition of the principle
that the end users would be involved in the decision making process and in
the execution of the program, agreements (Cahier des Charges) between the
CRPAs and formal village groups (GV) or producers' associations would be
drawn up, spelling out in detail the responsibilities and contributions of
all parties  in terms  of materials,  skilled and  unskilled labor.   These
agreements would be similar to those presently used in respect of staff



- 34 -
housing for extension agents (para 4.5); an assurance to this effect was
obtained during negotiations.
4.9       The DPIA,  in  consultation with  the  DFPS/MAE, will  recruit  a
short-term consultant to help the Government (i) Lo update the existing
regulatory framework for veterinary and related public health sservices,
and (ii) to prepare guidelines for the establishment of private veterinary
practices.
D. Organization and Management of Literacy Programs
4.10      The MACP  will  be  responsible for  the  implementation  of  the
functional literacy component. DEFOC will be in charge at the central
level, while the heads of the Services de l'Alphabetisation Fonctionnelle
des Paysans of each regional directorate will be responsible at the field
level. DEFOC would enter into agreement, by mean of a protocole d'accord,
with INA to secure INA's participation where appropriate. Coordination of
monitoring and evaluation of all project-related functional literacy
activities and programs will be the responsibility of the Direction
d'Etudes et de la Planification (DEP) of MACP. This directorate will
represent MACP in the Comite de Coordination des Enquetes (para. 4.14).
Routine monitoring of the impact of the literacy programs at the village
level will be the responsibility of the regional services of DEFOC.
Regional monitoring teams of the CRPAs would be available also to would
carry out any additional, ad-hoc surveys, as needed.
E.   Monitoring and Evaluation
4.11      The  monitoring  and  evaluation  system  established  under  the
project will enable the managers of each regional and central entity
involved in implementation to monitor the organization and effectiveness of
the services it is to provide, and to conduct diagnostic studies as needed.
Emphasis will be on rapid feedback from the producers to the managers of
each implementing agency, supplemented by periodic centralized syntheses of
findings for all project components. As part of its normal duties, the
MAE/DEP would be the overall coordinator for project reporting. However,
actual monitoring of project implementation activities, including data
collection,  immediate  analysis  and  internal  reporting,  will  be   the
responsibility of each implementing Directorate.
4.12      The  recently-created   Comite  de   Coordination  des   Enqudtes
(Coordination Committee for Monitoring Systems) will be established to
facilitate cooperation and coordination among the central directorates and
the CRPAs.   This committee  will  be composed  of  managers in  charge  of
monitoring functions in each of the concerned services, i.e., DVA, DPIA and
DEP of MAE, and DFA, DEFOC and DEP of MACP, as well as those in the CRPAs
in charge of monitoring and evaluation. The MAE/DEP will chair the
committee, ensuring that data are collected and analyzed in a similar
fashion in all components. On the basis of analytical reports provided by
each of the services, the MAE/DEP will prepare periodic project progress
reports.



- 35 -
4.13      The Project will provide for the establishment of a small central
monitoring unit in the DVA to be responsible for organizing, coordinating
and providing s uport to regional monitoring services to be established  in
each CRPA. Each regional team will include one supervisor, 10 enumerators
and two controllers. The DVA central unit will include one 'chef de
service", one senior staff, two technical staff to assist with the data
processing and  tabulation, one  secretary and  one driver.   The  regional
teams  will  focus  their   data  pollection  on monitoring   agricultural
extension, but staff will also be available to carry out specific surveys
or studies related to the livestock and literacy components, as required.
Given  the  interdependence  of  crop  and  livestock  extension,  and   of
functional literacy training, the findings of the DVA monitoring unit  will
be directly relevant to all three components.
F.   Accounting and Financial Management
4.14      Overall responsibility for the project's financial management and
accounting will rest with the Central Accounting and Procurement Unit. This
will not only keep capital and recurrent costs down, but is also in line
with the views of the Government and the Bank concerning the need for
centralized information  as  well  as  centralized  disbursement  and  loan
repayment operations.
4.15      In  order   to  enhance   the  managerial   capability  of   each
directorate, all Administrative and Financial Services involved in the
Project will be reinforced. Consultants financed under Credit Cr. 1550 and
acceptable to IDA have been recruit3d to set up the project's accounting,
budgeting and internal control systems and to provide training and
follow-up support as necessary (a total of six man-months). Manuals are
being prepared to help the project's accounting staff to apply the systems.
The consultants will also set up a standardized bookkeeping system for all
the CRPAs (including livestock and functional literacy activities) in order
that all activities to be carried out and financed through the Project are
properly recorded.
G. Audits and Reporting Requirements
4.16      The Central Accounting and Procurement Unit would consolidate and
maintain all project-related  records and accounts,  including the  special
account and  statements  of  expenditures, and would  have  these  audited
annually by independent external auditors acceptable to IDA.  These audited
accounts and the auditor's report would be submitted to IDA no later than
six months  after the  close of  the financial  year.  Assurances  to  this
effect were obtained during negotiations.
4.17      Each directorate with  responsibility for project  implementation
would ensure  adequate  overall  technical  and  financial  supervision  of
project works.  Implementing  agencies would  prepare semi-annual  progress
reports, annual  work  programs, and  budgets  with details  on  individual
programs, training, procurement and civil works construction planned for
the coming year. An assurance was obtained during negotiations that IDA



- 36 -
approval of model construction plans for staff houses, vaccination yards,
livestock posts and storage sheds would be a condition of disbursement for
those items.
4.18      The Project Coordinator would be responsible for conducting, with
IDA, and no later than May 31 of each year, Project implementation reviews
to:   (i)  monitor  progress  made  in  achieving  project  objectives,  in
particular:   design  of  training  programs   for  MAE  and  MACP   staff,
preparation of work programs and budgets, including details on planned
activities  and  targets,  services  to  be  rendered  to  clients,   staff
deployment, training plans, civil works construction and procurement
planned for the year, and design and approval of pilot operations; (ii)
exchange information among staff responsible for project implementation and
propose solutions to any current problems; and (iii) update project
timetables and cost estimates. The recommendation arising out of these
reviews, as agreed between Government and IDA, would be implemented
promptly thereafter.   Because of  the institution-building  nature of  the
project, the implementing agencies, the Bank and other donors involved in
financing agricultural services would carry out a joint mid-term review of
the project no later than December 31, 1991 (end Year 3). The review would
cover physical implementation and the extent to which institutional
objectives have been achieved. The findings and recommendations of this
mid-term review  would be  implemented  promptly thereafter.   The  Project
Coordinator and MAE/DEP would be responsible for organizing this reliew.
Within one year of the credit closing date, MAE/DEP would be responsible
for  preparing  a  project  completion  report  that  would  summarize  the
project's  performance  and  evaluate  lessons  learned  by  each  of   the
implementing agencies (DVA, Livestock  Services and DEFOC).  Assurances  on
all the above were obtained during negotiations.
H. Implementation Schedule
4.19      As  a  condition  of   credit  effectiveness,  the  Head,   Chief
Accountant  and  Procurement   Officer  of  the   Central  Accounting   and
Procurement Unit  would have  been recruited  (para. 4.5).   The  Secretary
General of Agriculture, as one of his first tasks as Project Coordinator,
would  supervise  the   organization  of  an   implementation  seminar   to
familiarize  managers  and   heads  of  relevant   services  with   project
objectives,  organization  and management,  accounting,  procurement   and
reporting procedures, budgeting and work program planning, staff training
and manpower development, etc. The result would be that key staff of DVA,
livestock services, CRPA directors and heads of field services as well as
local authorities concerned would meet to discuss programs, the success of
which will to a large extent depend on their close collaboration. The next
step would be for the executing agencies and regional directors, along
guidelines provided by the Central Accounting and Procurement Unit, to
prepare  detailed work  programs,  including  training  and   construction
programs, budgets and procurement schedules. Workplans and budgets would
be consolidated by the Central Accounting and Procurement Unit and sent to
IDA and other donors for approval. Short-term consultants, whose terms of
reference would have been approved by IDA, would assist MAE and MACP in



- 37 -
preparing manpower  development and  training programs.   An assurance  was
obtained at negotiations that a draft detailed first year's staff training
program would be made available to IDA not later than September 30, 1989
for review and comments, and that this program would be implemented shortly
thereafter, taking into consideration IDA's recommendations. No later than
May 31 of each year thereafter, detailed training programs would be
prepared for  the following  year.   A further  assurance was  obtained  at
negotiations that all necessary measures would be taken to ensure that all
staff having received project-financed training abroad would remain in
their assignments at least until a suitable replacement is appointed.
Given the nature and scope of the project, joint planning, decentralized
decision-making and coordinated, timely action during implementation will
greatly contribute to its success. The extent of farmer involvement in the
planning, implementation and monitoring of project activities will be
important  determinants   of   successes  and   failures   during   project
implementation. A detailed implementation schedule is in Annex 6.
I. Environmental Impact
4.20      The main thrust of the work  of the crop and livestock  extension
services to be supported under the project will be increasing land
productivity. This will be realized, primarily, by improved cultural
practices   and   improved   herd   management,   i.e.,   low-cost   (often
zero-cash-cost) and low-risk measures, in which water harvesting, soil
conservation. and manuring techniques will figure prominently. Adoption of
these measuires will both increase land productivity and arrest soil
degradation.
4.21      Throughout the  country, but  most auspiciously  in the  pastoral
areas in the North, livestock numbers can be expected to increase as a
consequence of improved livestock services. The causality will not be
straightforward, since steers will likely be culled for growing-out and
eventual fattening  or  for animal  traction.   Heifers, by  contrast,  are
unlikely to be culled in significant numbers. In the absence of droughts,
total  cattle  numbers  will  certainly  increase,  although  slowly.   The
particular problems associated with sustainable range management will not
be directly addressed through this project, which concentrates on improving
productivity of individually owned or managed assets, such as arable land
or livestock. Approaches to the problems of communally owned or managed
assets, such as rangelands, are being tested in eight ongoing pilot
operations as part of the preparation of the Environmental Management
Project. Lessons learned from these operations would be applied on a wider
scale during implementation of that project. More effective livestock
services will also increase sheep and goat populations, but the possible
negative effects on the environment are not expected to be as important as
with cattle. Smallstock are usually managed as a sedentary activity, even
in the drier areas, and tethering is becoming a common practice.
4.22      In the better-watered Southwest,  where chemical fertilizers  and
pesticides are already fairly widely adopted, the extension service will
promote more efficient  use of  these inputs.   Demand can  be expected  to



- 38 -
increase further, from uew adopters as well as area exparsion by current
users.   Bank  guidelines  concerning  agricultural  chemicals  have   been
followed in the past - under Bank-financed area-specific projects in the
Southwest - and supervision missions of the proposed project will ensure
that the guidelines will continue to be followed. No other environmental
protection measures need be provided.



- 39 -
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Proiect Benefits
5.1       The project, with its broad  range of activities, should  greatly
contribute to the well-being of a large number of rural families and to the
agricultural  sector  overall.   More  specifically,  its  benefits  should
manifest themselves in three main areas:
(a) production and productivity of both the crop and livestock
sectors: reorganized and strengthened extension and livestock
services should provide farmers and herders -- both men and women
-- with new and effective ways to improve their standards of
living;
(b' autonomy and self-reliance: with the help of literacy programs,
farmers and herders will be better able to manage their resources
and investments independently. Literacy programs will provile
most villages with a core group of functional literates able to
manage the affairs of the village; and
(c)  human resources:  the  project strongly  emphasizes training  and
continuing  education   programs,   for  farmers,   herders   and
government  staff.   The  project   would  greatly  enhance   the
capabilities    of    staff    at    all    levels,    strengthen
research/extension links, and promote a two-way flow of questions
and answers between pruuucers and technicians.
B.   Proiect Risks
5.2       The risks  are:   (a) the  possible  inability of  extension  and
research services to produce workable solutions to farmers' and herders'.
problems; (b) problems of inter-agency coordination; and tc) the possible
failure of Government and/or donors to sustain the long-term commitment
required  to  ach4eve   durable  improvements  in   the  effectiveness   of
agricultural support services. To minimize these risks, a two-year pilot
operation was undertaken and the lessons have been built into project
design;  inter-agency  coordination   has  been   simplified  between   the
departments of MAE and MACP, where financial and management capabilities
will be strengthened; and annual reviews of work plans and budgets, as well
as the mid-term implementation review, will provide good opportunities for
program review  and long-term  commitment building.   In addition,  a  Bank
staff member will be assigned to the Resident Mission for the first three
years of the project specifically to advise on its implementation.



- 40 -
VI. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1.      Assurances were  obtained  during  negotiations  that  Government
would:
(a)  not later  than  September  30, 1989,  exchange  views  with  the
Association on the cost structure applicable to the distribution
of veterinary products to livestock owners by the CRPAs (para
4.9);
(b) not later than December 31, 1989, prepare and furnish to the
Association, for its review and comments, a draft Protocole
d'Accord to be entered into between ONAVET and the CRPAs,
spelling out their respective obligations to carry out the
distribution of veterinary products, including, inter alia, the
payment by ONAVET to the CRPAs, of at least retail price
management the veterinary prurlucts effectively sold (para. 4.9);
(c) not later than  March 31,  1989, take all measures necessary  to
finalize the Protocole d'Accord, referred to in (b) above,
including the recommendations made by the Association (para
4.9);
(d) cause the CRPAs to enter into Cahier des Charges with the village
groups concerned to carry out the construction of staff housing
and livestock posts and vaccination yards (paras. 4.5 and 4.8);
(e)  submit to IDA, as  soon as available, but  in any case not  later
than six months after the close of each financial year, audited
financial statements and reports of such scope and detail as the
Association  may  reasonably  request,  prepared  by  independent
auditors acceptable to IDA (para 4.16);
(f) not later than May 31 of each year, conduct with the Association
annual Project implementation reviews (para 4.18) to:
(i)  discuss  annual  Project  evaluations  carried  out  by  the
Project Coordinator;
(ii)  monitor progress made  in achieving  project objectives,  in
particular: design of training programs for MAE and MACP
staff; preparation of work programs and budgets (for DVA,
DPTA and DEFOC) consolidated by DEP/MAE, and CAPU/MAE
respectively; design and approval of pilot operations;
(iii)  exchange information  among  staff responsible  for  Project
implementation  and   propose  solutions   to  any   current
problems; and



_ 41 -
(iv) update project timetables and cost estimates;
(g) promptly thereafte;, carry out those recommendations arising out
of  said  reviews,  as  agreed  between  the  Borrower  and   the
Association (para 4.18);
(h) conduct jointly with IDA and other relevant co-financiers, no
later than December 31, 1991 (end of PY 3), a mid-term review of
project progress and implementation, and shortly thereafter,
implement the findings and recommendations of that mid-term
review (para. 4.18);
(i) prepare and furnish to IDA for its review and comments a draft
detailed first-year staff training program for MAE and MACP staff
by September 30, 1989, and, not later than May 31 of each year
thereafter, a detailed training program for the following year
(para. 4.19); and
(j)  take all  measures  necessary to  ensure  that all  staff  having
received  project-financed  training   abroad  remain  in   their
assignments at least  until a suitable  replacement is  appointed
(para. 4.19).
6.2.      The conditions of effectiveness would be that:
(a) a Central Accounting and Procurement Unit (CAPU) would have been
legally established within DAAF/MAE and its key staff (Head,
Chief  Accountant  and  Procurement  Officer)  would  have   been
appointed (para. 4.3);
(b)  the  DVA  would   have  entered   into  agreements   ("Protocoles
d'Accord*) with  INERA and  IRBET,  respectively, to  assure  the
participation of  these Institutes  in  the training  of  Subject
Matter Specialists (para 4.6)S
(c)  the Government would have attributed to MAE legal tenancy ("titre
de jouissance") of the land required for the implementation of
the adaptive research program (PAPEM) (para. 4.6);
6.3.      The condition of  disbursement would be  that IDA approval  would
have been obtained for model construction plans for staff housing,
vaccination yards. livestock posts and stores, prior to disbursement of
funds on these items (para 4.17).
6.4.      Subject to the  above assurances and  conditions, the project  is
suitable for a credit of SDR 31.2 million to the Government of Burkina Faso
on standard terms, with 40 years maturity.



BURKINA FASO
AGRICUURLLM SUPPOR  URVIC    PROACT / PROJET DE RENFORCIMEN  DES SERICE DAPPUI
AUXPRODUCTOMS
(A                              A
SG
_~~~~CYA DORA -S50   GE                  -   VB VTIN         -CE
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SCRPErM                                                   K/0e _e.>ol 
DW   omr              (INMMOAM         -BUNASM~~~~~~~~~~1.1                          AMDIWE
ow                          ow           -  S SAVI-EVAL    5      SIVAR
OVA'                     -OFA             _ 5 AP AUX PROOS      AW
_  ANhENGETS   -FREX-(A
-S S DE LAG M                       - 5 UPAPS SA BAFOA
jP.V                                    FSEEDOT AORA
, w                                       CUM AI AUCOW KNO
C~~~~~~~~~PRO  KM ,cOM
ENTIRE AV cOUD OUGO
CENIIIE AV JU4GA
COAT
pR11J NA PROD aO"5
-OKERA (AFM AFO, AFM PROJ LAN)
-f DS DE DEVELOPP
'SW SepaZtedWaO mojb&4WM on 1vSwvIce                               PROJE1S A1JT1NaMES
-Ut~~~~~~~ 



AM= 1-1
BURKINA FASO
MAE
Rot Seilces Communs
DAAF
SERVICE ADMINSiSRATIF
SERVICE RNANCER
SERVICE DU MAITERIEL
DP                0RATTACNE                        _             D        GRIC.
- SERVICE ADMINISTRA;IF ET FINANCIER
-    SERVICE ETUDES ET PROGRAMMATION
- SERVICE SUM-LEVALuAnON
SERVICE STAISnQES AGRICOLES
SERVICE DAPPUI A LA GESnON DES ORGANISMES ET PROJETS
OFFS                                      -fRATrACH          ENESA
CAP/MATOIJRKOIJ. ETC.
SERVICE DAPPUI PEDAGOGIQUE
- SERVICE DE PROGRA;IATIONt DES STAGES ET CONCOURS
SEICE SUM-EVALUATION
O VA          |
-    SERVICE ADMNISTRAIF ET FINCER
SERVICE DE FORMATIO0IWLGARISAO11N
SE9viE DE SUM-EVALUATION
SERVCE ECHNOLOGE ALIMENWAIRE
SERVICE DE LA COILNICATlON ET DES OENSM ADIOSELS
Wodd Bank-42567:2



ANM  1-2
BURKINA FASO
MAE
Ret Semces Specques see rbw-oge
SERVICE DE LAAMENAGEMENT DE UESPACE PASTORAL
SERVICE DE LAIJMENTATION ANMALE
SERVCE DAPPUI A LA VWLGARISATION
RATTACHE
DSA
SER\ICE DE LA PROTECTION SANiTAIRE (SPS)
SERVICE DE LA SAMTE RJBLIOUE VETERINAIRE (SSPV)
RATTACHEII
|DPIA            - - - - - -           - -1 -l         
-SER\CE DEVELOPPEMENT ET DES PRODUCTIONS ANIMALES (SDPA)
SERICE DEVELOPPEMENT DE L'AV1CULTURE ET DU PETIT ELEVAGE (SDAPE)
SERVICE DE LA RANSFO)RMAON ET DE LA comMERcoIATioN DES PROUI1w, ANIMAUX (SrCPA)



ANNEX 1-3
BURKINA FASO
MAE
Rot SeMces Specifiques de rAgricultuto
RATTACHES               LASORATOIRES ELA PROTECTION |
DfYC                                                   CES VEGETAX|
SERVICE DES INTERVENTIONS ET DE LA PROTECTION DES STOCKS DE PRODUITS VEGETAUX
SERVICE DES ANALYSES Er DE LA LEGISLATION PHYTOSANITAIRE
SERVICE DU CONDMONNEMENT ET DU CONTR8LE DE LA QUALITE DES PRODUITS VEGETAUX
RATTACHES                      FROUET ENGRAIS
VNIERS
DIMA
PROJET PHOSPHATE
fROJET
MWNTENANCE DES
SERVCE DES INIRANTS                                   EQAIPMES
SER\ICE DE LA MECANISATION AGRCOLE
SERVICE DE LA FORMATION DES UnUSATEURS
SERMCE DES CULTURES CEREAUEIe
SERVCE HORTICULTURE (FRUrTS ET LEGUMES)
-        SERICE DES TEXTILES. OLEAUINE  ET TUBERCULES
- SERVICE DE MISE EN VALEUR DES AMENAGEMENTS Hvr)RO-AGRICOLES
DVA
-      SERVICE ADIINISTRAJlF ET FINANCIER
-    SERVICE DE FORMATION /VULGARISATION
SERVICE DE SJM-EVALUATION
SERVCE TECHNOLOS1E AUMENTAIRE
SERVCE DE LA COMMUNICATION ET DES MOYENS AUDIO-VISUELS
Wald Banl-42567.4



-46 -
ANNEX 2-1
BURKINA FASO
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Proiect Coordinator
Terms of Reference
The coordinator, or his delegate, would be responsible for the following:
(a)  liaise with  the  managers of  the  units in  charge  of  project
implementation in the MAE and MACP and with the coordinators of
the components where such a position exists;
(b) liaise as necessary with Ministries and other organizations to
ensure the smooth implementation of the project;
(c) liaise with the Burkinabe authorities and with the lending
agencies;
(d) supervise and monitor the use of project funds;
(e)  chair  an  interministerial  committee  to  review  and   approve
budgets, work programs and periodic or annual reports prepared by
the  Central   Accounting  and   Procurement  Unit   or  by   the
implementation agencies;
(f) ensure the correct preparation by the CAPU of the tenders for the
procurement of goods or services;
(g) supervise and monitor the "agreements" signed between parties
involved in the project, and mediate in case of disagreement;
(h) cause annual reviews of the Project to be carried out to examine
the performance of the executing agencies and to identify the
problems of project implementation;
(i) organize regular meetings between CRPA directors and to ensure
the preparation by CAPU and DEP/HAE of the management training
program for those directors;
(j) organize, together with NAE/DEP, a project start-up seminar for
all managers and accountants involved with the project in order
to inform them of the objectives of the project and of the
accounting, procurement and monitoring procedures;



- 47 -
ANNEX 2-2
BURKINA FASO
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Central Accounting and Procurement Unit
Terms of Reference
(a) Centralize and consolidate project-related accounts and financial
documents, and more precisely:
(i) coordinate the preparation by the implementing agencies of
budgets and other accounting and financial statements, and
consolidate them;
(ii) prepare the end-of-year project balance sheet;
(iii) administer the project's central bank account;
(iv) monitor the implementing agencies' project accounts and
replenish them as needed;
(v)  audit the implementing agencies' project accounts;
(vi)  centralize  the  disbursement   requests  for  the   lending
agencies and maintain the respective accounts;
(b)  program the procurement of goods and services to ensure that lots
can be grouped to the  maximum extent, centralize all tenders  to
ensure that financiers' procurement procedures are followed,
issue all bidding documents, liaise with the Direction Nationale
des  Marches  de   l'Etat  (DINAME),   and  other   organizations
concerned, and represent MAE on tne Commission Nationale des
March4s (CNH);
(c)  give support  and  advice, in  its  area of  competence,  to  the
administrative, purchasing, accounting and financial units of the
entities responsible for project implementation;
(d)  design and implement, with the  Service d'Appui a la Gestion  des
Organismes et Projets of the MAE/DEP, a specific training program
for the accounting and purchasing staff concerned with the
project at central and regional level.



BURKINA FASO
ACRICULITURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Spuciai Accounts 4nd Flow  of Funds
Comptes spfciaux et Flux Financier
*I       CELLULE DE CESTIONt
F IfNANCIERE ET APPROVISIOtJEUEENT  g
I                 Du  PRSAP           I
' I                                                                                    c
I
_               ~~~~~~~~~I
I                                                I                     .I
_1               |                           _I_                                                          I _
I~         ~                  I          I                                    I                    *1
MACP       I                                   I  DVA   I                                      I  SERVICE ELEVAGE
OAAF     I                                    I         I                                    I        DPIA           I
I            1                                    1..I      I                                    I                       I
I                                        AL      I              'PI                                                     . C
_I               -       |                          1-*1 I                                              I I.
I         ~~.1        I                 I       I                I         I                I       I                I        I                I    LA
I     SAf        l       l      SAf         I       jj    SAF        I         I     .SAf       I       I  CLOlPABIE   9          I    cOUP^IAE
9  SOUS-COuPTE  9           l SOu5-COMPTES  I          SOUS-COMPTE  I          I SOUS-COMPJE  l         g SOUS-COMPIE  I          g 'S0US-COMPTE 
g    C{NTAAL    I        I    EwEGIOIIS     9       9     CENilRAL   I         I     CH~PA              g   CE11l8AL    9         I     CHPA 
| ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~ ~ ____________               ____________   I          _____________            e ____________   a       a ____.___________



BURKCINA FASO
AGRICUILTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Summary Account by Project Component
(CPA FRANC '1000)
LI ILNSI ON                     3XI6MSIONO         6836NS30N -                      6611N53033      EXIENSION          EilLNSIDII
EIITENSION                    MNOIIORIN43 AND   C03SIUNICAI3ON                      ERIENSIOt6   NNIIOAING AND0  C0WNNNCDF1ON
6333VIC1S      rNA3N3IC,    iAIUAaIIUM -3  AND AUDIO0V3SUAI   RtSIARCM3    SERVICES -    (VAIUAIION                AND1 AUDIOVISUAL  tAXIENSION
CENIRAl AND   CEIiIRAI ANDO   CENIRAI AND         - CENIRAI AND    RESEARCIH AND  CINIRAt AND   CENIRAL AND             CENTRAL AND   RESEARCH AND  LIVETrOCK i
NEGIONAt       RLGION8L         REGIONAL           REGIONAL       OZVE3OPONNI   NECDJONAI           REGIONAL          REGIONAL       Oivti.OPENTN    CCN3RAL
IINVESINEN33   33NVES1ININTI    1INVESNEIM  I      I3NVFS[INVES      3INVESINENII   (RECURRENI3    IRECURRENII         IRECuRARIRC     IRECURRENJI    IINOISTNENII
1  INViSINLNI COSIS
A  CiVil NORMS                                   480,000.0                         10.000 0                           238.400 0-
a  (QUIPIIIENI                                    90. 600 0       7.400 0          77. 400 0           86. 300 0       39. 600 0                                                                         28,250 O
C  VEHICLES                                      770. 300.0                       214. 180.           123. 530 0       46. 760 0                               -.34-00 0
O  tFCHNICAt ASSISIANCEL                                          9.000 0          18.000 0            21.000 0                                                                                          30.800 0
E  PROJLCt PREfINANCING fUNDO                                                                                    
I  StUDIES-
G. Pl10l OPERAIIOIIS                                                     -....--
"Ik tAINING REIONAl                                             272.900 0          23. 160 0            4.500 0        37.250 0
I  IRAINING-CENIRAI                                       -       1.000 0             S00 0                    ---225 0
J3 OVERSEAS IRAINING                                             30,000 0          40.000 0             b.700 0        12.bO00                                                                           .8. 000.0
N  TRAINING - iIIRACT P00885                                                                                   --                              
10 d I INVESIIIENI COSIS                          1,3240.900 0     320.300 0         383.840 0           243.030 0       374.410 0                                                                          93,776 0
A  SAIARIES                                                                                                                        474. 760 0        368. 900 0          46 750 0      385. 000 0
3$ EQUIPENENNE OPERAM3ON                                                                                                           114.000 0                            306.600 0
1: Ml 3333:11S OPI'tAtION AND I3AINIINANCI                                                                                       1. 206.000 0        290. 80C 0         363. 700 0      63 Soo a
13  IiNII3AL SERVICES                                                   .                                                           75,000 0         352.200 0           37. 640 0     31723500 0
I  flvlsitUx.  CAIIIE                                                                                                  9.600 0
Idl...  R31U3(R3N3 31A)S1                                                                                                  9 b00 0  2.3b8. ISO 0       3.013 S00 0          344.b90 0      -,bb JOO 0
i.t,ll IIASELINI CUJSIS                            1.340.900 0       320.300 0        363.840 0           241,030 0       384.010 0  2.368.750 0        1.011.900 0          344.690 0       666,300 0       93.7760a
1--II4  Lw'l lnqU~'Q.'u                            82.43b 0        12. 452 0         M6233 6             8.803 2        29l. 664 4    75. 760 0         26 720 0           33. 917 6        7.26  0         3.4319 0
fli i.u C,jnf ifltcplljes                         160. 896 5      41. 667 2         32.481 3            23. 937 2       29. 301 6    322, 006 4         134. 424 6         50.131 5        16. 031 8       8.902 I
1,041 PRiOJECE COSIS                               1.684.232 6       374.439 2        43. 5b,4 7          273.768 4       442.776 0  2.766,516 4         3.3172.044 6        406. 739 1      649.5683 8      304. 026 I
foreign. Ezchav'ge                              2.316.542 7       61.315 2         363.424 A.          244.S77 0       2032.49 3    686.1383 6         136.532 4          186.1343 3       29.954 6        79.207 4
9   03
40  I
0



BURKINA FASO
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Summary Account by Project Component
(CFA FRANC '000)
I VtSlOI:K                                IIVESIOCK                                                  SlUDifS
CtNIRAL     ttVLSIOCI                     CEtNIRAL                  fUNCl11011t   fUNCIIONAt   INCLCUDING PPF     PROJLCI          PROJCI                         Physical
VIIERINIARY    IIVESTOCK     IVfSIOCK    VETERINARY   tIVESIOCK       tITfRACY     TllERACY       AND PIlOT    NAAGE1NENI AND  hANAGEIENT AND                 Contingencies
LABOIAIORY     hLGIONAL       CINIRAL    LA8ORAIORY    REGIONAL       PROGRAMS      PROGRAMS     OPtRAIIONS    ADIENISIRAIION  AD1INISIRAIIONt
IINVESIMfNII  IINVISIIINII  IRlCURRFNII  tRECURRPNT)  IRECURRENI)  tiNVmSiNENI  IRrClRIRIIIT  IINVFSINENTI    EINVESINENTI    IRECURRENII            Total        2    biown
71.000.0     S9000.0-*                                              306.000.0                             -        20,000.0                    I.715.400.0  10 0 172,540 0
110. WSo 0     18.800 0                                              271.O0. 0                                      14.000 0                      809.200.0   4 0  32,368 0
48.970 0     2SS. 165 0                                       -      40.060.0             *3.2bO~ 0                                             1.571.925 0   40  62.877.0
9.000 0                                     '50,.5000                      118 300 0   00        0 0
*  -          *                    442.5000                 -                *     442,500 0   00         0 0
8, 0000                                        18.000 0   00         00 
6S.000 0                                        b5. 000 0   0.0      00 
10.215 0                                                                                                                           348.925 0   4 0  13.945 0
8. 700. 0      25,000.0       35.425 0   4.0   1. 417 .0
CC. 000.0                                                                   i?2.200 0   4 1  7.Oba 0
266. 185.0                                           -                *     266. 18  0   0.0       00 
230. b20 0    937. 180 0                                             963. 745.0                   585. 5OO 0       128.460.0         2J, 000.0   5.1622.760.0   5. 1 289. 215.0
14.124 5     5S. OO 0                                 25, 120 0                                        93. 652. 0   1. 463. 796 S   00    0 0                      0
14.000.0                                                                       .               -     234.600.0   4 0   9.364.0
55, 300.0    59, 100.0   314. 700. 0                   54.250.0                                         39.000 0   2.235.650.0   4.0  89. 426 0
*   -    750 0     43,300.0      65,000.0              -    157,500.0               -                -         9.000.0   1,357.890 0   4 0  54,315.6
-            -             -            -              -            -               -                -                       9.600.0   4.0     384 0
70, 174.5    174 900.0    379,700.0              -    236.870.0                                -       141,652.0   5,301.53b 5   2 9 153,509 6
230. 620.0    937. 180. 0    70. 174.5    171. 900.0    379.790.0    963,745.0    236.870.0       585. 500.0       128. 460.0       166 652 0  10,924.296.5   4. 1 442. 724.6
13, 484. 8    72. 887.2     2, 242. 0     4. 656.0     25. 188.0     45, 902. 4    8, 470. 0              -         4, 318.4        2,920.0      442,724.6   0 0        0. 0
23,509 8     113.397.3       9.321.0     26.946.7      58.829.2      71,936.8      30.849.0       33.866 4          8.860.2         22.336.9   1,278.433.4   3 8  48.972.0
267.614 6   1.123.464.5      81,737.5    202.502.7    453.717.2   1.081.584.2    276.189.0        619.366 4        141,638.6        191.908 9  12.645.454.5   39 491,696.6
193.978 0     627.772.6     25,887.2      34,919.9    149,305.7      384,426.8      25.470.7       36.111.6        105,861.2         47.654.9   4.736.178.4   4.6 219,842.0
03
0
o  1  1
1%)



BURttIttA fpASO
AGRICUIIURAI SIIPPOiT SIRViCtS PRO.I[Ct
SU1ItARY ACCOUNIS C{SI SUMIMARY
ICIA IRIANC  '040(                       1USs  0001                        7. lotal
Z1 foreign   base
local       loreoijn      lotdl         lo.dl   foreign   total    Enctange    Costs
INV16II2N2 0o525
A  CIVII iWORKS                              1.029.240 0   686.160 0  1.71t.400 0   3.659.5  2.439.7  6.099 2                  40        16
U  IQUIPINIWi                                  256.895 0   552.305 0    809.200.0          913 4  t.9b3 8  2.877 2             68         7
t. VFHISlfCS                                    157.192 S t. 414, 732. 5  1. 571. 925 0    558 9  5,030 2S. 589 I              90        14
t  It.llttlCAt ASI182AUt                        31,780.0   I14.520 0    118.300.0           13.4    407 2    420 6            97         I
F  PIlDJFCi PHIFIJXANCING lUND                  438.075 0      4,425 0    442.500 0   1.557 6          lb 7  1.573 3            1         4
I  SIUDIES                                      77,220.0         780.0      78.000 0       274.6       2 8    277.3             1         1
G  P1102 OPIFRAI IONS                            39.000 0    26.000 0        6S.000 0      138 7      92 4    231 I            40         1
11  IKI61NINGRttIODKAi                          348. 625.0            -    348,625.0   1. 239. b          -  1.239 6                      3
I  ISAItNIN  CINIRAI                             10.413 8    25.011.3        35.425.0       37.0      889     126 0            71         0
J  OYVESEA45 IKttiNtNi                                  -   172.200.0    172.200.0             -    bl2 3    612.3          I1O          2
tt  IRAINING - llE6RACt PROGRAMS                266. 185 0                  266. 185 0     94fi 4         -    946 4                      2
.......... -----...                                   ... .    ...   ...   . .      ..   ..   .   ....     ..  .     . .  ....   .......   ...     ....
lobsl INV9SINlItb  COSIS                        2.626.626 3 2.996. 133 8  5.622.760 0   9.339 1 t0,652 9 19.992 0                 53        Si
I 11Ut:0tl9itlNI COsSI
A  ,AI 81tl2 S                              1. 463. 796 5               1.4b,3. t9b S    . 704 b           5.204 t.                    13
6  IQUIPENiNT OPIRAIIDl                         30.460 0   204. 140.C    234.600 0        108 3    725.8    834.1             87         2
t  VtHICILS UPtitAIION AND NA8ININANL    1,.341,3190 0   894.2bO 0  2.235.650 0   4.7b9 4  3. 179 b  1,949.0                 40        20
0  GCNIRAI SiFVICtS                         1.3S7.890 0              -  1.357.890 0   4.828 1            -  4.828 1                     12
t  IlV1510t;11   CAllt                           9.gbOO 0                    9,100 0       34 1                34 1                      0
lulal RIICURttINJ LtOSIS                         4.203.13tb S 1.098.400 0  b.30.S3b 5  14.944 S  3,905.4 28,849.9                21        49
I,.t42 ftAS1il2ff COSIS                          6.829.767 8 4.094.513 8 10,924,296Y      24.283 6 14.5S8 3 38.841 9               37       200
2htysical Contingencaes                          243.422 7   199.302 0    442,724 6         8bS. 5    708 6  2,574 1            45         4
Pr it t. Cos.1m anq.inlaos                       830.090 8   442.342 7  1. 778.433 4   7.977 G  1.572 e  4.545 5                35        12
i21l,l 22tKDJICI COStS                            1. 90') '". 2 4. 73b. 178 4 12. b4.454 S  258. 171 9I t,.839 7 44.91,1 C         37   tt6
CCLLLU~   7. 1988  14 01
IFU



MdRXINA FASO
AGRICULTORAL SWPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Priect Cmwonets be year
Totals Includird ContintlCies                           Totals Includiwn Continmncifs
(CFA FRMNC  0001                                            (US$ '000)
89        90         91         92         93        Total        89     90      91     92     93    Total
===zz=_:Z  =3__= :=-cz zZ=ZZ Z__=3:== := ___:::= ===__==Z=m==  =z==__= =:=__Z= %===_:: C===_== a=:=:=- ==:w:_
EXTSION - EXTENSION SERVICES - CENTRAL AND REGIWIAL (INVESTMENT)            507.813.2  142,310.8  313,976.9  456,712.0  163.419.6 1,584,232.5  1,805.6  506.0 1116.4 1.623.9  581.0 5,632.8
. TRINININ - CENTRAL AND REGIONAL (IWNESTMINT)                                76679.3   77t436.0   77,865.7   69#496,2   72;940.1   3749419.2    272.6  275,3  276.9  247.1  259.3 1,331.3
:. EXTINION - ONITORING AID EVALUATION - CENTRAL AND RE61ONAL (INVESTMENT)    235,156.8   34t284,4   314199#6  121,072.1    9,841.9   431,554.7   93.1  121.9  110.9  430.5   35.0 1,534.4
M. EXTENSION - CONICATION AN AUDIO-VISUAL - CNTRAL AND RE61K l(INVEST1MET)    128,658,3   174865,2    5,488.8  116,298.1    5,458.0   2730768.4    457.5   63.5   19.5  413.5   19.4   973.4
. RESEARCH  - RESEMARCH AND DEVELOPOMENT (INVESTMENT)                        199791.7  119,759.0   94,711.1   25,893.9    2,630.3   442,776.0    710.3  425.8  336.8   92.1    9.4 1,574.3
- EXT'IdIGN - EXTENSION SERVICES - CENTRAL AND RE61O0N  (RECURREkNT)         501,306.9  526,746.7  5529669.4  579,064.6  606,729.7 207666516.4  1,782.4 1972.9 1.965.0 2,058.9 2,157.3 9,936.5
. EX(ENSION - MONITORING AND EVAUATION - CENTRAL AND REGIONAL (RECUWENT)     234t239#0  217,819,0  2289627.5  239,812.5  251,546.6 1172044*6    832.8  774.5  912.9  852.7  894.4 4W,167.3
:. EXTSION - COMMUNICATION AND UDIOVISUAL - CENTRML AND REGINAL (REC)3REflD    64P175,3   67p473.4   70,748,2   99,877.4  104,464.8   4060739.1    229.2  239.9  251.5  3551  371.4  1,446.2
EXTENSION - RESEARCH AND DEVELOMENT (RECURRENT)                             117,586.1  123.481#8  129t637,8  136,065*6  142,812.6   6449583.9    418.1  439.0  460.9  483.9  507.8 2,309.6
J. LIVESTOCK - CENTRAL (NVESTMENT)                                             36,672.8   29,900.1    5173.9   26,684,1   5W665.2   104,0961    130.4  106.3   18.4   94,9   20.1   370.1
;. LIVESTOCK - CENTRAL VETERINWRY LABORATORY (INVESTMENT)                      67,496.4  108,601.4   19,899.5   579273.0   14,344.3   2674614.6    240.0  386.1   70.8  203.6   51.0   951.5
LIVESTOCt - LIVESTOCI REGIONAL (INVESTMENT)                                 200.780.7  284,950.3  301,724.7  305,584.7   30,424.1  1,123P464.5    713.9 1.0132 1,072.8 1086.5  108.2 39994.5
. LVESTOCK - CENTRAL (RECURRENT)                                              16,398.2   15,205.4  I15,95.5   160702.7   17490.7    91737.         58.3   54.1   56.7   59.4   42.2   290.6
:. LIUESTOCK - CENTRAL VETERINARY LABORATORY (RECURRENT)                       28t030,2   32,355.6   33p95892   52,904.5   55,354.3   202,502.7    99.7  115.0  120.7  177  196.    720.0
1. LIVESTOCK - REGIONAL (RECURRENT)                                            51,198.0   65,012.3  103,350.6  114,379.4  119t776.9   453,717.2    182.0  231.2  367,5  406.7  425.9 1,613.2
. FUNCTIOL LITERACY PROGRAMS (ItNESTIENT)                                    5239570.4  323,087.4   81,923.3   847M.9   63,229.1 1,081,584.2  1,861,6 1,166.5  291.3  301.4  224.8 3.945.6
. FUNCTIONAL LITERACY PROGRAMS (RECURRENT)                                    62,027.5   50,591.8   519930.8   54P481.4   57,S17.6   276,199.0    220.5  179.9  184.6  193,7  203.2   982.0
STUDIES INCLUDING Pm AND PIlOT OPERATIONS (INVESTMENT)                     453,569#1   19,373.3   746596#9   28,425.0   43,400.0   619,366.4  1,612.7   68.9  265.2  101,1  154.3 2,202.2
PROECT MANAMET AND ADMINISTRATION (INVESTMENT)                               92,006.1   11349.5    9,486.5   249279.4    5,518.0   141,638.6    327.1   40.4   30.2   86.3   19.6   503.6
PROJECT MMAAEENT AIND ADINISTRATION (ECURRENT)                              34.774.9   36,539.7   389337.9   40,168.8   42087.7   191.908,9    123.6  129.9  136.3  142.8  149.6   682.3
.a PROECT COSTS                                                             34631.911.0 29309s143.2 22440259.7 2,649,850.2 1,814.29.5 12.645P454.5 12,913.5 9,210.3 79965.4 9S421.7 6P450.8 44,961.6
t-=====ee== 2=z=:==-zeZ te-te==z-=  ee_=--=CC t ==.:e   :et:t=   Gftr==e:== Z        re ZZe-x=  tr:=:tee
e0er 6. 1988 16:14
0 X
L.X
VI*



SURKINA FASO
AGRICULTURAL SUPPRT SERVICES PRCJECT
Project Cowonents bv Year
(CFA FRANC '000)
Base Costs                                 Total
89         90          91         92          93       CFA FRAIC  (LS9 '000)
A, EXTENSION - EXTENSION SERUICES - CENTRAL AND REGI6NAL (IN4ESTMENT)             475,750.0  1209000.0  2609000.0  365,150.0  120,000.0  19340.900.0   4,767.6
B. TRAINING - CENTRAL AND REGIONAL (INVESTMENT)                                    72,140.0   69,240.0   66s240.0   56340.0   56,340.0    320s300.0   1.138.8
C. EXTENSION - MONITORING AND EVALUATION - CENTRAL AND RE61ONAL (INVESTMIET)      219,742.0   30,752.0   26,752.0   989842.0    7,752.0    383,840.0   19364.8
P. EXTENSION - COMMUNICATION AND AUDIO-JISUAL - CENTRAL AND REGIONAL (INVESTMENT)    120,535.0   16s300.0    4,800.0   94t995.0    4s400.0    241sO30.0     957.0
E. RESEARCH - RESEARCH AND DEVELOPOIIENT (INVESTMENT)                             181,860.0  102,380.0   76,630.0   21,110.0    2,030.0    384.010,0    1,365.4
F. EXTENSION - EXTENSION SERVICES - CENTRAL AND REGIONL (RECURRENT)               473,750.0  473,750.0  473,750.0  473,750.0  4739750.0  2,368v750,0   8.422.2
S. EXTENSION - IONITORING AND EVALUATION - CENTRAL AND REGIONAL (RECURRENT)       222sS40.0  197P340,0  197,340.0  197,340.0  197,340.0  1,011.900.0   36597.9
H. EXTENSION - COMMUNICATION AND AUDIOVISUAL - CENTRAL AND REGIONAL (RECURRENT)    60,49O,0   609490.0   60,490.0   819610.0   81,610.0    3449690.0   19225.6
L. EXTENSION - RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT (RECURRENT)                               113P260.0  1139260.0  113,260.0  113,260.0  113,260.0    566,300.0   29013.5
J. LIVESTOCK - CENTRAL (INVESTMENT)                                                34,275.0   26s,50.0    4,400.0   21,750.0    4,400.0       91,775.0      326.3
K. LIVESTOCK - CENTRAL VETERINARY LABORATORY (INVESTMENT)                          60s845.0   96,650.0   16v000.0   45,995.0   11,230.0    230P620.0        820.v
L. LIVESTOCK - LIVESTOCK REGIONAL (INVESTMENT)                                    1846125.0  241s710.0  247,025.0  241,860.0   22,460.0    937P180.0   39332.2
ht. LIVESTOCK - CENTRAL  (RECURRENT)                                               15,474,9   13,64.9   13,674.9   13,674.9   139674,9        70,174.5      249*5
N. LIVESTOCK - CENTRAL VETERINWRY LABORATORY (RECURRENT)                           26,700.0   29,300.0   29,300.0   43,00,0   43,300.0    171,900.0         611o2
0. LIVESTOCK - REGIONAL (RECURRENT)                                                489000.0   589000.0   87,900.0   92,900.0   92,900.0    379.700.0   1,350.0
FR. UNCTIONAL LITERACY PRGRAOMS (INVESTMENT)                                      481,565.0  288,900.0   719750.0   70,780.0   50,750.0    9630745.0   3,426.6
0. FUNCTIONAL LITERACY PROGRAMS (RECURRENT)                                        58s374.0   45,374.0   449374.0   44,374.0   44p374.0    236,870.0        842.2
R. STUDIES INCLUDING PPF AND PILOT OPERATIONS (INVESTMENT)                        442,500.0   18,000.0   66,000.0   24,000,0   35,000.0    585,500.0   2,081.8
S. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND ADINISTRATIGN (INVESTMENT)                               85,980.0   10,500.0    7,500.0   19,980.0    4,500.0    128,460.0        456.7
T. PROJECT MAAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION iRECURRENT)                                339330.4   33,330.4   339330.4   334330.4  A339330.4    166,652,0        592.5
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                              3,411,236.3 2,045,901.3 149009516.3 2,154,241.3 194129401.3  10,924,296.5  38,841.9
Ph?sical Continsencies                                                           129,803.7   96,523.7   81,016.3   864137.3   499243.7    442724.6   1.574.1
Price Continjencies                                                               90,871.0  166,718.2  258,727.1  409,471.6  352,645.5  1,278,433.4   4?545*5
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                               3,631,911.0 2,3099143.2 2.240,259.7 29649,850.2 1,814,290*5 12,645,454,5   44,961.6
foreign Exchange                                                               1,6049758.6  77895.4  769,146.8 191609616.9  4219760.6  49736,178,4   16,939,7
December 6, 1988 16:14
1a 1



- 54 -
ANNEX 6
BURIINA FASO
Agricultural SupPOrt Services Prol3ct
Estimted Schedule of Disbursements
Fiscal Year/Semevtor              Disbursecnts            Cumulative          West Africa
(ending date. shown)         Semester    Cumulative    Disbursoment    Aaricultural Projects
[                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~(US8 millt on)  m             (Prof;il-oN
[         ~~~fY 1989
December 81, 1988 !/         0.0               0.0             -                   8
Juno 80, 1989                0.0               0.9             o                   8
FY 1990
December 31, 1909            1.0               1.0             2                   2
June 80, 1990                2.0               8.0             7                   6
FY 1991
December 81, 1990            2.0               5.0            11                   12
June 89, 1991                8.0               6.0            19                  19
FY 1m
December 81, 1991            8.0              11.0            26                  27
June 80, 1992                4.0              16.0            86                  88
FY 1908
December 81, 19M             4.0              19.0            46                  46
June 80, 1998                4.0              2b 0            64                  66
FY 1994
December 81, 1998            4.0              27.0            64                  64
June 80, 1994                8.0              80.0            71                  72
FY 1995
December 81, 1994            8.0              88.0            78                  79
June 80, 1996                8.0              86.0            es                  86
FY 1996
December 81, 1996            2.0              88.0            90                  90
June 80, 1998                2.0             40.0             95                  98
FY 1997
December 81, 1996            1.0              41.0            97                  98
March 81, 1997               1.0             42.0            100                 100
^f Expected date of Board Presntation: January 1989
k Expected date of Credit Effectiveness: June 1989



MM  Ft61
inioLtmG wlmrt #ilCES HECI
imcLawuaI sim   ia.u
n9        :        n          :        n9 :               F1         :         !
I         :        2                   3                  4          :        5
CalW  veart             Im          :       19"        :        " ue9 :              m         :        In    
Csl arV        s:  1         2              t 4    :  1  2   3   4    I  1  2    l    4   1 9 2    3      ;  1   2     3 4.
:                                                                                                r
.IoiganaiDllS                                                             9/12-- -- ---- -                                             : -                                    :                   I
1.  1.        SWIMrtlat C     ltats Fie.11ft.Ikct.ItSne tt 1988i ItrI
2.      l.nato pr umls                                                          O ctoer  l 
3.      Se Wet CmsaltMts                                                         Kuebe?r 59:;
4.      Slpw  Catract                                                           Jiaurvl IM1                                                  :                   :                  :                   :
5.      Fn.111t.I ktt.Snstn u ra pIae n    u. tr&ling Ot IKuI accrant  ttaff                                                   l             :                   t
EfFEC NIEESS WE                                                           3/31119 
2.               imante ProFj   Cm ordasta'                                           8J31/:
3.          CWU to places  bd. Accuts staff I Ptm            nt otficer racrtd:                                                 I : 
*.          I. D)Ulet  b   Snuu*r lerh iuad by P.C. J 8  11 FI                                                                  :                  I                   :                                      t
5.          ME Coste  de CoordAtom  uttt  b           it d  b  wEimpEI                                                                                                                                        I
4,          Establish  IP   mitarin g Saits                                                                                                      - t------ 
*  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
7.          Training Specialists lilI for Estonia 4d LivestKck lervicnl tUfUltI
I         gw
S.          Trusntn  Specialists (TO) for W   (staff treaison  I twKioutla  litirrcyl                                                   - ------.f                     I
9.         MCUl camsolidatus  tw at  udrs of lIpl. "win, Prsw.  Kke                                                                                                                                            I
aid ecbedsaJes  I aso m ceatra'and WMA/W  prgrams I1 budgts)                                                              -           
15.           IWIE Pi aN   WIIW1   prp a   c trstrtm  prqrm                                                                     1      ----)                           :
U.   J.  Cautnhctzne 28 '0il40 a,ebat        n llimsteck     vf                                                                                          --------- :--
2.   COetrecti    40   ild S                 t U 11  in t                                                                                                            -------- - -- - -- -
S.  CstrKctl  42 limtockt oets  livtK   e                  icesl                                                        :              c---------------------------- 
4. Cnstrectio    uciatis p                                                                                                                       (--------  - s
S.   Cmtrsartc       virolopy wit it_pdms       n Cetral Laboratrv)                                                                               ..- --- )
6.  CoestrKctlen field diautc  aitst  eagewya & limkodop  fr0ebliaaltatsnnl                                                             ------------------
Iot-ilonaa (ml                                                                                                      <--e-)   ---*--
7.   eaur of enntbg  ltvn       t sers ices titrastrtsre l).S  structur                                                            c-  .----- --_                 _ - - -              .              - - 
S.   h&bialtatsot  _ I119T gold store  laciliten taupado                                                                                -       >
*.  hRablitatiaon eJIIIIT cold sterap  tacaliten hbo-DOlo                                                                                                                   c  (--
IS.     abstl tatim  enstiag f1r  trau i        ntw    (73 CFJte nW)                                                                  - ---------------------------------
11.   RetaLbbttaO    nnttbes  teKkr tranbbq  catw            13  FFfiePt                                                 I :--                 ------             
12          tElIZE PAMtI    2l
1.     10p    s seael  a                                                                                                               -                                          ; 
2.    CoetrKctom ad s         ai tC _                                                                                                          -
is          cetAKItM Us3  C uJuCAICd      AfbiNgIlishg  aca.nMK  *NI
1.     Strngth. eaistatl I tim                                                                                                        --------------------------------------
2.     Cetet nn units am 4 renim   CWAt s-----------------------------'
14  430*. *itrs auiREVIEMS                                                                                                                             I                    I1
Is          RID-IECI PEWES lorg nalid by  IP/ItI                                                                                i
U6           MIS  MEEsBS Uvrons, r.g. IIlElEAitPPAIEWS1G            DV91A/ Fp;tc.l                                                       --        :        C-:                  -;Ds--



SUKINA FASO
AORICULLE SUPPORT SEtVICES PJECT
IMF4.EMENTATION SCHEDtULE
I    FY      I    FY      I   FY    I   FY    I  FY          I
I      1     1      2     t    8    I       4    1   6       I
Calar Yxn1ears   I   198       I    iNS    I  1901   I  1m         I 1908    1
Quartre           I 1284      1 284  11284 11284 I 1284 
~~~~~~~I
REORGANIZE PAPER NETWORK                                                                   I             I            I           I          I           I
1.   Top* and  o1l survys                                                                        I       .)  I              I          I           I
2.   Construction and equlpmnt                                                                   I      (...       )  . . .
|         8     ~     ~ I          I          I           I
ESTABUSH US  COMMUNICATION/AUDIO-VISUAL REGIONAL UNITS                                     I             I            t           t          I
1.   Strength.n existing S tem                                                                           .    .t (-- --....        ) t  I.I
2.   Crosts nm  units In 4 remaining CRPA'e                                                                   I 9           I          I .
I            I             I          I           I          I
ANNUAL AUDITS AND REVIEWS                                                                  I             I      x     I    X    i            I     x    I
MID-TERM EVIEW (orpnlzed by OEP/MAE)                                                       I             I            I     X    I           I           I
WORKING AOREEMENTS (varlous, e.g. INERA/CRPA's/OV'*; OVA/DAFP, etc.)                       I    C..)    I    1..)    I  (--)    I  (-.)         (-.)    II
I -~~-------
I_____  _________|___  ____  |- __



SURKINA FASO
ACRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PPOJECT
GOVERNMT PROJECT RELATED CASH FLOW 1/
(CFAF  I  lion)
PY8        PI         PY2        PYs        PY4        tYC       PYO-19       PYll-2I       PY21-6
1w legs                                 198198689             19lw       19 912 109a190                     1994
External Flinncing
IDA Credit                            140       8,396      2,159      2,994      2,477      1,69o            -             -             -
Outflows
Project cect.                            149      8,682      2,ac9      2,240      2,649      1,814        1,67          1,637         1,637
Ce_mttent chxrge  and
Service Charg..J.                       -         42         56         63         6s         76                         Be            iiiY
Pr;incipl Repaymnt                       --                                                                              151           3 2
Total Outfleow                           140       3,647     2,a6 2,33             2,714      1,6"         1,726         1,676         2,6C2
Surplus (D.ICit)                           -       (278)     (216)       (209)     (237)       (194)      (1,725)       (1,076)       (2,652)
1/   In current terms throughout the project thereafter in constant terms.
21    From 1994 onward recurrent expenditures and some vehicles replacement
every 4 years, motorbikes, motorcycles every 3 years.
3J    Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity.
4/   Average over 30 years.                                                                                                               3



SIJLON



NOTES
.~ ~~~ ~~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.



I
I
I
II
I
I
i
I
i
I                                                                     MAP SECTION
I
I
 I
I
I



___________________________________________________________________________________[ORDBR 212100
-X7                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAURITANIA MAII
/        -A                                    -'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A    
- i  i-  iw  -/   S  --   -'   =  --  Y      1  g---3           -2  NIGER
AG                          .S PROJECT                                                  OUDALAN                                 BURKINA FASQt  f-
PROJEl DE RFNc                   T DES SERVICES                                          Goj.Gfn          (qz
D'APPUI AUX PRODLUCTEURS                                        SOUM                    A Grmoo                 'HANA<OI.  NIGERIA
ADMINISTRATIIVE UNITS                     'Saoga.                                                                 ?8lVOREA
DIVISIONS ADMINISTRA TIVES             '                   0DIibo    SAHEL                  DORI                 4 I  [                 e
,0   0  40  6,0    I             YA TENGA          Pobe                                                       ___               _
KILOMETERS/K,LOMETRES            YATENGA                  T  ,    NOR
S~~>       aUAHt~GOUYAg  ETE NORD                           
2   t       >            '   \  B~~~~         ~     ~~~AM    NAMENTEN GASeb                   9
M A L I   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  ~~~~~~~~ASebba                                            ~  ~        I     E
M   A   L  I   /    -t->s   *3     %          '   <      % ~~~~~~~~~SANMATENGA                                             N    I G    E  R
Tougon                                                         GAN
-ir    ~ ~ ~ ~ '         KOSSI             0D                                  KATA-                                          L. 
3'                                            S KOSS  A TOUROU  X         ;X>t^8                 g      (  vObondslPASSOREB
Noun* 
cC->^          y   Nouna       i,              /) AT  Kolbila    /                       o 7)ls,e                              g
0>vv> ~         ~                       _ y 5\< To  g  CENTRE                                             '\  fBloOra -  / . */ TE
vI  **/i /) 0    <\s  )  .0BOULKI    UBIENGA,
DEDOUGOU           RC         f     .KADIOGO
OUHOUN                      %OU  GOU                           Zorgho                   GOURMA                 TAPOA .
et55  v~K;e   p                          0'fiKombissiri   \\A                 0uGumiE6                               ao   
2'X   ,*~                     -- 7 s    MOUHOUN    C                                      \ GANZOURGO                  FADA N'GOURMA                D       \ : .g
<~~~/ | ) \ 0>~~~~~~~~~SANGUI                                     <,CNRE -.4OURITENG  
A~~~~~~~
?                            9,  j                   SUDMANGA (&iora~~~~~~~~~~~~SD  arngoXtOtO0        EST  -    
KENEDOUGOU                                                     ssou                                Ouargye
A  HOUET                                                0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OUDEG 
Kouroumo        .HUT/2(                                   SISSIULND                 Eq C   BOULGOU\           '                       *r _ _
NAUT3' BASSINS                       AETEt~
5BOBO-DIOULASSO           UOUeRk B  CE TE-O E-CNR   .t
J  hA>- BA51NS      /Or kou s)CENTRE  Q UESTr NAHOURI+<C~v ESJ                                                              BENIN
- 1;    Orodora      ..                                                                                                                    B E   l N
0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
2 X s,tEsouGourv 8 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~T C )T  G  O t
r    BANPORA 0              9 Tiankoura A
A CO)   ADAPTIVE RESEARCH SITES                 RIVERES
*i_  < Loropenl                                                                      FLEUVESPAPEM
COMOEFEINBUDRE
0    REGION CAPITALS                             MITE D REREGION BOUNDARIES
IA0                               (C)I RCC         A ID                         CHEF LIEU DE REGION                       UIED  EIN0
-0s  -  h  5     C   DE PROVINCECAPITALS  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
CHEr LIEU DE PROVINCE                     Un  EPOIC
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
C O T E             P I V OI R E                                                                                     FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES
AUGUST 1988



r                     i                                            M X /> t-x 1 *-*C-. IdAURIIANIA t b'l    ALI
/           J -                 I                         o._'t-         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NIGER
AC,.----. - tAL SERVICES PROJECT                                                                                .'                                ,t,d,,,.N/
PROJET DE RENFORCEMENT DES SERVICES                                                                               *                                                < (                                                                      R
O'APUI AUX PRODUCTEUR5                                                                                                          Gopcv --G) NIGERI
Agroecological Zones                                        f                !                                                     Saoga               32 CfE RHANA
Regions Agro-Ecologiques                                                                        Diibo   SAHEL 
M                                                        A   L   I   e; -v  oo  2   _   /    N   I  G    E   R    |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-o .I
w~~~~                                               '":    >   \   %   /  D  \  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  EL                        t "s"VDOR  ^
Ce.) )
-- T~~~~~ ~~~ -E
/'         A TS   -                     <        JS/   \                     .                        t SEt              AEAE  Nt Aong                       OuaGlrgaAGLT   RO
J   ivN                                                              i C1190t \  < 2i FtvVEOKtAOS K   CENTROETEtt/CQUESTHA  CETESRTE
L No                                                    o _BUO \- .7                         .           uPV rt                 -.rJ      -.-..AD.*:NAYJNESTS  IE r                               tts E 
to to~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ob
Mi L/ I.                                                                                                          Kongtrst5MES PUM-lg  TS.NAttsuSG                                        NTOA   tt
[ C~~~~~~~~~~O-,                                                                                                                                                                                               N'lI GE\ VEt 2-
|54,31                        TOi Sa                                                                                                                                   AUGS 9
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T                                                                                                                                      ---
F.                                                                                                                             ISO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AmUIUA.ZN
Nieno~~~~~~~~~~~~ ES, ARCOE
11116     TS  B,~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~SRYESI  IJMlS(VEAEANUL ANAL)A                                                                        AAPIEE5Aa  il
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lrps -hISIPESBAM- 4E?S OAN                                                                                                                                                                  B EY ENEP145ANI)PIE
BANCR      A. LVYI                                                                            TUNRA I ON WEYES   AIAION   EAN N(EGNLAGCLUALRSAI
NiagoI&~                                                          ISNYES N MWMIRES(GUNTR o P1115LIN ANE UP UR M0)GRAREREGONA bERZONCES AGRICOLES
PAVED ROADS                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ADAGRCUTUR RESEARCH  ANDTES NN  CNE
-~~~~  )              R~~IoUYEtS RINTIUMEIS  (AEC NULIAAL                                                      AEMTEo  ElEOS  GiOE  rD  OMTO
0                                                                                      UNPAVED R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0iMOAS I  NAM ETEIONA PRAMALLY OSECOYDARINA F EThR S           REGIONAL AEVLOPPST  CNRE  CPR 
io                                                                          -      ROUYTES DoN-MIUMESS (WN4TION LE  PaRN LINES  ANCNAIE SE4ISE W  rONO) SISN                ED  CEN'TEO ROA E REGIONAL E AGRCOLOO.OR-ATRS(RA
UPAVED ROAD$ PIAYADSCNAT.ITRITATUE___    GRCUETUA OUARIESERHADTANGCN
ROUTES NO.TUMEES  CPEIR$f  EODJE).SO  NRAITN                                              LESTR DES ECERP IOA C-InE  EFRATO
to.                                      200                                                       "U WEATHER LME                                ~~~~~~~~      ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NYINION'AL  CEUNDA RES    RA
SICONDAIIIESI-ISAGE rUTES 14ONS      $2FRDON CISRES RN7EMIONAL EPS A07O
= ,= ~~~~~~~~~= Iy                                                                         GRO-P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUGSTOR   (198



