Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1979 BUR
(Agricultural Services Project)
between
BURKINA FASO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 28, 1989
CREDIT NUMBER 1979 BUR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 28, 1989, between BURKINA FASO (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has  requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last  sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement  have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional  terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement including any sub-accounts of said account opened by the Borrower in 
respect of the Project;
(b)
"MACP" means Ministere de l'Action Cooperative Paysanne, the Ministry of 
Rural Affairs of the Borrower;
(c)
"MAE" means Ministere de l'Agriculture et l'Elevage, the Ministry of 
Agriculture and Livestock of the Borrower;
(d)
"CAPU" means the Central Accounting and Procurement Unit to be 
established within DAAF/MAE and referred to in Section II of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement;
(e)
"CFFA" means Centre de Formation des Formateurs des Agriculteurs, any of 
the Training Center for Farmers' Trainers of the Borrower;
(f)
"CFJA" means Centre de Formation des Jeunes Agriculteurs, any of  the 
Training Centers for Young Farmers of the Borrower;
(g)
"CRPA" means Centre Regional de Promotion Agro-Pastorale, any of  the 
external service Directorates of MAE established as a public enterprise  pursuant to 
its statutes approved by Kiti No. An V 0292/FP/AGRI/EL of the Borrower, dated June 30, 
1988;
(h)
"DAAF" means Direction des Affaires Administratives et Financieres, the 
Directorate for Administrative and Financial Affairs of MAE and MACP, respectively; 
(i)
"DEFOC" means Direction de l'Education et de la Formation Cooperative, 
the Directorate for Cooperative Education and Training of MACP;
(j)
"DEP" means Direction des Etudes et de la Planification, the  Directorate 
for Studies and Planning of MAE and MACP, respectively;
(k)
"DPIA" means Direction de la Production et des Industries Animales, the 
Directorate for Animal Production and Industry of MAE;
(l)
"DVA" means Direction de la Vulgarisation Agricole, the Directorate for 
Agricultural Extension of MAE;
(m)
"GJA" means Groupement des Jeunes Agriculteurs, any of the voluntary 
organizations of young farmers in the territory of the Borrower;
(n)
"GV" means Groupement Villageois, any of the voluntary farmers' 
organizations operating in the territory of the Borrower;
(o)
"INA" means Institut National d'Alphabetisation, the National Literacy 
Institute established within the Ministry of Basic Education and Mass Literacy of the 
Borrower (MEBAM);
(p)
"INERA" means Institut d'Etudes et de Recherches Agricoles, the 
Agricultural Research Institute established within the Ministry of  Secondary and 
Higher Education and Scientific Research of the Borrower (MESSRS);
(q)
"IRBET" means Institut de Recherches en Biologie et Ecologie Tropicale, 
Page  3
the Research Institute for Tropical Biology and Ecology established within MESSRS;
(r)
"LNV" means Laboratoire National Veterinaire, the National Veterinary 
Laboratory, established within MAE;
(s)
"ONAVET" means Office National d'Approvisionnement et de Distribution des 
Intrants Zootechniques et Veterinaires, the National Office for Veterinary Inputs, an 
Etablissement Public a Caractere Industriel et  Commercial of the Borrower established 
pursuant to Kiti No. An VI 0017/FP/AGRI/EL, dated September 16, 1988;
(t)
"PAPEM" means Point d'Appui de Prevulgarisation et d'Experimentation 
Multi-locale, a part of any of the units for adaptive research of the Borrower, 
operating under the CRPAs' management;
(u)
"PRSAP" means the Borrower's project to strengthen extension services to 
producers;
(v)
"SAF" means Service Administratif et Financier, any of the administrative 
and financial services of MAE's Directorates; 
(w)
"SMS" means any of the subject matter specialists in every province of 
the Borrower responsible, among other things, for the provision   of training to 
extension workers and supervisors;
(x)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters, dated 
May 7, 1987, and June 15, 1987, between the Borrower and the Association;
(y)
"CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower; and 
 
(z)
"fiscal year" means the Borrower's fiscal year which runs from January 1 
to December 31. 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to  thirty-one  million two hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 31,200,000).
Section 2.O2. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the  Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this  Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to  be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFAF a special account in a commercial bank in the name of PRSAP  on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and  payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the  provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself  the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.O3. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1994 or such  later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
Page  4
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from a date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account  or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied as of the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, except that the rate set as of 
June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the  
Association shall reasonably request: (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency  specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.O5. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal  amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual  installments  payable on each 
February 15 and August 15, commencing February 15, 1999 and  ending August 15, 2028. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on August 15, 2008 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the  Borrower creditworthy 
for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof 
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of 
the development of the  Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of 
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the 
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association  may revise 
such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of 
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the 
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not 
change the grant  element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to  paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.O8. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified  for the 
purposes of Section 4.O2 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry 
out: (a) Parts A, B, D, E and F of the Project through MAE; and (b) Part C of the 
Project through MACP with due diligence  and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial  and agricultural practices, and shall provide, 
Page  5
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and, except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the  Implementation Program set forth 
in Schedule 5 to this Agreement and to  that effect shall take all necessary measures 
to enforce:
(i)
the Protocoles d'Accord entered into between:
 
(A)
DVA/MAE and INERA, for the purposes of carrying out Parts 
A.2 and A.3 
of the Project; and
 
(B)
ONAVET and DPIA/MAE for the purposes of carrying out Part 
B.2 of the 
Project; and
 
(ii)
the accords fonctionnels entered into between:
 
(A)
INA and DEFOC, for the purposes of carrying out Part C of 
the Project; 
and
 
(B)
DVA/MAE and other ministries/agencies responsible for 
training of 
extension staff.
 
Section 3.O2. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than September 30, 1989, exchange views with the Association on 
the cost structure applicable to the distribution of veterinary products to livestock 
owners by the CRPAs;
(b)
not later than December 31, 1989, prepare and furnish to the Association, 
for its review and comments, a draft agreement, to be entered into between ONAVET and 
the CRPAs, setting forth their respective  obligations to carry out the distribution 
of veterinary products and animal  feed, including, inter alia, the payment, by ONAVET 
to the CRPAs, of at least 50% of the difference between the price of acquisition and 
resale of the veterinary products distributed by the CRPAs; and
(c)
not later than March 31, 1990, take all measures necessary to finalize 
the agreement, referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, taking  into account the 
recommendations made by the Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than September 30, 1989, prepare and furnish to the 
Association, for its review and comments, a draft detailed first year's training 
program for MAE and MACP staff; and
(b)
promptly thereafter, implement said training program, taking into  
consideration the recommendations made by the Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than May 31 of each year, conduct with the Association Project 
implementation reviews to:
(i)
discuss annual Project evaluations carried out upon request of the 
Project 
Coordinator in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I, paragraphs 2 (h) 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
 
(ii)
monitor progress made in achieving Project objectives, in 
particular: design 
of training programs for MAE and MACP staff; 
Page  6
preparation of work programs and 
budgets (for DVA, DPIA and DEFOC) 
consolidated by CAPU; and design and 
approval of pilot 
operations to be implemented for the purposes of carrying 
out Parts D.2 
and D.3 of the Project;
(iii)
exchange information among staff responsible for Project 
implementation and 
propose solutions to any current problems; and
 
(iv)
update Project timetables and cost estimates; and  
(b)
promptly thereafter, carry out those recommendations arising out of said 
reviews, as agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than December 31, 1991, conduct, with the Association  and 
other donor agencies participating in the financing of the PRSAP, a  mid-term review 
of progress achieved in the implementation of the Project; and
(b)
promptly thereafter, implement the findings and recommendations of said 
mid-term review.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that all 
staff having received training abroad, financed under the Project, remain in their 
assignments until a suitable replacement is appointed.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause the CRPAs to enter into Cahiers de Charge 
with the respective GVs and producers' associations to carry out the construction 
program referred to in Parts A.1 (b) (ii) and B.1 (b) (ii) of the Project.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall maintain CAPU during the execution of the 
Project, with such functions and staff as are specified in Schedule 5, Section II to 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.O1. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in  respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this  
Section, 
including those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
Page  7
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.O2 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Kiti No. An V-0173/FP/AGRI-EL of the Borrower, dated April 6, 1988; Kiti 
No. An VI-0101/FP/MACP of the Borrower, dated November 24, 1988;  and Kiti No. An 
V-292/FP/AGRI-EL of the Borrower, dated June 30, 1988 shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability of the Borrower to carry out the  Project; and
(b)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action concerning the Borrower's agricultural support services policies, the 
dissolution of MAE, MACP, the CRPAs or for the supervision of  their operations that 
would materially and adversely affect the objectives of the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that any of the  events specified 
in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement  shall occur and shall 
continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the 
Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Central Accounting and Procurement Unit (CAPU) has been legally 
established within DAAF/MAE and its staff have been appointed in  accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(b)
DVA/MAE has entered into written working agreements (Protocoles  
d'Accord) with INERA and IRBET, respectively, to ensure the participation  of said 
Institutes in the training of SMSs; and
(c)
tenancy of the land assigned to the PAPEMs for the execution of Part A.3 
(a)(ii) of the Project has been legally attributed to MAE (Titre de jouissance).
Section 6.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 3.07 of this 
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit 
Agreement shall terminate or on the date 10 years after  the date of this Agreement, 
Page  8
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning and Cooperation of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.O3 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere du Plan et de la Cooperation
B. P. 7050
Ouagadougou
Burkina Faso
Cable address:
Telex:
 
SEGEGOUV
5555 BF
Ouagadougou
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 2O433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
44OO98 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, as of the day and year first above written.
BURKINA FASO
By /s/ Youssouf Ouedraogo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
 SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit  to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Page  9
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works                 3,500,000       100%
(2)  (a)  Motor vehi-            4,700,000       100%
          cles, motor-
          cycles and
          mobylettes
     (b)  Goods, equip-          2,300,000       100%
          ment, furniture,
          and micro-
          computers
(3)  Building
     materials:
     (a)  under Part A.1         1,200,000       100%
          (b)(ii) of the
          Project
     (b)  under Part B.1           700,000       100%
          (b)(ii) of the
          Project
(4)  Training and                2,800,000       100%
     consultants' and
     specialists'
     services,
     including
     auditors
(5)  (a)  Studies under            200,000       100%
          Parts D.1 and
          D.3 of the
          Project
     (b)  Pilot opera-             200,000       100%
          tions under
          Part D.2 of the
          Project
(6)  Operating                  10,600,000       100%
     costs
(7)  Incremental                 2,100,000       50%
     salaries for
     staff of the
     Project
(8)  Refunding of                  560,000       Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement
(9)  Unallocated                 2,340,000
                                 _________
         TOTAL                  31,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "operating costs" means:
 
Page  10
(a)
cost of operation and maintenance of equipment, motor vehicles,  
motorcycles, mobylettes and buildings used in the execution of the Project; and
(b)
other operating expenditures related to the implementation of the Project 
as determined in agreement by the Borrower with the Association.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
 
(b)
expenditures under Category (3) (a) unless the Association shall be 
satisfied with model construction plans for staff houses under Part A of the Project;
(c)
expenditures under Category 3 (b) unless the Association shall be 
satisfied with model construction plans for staff houses and vaccination yards under 
Part B of the Project; and
(d)
expenditures under Category 5 (b) unless the Association shall have 
approved the pilot operation to be financed.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to:
(a)
improve the effectiveness and impact of agricultural and livestock  
extension services in transferring technology to farmers;
(b)
strengthen animal health services and adaptive research programs; and
 
(c)
provide functional literacy training to farmers, thereby enhancing their 
ability to participate more directly in technology generation and dissemination.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Agricultural Extension
 
1.
Reorganization and strengthening of national, regional and provincial extension 
institutions:
(a)
at the national and regional level:
 
(i)
implementation nationwide of the results of the Pilot Program for 
the 
Strengthening of Extension Services (OTRVA); and
 
(ii)
acquisition of about 68 four-wheel-drive vehicles for the CRPAs 
and DVA, 
office supplies and equipment; and
 
(b)
at the provincial level:
 
(i)
acquisition of about 300 motorcycles and 1400 mobylettes;
 
(ii)
construction of about 400 houses for extension workers;
 
(iii)
provision of office supplies and equipment for extension staff; 
and
(iv)
hiring of 30 new extension agents.
 
2.
Development and implementation of a training program for extension staff at all 
levels:
(a)
equipping of the Matourkou training center; and
Page  11
(b)
provision of:
 
(i)
complementary training for about 300 extension agents to be 
admitted into the 
civil service;
 
(ii)
annual retraining and regular bimonthly training for extension 
agents and 
their supervisors;
 
(iii)
local training at the research stations for about 150 SMSs, 
provincial 
extension service heads and their assistants;
 
(iv)
instructional visits by GV representatives to research stations, 
PAPEMs and 
other GVs; and
 
(v)
participation in seminars, study sessions and training abroad by 
senior extension 
staff.
 
3.
Adaptive Research:
 
Improvement of the links between agricultural research and extension by 
strengthening the adaptive research units, including:
(a)
rehabilitation of the PAPEM network:
 
(i)
carrying out topographic and reconnaissance soil surveys for new 
sites;
(ii)
carrying out civil works and preparation of 20 ha of land at nine 
PAPEMs;
(iii)
provision of draft animals and agricultural equipment;
 
(iv)
acquisition of about two motor vehicles, 34 motorcycles, 68 
mobylettes, 
materials, office furniture and supplies; and
 
(v)
exchange visits to other PAPEMs and training for PAPEM staff.
 
(b)
Strengthening of the Adaptive Research program:
 
(i)
establishment of 12 regional adaptive research units within the 
CRPAs;
(ii)
acquisition of vehicles, materials, office furniture and supplies 
for the 
national and regional adaptive research units; and
 
(iii)
overseas training for senior adaptive research staff.
 
4.
Mass Communication and Audio-Visual Program:
 
Improvement of the mass communication and audio-visual capabilities of the 
extension services:
(a)
At the national level, strengthening of DVA's Mass Communication  
Services' capabilities to produce didactic and technical extension materials.
(b)
At the regional level:
 
(i)
strengthening and/or establishment of about 12 regional mass 
communication and 
audio-visual units;
 
(ii)
acquisition of basic equipment and materials to be used by SMSs in 
training 
extension workers and farmers;
 
(iii)
acquisition of about 20 four-wheel-drive vehicles, materials, 
equipment and 
materials for the 12 regional audio-visual units; and
 
Page  12
(iv)
training for senior staff of these units in audio-visual 
techniques.
Part B:
Livestock Services
 
1.
Strengthening of livestock services at the national and regional levels:
 
(a)
At the national level:
 
(i)
revision of the animal health regulatory framework to produce 
guidelines 
encouraging private veterinary practices; and
 
(ii)
establishment of an interservice documentation center, located in 
DPIA.
(b)
At the regional level:
 
(i)
refurbishing, furnishing and equipping of about 42 livestock 
posts, 50 offices 
and 20 stores for drugs, inputs and animal feeds;
 
(ii)
construction of about 42 staff houses and 100 cattle vaccination 
yards;
(iii)
rehabilitation of about 100 existing livestock posts and other 
infrastructure; and
 
(iv)
acquisition of about 20 vehicles, 400 motorcyclces, equipment and 
furniture.
2.
Improvement of the distribution system of veterinary supplies, drugs and animal 
feeds:
(a)
construction and equipping of a virology unit at LNV in Ouagadougou and 
acquisition of about two vehicles;
(b)
construction and equipping of LNV field diagnostic units at 
Bobo-Dioulasso and Fada Ngourma;
(c)
equipping of the existing LNV field diagnostic units at Ouahigouya and 
Tenkodogo and acquisition of about six vehicles for the four LNV field diagnostic 
units;
(d)
strengthening the production and distribution of animal feeds carried out 
by ONAVET; and
(e)
rehabilitation of facilities in Bobo-Dioulasso for a local branch of 
ONAVET.
3.
Development and implementation of training programs for livestock services' 
staff at all levels.
Part C:
Functional literacy
 
1.
Rehabilitation of about 70 CFJAs and equipping of about 177 CFJAs.
 
2.
Rehabilitation of the three CFFAs at Kamboinse and Farako-Ba and acquisition of 
books and materials for their libraries.
3.
Acquisition of about four motor vehicles for headquarters staff, and of about 30 
motorcycles and 20 mobylettes for regional staff of MACP.
4.
Provision of functional literacy training for newly literate individuals and 
members of GJAs.
5.
Training of regional MACP heads, extension workers, trainers and support staff.
 
6.
Strengthening of DEFOC's capacity in determining specific training needs and 
Page  13
training programs, and carrying out literacy programs.
Part D:
Studies and Pilot Operations
 
1.
Carrying out studies on other services that would support or complement the 
agricultural and livestock services, including, inter alia: input   supply, credit, 
appropriate mechanical technology or marketing.
2.
Implementation of pilot operations for the design and preparation of future 
projects within the agricultural services sector.
3.
Preparation of a further phase of PRSAP.
 
Part E:
Monitoring and Evaluation
 
1.
Establishment or strengthening and operation of:
 
(a)
the Monitoring and Evaluation Service within DVA; 
 
(b)
the regional monitoring team within each CRPA; and
 
(c)
the Statistics Service within DEP/MAE.
 
2.
Acquisition of about 28 motor vehicles, 160 mobylettes, 48 motorcycles, basic 
equipment and microcomputers for DVA and the CRPAs.
Part F:
Strengthening MAE's Administrative and Managerial Capabilities
 
1.
Installation and operation of a central computerized management and accounting 
system.
2.
Establishment and strengthening of CAPU.
 
3.
Provision of management training for CRPA directors.
 
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof: (a) goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $100,000 or more; and (b) works estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or 
more shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures 
consistent with those set forth in Sections I  and II of the "Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the 
Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for the procurement of vehicles shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more each.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Burkina Faso may be granted a  margin of preference 
in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of  paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Local competitive bidding:
Page  14
(a)
Goods estimated to cost between the equivalent of $50,000 and $100,000 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $500,000; and
(b)
civil works not exceeding the equivalent of $300,000 per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive  bidding, advertised 
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.
International or Local Shopping:
 
Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the  equivalent of $300,000, may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the  basis of comparison of price quotations 
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines in 
accordance with procedures  acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of  
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contracts  are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to  the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contracts are to be  made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to  ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the  other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall  not 
apply to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from 
the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section  4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in the execution of the Project, the  Borrower 
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the  Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by  the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (7) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to  the Eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
Page  15
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to SDR 
3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate of the Authorized Allocation. On the  basis of such request or requests, 
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule  for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
made 
out of the Special Account  for Eligible Expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all  further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General  Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the  
Eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment  entered 
into  by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with 
respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be  made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been  satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for  
Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account:
(i)
was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 
2 of this Schedule;
 
Page  16
(ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, 
the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association:
 
(A)
provide such additional evidence as the Association may 
request; or
(B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount 
equal to the amount of 
such payment or the portion thereof not 
so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower 
has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case 
may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant  provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
I.
Project Coordinator
 
1.
To ensure the coordination of the Project, a coordinator shall be  nominated at 
the central level within MAE. The coordinator shall have the  authority and experience 
compatible with the management requirements of  this national, multi-disciplinal 
Project. He may delegate part of his daily management functions.
2.
The Project Coordinator shall be responsible, inter alia, for the following:
 
(a)
liaising with the managers in charge of Project implementation;
 
(b)
liaising, as necessary, with ministries and other institutions to ensure 
smooth Project implementation;
(c)
liaising with the Burkinabe authorities, the Association and other donor 
agencies;
(d)
supervising and monitoring the use of Project funds;
 
(e)
presiding over an interministerial committee in charge of reviewing and 
approving budgets, work programs, and annual reports prepared by CAPU and by the 
implementing agencies;
(f)
monitoring whether tenders for the procurement of goods and  services, 
prepared by CAPU, are in accordance with regulations;
(g)
supervising and monitoring the execution of the agreements  entered into 
between agencies involved in Project implementation and mediating in case of 
disagreement among them;
(h)
having annual Project evaluations carried out to assess the performance 
of implementing agencies and identify any current problems in Project implementation;
(i)
organizing regular meetings among CRPA directors, and monitoring the 
preparation by CAPU and DEP/MAE of management training programs for those directors; 
Page  17
and
(j)
organizing a Project start-up seminar for all managers and accountants 
involved in Project implementation in order to inform them of  Project objectives, 
accounting, procurement and monitoring procedures.
II.
Central Accounting and Procurement Unit (CAPU)
 
1.
CAPU, to be established within DAAF/MAE, shall have the following functions:
 
(a)
centralize and consolidate Project-related accounts and financial 
documents, and more precisely:
(i)
coordinate the preparation of budgets, and other accounting and 
financial 
statements by implementing agencies, and consolidate 
them before submitting 
them to the Association for comments;
 
(ii)
prepare end-of-year Project balance sheets;
 
(iii)
monitor the Special Account;
 
(iv)
monitor implementing agencies' Project-related accounts and 
replenish them as 
needed;
 
(v)
audit implementing agencies' Project-related accounts; and
 
(vi)
centralize withdrawal applications for the Association and other 
cofinanciers, 
and maintain their respective accounts;
 
(b)
centralize tenders, program procurement of goods and services, and  
liaise with Direction Nationale des Marches de l'Etat (DINAME), Commission Nationale 
des Marches (CNM) and other institutions responsible for procurement procedures;
(c)
give support and advice, in its area of competence, to administrative, 
accounting and financial units responsible for Project implementation;
(d)
design and implement, with the support of DEP/MAE and technical 
assistance, a computerized accounting and financial management system for the Project; 
and
(e)
design and implement, jointly with Service d'Appui a la Gestion des 
Organismes et Projets of DEP/MAE, a specific training program for the accounting staff 
concerned with the Project at national and regional levels.
2.
CAPU shall be staffed in a manner satisfactory to the Borrower and the  
Association, including at least the following staff:
(a)
Head of Unit;
 
(b)
Chief Accountant; and
 
(c)
Procurement Officer.
 
III.
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAE)
 
MAE shall be responsible for the overall implementation of Parts A, B, D, E and 
F of the Project:
1.
Part A of the Project:
 
(a)
The CRPAs shall be responsible for the overall implementation of Part A 
of the Project.
(b)
DVA shall be responsible for coordinating and monitoring the day-to-day 
operation of extension services under Part A of the Project, including 
extension-related training programs, coordination of the adaptive research program and 
the visual aid services.
Page  18
(c)
The Training and Extension Service of DVA shall be responsible for 
carrying out the staff training program.
(d)
The regional Training and Extension Services shall be responsible for 
implementation of the field extension program, adaptive research and  reorganization 
of the PAPEM network.
(e)
The regional Monitoring and Evaluation Services shall be responsible for 
the monitoring of the field extension programs.
2.
Part B of the Project:
 
(a)
Implementation of Part B of the Project shall be coordinated:
 
(i)
at the national level, by a livestock economist at the DPIA; and
 
(ii)
at the regional level, by the CRPA Directorates who shall be 
responsible for 
the planning and coordination of livestock programs.
 
(b)
Rehabilitation and operation of the LNV and field diagnostic units shall 
be the joint responsibility of the directors of the LNV and DPIA.
(c)
The distribution of animal feeds, veterinary products and vaccines shall 
be the responsibility of ONAVET.
(d)
CRPA staff shall be responsible, in accordance with the terms of  the 
Protocole d'Accord entered into between ONAVET and the respective CRPAs, for the 
distribution of veterinary products to livestock owners.
(e)
The individual CRPAs shall be responsible, under the guidance of the 
DPIA, for planning and execution of the construction of livestock services 
infrastructure: vaccination yards, livestock posts, staff housing and stores.
IV.
Ministry of Farmers' Cooperative Action (MACP)
 
MACP shall be responsible for the overall implementation of Part C of the 
Project:
1.
DEFOC shall be responsible for the implementation at the national  level, and 
its regional heads of service shall be responsible for implementation at the field 
level and for routine evaluation of the functional literacy programs.
2.
DEP/MACP shall be responsible for the coordination of monitoring and  evaluation 
of all Project-related functional literacy activities and programs.
3.
Monitoring teams of the CRPAs shall be responsible for carrying out any 
additional ad-hoc surveys.
