Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3782 TUN
Project Agreement
(Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SOCIETE NATIONALE D'EXPLOITATION ET DE
DISTRIBUTION DES EAUX
Dated September 21, 1994
LOAN NUMBER 3782 TUN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 21, 1994, between the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the SOCIETE NATIONALE D'EXPLOITATION ET 
DE DISTRIBUTION DES EAUX (SONEDE).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Republic of 
Tunisia (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-nine million dollars 
($29,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only 
on condition that SONEDE agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are 
set forth in this Agreement;
(B) 
a portion of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan 
Agreement will be made available to SONEDE on the terms and conditions set forth in 
said Loan Agreement to assist SONEDE to carry out Part B of the Project; and
WHEREAS SONEDE, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) SONEDE declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out Part B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, economic, engineering, environmental, financial, 
public utility and technical practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
Part B of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower, the Bank and SONEDE shall otherwise agree, SONEDE shall 
carry out Part B of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and works required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. SONEDE shall carry out the obliga-tions set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and Part B of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) SONEDE shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to progress of Part B of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Loan.
(b)
SONEDE shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part B of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of Loan, or the performance by SONEDE of its 
obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SONEDE
Section 3.01. SONEDE shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and public utility practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. SONEDE shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and public utility practices.
Section 3.03. SONEDE shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SONEDE shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
SONEDE shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
Page  3
for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
     (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than nine (9) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
    (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of SONEDE 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify SONEDE thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For SONEDE:
Société Nationale d'Exploitation
  et de Distribution des Eaux
23, Rue Jawaher Lel Nehru
Tunis
Republic of Tunisia
Cable address:
Telex:
SONEDE
14262 TN
Tunis
Page  4
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of SONEDE, may be 
taken or executed by its President Director General or such other person or persons as 
the President Director General shall designate in writing, and SONEDE shall furnish to 
the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature 
of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Caio Koch-Weser
Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
SOCIETE NATIONALE D'EXPLOITATION
  ET DE DISTRIBUTION DES EAUX
By /s/ Oussama Romdhani
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods for Part B of the Project shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those 
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one 
to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the local currency 
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the 
bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, SONEDE shall 
use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such 
modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes 
of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the 
Bank, SONEDE shall use bidding documents based on other internationally recognized 
standard forms agreed with the Bank.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of Tunisia may be granted a margin of 
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Page  5
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
Local Competitive Bidding
1.
Contracts for: (i) goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $350,000 or less 
per contract; and (ii) civil works, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank.
Local Shopping
2.
Small contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less 
per contract and spare parts for brand equipment, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three (3) 
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
(a)
With respect to each: (i) contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $350,000 or more; and (ii) contract for civil works estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to 
be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that 
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant 
to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the 
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-ceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of para-graph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
A.
Mid-term Review
(a)
SONEDE shall prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank, not later 
than December 31, 1998, a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Borrower and 
the Bank shall establish, on, inter alia, SONEDE's investment and maintenance policy 
for rural water supply.
(b)
SONEDE shall afford the Borrower and the Bank a reasonable opportunity to 
exchange views on said report, and, thereafter, shall take all action which the 
Borrower, the Bank and SONEDE shall have agreed is required on SONEDE's part for the 
successful implementation of the Project.
(c)
Specifically, if the Borrower and the Bank reasonably consider that the 
conclusions of the exchange of views referred to in paragraph (b) above indicate that 
SONEDE's role, responsi- bilities and participation in rural water services should be 
revisited, SONEDE shall conclude an agreement with the Bank outlining a new 
implementation program and schedule for the carrying out of Part B of the Project.
B.
Rural Water Sub-projects
In selecting Sub-projects to be submitted for the Bank's review and approval for 
Page  6
financing under the Project, SONEDE shall at all times use criteria acceptable to the 
Bank.
