                                           Document of
                                        The World Bank




                                                                      Report No: 27171

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                         (CPL-37820 SCL-3782A SCPM-3782S CPL-37830)

                                              ON A

                                              LOAN

                             IN THE AMOUNT OF US$29 MILLION

                                             TO THE

                                     REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
                                              AND
                                             A LOAN
                              IN THE AMOUNT OF US$29 MILLION
                                               TO
            SOCIETE NATIONALE D'EXPLOITATION ET DE DISTRIBUTION D'EAU
                   WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA

                                             FOR A

                          WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT




                                        December 22, 2003




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Group
Middle East and North Africa Region

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2003)

                             Currency Unit = Tunisian Dinar (TD)
                                      TD 1 = US$ 0.7846
                                     US$ 1 = TD 1.2745

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1    - December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
GIS           Geographic Information System
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
MENA          Middle-East and North Africa
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NDF           Nordic Development Fund
NIB           Nordic Investment Bank
ONAS          Office National d'Assainissement
PSP           Private Sector Participation
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SONEDE        Société Nationale d'Exploitation et de Distribution des Eaux
UFW           Unaccounted For Water
WTP           Water Treatment Plant
WWTP          Wastewater Treatment Plant




                            Vice President:    Christiaan J. Poortman
                        Country Director:      Theodore O. Ahlers
                Sector Manager/Director:       Emmanuel Forestier
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Ines Fraile

                                           TUNISIA
                     WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             37
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             39
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                40
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            41
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to ICR                                          42

Project ID: P005680                                                  Project Name: TN-WATER SUPPLY AND
                                                                     SEWERAGE
Team Leader: Ines Fraile                                             TL Unit: MNSIF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 22, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: TN-WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE                             L/C/TF Number: CPL-37820; SCL-3782A;
                                                                                                     SCPM-3782S; CPL-37830
   Country/Department: TUNISIA                                                            Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Water Supply (75%); Sewerage (25%)
                  Theme: Pollution management and environmental health (P); Rural services
                            and infrastructure (P); Access to urban services for the poor (P);
                            Water resource management (S); Public expenditure, financial
                            management and procurement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/15/1993                                     Effective:                           01/18/1995
     Appraisal: 12/05/1993                                         MTR:                             11/08/1998
      Approval: 07/28/1994                                      Closing: 06/30/2002                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/SONEDE/SONEDE/ONAS
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Caio Koch-Weser
Country Director:               Theodore O. Ahlers                             Daniel Ritchie
Sector Manager/Director:        Emmanuel Forestier                             A. Amir Al-Khafaji
Team Leader at ICR:             Ines Fraile                                    Mohammed Benouahi
ICR Primary Author:             Mohammed Dalil Essakali; Ines
                                Fraile


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

1.      This project was prepared in a context where the water sector had a high priority in the
development program of the Government of Tunisia owing to the scarcity of water resources in the
country. Expansion and improvement of water supply and sewerage services have been the responsibility
of two autonomous national public utilities, the Société Nationale d'Exploitation et de Distribution des
Eaux (SONEDE) in charge of production and distribution of potable water, and the Office National
d'Assanissement (ONAS) responsible for sewerage collection and wastewater treatment.

2.      The project development objectives were to assist the Government in:

        (a) implementing a suitable demand management program and institutional building measures so as
        to increase the operational efficiency of SONEDE and ONAS and strengthen their technical and
        financial capabilities;
        (b) providing safe, adequate and easily accessible water supply and sanitation services in urban
        and rural areas;
        (c) promoting the reuse of treated sewage for irrigation and industrial use; and
        (d) encouraging SONEDE and ONAS to contract some of their operations to the private sector.

3.      The project development objectives were clear, well defined, and mostly realistic.         The staff
appraisal report included a set of relevant performance indicators to monitor the financial, investment and
operational performance of SONEDE and ONAS, which facilitated project supervision and reporting.
Retrospectively, SONEDE and ONAS, the implementing agencies, proved to be capable of achieving these
ambitious goals and implementing such a complex operation, with one important exception, i.e. ONAS'
financial performance. The objective and indicators related to ONAS' financial performance proved to be
hard to achieve as ONAS' finances have deteriorated instead of strengthened over the project period.
However, even this objective, which failed to materialize, remains a desirable goal to this date, and
although the financial targets were ambitious, they were not too much out of line with the past performance
of ONAS.

4.      Moreover, the objectives were fully consistent with the Government priorities in the water sector,
as well as with the Bank's Water Policy Paper, the MENA Water Strategy and the Country Assistance
Strategy for Tunisia presented to the Board on May 11, 1993. The project and its objectives helped
implement the Government long-term strategy to satisfy the country's potable water needs until the year
2010 and avoid a severe water shortage. These objectives also fitted well with the 1993 Bank's assistance
strategy for Tunisia of supporting the Government's efforts to strengthen the management and conservation
of its water resources. The objectives adequately responded to the context and status of development of the
water sector in Tunisia as they rightly recognized that despite commendable achievements in the level of
water services in urban areas, more remained to be done in rural areas, in mobilizing water resources,
implementing adequate cost recovery schemes and improving the efficiency of, and private participation in,
SONEDE and ONAS' operations. The objective of increasing water supply services in rural areas also
followed previous efforts by SONEDE under the sixth and seventh Bank-supported water supply projects.
The objectives remain highly relevant today and are consistent with the Government priorities and strategy
regarding basic infrastructure and sustainable development as stated in its Tenth Development Plan
covering the 2002-2006 period. The objectives are also in line with the Bank's 2000-2002 Country
Assistance Strategy to Tunisia, the 2003 Bank Water Supply and Sanitation Business Strategy, the 2002
Bank Water Resources Strategy, the 2003 Bank Infrastructure Action Plan, and the Millennium



                                                    - 2 -

Development Goals.

3.2 Revised Objective:

5.       The project objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

6.       The project had four main components:

         (a) rehabilitation and expansion of the water supply systems in Greater Tunis;
         (b) provision of piped water systems to approximately 320 small villages (about 200,000 people)
         in rural Tunisia;
         (c) expansion of sewerage collection systems and construction of sewage treatment facilities in the
         towns of Tozeur, Tataouine and Jemmal-Zermeddine; and
         (d) institutional development with a view to enhancing water resources management, and the
         financial viability and efficiency of both SONEDE and ONAS. This component included staff
         training, studies, technical assistance, purchase of equipment, and a campaign to raise public
         awareness on better use of water and sanitation services.

7.       Rehabilitation and expansion of the water supply systems in Greater Tunis (implemented by
SONEDE, estimated cost of US$ 33.4 million excluding taxes and customs duties and including physical
and price contingencies). This component included (i) increasing the capacity of the Ghdir-El-Goula water
treatment plant (WTP) by 2 m /s; (ii) restructuring of the Tunis water supply mains of Kasseb and
                                  3


Oued-Ellil; (iii) replacement of the Ras-Tabia/Bir-Kassaa pipeline; (iv) rehabilitation of transport and
distribution pipelines; (v) construction of reservoirs totaling an additional storage capacity of 25,000 m ;
                                                                                                          3


and (vi) acquisition and installation of control system equipment. This component is directly related to
development objective (b), as it contributed to satisfying new demand as well as ensuring adequate water
supply. This component also contributed to reducing unaccounted for water, and hence helped achieve
development objective (a).

8.       Provision of piped water systems to approximately 320 small villages (about 200,000 people)
in rural Tunisia (implemented by SONEDE, estimated cost of US $32 million excluding taxes and
customs duties and including physical and price contingencies). This component aimed at supplying piped
water to some 320 small villages with a total population of about 200,000 inhabitants. The project
evaluation estimated that most systems would be gravity systems and that the average cost per village
would be around US$100,000. This component directly contributed to achieving development objective (b)
and it was a continuation of past Bank-supported water supply projects in Tunisia.

9.       Expansion of sewerage collection systems and construction of sewage treatment facilities in
the towns of Tozeur, Tataouine and Jemmal-Zermeddine and institutional development for ONAS
(implemented by ONAS, estimated cost of US$ 24.6 million excluding taxes and customs duties and
including physical and price contingencies).         This component was co-financed with the Nordic
Development Fund (NDF) and the Nordic Investment Bank (NIB) and included: (i) construction of waste
water treatment plant (WWTP) and extension of sewerage network in the towns of Tozeur (20,000
inhabitants), Tataouine (26,000 inhabitants, financed by NDF/NIB) and Jammel-Zermeddine (29,000
inhabitants, financed by NDF/NIB); (ii) carrying out studies including preparation studies for the Fourth
urban sewerage project, rural sewerage strategy and the geographic information system; and (iii)
institutional strengthening, technical assistance, training and laboratory equipment.        This component


                                                    - 3 -

contributed to achieving all development objectives.

10.      Institutional development: Demand management, studies and technical assistance to
SONEDE (implemented by SONEDE, estimated cost of US$ 5.6 million excluding taxes and customs
duties and including physical and price contingencies). This component included the acquisition of remote
communication and remote measuring equipment for demand management (US$2.7 million) and studies
including: (i) updating water supply master plans for Greater Tunis and for southern Tunisia; and (ii)
examining different options related to the private sector participation in potable water. This component
helped achieve development objectives (a) and (d).

11.      The components were clearly defined and appropriately designed to meet the project objectives.
The project design took into account best practice approaches for water and sewerage projects and the
specificity of the Tunisian context. This included linking the institutional capacity strengthening to results
optimization on the ground. Components definition and design also took advantage of lessons learned from
past projects with SONEDE and ONAS, namely the demand management through tariffs, the unaccounted
for water program, securing water supply for Greater Tunis, and providing potable water to rural areas all
benefited from past Bank experience in Tunisia. Implementing agencies had demonstrated in previous
Bank operations that they were capable of successfully executing these types of components. Yet the
studies and activities included in the institutional components may have not been sufficient to fully achieve
the institutional strengthening objectives, specifically regarding the improvement of the financial capacity
of the executing agencies.

12.      Furthermore, the targets and monitoring indicators included in the Staff Appraisal Report were
well suited to conduct project evaluations and relate some project outputs to development objectives. In
particular, the indicators monitored very well the overall technical and institutional capacity of SONEDE
and ONAS. However, impact indicators for the specific contribution of each component to the stated
development objectives were not as detailed and clearly defined at project appraisal as the institution-wide
indicators, and SONEDE and ONAS also receive financial and technical support from other bilateral and
multilateral financial institutions. Still, key indicators for most components/development objectives were
included in the Project Supervision Reports early in project implementation.

3.4 Revised Components:

13.      The physical components were slightly revised during project implementation. The project was
extended for 12 months to fully achieve the physical objectives of the Greater Tunis water supply
component, and carry out some additional works with available funds under the sewerage and rural water
supply components.

14.      Rehabilitation and expansion of the water supply systems in Greater Tunis. This component
was revised to take into account the findings of the updated Greater Tunis water supply master plan. The
financing of the capacity extension of the Ghdir-El-Goula water treatment plant was finally separately
provided by the Kuwaiti Development Fund, and the Bank loan financed the stabilization of the site only.
Furthermore, following a detailed technical study, the restructuring of the water supply mains of Oued-Ellil
and Kasseb was abandoned and replaced with a more efficient solution which included a new treatment
plant in Medjez-El-Bab (0.4 m /s). Finally, the acquisition of water meters was added to the project in
                                 3


order to further assist SONEDE in reducing unaccounted for water and improving water demand
management. This component finally included: (i) site stabilization of the Ghdir-El-Goula water treatment
plant and construction of the Medjez-El-Bab water treatment plant; (ii) replacement of the
Ras-Tabia/Bir-Kassaa pipeline; (iii) rehabilitation of transport and distribution pipelines; (iv) construction


                                                      - 4 -

of reservoirs totaling an additional storage capacity of 25,000 m ; and (v) acquisition and installation of
                                                                      3


control system equipment. The institutional development component for SONEDE, including demand
management, studies and technical assistance was also merged with this component.

15.       Expansion of sewerage collection systems and construction of sewage treatment facilities in
the towns of Tozeur, Tataouine and Jemmal-Zermeddine and institutional development for ONAS.
The following activities were added to this component during project implementation to fully utilize the
funds available under the loan: (a) strengthening of sewerage network in the town of Tozeur (adding two
more phases to the original two); (b) executing two rural sewerage pilot projects (studies and works) in two
rural centers: Chorfech and Chouigui. Works for this latter center were later transferred to the Fourth
sewerage project; (c) training for ONAS staff; (d) acquisition of maintenance equipment; and (e) carrying
out studies and construction works for two compact sewage treatment plants in the towns of Boumerdes
and Fernana. In addition, for the part financed by NDF/NIB, two actions were added: (a) carrying out
studies and construction works for one compact sewage treatment plant in the town of Mornag; and (b)
construction of sewerage transfer system from the town of Ghomrassen to the sewage treatment plant of
Tataouine. On the other hand, the study for the information system master plan was dropped from this
project and it may be included in a subsequent sewerage project.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

16.       The quality at entry of the project was overall satisfactory. This rating is based on (i) the strong
consistency of the project objectives with the Government and the Bank's water sector development
priorities; (ii) good assessment of implementing agencies' capacity at appraisal; (iii) high quality of project
design; and (iv) adequate project preparedness at appraisal.

17.       Strong consistency of project objectives with the Government and the Bank's water sector
development priorities. As stated in section 3.1, the project objectives reflected the main water sector
development priorities of the Government. Furthermore, one of the five key objectives of the 1993 Bank's
assistance strategy for Tunisia was to support the Government's efforts to strengthen the management and
conservation of its water resources. The project was the result of a continuing dialogue in the water sector
between the Bank, the Government of Tunisia and the two implementing agencies SONEDE and ONAS.

18.       Good assessment of implementing agencies' capacity at appraisal. Although the project suffered
from some delays and benefited from a 12-month extension of the implementation period, it also surpassed
its initial objectives in some respects. Project implementation was overall smooth and successful. Both
SONEDE and ONAS demonstrated their ability to successfully complete this complex project, and showed
strong ownership throughout all stages of the project cycle. These are well run and managed public
utilities, which are considered two of the best utilities in the Region.

19.       High quality of project design. Although the project was not assessed for quality at entry, a
Quality Assurance Group (QAG) review of supervision concluded that "the project design was sound,
though there has been some disruption on Bank Project because of in-and-out of Kuwait Fund taking on
some elements of project." Project components were comprehensive and well designed to achieve the
development objectives. Initial assumptions were realistic. The staff appraisal report documented the
project and its background particularly well. Performance indicators on both the technical and the financial
aspects of the two utilities were more comprehensive and pertinent than in most other water and sewerage
projects, and they facilitated monitoring of project outputs and outcomes.         The risks were also well
assessed as the staff appraisal report clearly indicated that the main risk would be the Government not
living up to its obligation to allow appropriate and timely tariff adjustments.         To mitigate this risk,


                                                       - 5 -

agreement was reached with the Government to maintain the practice of annual increases, and tariff
increase covenants were included in the loan and project agreements. Unfortunately, this risk materialized,
especially with regard to ONAS and to a lesser extent with regard to SONEDE.

20.      Adequate project preparedness at appraisal.      Satisfactory execution and timely completion of
important works and activities such as the rehabilitation part of Greater Tunis water supply component as
well as the sewerage and rural water supply components demonstrate adequate project preparedness at
appraisal. However, the project suffered from some delays, namely the expansion part of the Greater Tunis
water supply component started substantially late, mostly because updating the Greater Tunis water supply
master plan took more time than originally foreseen.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

21.      Overall, the project achieved its development objectives. Physical outputs have in some cases
exceeded initial targets. Bank missions' reports as well as implementation monitoring reports document
how project objectives have been achieved. The project played a critical role in improving SONEDE's
performance. SONEDE greatly benefited from the project and from the Bank's assistance as improving
Unaccounted For Water (UFW) ratio and improving rural population access to potable water are directly
linked to the project.

22.      Development Objective (a): implementing a suitable demand management program and
institutional building measures so as to increase the operational efficiency of SONEDE and ONAS
and strengthen their technical and financial capabilities. This objective was partially achieved. Making
SONEDE and ONAS more autonomous and self-financing turned out to be hard to achieve. SONEDE
managed to strengthen both its operations and finances (see performance indicators in annex 1). Despite
having an average tariff below the appraisal target, SONEDE has been able to get sufficient tariff increases
(an average tariff increase of 9.2 percent in 1996, 5 percent in 1999, 7 percent in 2001, and 5.7 percent in
2003) and generate adequate revenues from its operations.          SONEDE has also been successful in
recovering arrears (TD 25 million) from public administration entities, chemical industries, and
municipalities. On the other hand, SONEDE's overall supply and distribution UFW has reached 20
percent, thus SONEDE's actual performance on this not only remains one of the best in the region but has
also exceeded appraisal expectations.       Achieving this UFW level strongly contributed to improve
SONEDE's financial situation besides helping preserve water resources. The reduction of the number of
employees per 1,000 connections from 6.8 to 4.1 during the project implementation period also shows an
improvement in SONEDE's efficiency which surpasses initial targets.               Moreover, SONEDE has
implemented a new cost accounting system and is planning to implement a geographic information system
and a project management system, which will further strengthen its management capacity. On another
front, SONEDE is carrying out a tariff study in order to determine an optimal tariff system that would be
conducive to better cover operation and maintenance costs, increase its self-financing capacity to invest,
and protect poor consumers. Sustaining such good performance in the future will however require periodic
tariff adjustments as well as additional efforts to improve the company's efficiency. SONEDE is indeed
engaged in ambitious investment programs which would result in increasing its marginal costs while
decreasing its marginal revenues: water supply in dispersed rural areas and water production from
non-conventional sources such as desalination.

23.      ONAS' operational performance has also exceeded initial targets in terms of sewerage coverage
levels and percentage of wastewater treated at the national level. ONAS has also improved its efficiency,



                                                     - 6 -

although to a lesser extent than SONEDE, as it is shown by the reduction of the number of employees per
1,000 connections which has decreased from 6.4 to 5.5 during the project implementation period, in line
with initial targets. ONAS' financial situation is however deteriorating. This is mainly due to a tariff
freeze for almost five years (July 1998 to March 2003) combined with a rapid expansion in sewerage
activities and an involvement in non-core businesses such as storm drainage and rural sanitation services.
This unsustainable trend needs to be reversed. It has not negatively affected ONAS' operations as yet
because the Government has decided to almost double the consumption subsidy in 2003. A tariff increase
of 5.7 percent granted to ONAS in March 2003 is a positive step, but further measures need to follow.

24.       Development Objective (b): provision of piped water systems to approximately 320 small
villages (about 200,000 people) in rural Tunisia.           This objective was achieved.       SONEDE has
successfully expanded its networks to new urban and peri-urban areas in Greater Tunis. The project was
critical in enabling SONEDE to respond to increased water demand in the Greater Tunis area. The number
of connections in the area increased by 40 percent in 8 years from 343,286 in 1994 to 482,995 in 2002;
hence some 139,709 new connections were added. Satisfying this new demand would not have been
possible without the increased production capacity and the reduced unaccounted for water achieved thanks
to the project.

25.       The rural water supply component was highly satisfactory given its social impacts, physical
outputs and the successful ownership of this component by SONEDE. During project implementation
SONEDE has taken adequate actions to ensure that the initial coverage and connection targets are
achieved. The depreciation of the Tunisia Dinar in relation to the Dollar enabled SONEDE to extend its
initial program since civil works are locally procured. This partially explains the need for a one-year
extension of the project implementation period. At project closing, some 459 groups of rural centers,
compared to 320 planned at appraisal or 44 percent more, were connected to SONEDE's national water
supply network. Works for two other localities were being completed. In terms of population benefiting
from this component and connected to the network, SONEDE estimates that, as of December 31, 2002,
178,950 people were connected to the network through 30,652 household connections, and 8,869 people
were covered by 44 collective standpipe systems. Extensions to water networks in these 459 rural centers
financed by SONEDE and the Government further added 5,273 household connections benefiting 30,663
people and 3 collective standpipe systems covering 258 people. The total population connected is thus
209,613 through 35,925 household connections in addition to 9,127 covered by 47 collective standpipe
systems. Latest estimates as of June 30, 2003 are in annex 1 and show a total population connected at
about 235,485 and household connections at 40,343.          These figures surpass the appraisal target of
200,000. On the other hand, household connections rate to SONEDE network also increased from 27.1
percent in 1995 to 35.1 percent in 2002. During this same period, new water connections in rural areas
carried out by SONEDE under the project are estimated to have contributed by some 38 percent to this
increase. The project also partly contributed to increasing SONEDE's water supply coverage in rural
areas. This coverage went up from 33.4 percent in 1995 to 42.4 percent in 2002. It should be mentioned
that the total water supply coverage in Tunisia in 2002 was estimated at 83.3, the Génie Rural covering
some 40.9 percent of rural population.

26.       At project closing date, ONAS' operations were covering 144 municipalities for a total population
of 5.4 million inhabitants, and the volume of treated water is 150 million m against a target of 149 million
                                                                           3


m at appraisal. The project allowed the improvement of living conditions of some 150,000 inhabitants
  3


compared to an appraisal target of 130,000. A sewerage treatment capacity of 26,200 m/day has been
                                                                                             3


added thanks to the three wastewater treatment plants and the three compact stations. ONAS also launched
and completed a pilot project on rural sanitation in the village of Chorfech that has been successful.



                                                    - 7 -

Further studies on the institutional aspect of rural sewerage are being undertaken by ONAS in order to
determine the most efficient management and institutional settings for rural sanitation.

27.      Development Objective (c): promoting the reuse of treated sewage for irrigation and
industrial use. This objective was achieved. Treated water coming from the new Tozeur wastewater
treatment plant, built under the project, will be reused to water a 65-hectare golf course in Ras-El-Ain
tourist district. Works for the transfer system at a cost of some TD 1.5 million are being financed by the
Ministry of Tourism and ONAS. The Ministry of Agriculture and ONAS have also undertaken other
initiatives to reuse treated wastewater with separate financing such as the pilot project of groundwater
recharge, which is part of the Greater Tunis Sewerage and Water Reuse Project. The Staff appraisal
report did not have specific targets to measure the outcomes of this component. Treated wastewater reuse
rate in Tunisia is currently estimated at 24 percent, half of which is used to water golf courses.

28.      Development Objective (d): encouraging SONEDE and ONAS to contract some of their
operations to the private sector. This objective was achieved. SONEDE is subcontracting its network
expansion works to the private sector. In 2002, about 94 percent of these activities were subcontracted to
private companies. Its connections installation activities have also been subcontracted to private companies
but at a lower rate, 63 percent in 2002.         SONEDE has carried out a sub-contracting study whose
recommendations for medium and long-term implementation are being discussed internally. The terms of
reference of this study were as ambitious as its recommendations were timid and conservative. The
recommendations of the study for the short and medium term covered certainly a wide range of activities,
but in reality these recommendations were a mere conclusion that SONEDE should focus on its core
business, that is production and supply of potable water, and abandon in-house construction and civil
works as well as the security services of its installations.

29.      More important steps have been taken by ONAS in order to have private sector participation in
some sewerage activities such as operation and maintenance of part of its network and WWTPs. A pilot
project was initiated in 1997 by contracting out operations of 185 kilometers of sewerage network in
El-Menzeh district in Greater Tunis. This experience showed that delegating operation and maintenance of
the network to the private sector could considerably help reduce costs while providing the same or
improved level of service. ONAS has also contracted out operations of four other sewerage networks in
2001 and 2002. According to the objectives of the Tenth Development plan (2002-2006), ONAS is
planning to involve the private sector in the management of some 1,800 Km of its sewerage collection
network and 26 of its wastewater treatment plants. Furthermore, ONAS' private sector participation (PSP)
action plan will focus on carrying out different studies on sector strategy, market analysis, social aspects,
regulatory framework and PSP participation in rural sanitation.

30.      As for actions directly associated with the project, ONAS has contracted out operations of
Tataouine WWTP, built under the project, and 95 km of the sewerage network to the private sector. The
contract starting date was March 1st, 2003. At project closing date, ONAS was in the process of bid
evaluation of proposals by private firms to operate Tozeur and Nafta WWTPs. ONAS was also finalizing
procurement documents for contracting out of operations of three other WWTPs: Jammel-Zermeddine,
Monastir-Frina and Sayada-Lamta.

31.      Beyond the project development objective, it should be noted that the legal and institutional
framework for PSP remains underdeveloped in Tunisia, which hinders the development of more advanced
forms of PSP other than sub-contracting. Operation contracts duration is limited to a maximum of five
years for instance. Institutional and legal reforms remain necessary, and the Government is currently
conducting an assessment of obstacles to PSP and outlining different options for reform. The time frame


                                                       - 8 -

for the current Government effort contrasts however with the rapid change of conditions in the water and
sewerage sector.

4.2 Outputs by components:

32.      Rehabilitation and expansion of the water supply systems in Greater Tunis. This component
output is rated satisfactory. Status of implementation of this component at project closing was as follows:
(i) water treatment plant works were completed; (ii) Ras-Tabia/Bir-Kassa water pipeline was completed
and has been operational since 1998; (iii) rehabilitation and improvement works of mains were completed;
(iv) reservoir works were completed except for one reservoir where final tests were underway; and (v)
control and regulation equipment component was carried out. The project increased water treatment
capacity by 207,360 m /day and water storage capacity by 25,000 m . Overall, some 80 kilometers of
                           3                                             3


large-section water supply pipelines were laid. The rehabilitation of water mains using ductile iron pipes
and experimenting new materials such as fiberglass helped improve the durability of the network and
reduce water losses as well as the number of breakages. Old water meters were replaced by more accurate
and reliable ones, and metering and leak detection equipment were purchased. Under the project, SONEDE
also introduced new technologies such as remote control and remote management of its installations
including reservoirs and WTPs, and the regulation system of Ghdir-El-Goula WTP was completely
modernized. Sensitization campaigns were carried out by SONEDE and included television ads, booklets,
site visits as well as the production of a water user guide.

33.      Provision of piped water systems to approximately 320 small villages (about 200,000 people)
in rural Tunisia. This component output is rated satisfactory. SONEDE has provided piped water to some
459 rural centers, against a target of 320 at appraisal, and the total population connected thanks to these
investments is more than the appraisal target of 200,000 (see paragraph 25). At project closing, some
40,343 household connections and 47 collective standpipe systems had been completed. In total, SONEDE
installed more than 1,687 kilometers of pipes of various types and diameters under this component.

34.      Sewerage. This component output is rated satisfactory. All WWTPs and network works were
completed. Tozeur WWTP has been operating since July 2000. Treated wastewater from this plant will be
used to water a 65-hectare golf course. Works for the sewerage network in Tozeur were completed. Some
86 kilometers of new sewers were laid, and 4,750 new connections to the sewerage network were added.

35.      All sewerage and wastewater treatment studies were completed.         The geographic information
system was installed and is being tested. Training sessions on GIS aimed at ONAS staff were conducted.
This system will be extended to include 18 more cities. The institutional strengthening component, which
includes training and human resources development, was completed. Training sessions as well as study
tours for ONAS staff were conducted and included various themes such as rural sanitation, new sewerage
technologies and private sector participation in the sewerage sector. The cost accounting system was put in
place with a one-year delay. Studies for the preparation of the fourth sewerage project were completed.
Operations equipment was purchased under the project.          The enterprise information system strategy
sub-component was transferred to the Greater Tunis Sewerage and Water Re-use Project.

36.      A rural sanitation sector strategy study carried out under the project identified a pilot project to
experiment an adapted sanitation system. ONAS chose the rural center of Chorfech for the first phase of
the pilot project and the rural center of Chouigui for the second phase, which is not financed under this
project. Works for Chorfech were completed and the system is operational. In order to evaluate this pilot
project, ONAS is planning to carry out a technical, institutional and operational study for the management
of rural sanitation systems.      This study would be undertaken under the rural infrastructure project
co-financed by the Bank.




                                                      - 9 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Ex-post evaluation of the Greater Tunis Water Supply Component

37.      The economic analysis of the Greater Tunis Water Supply Component shows an ex-post economic
rate of return (ERR) of 18.5 percent, which is higher than the 16.6 percent estimated at appraisal. The
following two factors explain this higher value of the ERR: (i) the net present value of the project cost over
the period 1995-2030 is slightly lower than estimated at appraisal; and (ii) while the real water demand was
lower than projected in 1995 and 1996, it was on average 7 percent higher during the rest of the
implementation period. The ex-ante economic analysis assumed that the bulk of the investments would
occur in the 1996-1998 period. In reality, investments were spread over a longer period (1996-2003).
Accordingly, the ex-ante evaluation estimated a net present value of project costs of TD 39.7 million at a
discount rate of 12 percent in the period 1995-2030, whereas the ex-post net present value is TD 37.8
million. Water demand in 1995 and 1996 was respectively 0.5 and 2.9 percent lower than the ex-ante
projections. Thus, the saturation of the system which had been predicted to occur in 1996 in the ex-ante
evaluation was avoided because of the improvement in UFW. Real water demand in 1997 and 1998 was
slightly higher than projected in the ex-ante evaluation, and 7 to 11 percent higher afterwards, which leads
to an average 8 percent higher over the 2003-2030 projection period. Since the project benefits reflect the
additional demand that the "without project" situation cannot satisfy, a higher demand led to higher benefits
and a higher ERR.
         Water supply consumption in Greater Tunis (million m3)
                       1995     1996     1997     1998     1999    2000     2001    2002
Ex-ante projections     76.0     77.5    79.1     80.7     82.3    84.0     85.7    87.4
Real consumption        75.6     75.3    80.2     82.9     88.0    91.2     95.2    94.9
Difference             -0.5%    -2.9%    1.4%     2.7%     6.9%    8.6%    11.1%    8.5%

Ex-post evaluation of the Rural Water Supply Component

38.      The ex-post assessment of 29 rural sub-projects implemented under the Project shows higher net
social benefits than those initially estimated during the ex-ante appraisal phase. Therefore, these projects
meet the net social gain criterion ex-post, as they met it ex-ante. Differences are due to generally larger
population covered and lower investment cost than initially projected. They are also due to a significantly
higher cost of acquiring water in the situation without the project than in the ex-ante assessment. Cutting
the time spent on water provision by one half shifts five out the 29 projects from socially profitable with
positive net social gains to socially unprofitable with negative social gains. The methodology is sound and
provides a good guide for selection of rural projects, but cost components, particularly those of water
supply in the situation without project, need to be defined and assessed more reliably.
         Discrepancy between Projected and Actual Values
                                       Average      Average      Discrepancy   Proportion of ex post
                                        ex-ante      ex-post         (%)       higher than ex-ante
 Population (inhabitants)                1,577         2,164        + 37%               80%
 Consumption per household                 91           88          - 3.3%              50%
 Cost under the project
    Operation cost (TD/m3)               0.508         0.508          0%                 -
    Investment cost (TD/m3)              0.531         0.531          0%                40%
    Total investment (TD)               317,600      240,000         -25%               17%
    Investment per household             1,480         1,213         -20%               24%
 Cost without the project (TD/m3)        4.260         6.060        +42%                96%
 Net social gain (TD/m3)                 1.830         3.760       +100%                93%




                                                     - 10 -

A more detailed economic and social evaluation is in annex 3.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

39.       N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:

40.       The project institutional development impact was modest. The project had an important impact on
strengthening operational and technical capacities of ONAS and SONEDE, but it could not prevent the
deterioration of ONAS's finances. Among the positive institutional development impacts, the project made
a critical contribution to the effective use and preservation of the country scarce water resources.
SONEDE's performance and service delivery were significantly improved.                 Investments in water
production, distribution and demand management proved to be beneficial both in reducing UFW from 28
percent in 1993 to around 20 percent since 1999 and ensuring continuous water supply in Greater Tunis.
SONEDE also expanded its service to rural areas where its coverage went from 33.4 percent in 1995 to
42.4 percent in 2002, and its household connection rate from 27.1 percent in 1995 to 35.1 percent in 2002.
The project also enhanced ONAS's technical performance and increased its coverage as well as wastewater
treated. Some 26,200 m/day wastewater treatment capacity was added and sewerage networks were
                            3


enhanced in six towns.

41.       Whereas both SONEDE and ONAS benefited from the project through implementation of
improved financial management and accounting systems, their financial capacity did not improve.
SONEDE had a good financial situation prior to the project and managed to keep it owing to the water
tariff increases granted during project implementation. ONAS's financial situation has been deteriorating
during the past few years, mainly because of the freeze of sewerage tariffs for almost five years.

42.       A healthy financial capacity is however essential in order to preserve and improve the operational
and technical capacity of these two entities in the medium and long run. ONAS and SONEDE are
autonomous but they rely upon the Government for tariff increases as well as for approval of their 5-year
development program.        The current trend of ONAS's deteriorating financial situation, which is thus
becoming more and more dependent on increasing state subsidies, points out to a lack of corporate
autonomy and a weakness of the regulatory framework of the current model. The project did not have an
adequate vehicle to assist the Government in analyzing and coming up with solutions to such difficulties in
an institutional framework otherwise with many solid features, which has served Tunisia well for more than
30 years and enabled good sector performance, as shown by several performance indicators included in this
report. The Tunisian Government had a solid track record in terms of tariff adjustments in the past, and
tariffs had been adjusted periodically. Correcting the current financial situation without negative effects on
the operational and technical performance of ONAS is thus still possible, even likely.            Including a
component to assist the Government in strengthening the overall institutional framework of the sector could
have probably helped increase the institutional development impact of the project.

43.       Regarding PSP, the project objective was achieved, but this objective was modest given current
standards. SONEDE still carries out in-house activities that are normally sub-contracted by most sector
utilities all over the world in developing and developed countries. This practice hinders the development of
local small and medium size private enterprises specialized in the water supply sector. ONAS seems more
open and willing to have increased PSP in its operations, but it is constrained by the Tunisian legislation.




                                                    - 11 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

44.      The influence of factors outside the control of Government or implementing agencies has been
mixed. Bank performance affected project achievements positively. However, at least three Bank project
teams led this project, which caused some delays, mainly in procurement, at every transition period. The
second and major outside factor was the devaluation of the Tunisian Dinar which went from almost parity
at appraisal to US$ 0.75 during most of the project implementation period. The appreciation of the dollar
indirectly generated more resources for ONAS and SONEDE, which allowed them to adjust some
components and add new ones. The one-year extension was partly justified by the fact that funds still
available at that time could be used for very efficient actions such as demand management and water
metering upgrading.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

45.      Lengthy procurement procedures in Tunisia contributed to the delays incurred in launching the
expansion works of the Greater Tunis water supply component.               In addition to extending project
preparation and implementation periods, which was taken into account at project preparation, these
procedures become an additional constraint when the investment plans change to incorporate
improvements, as it was the case in this project, or to respond to unforeseen circumstances. In addition to
the Bank's no objection, implementing agencies had to report to internal, regional, or high procurement
commissions, depending on the size and type of the contract. The prequalification of consulting firms is a
mandatory step in Tunisian procurement law, and it sometimes doubles the time needed to hire consultants.
The procurement issue could have been mitigated if the "Commission nationale des marchés" were aware of
Bank procedures and had showed a proactive attitude in the context of the project.

46.      Water and sewerage tariff adjustments need to be approved by the Government. The appraisal
report clearly identified as a risk the Government not living to its obligation to allow the appropriate
tariffs.  Unfortunately, this risk did materialize, and the sewerage tariff freeze for almost five years
damaged ONAS' financial situation.

47.      By law, operations contracts with the private sector are limited to five years maximum. This
restriction is a clear obstacle to the development of private sector participation in the water and sewerage
sectors.

48.      Although of a lesser importance than the above-mentioned issues, combining different components
to be implemented by two separate entities (SONEDE and ONAS) under a single loan (No. 3782) and a
shared special account brought about numerous practical complications. It obscured the proper accounting
of disbursements and allocation of Government subsidies between the two implementing agencies. The
complications associated with this were compounded by factors beyond the control of the Government such
as Bank staff errors in the labeling of forms 384, and exchange rate variations due to the Government
decision to change the denominating currency half way during implementation.              This problem was
particularly cumbersome towards the end of project execution when the implementing agencies wanted to
accurately ascertain whether they had sufficient funds under the loan. It also consumed considerable scarce
Bank supervision time on an issue that had no developmental impact.




                                                     - 12 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

49.      The strong technical and institutional capacity of both ONAS and SONEDE explains in part the
success of the project.

50.      Some technical studies were not ready at the time the project became effective, and their
finalization was delayed. The Greater Tunis Water Supply Master Plan, which was critical for some of the
expansion works of the Greater Tunis water supply component, was delayed by more than a year not only
because of procurement procedures, but also because SONEDE's technical studies department, which
carries out almost all technical studies inhouse, was very reluctant to have an independent consultant carry
out this major study.

51.      The procurement schedule could have been better managed. Both SONEDE and ONAS internal
procurement procedures are cumbersome. In addition to the lengthy national procurement procedures, the
internal procurement cycle including documents preparation and approval is far from efficient.
Coordination among different department needs to be improved.

5.4 Costs and financing:

52.      The total project cost, including physical and price contingencies, was estimated at appraisal at
some US$ 110.9 million taxes and customs duties included and US$ 95.8 million without taxes and
customs duties. Bank financing was set at US$ 58 million. The actual cost of the project is estimated at
US$ 104 million excluding taxes and customs duties, of which some US$ 99 million correspond to
activities completed by project closing date. Disbursements from the project proceeds reached US$ 55.71
million. The undisbursed loan amounts were US$ 2 million from Loan 3783 and Euro 0.5 million from
Loan 3782. Details of these figures appear in Annex 2.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

53.      The sustainability rating given to the project is likely. While the Greater Tunis project component
is a part of SONEDE's everyday business, the outputs of the rural water supply component are less
obvious to operate and manage. This is all the more true than rural water supply is a relatively new
activity to SONEDE.       However, the project focused on relatively dense rural centers and similar to
peri-urban zones, and hence SONEDE does have the expertise to manage this type of service and ensure
the sustainability of the rural water supply component. The rural water supply strategy study undertaken
under the project already made recommendations on strategic options, technologies as well as the
institutional setting needed for providing services to this type of areas.

54.      The sustainability of project outputs implemented by ONAS may be questioned given its
deteriorating financial situation. However, ONAS' past track record, recent actions taken by ONAS to
reverse this trend, and the clear Government commitment to support ONAS in particular and the sewerage
sector in general reduce the risk of not achieving the sustainability of these outputs. The Bank dialogue
with Tunisia in the sewerage sector in the context of Greater Tunis Sewerage and Water Re-use Project
will also contribute to ensuring that ONAS' financial situation improves.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

55.      Most project outputs are already integrated in the everyday business of ONAS and SONEDE,


                                                     - 13 -

which reduces the need for special transition arrangements to regular operations. The rural water supply
component is however part of an ongoing SONEDE long-term investment program and might have a
negative impact on the cost and revenue structures of SONEDE.

56.      ONAS has already opted for private sector participation in some of its operations carried out under
the project. The adoption of this institutional setting by ONAS could ensure efficient operations of the
project outputs. Redeployment of staff might however be necessary in order to fully extract the benefits
and avoid extra-costs.

57.      Both ONAS and SONEDE have prepared a note on transition arrangement to regular operations,
and it is included in the Borrower's contribution to ICR in annex 8.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

58.      The Bank performance during project preparation is rated satisfactory. At the time of preparation
and appraisal, the project was fully consistent with Bank policies and the Country Assistance Strategy and
clearly responded to a national priority. Bank dialogue with Tunisia in the water supply and sewerage
sector has been continuously going on, and project preparation took advantage of the Seventh water supply
project which was ongoing at the time to design this project. The economic evaluation of the project went
beyond evaluating the economic rate of return of the project and developed an economic and social model to
evaluate and prioritize SONEDE's investments in rural areas. The economic evaluation also estimated the
long-term marginal cost of the water supply service and was a catalyst for the water tariff study.

7.2 Supervision:

59.      The overall Bank performance in supervision is rated satisfactory. A Quality of Supervision
Assessment was carried out by QAG and rated project supervision highly satisfactory. The Bank staff
showed flexibility and understanding in responding to evolving circumstances. Bank teams were well
staffed with a good skill mix. Management and staff maintained strong continuity in the dialogue. The
mid-term review of the project was carried out in November 1998 and revealed no major deficiencies that
warranted change in the development objectives or amendment of existing loan agreements. Supervision of
the environmental impacts mitigation plan was probably not as systematic as a category-A project would
have required.     However, there is no indication that this had had negative effects on the project
environmental performance. On the procurement side, more forceful application of Bank procedures could
have speed up implementation. Changes in Bank teams were smooth, although some procurement delays
occurred during transition periods.

60.      The only area where the Bank could and should have been more proactive was regarding the lack
of sewerage tariff increases for about 5 years, and the deteriorating financial situation of ONAS that
ensued. Raising the dialogue to Ministerial and Government level on this issue should have been done
earlier in project implementation. While the weight of the dialogue on this issue was transferred to the
ongoing Greater Tunis Sewerage Project, which provided a more suitable basis since it was being solely
implemented by ONAS, strong action was taken altogether too late. As a minimum, and although already
too late, the Bank could have established the approval of the long overdue sewerage tariff increase as a
pre-condition for granting the extension requested by the Government.          Retrospectively, granting an
extension without using its leverage on the tariff issue seems surprising.




                                                     - 14 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

61.      The overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory. Comprehensive teams were fielded in lending
and supervision, with many members maintained throughout the project. Supervision missions included the
required expertise and staff who continuously monitored project activities. One of the success stories of
project was the use of highly skilled local consultants during preparation and supervision. Also, the Bank
was flexible in adjusting project components as conditions changed.          Finally, the Bank assisted the
Borrower to minimize project delays and use the additional local currency generated by the appreciation of
the dollar.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

62.      The Borrower performance in lending is assessed as satisfactory. The Government as well as the
two utilities worked in close collaboration with the Bank to prepare the project. The project size and scope
had changed many times during preparation, until the final design was agreed on. This process may
explain the fact that right after appraisal, the water treatment plant was taken out of the components
financed by the loan to be financed by the Kuwaiti Fund.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

63.      The Government implementation performance is assessed unsatisfactory due to the five-year freeze
in sewerage tariffs, heavy procurement procedures and restrictions on PSP development. Tariff increases
for water supply granted by the Government to SONEDE were not in accordance with the loan agreement
either, although the impact on SONEDE's financial situation was not as serious as in the case of ONAS.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

64.      The implementing agencies (ONAS and SONEDE) performance is rated satisfactory. Project
complexity as reflected in the existence of two implementing agencies and the multiplication of components
was very well managed by the two entities. The rural water supply component was complex to implement
as project area was scattered all over the country, but SONEDE's action was a success. SONEDE was
also very efficient in adapting to the changes in the Greater Tunis component and using available funds to
increase the importance of the demand management component. On the other hand, project co-financing by
NDF/NIB was very well managed by ONAS, and no problem was reported in relation to this issue. ONAS
also very well adapted to the changes in the sewerage component, as it was very efficient in completing the
studies for the Fourth Sewerage Project. Both utilities had problems however in managing delays incurred
at the start of the project.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

65.      The overall performance of the Borrower is rated satisfactory.         SONEDE and ONAS were
qualified to implement the project.      In addition to their difficulties to manage the delays in project
implementation, the Government stand on the tariff adjustment issue was a clear factor in not fully
achieving development objective (a).




                                                    - 15 -

8. Lessons Learned


66.      A key factor of the project success in improving overall sector performance and in achieving such
ambitious development objectives resides in ONAS and SONEDE's strong institutional capacity. The
absence of isolated project implementation units exclusively created for the purpose of the project allowed a
large impact on these entities' staff and procedures from the institutional strengthening instrinsically
associated to project dialogue. This positive aspect required however extra effort from Bank teams, who
had to interact with several departments and units within each entity. Other lessons can be learned from
this project implementation experience, namely the following:

Sector policy dialogue

   l The deterioration of ONAS' financial situation shows that the Tunisian model in the water supply
         and sewerage sector is under strain and that further and faster reforms may be required to preserve
         the achievements of the past and face the challenges of the future.

   l The Bank was not forceful enough during the early years of sewerage tariff freeze in raising
         awareness with the Government and ONAS on the predictable negative impacts of the absence of
         sewerage tariff adjustments over a long period. This issue should have been raised earlier to
         Ministerial or Government level. Furthermore, the Bank should have established the approval of
         the long overdue sewerage tariff increase as a pre-condition for consideration of the project closing
         date extension. This leniency was possibly due to the Bank's long and successful dialogue with the
         Government and the concerned utilities.

   l However, it should be noted that ONAS and SONEDE's past good performance, as reflected in
         many of today's performance indicators, also made it hard for the Bank to justify the need or to
         promote more ambitious or comprehensive sector reforms. Tunisia's gradualist approach to its
         macroeconomic and development policy agenda has generally maintained stability and brought
         about steady quality of life improvements. Sector policy dialogue and reform proposals need
         accordingly to be well adapted to this context, and be very respectful of local circumstances.

   l Adding a policy reform component at the ministerial level to the original project could have helped
         in accelerating sector analysis and in introducing adequate reforms. This issue is getting more and
         more important given the current status of the sector, and it should be taken into account in future
         projects. One area to explore could be how to improve coordination of water and sewerage
         policies.


Institutional capacity

   l SONEDE is still reluctant to hire consultants and contract out operations more broadly.              The
         completion report of the Seventh Water Supply Project, dated August 1994, already mentioned that
         the long and successful dialogue with SONEDE had made the Bank staff too flexible and lenient
         towards this reluctance. These two actions could however help SONEDE make considerable cost
         savings as it could strengthen its technical capacity.

   l Lessons should be drawn from the rural sanitation pilot project undertaken by ONAS.               ONAS
         should establish, in close cooperation with the Government, a clear institutional and financial
         framework to ensure the sustainability of any rural sanitation investments.

   l The rural water supply component used an economic model to prioritize and make investment




                                                      - 16 -

        decisions on the basis of preset objective criteria. SONEDE is now using the same model for other
        rural water supply projects. This practical tool is a step further toward rationalizing investment
        decision-making, especially in rural areas. Still, as with any other model, the outputs of this model
        are as good as its inputs, and SONEDE needs to work harder in ensuring that the data used is
        up-to-date and accurate, and that the assumptions made are valid and solid.


Project design and project preparedness at appraisal

    l Finalizing technical studies before project effectiveness is critical in order to avoid delays in works
        and project implementation. Completing such studies can take considerable time even in the case
        of strong institutions. Carrying out feasibility studies of future operations during an ongoing
        operation shortens these delays, as it was the case of the Greater Tunis Sewerage and Water
        Re-use whose feasibility studies were financed under this project.

    l Combining two different components to be implemented by two separate entities (SONEDE and
        ONAS) under a single loan (No. 3782) and a shared special account brought about numerous
        practical complications and difficulties in proper accounting of disbursements, and allocation of
        loan proceeds among the two implementing agencies, and it should be avoided in the future.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




                                                    - 17 -

- 18 -

- 19 -

- 20 -

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information


None.




                                             - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Key Performance Indicators

Outcome / Impact Indicator
                                                                                        Baseline Mid-term        End of
                                                                                                                Project
                                    Outcome/Impact Indicator                                    Target Actual Target Actual

DO (a): SONEDE (water supply) Debt Service Ratio (DSR)                                   1.40   1.84   1.98   2.70   4.61
DO (a): SONEDE (water supply) Internal Cash Generation (CG) in %                         36.5   51.3   40.6   66.5   61.7
DO (a): SONEDE (water supply) Average Tariff in DT/m3                                    0.327  0.459 0.391 0.526 0.419
DO (a): SONEDE (water supply) UFW in %                                                   27.5   26.1   21.2   25.2   20.2
DO (a): SONEDE (water supply) Staff per 1000 connections                                  6.8    5.3    5.2    4.7    4.1
DO (a): ONAS (sewerage) Debt Service Ratio (DSR)                                         1.00    1.7   2.55    2.1    1.9
DO (a): ONAS (sewerage) Internal Cash Generation (CG) in %                               13.5   18.9   31.0   20.6   15.0
DO (a): ONAS (sewerage) Average Tariff in DT/m3                                          0.187  0.415 0.384 0.553 0.417
DO (a): ONAS (sewerage) Staff per 1000 connections                                       6.42    6.0    5.8    5.6    5.5
DO (b): SONEDE (water supply) Population Served in 000's                                 6,097  6,988 7,168 7,313 7,760
DO (b): ONAS (sewerage) Population Served in 000's                                       3,780  4,900 4,900 5,200 5,420
DO (d): SONEDE (water supply) Subcontracting work to PSP - Network extension in %        66.0   84.0   89.0   90.0   94.0
DO (d): SONEDE (water supply) Subcontracting work to PSP - Number of Connections in %    10.0   75.0   42.0   85.0   63.0
Targets for ONAS include changes made in the context of Greater Tunis Sewerage and Water Re-use Project.

ONAS Performance Indicators
                      INDICATORS                           1992  1993     1994     1995    1996    1997
Connections (000)                                           499   520      578      616     650    690
New connections (000)                                       43    21       58       38      34      40
New connections due to the project (cumulative)              0     0        0       500    1500    2500
Population covered (000)                                   3,780 3,935    4,101    4,330   4,560   4,701
New population covered (000)                                180   155      166      229     230    141
New connections due to the project (cumulative)              0     0        0       10      30      50
Employees                   Permanent                      2,599 2701     2832     2949    2990    3,128
                             Temporaries                    600   723      811      923     925    940
                             Total                         3,199 3,424    3,643    3,872   3,915   4,068
Number of towns covered by ONAS                             80    81       91       100     111    117
Connection rate ONAS                                      75.0%  76.0%   76.6%    76.7%   77.0%   78.0%
SONEDE Water volume distributed (m3 million)                151   153      163      164     167    177
ONAS Wastewater collected (m3 million)                      119   125      130      135     138    141
Average tariff (0.001 TD per m3)                            186   218      248      268     298    344
Operating ratio                                           91.1%  94.0%   95.0%    97.0%   93.0%   89.0%
Self-financing ratio (incl. "recette compensatoire")      69.7%   -7%     21%       29%    67%     23%
Self-financing ratio (without "recette compensatoire")    13.5%  -27%     -4%       6%     45%      4%
Debt service ratio (without "recette compensatoire")       0.90  1.48     1.61      2.46   2.91    2.87
Debt service ratio (incl. "recette compensatoire")         1.00  1.97     2.89      4.80   4.58    5.33
Working capital                                           80.5%  105%     104%     119%    103%    105%
Debt/net assets                                           20.5%  28.2%   28.2%    21.6%   27.9%   27.3%
Investments (TD million)                                    64   44.7     44.2      48.9   52.4    54.2




                                                          - 22 -

ONAS Performance Indicators (continued)
 INDICATORS                                                    1998  1999   2000    2001   2002
 Connections (000)                                             725    765    805    994    1,060
 New connections (000)                                          35    40     40     189     66
 New connections due to the project (cumulative)               3500  4000   4500    5500   6180
 Population covered (000)                                     4,900  5,095  5,245  5,330   5,414
 New population covered (000)                                  199    195    150     85     84
 New connections due to the project (cumulative)                70    90     110    130     150
 Employees                     Permanent                      3,246  3,421  3,714  4,063   4,236
                                Temporaries                    940   1,133  1,313  1,487   1,148
                                 Total                        4,186  4,554  5,027  5,550   5,384
 Number of towns covered by ONAS                               125    133    142    144     144
 Connection rate ONAS                                         79.0%  80.0%  81.0%  82.0%   83.0%
 SONEDE Water volume distributed (m3 million)                  181    192    200    210     217
 ONAS Wastewater collected (m3 million)                        161    163    181    187     194
 Average tariff (0.001 TD per m3)                              348    392    380    394     395
 Operating ratio                                              91.0%  93.0%  97.0%  102.0% 110.0%
 Self-financing ratio (incl. "recette compensatoire")         31.0%  33%    23%     21%    15%
 Self-financing ratio (without "recette compensatoire")       15.0%  17%     8%     6%      4%
 Debt service ratio (without "recette compensatoire")          2.61  2.33   2.31    1.40   1.09
 Debt service ratio (incl. "recette compensatoire")            4.36  5.20   3.61    2.45   1.90
 Working capital                                             105.0%  104%   103%   102%    100%
 Debt/net assets                                              30.5%  32.3%  33.4%  37.5%   40.3%
 Investments (TD million)                                      67.7  83.5   90.2    96.1   102.5
SONEDE Performance Indicators
                               INDICATORS                             1993   1994     1995    1996    1997
 Connections (000)                                                   1,118   1,187   1,250    1,305  1,361
 Population covered (000)                                            6,365   6,560   6,718    6,876  7,030
 Employees                                                           7,356   7,744   7,507    7,301  7,395
                                                           Permanent 5,195   5,360   5,420    5,405  5,738
                                                         Temporaries 2,161   2,384   2,087    1,896  1,657
 Employees / 1000 connections                                         6.6      6.5     6.0     5.6     5.4
 Water produced (m3 million)                                         305.8   322.3   310.5    307.8  319.1
 Water sold (m3 million)                                             223.2   237.5   230.4    229.3  245.4
 Unacounted For Water UFW (%)                                        27.0%   26.3%   25.8%    25.5%  23.1%
 Network extension (km)                                              1,445   1,440   1,247    1,222  1,066
                                                          In house % 20.0%   15.0%   12.0%    19.0%  17.0%
                                                   Sub-contracting % 80.0%   85.0%   88.0%    81.0%  83.0%
 New connections                                                     72,039  66,913  65,839   57,689 58,477
                                                          In house % 100%     90%     80%     70%     60%
                                                   Sub-contracting %  0%      10%     20%     30%     40%
 Average cost (TD per m3)                                            0.379   0.370   0.382    0.460  0.434
 Average tariff per m3 (without fixed connection fee) (TD)           0.381   0.392   0.324    0.381  0.392
 Average tariff (incl. fixed connection fee) (TD)                                    0.379    0.446  0.459
 Average tariff / Average cost (incl. fixed connection fee)           0.98    1.02    0.99     0.97   1.06
 Average tariff / Average cost (without fixed connection fee)         1.00    1.06    0.85     0.83   0.90
 Gross operating ratio (after depreciation & provision)              93.7%   93.1%   96.5%   100.5%  92.1%
 Net operating ratio (before depreciation & provision)               59.7%   62.1%   65.6%    68.2%  67.5%
 Self-financing ratio (without subscribers' contribution)            33.8%   4.9%    38.3%    22.1%   6.0%
 Self-financing ratio (including subscribers' contribution)          56.1%   25.8%   57.9%    44.4%  23.3%
 Debt service ratio (without subscribers' contribution)               1.27    1.22    1.54     1.37   1.26
 Debt service ratio (incl. subscribers' contribution)                 1.54    1.45    1.84     1.69   1.49
 Current Asset / Current Liabilities                                   1.1     1.1     1.1     1.2     1.1
 Debt / Net Asset                                                    35.4%   33.9%   31.8%    30.0%   32.9%
 Investments (TD million)                                              42      40      50      42      40




                                                             - 23 -

SONEDE Performance Indicators (continued)
                           INDICATORS                                1998       1999     2000    2001       2002
Connections (000)                                                    1,419      1,477    1,548   1,623      1,706
Population covered (000)                                             7,201      7,338    7,480   7,630      7,760
Employees                                                            7,350      7,244    7,119   7,110      7,038
                                                          Permanent  5,804      5,786    5,773   5,825      5,865
                                                        Temporaries  1,546      1,458    1,346   1,285      1,173
Employees / 1000 connections                                          5.2        4.9      4.6     4.4        4.1
Water produced (m3 million)                                          327.2      338.6    350.3   373.4      373.4
Water sold (m3 million)                                              255.8      271.6    285.1   301.0      298.1
Unacounted For Water UFW (%)                                         21.8%     19.8%    18.6%    19.4%     20.1%
Network extension (km)                                               1,098      1,328    1,443   1,359      1,320
                                                         In house %  11.0%      9.0%     7.0%    8.0%       6.0%
                                                  Sub-contracting %  89.0%     91.0%    93.0%    92.0%     94.0%
New connections                                                      59,373    61,706   67,801   74,667    85,000
                                                         In house %  57%        52%      49%     42%        37%
                                                  Sub-contracting %  43%        48%      51%     58%        63%
Average cost (TD per m3)                                             0.462      0.462    0.471   0.477      0.505
Average tariff per m3 (without fixed connection fee) (TD)            0.391      0.408    0.406   0.430      0.419
Average tariff (incl. fixed connection fee) (TD)                     0.459      0.477    0.474   0.500      0.494
Average tariff / Average cost (incl. fixed connection fee)            0.99      1.03     1.01     1.05      0.98
Average tariff / Average cost (without fixed connection fee)          0.85      0.88     0.86     0.90      0.83
Gross operating ratio (after depreciation & provision)               98.5%     94.6%    96.3%    93.1%     98.4%
Net operating ratio (before depreciation & provision)                71.7%     67.6%    69.6%    70.8%     74.6%
Self-financing ratio (without subscribers' contribution)             22.9%     61.5%    50.8%    63.3%     41.5%
Self-financing ratio (including subscribers' contribution)           39.1%     79.7%    64.4%    87.3%     61.7%
Debt service ratio (without subscribers' contribution)                1.37      2.01     3.20     4.06      3.37
Debt service ratio (incl. subscribers' contribution)                  1.71      2.51     3.77     5.44      4.61
Current Asset / Current Liabilities                                   1.1        1.1      1.0     1.1        1.4
Debt / Net Asset                                                     31.0%     37.2%    33.4%    34.8%     39.9%
Investments (TD million)                                              50          70       70     65         75
Rural Water Supply Indicators
New connections in rural areas due to the project
                                                                            As of December 31,   As of June 30, 2003
                                                                                   2002          (Latest Estimates)
New household connections because of the project                                  30,652               34,403
New household connections because of SONEDE's extensions                          5,273                 5,940
Total household connections                                                       35,925               40,343
New population connected because of the project                                  178,950              200,917
New population connected because of SONEDE's extensions                           30,663               34,568
Total population connected                                                       209,613              235,485
New standpipe systems because of the project                                        44                   44
New standpipe systems because of SONEDE's extensions                                3                     3
Total standpipe systems                                                             47                   47
New population covered by standpipes because of the project                       8,869                 8,869
New population covered by standpipes because of SONEDE's extensions                258                  258
Total population covered by standpipes                                            9,127                 9,127
Annual distribution of new connections in rural areas
Year                      1995      1996      1997      1998     1999    2000      2001    2002   2003     Total
New Connections           5,074     5,230     4,081     6,519   4,542    4,243    3,756    2,480 4,418     40,343
Output indicators
                   Polyethylene            Asbestos-cement         Ductile Iron            Total
Pipes (km)               795                      871                  21                  1,687




                                                            - 24 -

Greater Tunis Water Supply Component Indicators
Greater Tunis Total Connections
Year                   1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002   Total
New Connections               17,119  13,516  16,545   14,378 16,518  19,341  19,528  22,764 139,709
Total Connections     343,286 360,405 373,921 390,466 404,844 421,362 440,703 460,231 482,995   -
% Increase                     5.0%    3.8%    4.4%    3.7%    4.1%    4.6%    4.4%    4.9%


Output indicators
Diameter         160    200   300    400   400   500    500   600    600   800   1000  1200  Total
Type           PEHD PEHD       DI    DI    CO     DI    CO    DI     CO    DI     DI    DI
Pipes (km)      0.100 0.600 10.986 3.000 0.300 26.945 2.200 5.093 16.400 0.800 1.800 8.500   76.724
DI: Ductile Iron. CO: Concrete


Sewerage Component Indicators
                                                 Appraisal     Actual
  New population covered                          130,000     150,000
  WWTP                                               3            3
  WWTP total capacity (m3 per day)                   -         18,750
  Compact WWTP                                       -            3
  Compact WWTP total capacity (m3 per day)           -         7,450
  New sewerage pipes (km)                           82           86
  New connections                                  4,547       4,750




                                                     - 25 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)(*)

 Component                                                            Appraisal   Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                                     Estimate US$  Estimate      Appraisal
                                                                        million   US$ million
 Water Supply in Greater Tunis (Loan 3783)
 1) Water Treatment Plant                                                7.80         8.60         110%
    - Ghdir El Golla (WTP)                                               5.45         7.12         131%
    - Ghdir El Golla (Site stabilization)                                2.34         0.27          12%
    - Medjez El Bab (WTP)                                                0.00         1.21
 2) Pipeline Restructuring                                               2.72         0.00          0%
 3) Rehabilitation of Ras Tabia Pipeline                                 9.34         7.16          77%
 4) Master Distribution Pipe                                             8.32        14.92         179%
 5) Reservoirs                                                           4.02         3.02          75%
 6) Regulating Equipment                                                 1.21         0.48          39%
 7) Institutional Strengthening and Demand Management                    2.68         9.20         343%
 (including water meters acquisition)
 8) Studies                                                              2.92         1.37          47%
 Subtotal                                                                39.01       44.75         115%
 Rural Water Supply (Loan 3782 SONEDE)
 Subtotal                                                                32.05       32.02         100%
 Sewerage (Loan 3782 ONAS)
 Construction of Tozeur Wastewater Treatment Plant                       3.48         3.06          88%
 Construction of Tataouine Wastewater Treatment Plant                    4.23         2.63          62%
 Construction of Jammel-Zeramdine Wastewater Treatment Plant             5.35         3.74          70%
 Tozeur Sewerage Network                                                 1.50         1.78         119%
 Tataouine Sewerage Network                                              2.50         1.88          75%
 Jammel-Zeramdine Sewerage Network                                       1.75         2.97         170%
 Construction of Mornag Wastewater Treatment Plant &                                  2.37
 Ghomrassen Sewerage Network
 Construction of Boumerdes and Fernana Wastewater Treatment                           1.15
 Plant
 Studies for 4th Sewerage Project                                        4.64         4.05          87%
 Studies Rural Sanitation (appraisal did not include pilot project)      0.24         0.72         294%
 Geographic Information System                                           0.37         0.08          21%
 Technical Assistance                                                    0.24         0.01          2%
 Training                                                                0.12         0.09          73%
 Laboratory Equipment                                                    0.24         0.24         101%
 Operating Equipment                                                                  0.22
 Others                                                                               0.54
 Subtotal                                                                24.66       25.51         103%
 Total Project Cost                                                      95.72       102.28        107%
(*) Costs do not include taxes and customs duties.




                                                      - 26 -

Project Cost by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                      Procurement Method(1)
 Expenditure Category                    ICB       NCB      Other(2)     NBF        Total
                                                                                    Cost
 Total Project
 1. Works                                6.45      27.78       0.00       8.93      43.16
                                        (3.42)    (13.89)     (0.00)     (0.00)    (17.31)
 2. Goods                                26.90      9.78       1.50       4.90      43.08
                                       (22.73)     (7.13)     (1.35)     (0.00)    (31.21)
 3. Services                             0.00       0.00       9.48       0.00       9.48
                                        (0.00)     (0.00)     (9.48)     (0.00)    (9.48)
 4. Others                               0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
                                        (0.00)     (0.00)     (0.00)     (0.00)    (0.00)
 Total                                   33.35     37.56      10.98      13.83      95.72
                                       (26.15)    (21.02)    (10.83)     (0.00)    (58.00)




                                           - 27 -

Project Cost by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                         Procurement Method(1)
 Expenditure Category                       ICB       NCB      Other(2)   NBF       Total
                                                                                     Cost
 Water Supply in Greater Tunis (Loan 3783)
 1. Works                                   0.73      9.92       0.07      7.12     17.83
                                           (0.44)    (5.11)     (0.04)    (0.00)    (5.59)
 2. Goods                                   25.12     0.21       0.11      0.00     25.44
                                           (19.83)   (0.10)     (0.08)    (0.00)   (20.01)
 3. Services                                1.48      0.00       0.00      0.00      1.48
                                           (1.42)    (0.00)     (0.00)    (0.00)    (1.42)
 4. Others                                  0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00
                                           (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)
 Subtotal                                   27.33     10.13      0.18      7.12     44.75
                                           (21.69)   (5.21)     (0.11)    (0.00)   (27.02)
 Rural Water Supply (Loan 3782 SONEDE)
 1. Work                                    0.00      13.95      1.32      0.00     15.27
                                           (7.97)    (3.41)     (0.65)    (0.00)   (12.03)
 2. Goods                                   10.93     4.88       0.94      0.00     16.75
                                           (0.00)    (7.01)     (0.66)    (0.00)    (7.68)
 3. Services                                0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00
                                           (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)
 4. Others                                  0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00
                                           (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)
 Subtotal                                   10.93     18.82      2.26      0.00     32.02
                                           (7.97)    (10.43)    (1.31)    (0.00)   (19.71)
 Sewerage (Loan 3782 ONAS)
 1. Works                                   1.95      1.87       0.00      8.67     12.49
                                           (1.15)    (1.13)     (0.00)    (0.00)    (2.28)
 2. Goods                                   1.84      0.80       0.08      4.90      7.62
                                           (1.29)    (0.57)     (0.00)    (0.00)    (1.86)
 3. Services                                0.39      0.00       4.46      0.01      4.86
                                           (0.39)    (0.00)     (4.45)    (0.00)    (4.84)
 4. Others                                  0.00      0.00       0.22      0.32      0.54
                                           (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00v
 Subtotal                                   4.18      2.67       4.75     13.90     25.51
                                           (2.83)    (1.70)     (4.45)    (0.00)    (8.98)
 Total Project
 1. Workd                                   2.68      25.73      1.39     15.79     45.60
                                           (9.56)    (9.65)     (0.69)    (0.00)   (19.90)
 2. Goods                                   37.90     5.89       1.12      4.90     49.81
                                           (21.11)   (7.69)     (0.74)    (0.00)   (29.54)
 3. Services                                1.87      0.00       4.46      0.01      6.34
                                           (1.81)    (0.00)     (4.45)    (0.00)    (6.26)
 4. Others                                  0.00      0.00       0.22      0.32      0.54
                                           (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)
 Subtotal                                   42.45     31.62      7.19     21.02     102.29
                                           (32.49)   (17.34)    (5.87)    (0.00)   (55.71)




                                              - 28 -

(1) Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
(2) Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating
costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.

Project Financing by Component (US$ million equivalent)
                                Appraisal Estimate                                         Actual Estimate
                 Bank     CoF. SONEDE ONAS Govt.                 Total    Bank     CoF. SONEDE ONAS Govt.            Total
Water Supply in Greater Tunis (Loan 3783)
Works             7.74    0.00      7.74      0.00       0.00    15.47    5.59      7.12    5.12       0.00   0.00   17.83
Goods            15.25    0.00      2.69      0.00       0.00    17.94    20.01     0.00    5.44       0.00   0.00   25.44
Services          5.52    0.00      0.09      0.00       0.00    5.60     1.42      0.00    0.06       0.00   0.00    1.48
Others            0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00    0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00       0.00   0.00    0.00
Subtotal         28.50    0.00      10.51     0.00       0.00    39.01    27.02     7.12    10.62      0.00   0.00   44.75
Rural Water Supply (Loan 3782 SONEDE)
Works             7.75    0.00      0.00      0.00       7.75    15.49    12.03     0.00    0.00       0.00   3.24   15.27
Goods            12.75    0.00      0.00      0.00       3.81    16.56    7.68      0.00    0.00       0.00   9.07   16.75
Services          0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00    0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00       0.00   0.00    0.00
Others            0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00    0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00       0.00   0.00    0.00
Subtotal         20.50    0.00      0.00      0.00      11.55    32.05    19.71     0.00    0.00       0.00  12.31   32.02
Sewerage (Loan 3782 ONAS)
Works             1.63    6.25                4.31       0.00    12.19    2.28      8.67    0.00       1.54   0.00   12.49
Goods             1.76    4.41                0.69       0.00    6.85     1.86      4.90    0.00       0.86   0.00    7.62
Services          5.61    0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00    5.61     4.84      0.01    0.00       0.01   0.00    4.86
Others            0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00    0.00     0.00      0.32    0.00       0.22   0.00    0.54
Subtotal          9.00    10.66     0.00      5.00       0.00    24.66    8.98     13.90    0.00       2.63   0.00   25.51
Total Project
Works            17.11    6.25      7.74      4.31       7.75    43.16    19.90    15.79    5.12       1.54   3.24   45.60
Goods            29.76    4.41      2.69      0.69       3.81    41.35    29.54     4.90    5.44       0.86   9.07   49.81
Services         11.13    0.00      0.09      0.00       0.00    11.21    6.26      0.01    0.06       0.01   0.00    6.34
Others            0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00    0.00     0.00      0.32    0.00       0.22   0.00    0.54
Total            58.00    10.66     10.51     5.00      11.55    95.72    55.71    21.02    10.62      2.63  12.31   102.29




                                                          - 29 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Ex-post evaluation of Greater Tunis Water Supply component

The same methodology used in the ex-ante economic evaluation was used to evaluate the economic rate of
return (ERR) at completion. Real values for consumption, UFW and investment costs were used for the
period 1995-2002.

The Urban Water Supply component comprised extension of water treatment capacity, reservoirs, pipes
and equipments.      The component was aimed at expanding potable water production and distribution
capacity and reducing the rate of unaccounted for water to meet a growing demand. Without the project,
the existing capacity was likely to become inadequate to meet all the demand (in 1995-1996 according to
ex-ante evaluation). Some kind of rationing, which may take different forms would have been unavoidable
(tariff increases, decrease in pressure, spot cutoffs, or even suspending service for some consumers or
service expansion in areas like El-Menzeh and Ariana). With the project, new capacity was installed and
UFW was reduced, which made it possible to meet the anticipated demand, and avoid rationing to
consumers, particularly the urban poor.

The benefit of the project is the value for the consumer of the additional demand (volume of water) to be
met by the project and which would have remained unmet without it. This value is estimated quarterly
taking into account three main assumptions:

         (a) The benefit stream from the expansion of treatment capacity sub-component (i.e. increased
         water production) represents the benefits of the project up to the level of the demand. This benefit
         already includes the contribution from the required accompanying measures to meet this level of
         demand such as increasing the capacity of the reservoirs and strengthening the distribution
         network.
         (b) The benefits accruing from the project are quantified in terms of the volume of additional water
         effectively used by consumers. This quantification is based on the expressed demand that will be
         met by the project and would not be without it. Demand was estimated in the ex-ante evaluation by
         projecting through 2030 the trend observed over the period 1981-92 (quarterly data), which gave
         an average annual growth rate of 2% over this period. The ex-post evaluation used the real
         consumption values for the 1995-2002 period, and projected the 2002 values using a 2% annual
         increase. The projection is done for each quarter so as to allow for seasonal fluctuations. The
         elasticity of demand used in the ex-post evaluation is the same as the one used at appraisal. The
         latter was calculated on the basis of an econometric model using the quarterly statistics for the
         period 1981/Q1 through 1992/Q4, and is set at 0.68, a relatively high figure, which is for all water
         uses combined.
         (c) The value of the project contribution is estimated on the basis of the consumers' willingness to
         pay. This concept refers to the price that consumers are willing to pay for one cubic meter of
         water in different situations, with and without the project. The price Po, which represents the price
         consumers are willing to pay for the last cubic meter of water without the project, is calculated as
         follows, using the elasticity of demand in Greater Tunis:

                                             Po = Ps[1-(1/e)*(Qo-Qs)/Qs]

         Where e is the price elasticity of demand, Ps is the average tariff per m3 paid by the consumers for
         the current capacity. Qo is the quarterly production capacity of the system without the project, and
         Qs is the quarterly demand that can be met with the project.




                                                     - 30 -

The total cost of the Greater Tunis project has been estimated in constant 1994 prices, including physical
contingencies in the ex-ante evaluation, but excluding taxes and custom duties. The project cost was
adjusted to take into account: (i) real border prices by using an exchange rate factor to convert official
exchange rate into real values (this factor is equal to 1.2 in the base scenario, which means the official
exchange rate TD/US$ is 20% higher than the border exchange rate); and (ii) shadow wage for unskilled
labor in Tunisia by using a wage factor (this factor is equal to 0.8 in the base scenario, which means the
shadow wages are 80% of the official wages). Operating costs in economic values were estimated at TD
0.179 per m3. The same value was used in the ex-post evaluation.

With these assumptions, the ERR for the Greater Tunis project has been estimated at project completion at
18.5 percent compared to 16.6 percent at project appraisal. This higher value of the ERR could be
explained by two factors: (i) the net present value of the project cost over the period 1995-2030 is slightly
lower than what was estimated at appraisal; and (ii) real water demand was lower than projected in 1995
and 1996, while it was on average 7 percent higher during the rest of the project implementation period.
The ex-ante assumed that the bulk part of the investment would occur in the 1996-1998 period. In fact, the
real investment was spread over a longer period (1996-2003). In other words, the net present value of
project costs in the period 1995-2030 at a discount rate of 12 percent were estimated in the ex-ante
evaluation at TD 39.7 million, whereas in the ex-post evaluation they were evaluated at 37.8. The water
demand in 1995 and 1996 was 0.5 and 3 percent respectively than the ex-ante projections. Thus, the
saturation of the system that was predicted in the ex-ante assumption to occur in 1996 was avoided thanks
to the improvement in UFW. Real water demand in 1997 and 1998 was slightly higher than that of the
ex-ante evaluation, and 7 to 11 percent higher afterwards, which leads to an average 8 percent higher over
the projection period 2003-2030. Since the project benefits reflect the additional demand that the "without
project" situation cannot satisfy, a higher demand led to higher benefits and a higher ERR.

Sensitivity analysis was conducted to capture the impact of the analysis assumptions. The following tables
summarize the final results. An Excel datasheet is kept in project files.

Water supply consumption in Greater Tunis (million m3)
                        1995      1996    1997    1998     1999     2000     2001    2002
 Ex-ante projections     76.0     77.5     79.1   80.7      82.3    84.0     85.7    87.4
 Real consumption        75.6     75.3     80.2   82.9      88.0    91.2     95.2    94.9
 Difference             -0.5%    -2.9%    1.4%    2.7%     6.9%    8.6%     11.1%    8.5%


Project economic investment costs (TD million)
                                1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003
Ex-ante estimates               1.6    11.9   11.9  10.1    6.4   0.0     0.0   0.0    0.0
Ex-post real costs              0.0     5.3   2.0    2.7    8.9   8.0     6.1   8.2    7.9


Sensitivity analysis

Operating costs
  Increase in economic operating      Economic rate of Return (%)
     costs per m3 estimate (%)                 Ex-post
                 0                               18.5
                10                               18.0
                20                               17.4
                30                               16.9
                40                               16.3
                50                               15.7




                                                    - 31 -

Shadow Exchange Rate
   Exchange rate factor     Economic rate of Return (%)      Economic rate of Return (%)
                                       Ex-post                       Ex-ante
            1.0                         18.0                           17.8
            1.1                         17.4                           17.2
            1.2                         16.9                           16.6
            1.3                         16.3                           16.1

Shadow Wage
     Wage rate factor       Economic rate of Return (%)      Economic rate of Return (%)
                                       Ex-post                       Ex-ante
            0.6                         19.2                           17.2
            0.7                         18.8                           16.9
            0.8                         18.5                           16.6
            0.9                         18.2                           16.3
            1.0                         17.9                           16.1


Water Demand Elasticity
         Elasticity         Economic rate of Return (%)      Economic rate of Return (%)
                                       Ex-post                       Ex-ante
           -0.42                        21.7                           19.8
           -0.50                        20.4                           18.5
           -0.68                        18.5                           16.6
           -0.70                        18.3                           16.5
           -0.80                        17.6                           15.8
           -0.90                        17.1                           15.3
           -1.00                        16.6                           14.9


In a pessimistic scenario where the elasticity is taken equal to -1.0, exchange rate factor equal to 1.3 and
shadow wage factor equal to 1.0, the ERR is estimated at 15.6% compared to 14.0% at appraisal. In this
scenario, if the operating costs per m3 were increased by 50%, the ERR falls to 12.7% (no value was
estimated at appraisal).

Ex-post evaluation of the Rural Water Supply component

Introduction

The Water Supply and Sewerage Project included rural water supply sub-projects that should be selected
on the basis of a criterion of social profitability different from the criterion which had been used before the
start of this Project. Prior to the latter, the criterion used by SONEDE was the amount of investment per
capita. A regression line was estimated for the relationship between per-capita investment and population
served. As expected, the slope of this line was found to be negative, implying that the larger the population,
the smaller is per capita investment. The criterion, which also allowed for some margin above the estimated
line, consisted of accepting a project if its per-capita investment fell within the margin above the regression
line.

Because this criterion was thought to be crude and not well grounded in the framework of economic project
appraisal, an alternative criterion was designed under the Project, that of the net social gain. The new



                                                        - 32 -

approach has been applied to the assessment of all rural sub-projects that SONEDE envisaged under the
Project. A standardized evaluation spreadsheet was prepared for each sub-project using small software
developed at SONEDE with Bank assistance. For each project, assessment was based on estimates of the
population to be covered, as well as of investment and operation cost.

Since the numbers of rural sub-projects and of the population targeted under the Project have already been
reached, it is important to assess how the methodology has been used and whether actual benefits and costs
enable the projects already implemented to pass the selection criterion ex post. This ex post evaluation is
based on a sample of 29 rural centers out of the 459 centers that have been financed under the Project. The
centers are located in different regions of the country so as to have the widest representation of the country
possible.

Methodology

The evaluation model designed for this purpose relies on the assessment of economic benefits and costs of
the project, considering the state of meeting water needs in the two situations of with and without the
project. Benefits of the project for households are:
            l avoidance of the cost of water supply under the initial conditions without the project,
                 which includes both current and investment expenses;
            l larger volume of water consumed at lower prices. The increase in consumption and the
                 difference in cost depend on whether the household will be individually connected or will
                 use a public standpost.

These benefits are supposed to grow as population and per capita income rise. Households also incur a
fixed cost when connected, which is the connection fee.

Additional benefits due to higher volumes of water and lower purchase price are captured by a consumer
surplus that grows in value with population and income per capita. For the household, the net benefit is
equal to the difference between this surplus and the differential in fixed cost in the with and without project
situation.

Rural projects are subsidized by the state, as revenues are not expected to cover total investment and
operating cost. The cost of the subsidy, properly adjusted to reflect the social cost of public funds, should
therefore be netted out from the value of household benefit to get the net social benefit of the project. The
final decision criterion is to implement the project if the net social benefit (in absolute terms or per cubic
meter) is positive (formula below).

Application of the approach by SONEDE

Small software was designed and put in place at SONEDE in order to facilitate the application of this
methodology. The software distinguishes between parameters, the values of which should depend on local
conditions and estimated investment cost for the rural area to be served, and computational steps leading to
the estimate of net social gain. Main parameters involved are the social discount rate, the rate of growth of
water consumption, the opportunity cost of time spent on water supply in the situation without the project,
the minimum rural wage, social weights for the welfare of rural households and the opportunity cost of
public funds. Before implementation of the methodology SONEDE staff were trained to use the software.

Overall, the software has been correctly used, and the net social gain has been properly assessed. Values
were set for the parameters of the model in line with what the model requires. However, while the values of


                                                    - 33 -

these parameters are meant to vary according to local or at least regional conditions for each sub-project,
the values used in SONEDE's evaluation hardly vary from one sub-project to another. The same values
were indeed used for time, growth of consumption, the operation cost of water under the project, as well as
for the social weights associated with the increase in household welfare.
Before proceeding with ex-post project appraisal and the comparison between the latter and ex-ante
appraisal, the following points can be made concerning the use that has been made of the approach:

        l The net social gain is very sensitive to the value of time spent on water provision in the
             situation without project. It can vary widely between high positive values and negative values.
        l Including a cost other than the value of time of acquiring water, the price, which is assumed to
             be TD 0.189, TD 0.300 and TD 0.666 depending on the project, is not justifiable when the
             household is assumed to travel a long distance to acquire water. Including such additional cost
             overestimates the cost of water in the without project situation and therefore increases its
             economic return.
        l The investment cost in the initial situation without the project is very low (around TD 0.003 to
             TD 0.004).
        l The social gain is large due to the saving in time spent on getting water from distant sources or
             alternatively to buy water from water vendors. In the case of projects supplying water to public
             outposts without house connections, perhaps time saved is lower than assumed in the
             computations. Nevertheless, even in this case it remains the main component of the project
             benefits.
        l Consumption of water was initially set according to norms: 73 m3 in the North, 67 m3 in the
             Center and 120 m in the South, not on the basis of observed consumer behavior under similar
                                3


             projects.
        l The fact that operation cost is the same for all areas means that it has been determined at the
             central level. In the future, SONEDE regional districts should be more involved in providing
             information for the project.
        l Operation cost without the project: it is not clear how the figures were chosen. In some cases
             they are too high, as high as TD 12 per m . The question may be raised concerning the time
                                                          3


             involved in bringing water back home, which is often high in SONEDE estimates, knowing
             that households may have water tanks enabling them to stock water for a few days.

Ex post evaluation

The table below gives a summary of the evaluation results and a comparison with ex ante evaluation. This
table brings out the following remarks:

        l The population covered by the project turned out to be larger than initially estimated at the
             time of the appraisal in 23 rural areas out of a sample of 29 areas. If the sample is
             representative, that means that the population is higher than initially estimated in 80% of the
             cases. The projects served on the average 37% more people than initially estimated.

        l Consumption: per capita consumption was initially set at levels equal to norms set for three
             regions: 73 m per year for a household of five living in the north, 67 m for the center and 120
                           3                                                          3


             m for the south. No reference was made to average actual consumption recorded for similar
               3


             connected rural areas. The average volume consumed turned out to be lower than expected in
             about 50% of the cases and higher than expected in the other half. The shortfall with respect to
             expectations may be due, in principle, to delays in connections, but this cannot account for the



                                                     - 34 -

               gap in this case since more people have had access to SONEDE water than initially expected.
               On average, actual consumption is very close to the projected one, estimated at about 88 m          3


               /year/household against a volume of 91 m in initial project appraisal. Finally, total actual
                                                             3


               consumption turned to be about 38 percent higher than in the initial estimates, the larger
               population effectively covered accounting for the discrepancy.

        l Operation cost under the project: this cost includes materials, labor cost, financial cost, etc.,
               with labor being the dominant item. This cost is assumed to be the same for all rural projects,
               set at TD 0.508 per m. The standardization of this cost implies that it was set at the central
                                        3


               level with very little input, if any, from the regional districts. Since SONEDE has not
               developed cost accounting yet, particularly at the district level, it is difficult to assess the bias
               resulting from assuming the same operation cost everywhere.

        l Investment cost: based on the sample of 29 rural projects the actual investment cost is
               significantly lower than assumed in appraisal, with the exception of one single project for
               which actual cost is higher than initially projected. The actual average cost of the project
               averaged TD 240,000 against an expected cost of TD 317,000, thus resulting in an average
               discrepancy between the two amounts equal to about 25 percent of initial cost. Thus a larger
               rural population has been covered at a lower cost than expected. The investment cost per m is    3


               about the same in the initial estimates as after the implementation of the project, equal to about
               TD 0.531, which is almost the same as the operation cost of the project. Generally in water
               projects, investment cost is higher than the latter, but because some of these projects supply
               water through public outposts and not house connections, capital cost tends to be lower, in
               relative terms, than for urban water supply projects. Thus, the total cost per m, capital and
                                                                                                      3


               operating cost, is estimated at about TD 1.040 for the period 1996-2000.

        l Cost of water supply without the project: the investment component of this cost includes water
               tanks and eventually transportation animals. The operation cost includes the value of
               household's time spent on bringing water to the house as well as expenses on the purchase of
               water. While investment cost is generally low, current cost is far higher than under the project,
               averaging over TD 6 against TD 0.5 under the project and exceeding TD 12 per m in some     3


               cases. Actual cost also exceeds the initially estimated cost by a margin of 42 percent, which
               results in a larger net social gain since the cost of water supply without the project becomes a
               benefit when the project is implemented.

Since this cost has a high incidence on the value of net social gain, it is important to assess it in the most
reliable way. A sensitivity analysis is carried out by reducing by one half the cost of time assumed in
SONEDE initial project appraisal. The sensitivity analysis also removes the simplifying assumption of an
infinite lifetime of the project and replaces it with a twenty-year lifetime.

Outcome of the net social gain criterion of project selection: As initially assessed by SONEDE, the 29
rural projects fulfill the criterion of positive net social gain, with the latter varying between 0.350 and TD
3.7 per m and averaging TD 1.830. Calculated net social gain is negative (TD ­0.104) for Balta's project
           3


while SONEDE's record shows a positive value of TD 0.350. The ex-post evaluation yields much larger
net gains, averaging TD 3.760 and exceeding in some cases TD 7. These significant differences are due to
the much higher cost of water supply without the project in SONEDE's ex-post evaluation.

The rationale behind the changes introduced in the cost of meeting water needs in the absence of the project
is not explained and it is not clear whether it is justifiable or not. We simulate the effect of a cut by one half



                                                       - 35 -

in the cost of time spent on water provision. The result is a drop in the average value of net social gain to
TD 0.940 per m , and an even larger drop from positive to negative values for five rural areas, which
                  3


would have resulted in the rejection of the corresponding projects.

Conclusion

The ex-post assessment of 29 rural sub-projects that have been implemented under the Project shows higher
net social benefits than those initially estimated during the ex-ante appraisal phase. Therefore, these
projects meet the net social gain criterion ex-post, as they met it ex-ante. Differences are due to generally
larger population covered and lower investment cost than initially projected. They are also due to a
significantly higher cost of acquiring water in the situation without the project than in the ex-ante
assessment. Cutting the time spent on water provision by one half shifts five out the 29 projects from
socially profitable with positive net social gains to socially unprofitable with negative social gains. The
methodology is sound and provides a good guide for selection of rural projects, but cost components,
particularly those of water supply in the situation without project, need to be defined and assessed more
reliably.

        Discrepancy between Projected and Actual Values
                                           Average      Average     Discrepancy Proportion of ex post
                                            ex-ante      ex-post         (%)          higher than ex-ante
  Population (inhabitants)                  1,577         2,164        + 37%                  80%
  Consumption per household                   91           88          - 3.3%                 50%
  Cost under the project
     Operation cost (TD/cum)                0.508         0.508          0%                    -
     Investment cost (TD/cum)               0.531         0.531          0%                   40%
     Total investment (TD)                 317,600      240,000         -25%                  17%
     Investment per household               1,480         1,213         -20%                  24%
  Cost without the project (TD/cum)         4.260         6.060        +42%                   96%
  Net social gain (TD)                      1.830         3.760        +100%                  93%

Note:
             NSG =[1/(n1+n2)](n1GA+n2GB)-S
where:

n and n are number of households respectively house-connected and users of public outposts, NSG is net
 1      2
social gain (a measure of net change in welfare induced by the project), G is the net change in
                                                                                        A
house-connected household (consumer surplus minus the change in fixed cost after connection), G is the
                                                                                                          B
net change in welfare for the user of public outpost, S is government subsidy. The coefficients  and  are
the social weights associated respectively with the welfare of the project beneficiaries and public funds.


The net change in house-connected household welfare is:        GA=-(I1-IO)a+(P0-P1)(Q0+Q1)/2

where G is net welfare gain, I household investment under the project, I household investment in the
         A                       1                                               0
situation without project, P is the cost of one cum of water without project and P is SONEDE price of
                            0                                                             1
water. Q and Q are respectively the quantities of water consumed by the household in the without and with
         0       1
project situations. The coefficient (a) is the difference between the real interest rate and the rate of growth.




                                                      - 36 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              2/11/1993                 3    FINANCIAL ANALYST/TASK
                                             TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             SANITARY ENGINEER
                                             (CONS) (1); ENV. SPECIALIST
                                             (CONS) (1)
              5/11/1993                 3    FIN. ANALYST/TASK TEAM
                                             LEADER (1); ENGINEER (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              10/5/1993                 4    FIN. ANALYST/TTL (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1); ENGINEER
                                             (1); DIVISION CHIEF (1);

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              12/24/1993                6    FIN. ANALYST/ TTL (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             ENGINEER (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (CONS) (1);
                                             ENGINEERS (CONS) (2)

 Supervision
              10/28/1994                1    FIN. ANALYST/ TTL (1)            HS             HS

                                             FIN. ANALYST/TTL (1);
              4/06/1995                 2    ENGINEER (1)
              04/13/1996                2    CONSULTANT (2)                   S              HS
              03/25/1997                2    FIN. ANALYST/TTL (1);            HS             HS
                                             SANITARY ENGINEER (1)
              10/23/1997                2    FIN. ANALYST/TTL (1);            HS             HS
                                             SANITARY ENGINEER (1)
              05/21/1998                3    FIN. ANALYST/TTL (1);            HS             HS
                                             SANITARY ENGINEER (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              06/11/1999                4    FIN. ANALYST/TTL (1);            HS             HS
                                             ECONOMIST/FIN. ANALYST
                                             (1); ENGINEER (2)
              11/12/1999                1    SR. SANITARY ENGINEER (1)        HS             HS
              02/18/2000                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1); SR.        HS             HS
                                             SANITARY ENGINEER (1);
                                             ECONOMIST/FIN ANALIST
                                             (1); PRIN. FIN. ANALYST (1)
              06/29/2000                3    ECON/FIN. ANALYST (1); SR.       S              HS
                                             SAN. ENGINEER (1); CONS.
                                             (1)
              10/20/2000                3    MISSION LEADER (1);              S              HS
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)



                                              - 37 -

               03/09/2001              3   MISSION LEADER (1);                S    HS
                                           FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                           CONSULTANT (1)
               10/27/2001              2   SR. SANITARY ENGINEER/             S    HS
                                           TTL (1); SR. ECONOMIST (1)
               05/02/2002              4   SR. INFRASTR. SPEC./TTL (1);       S    HS
                                           SR. SAN. ENGINEER (1);
                                           ECON./FIN. ANALYST (1);
                                           SAN. ENGINEER (CONS.) (1)
               1/22/2003               5   SR. INFRASTR. SPEC./TTL (1);       S    S
                                           LEAD FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                           (1); SAN. ENGINEER (CONS.)
                                           (1); ENV. SPECIALIST (1);
                                           ENGINEER (1)

 ICR
               7/15/2003              4     SR. INFRASTR. SPEC./              S    S
                                            TTL (1); SAN. ENGINEER
                                            (CONS.) (1); ENV.
                                            SPECIALIST (CONS.) (1);
                                            ENGINEER (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 N/A                            454
  Supervision                           N/A                            539
  ICR                                   N/A                             25
  Total                                                              1,018




                                            - 38 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 39 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 40 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Staff Appraisal Report, Republic of Tunisia, Water Supply and Sewerage Project, World Bank
Report. No. 12939-TUN, July 6, 1994
2. Loan Agreement with Republic of Tunisia, September 21, 1994
3. Guarantee Agreement with Republic of Tunisia, September 21, 1994
4. Project Agreement with ONAS, September 21, 1994
5. Missions aide-memoires, PSRs and BTOs:
        - Pre-Identification mission, January 24-February 11, 1993
        - Identification mission April 19-May 11, 1993
        - Pre-appraisal mission, September 9-October 5, 1993
        - Appraisal mission, December 5-24, 1993
        - Supervision mission, October 16-28, 1994
        - Supervision mission, March 26-April 6, 1995
        - Supervision mission, March 25-April 13, 1996
        - Supervision mission, March 6-25, 1997
        - Supervision mission, October 6-21, 1997
        - Supervision mission, May 7-21, 1998
        - Mid-Term review mission, November 9-23, 1998
        - Supervision mission, May 24-June 11, 1999
        - Supervision mission, June 14-29, 2000
        - Supervision mission, February 21-March 9, 2001
        - Supervision mission, October 16-28, 2001
        - Supervision mission, April 15-May 1, 2002
        - Supervision mission, January 6-22, 2003
        - ICR mission, June 29-July 15, 2003
6. QAG Report 1998
7. Rapport d'achèvement du projet. République tunisienne, SONEDE et ONAS. Septembre 2003.
8. Contrats Programmes SONEDE-ETAT 1997-2001 and 2002-2006.
9. SONEDE Rapports Statistiques: 2001 and 2002.
10. ONAS Project implementation monitoring reports: December 2002 and April 2003.
11. SONEDE Project implementation monitoring reports: December 2002 and June 2003.
12. Etude économique sur l'eau potable en Tunisie. SONEDE, Lahouel and al. December 1994.
13. Rapport d'Achèvement du Projet Eau Potable et Assainissement. République Tunisienne: Ministère du
Développement et de la Coopération Internationale; Ministère de l'Agriculture, de l'Environnement et des
Ressources Hydrauliques; SONEDE; ONAS. Septembre 2003.




                                                  - 41 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to ICR


1.Préambule

      1.     L'objet du présent rapport est de passer en revue les différentes étapes d'évaluation, de
      mise en oeuvre, d'exécution et d'achèvement du projet "Eau potable et Assainissement".

      2.      A cet effet, deux prêts de la Banque de 29 millions de dollars chacun ont été accordés
      respectivement au Gouvernement Tunisien (prêt 3782 avec une composante alimentation en
      eau potable en milieu rural pour 20 millions de dollars et une composante assainissement pour 9
      millions de dollars) et à la SONEDE (prêt 3783 pour le Grand Tunis).

      3.    Pour le projet de l'ONAS, deux agences d'aide multilatérale ont participé au financement,
      il s'agit de la Banque Nordique d'Investissement (NIB) et du Fonds Nordique de Développement
      (NDF) pour un montant total de 7 millions de dollars. (annexes 1 et 2 )

      4.    Pour le secteur de l'eau potable, la collaboration de la BIRD est devenue une tradition qui
      date de la création de la SONEDE en 1968 et totalise une dizaine de prêts ayant contribué à
      des taux de desserte élevés pour la Tunisie atteignant en 2002, 100% en milieu urbain et 83%
      en milieu rural.

      5.    Pour aider le Gouvernement Tunisien à atteindre les objectifs d'assainissement, la BIRD a
      consenti également en faveur de ce secteur 6 prêts pour la réalisation de plusieurs projets
      depuis la création de l'ONAS en 1974. (annexe 3).

      6.    Approuvé par le conseil d'administration de la Banque le 28 juillet 1994, mis en vigueur le
      18 janvier 1995, le prêt a été clôturé le 30 juin 2003 après un an de prorogation.

2.  Objectifs

      2.1 Objectifs d'origine

      7.    Les objectifs du projet tels qu'ils ont été définis dans l'accord de prêt étaient de :

               a.       Mettre en oeuvre un programme approprié de gestion de la demande et de
               renforcement institutionnel pour accroître l'efficacité de l'exploitation de la SONEDE et
               de l'ONAS et renforcer leurs capacités techniques et financières et ce par la formation
               du personnel, les études, l'assistance technique, l'acquisition de matériel de mesure, une
               campagne de sensibilisation du public en vue d'une rationalisation dans l'usage de l'eau
               et des services d'assainissement.

               b.       Fournir aux zones urbaines et rurales des services d'alimentation en eau et
               d'assainissement qualitativement et quantitativement satisfaisants et facilement
               accessibles par l'expansion et la réhabilitation d'équipements existants, en particulier
               pour les ménages à faible revenu , ce qui se traduit par : la remise en état et l'extension
               des réseaux d'approvisionnement en eau pour le Grand Tunis (cette composante étant
               financée par le prêt 3783-TUN), le raccordement de 320 localités rurales regroupant
               200.000 habitants aux réseaux SONEDE             et l'amélioration des conditions de vie en
               matière d'assainissement de plus de 130.000 habitants répartis sur plusieurs villes
               (financé par le prêt 3782-TUN).

               c.    Promouvoir la réutilisation des eaux épurées dans l'industrie et l'agriculture.



                                                   - 42 -

       d.      Encourager la SONEDE et l'ONAS à sous traiter certaines de leurs activités au
       secteur privé.
8.      Ces objectifs reflétaient les principales priorités de la Tunisie en ce qui concerne le
développement du secteur. Ils étaient cohérents avec la stratégie du Gouvernement pour faire
face aux besoins du pays jusqu'à 2010 et d'éviter les risques de pénuries d'eau.

 2.2 Objectifs révisés

9.   Les objectifs du projet tels qu'ils ont été définis dans l'accord de prêt n'ont pas été révisés.
Toutefois, certaines composantes ont été revues sans pour autant compromettre la réalisation
des objectifs.

2.3 Degré de réalisation des objectifs

 10. Dans l'ensemble, le projet a atteint ses objectifs :

       a.      Au niveau du Grand Tunis, bien que le prêt soit clôturé le 30/06/03, toutes les
       composantes ont été engagées avant cette date. Au 30/06/03 l'ensemble des
       composantes a été réalisé avec un pourcentage d'exécution moyen de 90%, le reste est
       en cours d'exécution par les fonds propres de la SONEDE.

       b.     Pour les zones rurales, 461 localités ont été approvisionnées en eau potable contre
       320 initialement prévues, faisant bénéficier directement 195.000 habitants par des
       branchements individuels et ayant permis de desservir une population additionnelle de
       25.000 habitants par bornes fontaines et ce en recourant à des sources de financement
       autres que celles de la Banque. Ainsi la population totale desservie a atteint 220.000
       habitants.

       c.     Pour le secteur de l'assainissement, le projet a permis le raccordement au réseaux
       de plus de 150.000 habitants contre 130.000 prévus initialement.

       d.       En matière de réutilisation des eaux épurées , celles de la station de Tozeur
       seront réutilisées pour l' irrigation d'un terrain de golf situé dans la zone touristique de «
       RAS EL AIN » d'une superficie de 65 hectares et dont l'aménagement est en cours. Les
       travaux de transfert des eaux épurées vers les terrains de golf d'un coût d'environ 1,5
       millions de dinars seront à la charge du Ministère de Tourisme, du Commerce et de
       l'Artisanat (1 MDT) et de l'ONAS (0,5 MDT).

       e.       Sur le plan institutionnel plusieurs actions ont été menées par la SONEDE et
       l'ONAS dont notamment :
                i.     La mise en place, des deux modules finances et approvisionnements &
                gestion des stocks du progiciel standard intégré JDEdwards OneWorld. Outre le
                partage et l'accès rapide à l'information par tous les utilisateurs, cet outil a rendu
                la justification des comptes plus aisée, l'information comptable et financière de
                meilleure qualité, l'analyse des coûts par centre de coûts ou par activité plus
                développée et la gestion des approvisionnements et les stocks plus maîtrisés.

                ii.      la composante études SONEDE comprenait des études sur (i) le Plan
                Directeur d'alimentation en eau potable du Grand Tunis, qui est achevé sauf la 5
                ème mission ; (ii) le Plan Directeur du Sud Tunisien, arrêté à sa 2ème mission, (iii)
                l'étude sur la sous-traitance de certaines tâches de la SONEDE, aussi achevée.
                La SONEDE a décidé de surseoir au lancement de la 2ème partie de l'étude du
                développement de la participation du secteur privé et se consacrer à la mise en
                application des recommandations de l'étude sur la sous-traitance. En outre la



                                            - 43 -

                     SONEDE a confié au privé la réalisation des extensions des réseaux (94%),
                     l'exécution des branchements (63%) , l'activité gardiennage et certaines études
                     de plans directeurs. La SOENEDE envisage également de réaliser une station
                     de dessalement d'eau de mer éventuellement selon la procédure BOT.

                     iii.       Concernant la sous-traitance des activités d'assainissement, l'ONAS a
                     délégué l'exploitation de la station d'épuration de Tataouine, réalisée dans le
                     cadre du projet, au privé avec 95 km de réseau. Le contrat de délégation d'une
                     durée de 5 ans est entré en vigueur le 01/03/03. l'office est également en face
                     de dépouillement des offres pour la délégation de l'exploitation des stations
                     d'épuration de Tozeur et Nafta au privé. Enfin le dossier d'appel d'offres pour la
                     délégation de l'exploitation au privé de trois autres stations d'épuration (à savoir
                     Jammel ­ Zarmdine, Monastir ­ Frina et Saiada ­ Lamta) est bien avancé. Le
                     programme de l'ONAS prévoit également d'impliquer le secteur privé dans
                     l'exploitation de 1800 km et 26 stations d'épuration.

                     iv.     Deux autres études sont en cours de réalisation :
                                1.       une étude organisationnelle portant sur la restructuration des
                                activités régionales. Cette étude permettra notamment de décentraliser
                                certaines activités du siège vers les régions.
                                2.     une étude sur la restructuration des tarifs de l'eau qui s'achèvera
                                avant la fin de l'année 2003.

                     v.      Des actions de formation parmi les composantes du prêt ont été prévues ;
                     cependant, la SONEDE en recourt à d'autres sources de financement pour
                     réaliser son programme de formation.

3. Composantes du projet

     3.1 Composantes d'origine

     11. A) Alimentation en eau des zones urbaines : Cette composante concerne :

            a.      l'extension de la capacité de traitement de la station de Ghdir el Goula, par la
            construction d'une nouvelle unité de traitement et la réalisation des travaux de
            confortement du site.
            b.    la réhabilitation de certaines sections de conduites, le remplacement de 8.5 km de
            la conduite · 1200 Ras Tabia­Bir Kassâa hors service à l'époque, le raccordement de
            collectivités par l'installation de 29 km de conduites .
            c.     la Construction de réservoirs totalisant une capacité de 25.000 m3 situés dans le
            Grand Tunis.
            d.         l'installation de diverses conduites nécessaires pour relier ces réservoirs et
            améliorer la distribution de l'eau dans le Grand Tunis (amélioration du comptage, des
            conduites d'amenée).

     12.   B) Alimentation en eau des zones rurales : Exécution de sous projets afin
     d'approvisionner 200.000 habitants répartis sur 320 localités.

     13. C) Composante Assainissement
            a.              la construction de 3          stations d'épuration à Tozeur, Tataouine et
            Jammel-Zeramdine.
            b.     la pose d'environ 82 km de conduites et le raccordement de 4.547 logements au
            réseau public d'assainissement.




                                                   - 44 -

14. D) Renforcement institutionnel : Cette composante a pour objectif de permettre à la
SONEDE et à l'ONAS d'améliorer la gestion et ce par :

       a.     l'organisation d'une campagne de sensibilisation des abonnés de la SONEDE pour
       une meilleure utilisation de l'eau : spots télévisés, diffusion des brochures et production
       d'un guide de l'usager.

       b.    Des actions de formation du personnel de la SONEDE.

       c.    L'acquisition par la SONEDE du matériel nécessaire à la détection des fuites d'eau
       et des appareils de mesure, de télégestion, et de télécommande.

       d.       l'acquisition de matériel spécialisé pour les études et de matériel de laboratoire
       nécessaire pour contrôler et suivre le traitement des eaux usées domestiques et
       industrielles.

       e.    la fourniture de service d'assistance technique nécessaire à travers :
                 i.   la mise à jour des plans directeurs d'eau potable du Grand Tunis et du Sud
                 Tunisien.
                 ii.   l'élaboration des études d'exécution du quatrième projet d'assainissement
                 urbain,
                 iii.         l'élaboration d'une étude permettant d'identifier des techniques
                 d'évacuation et de traitement des eaux usées adaptées aux zones rurales.
                 iv.     la mise en place d'une base de données cartographique sur les réseaux
                 d'assainissement (GIS).
                 v.    l'examen des options concernant la participation du secteur privé dans les
                 services d'alimentation en eau potable.

3.2 Composantes révisées

15.   Il est à rappeler que le projet a été évalué sur la base d'études sommaires réalisées en
1994. Au cours de l'élaboration des études d'exécution et durant la réalisation du projet, certains
ajustements (des ajouts et des transferts) ont été effectués en concertation avec la Banque.

3.2.1 Alimentation en eau potable de zones urbaines

16. Les révisions et les principaux ajustements ont touché les composantes suivantes :

       a.       La station de traitement de Ghdir El Goula a été construite moyennant un
       financement du Fond Koweïtien de Développement Economique Arabe (FKDEA). Une
       partie du montant réservé a cette rubrique a été utilisée pour financer la construction
       d'une nouvelle station de traitement de 400 l/s. Cette station a permis d'avoir une
       ressource supplémentaire pour le Grand Tunis et d'exploiter d'une façon rationnelle les
       capacités des conduites de transfert de Oued Ellil et Kasseb. L'autre partie du montant a
       été utilisée dans les autres rubriques.

       b.        La réhabilitation de conduites d'amenée d'eau a été supprimée ; le montant y
       afférent a été employé dans la rubrique « conduites maîtresses » et dans les autres
       composantes essentiellement celles relatives au renforcement institutionnel et
       équipement de comptage.

3.2.2 Composantes eau potable rurale

17. Le nombre de groupements retenus est de 461 contre 320 initialement prévus. Soit 141
groupements en plus , ce qui représente une augmentation de 44%. Ces groupements totalisent


                                           - 45 -

     une population de 195.000 habitants, les extensions du réseau de ces localités ont permis par
     d'autres fonds, de desservir une population additionnelle de près de 25.000 habitants, ramenant
     ainsi la population totale desservie à 220.000 habitants.

     18. Sur les 461 groupements, 459 ont été alimentés. Pour les deux autres projets restants, les
     travaux sont achevés à 99% pour le premier (projet EL Hoshassia situé au gouvernorat de
     Siliana). Pour l'autre projet celui d'El Herri situé au gouvernorat de Béjà, le prêt BIRD n'a
     financé que la composante fourniture de conduites. Les travaux de pose seront réalisés sur
     d'autres sources de financement.

     19. le nombre d'abonnés généré par le projet au terme de l'année 2002 est de 35.925 dont 47
     abonnés GIC qui correspondent à la population additionnelle de 25000 habitants.

     3.2.3 Composante assainissement

     Les ajouts ont concerné :

     20.    Pour la partie financée par la BIRD :
              a.           le renforcement des réseaux d'assainissement dans la ville de Tozeur
              (Assainissement des cités de Ezdihar et El Mattar de population à faible revenu).
              b.     la réalisation de deux projets pilotes d'assainissement rural (Chorfech et Chouigui).
              c.    la réalisation d'un cycle de formation au profit de 40 cadres de l'ONAS.
              d.     l'acquisition de matériel d'exploitation et d'entretien (en deux lots).
              e.       l'étude et la réalisation de deux stations d'épuration type « compact » dans les
              villes de Boumerdès et Fernana.

     21.    Pour la partie financée par la NIB/NDF :
              a.     la réalisation d'une station d'épuration type « compact » dans la ville de Mornag.
              b.     la réalisation d'un système de transfert des eaux usées de la ville de Ghomrassen
              vers la STEP de Tataouine.

     22.        Les transferts ont concerné deux composantes du prêt 3782 vers le prêt BIRD
     N°4175-TUN. Il s'agit de l'élaboration du Schéma Directeur de l'Informatique, des travaux
     d'assainissement du centre rural de Chouigui et de la réalisation d'un système de transfert des
     eaux usées de la ville de Boumerdès.

4. Résultats engendrés par le prêt

     23.   Le prêt a permis d'agir positivement sur plusieurs volets conformément aux objectifs
     assignés aux contrats programmes et au prêt :

     4.1 Mesures de renforcement institutionnel

     24. Sur le plan des mesures de renforcement institutionnel, il a été procédé à :

              a.         La réalisation d'une campagne de sensibilisation des abonnés à de bonnes
              méthodes d'utilisation et de conservation de l'eau. Cette campagne comprend des spots
              télévisées, des brochures, des visites de sensibilisation sur le terrain et la production
              d'un guide de l'usager.
              b.     l'acquisition de matériel nécessaire à la détection des fuites pour la SONEDE,
              c.       l'acquisition de matériel de comptage, de micro portable, d'auto relève pour la
              SONEDE.
              d.       l'élaboration en 1999 d'une étude sectorielle sur la stratégie en assainissement
              rural. Cette étude a permis d'établir un programme défini sur plusieurs étapes avec en
              particulier un projet pilote touchant 30 localités à réaliser au cours du Xème plan.



                                                   - 46 -

  25. Dans le cadre de la stratégie nationale,la SONEDE a entrepris des actions d'économie
d'eau qui ont permis de porter le taux de rendement du réseau d'eau potable de 73 % en 1994 à
80 % en 2002.

4.2 Résultats engendrés pour les zones rurales : " eau potable "

26. Eau potable rurale :
        a.     le prêt a permis de mieux rationaliser la desserte de l'eau, de minimiser les taux de
        fuite d'eau dans les réseaux, d'acquérir des moyens de comptage fiables et de desservir
        une population totale additionnelle de 220 000 habitants à faible revenu.
        b.      il a permis le raccordement, jusqu'à fin 2002, de 35925 nouveaux abonnés et 47
        abonnés GIC.
        c.      depuis la mise en vigueur du prêt, l'évolution annuelle du nombre additionnel des
        nouveaux abonnés en milieu rural est satisfaisante avec une moyenne de 4483 abonnés
        par an (voir annexe 5).
        d.        le prêt a contribué à l'augmentation significative du taux de desserte en milieu
        rural atteignant 83 % entre le Génie Rural et la SONEDE contre un taux de 60,6% avant
        la mise en vigueur du prêt en 1994.
        e.        Afin de s'assurer de l'éligibilité effective des projets, la SONEDE a procédé à
        l'actualisation des fiches d'éligibilité de 30 projets pris comme échantillon par
        l'introduction des données réelles ayant servi à l'élaboration des dites fiches, à savoir la
        population réelle, le coût du projet et la consommation moyenne enregistrée. Les
        résultats ont montré que le gain social par m3 d'eau consommé demeure toujours positif
        (annexes 6).
        f.       le linéaire total des conduites commandées et posées pour le réseau eau potable
        rurale de différents matériaux et tous diamètres confondus est de 1685 km (795 km en
        polyéthylène, 871 km en amiante ciment et 21 km en fonte) contre 1585 km initialement
        prévus ; soit un dépassement de 6% (annexes 7.1 et 7.2).
        g.      l'investissement pour la composante eau potable rurale par localité est de 72 000
        $US contre 100 000 $US prévu initialement. Cette baisse s'explique en partie par
        l'appréciation du dollar et de l'euro, à la chute du prix du pétrole qui a une incidence
        directe sur le prix de la fourniture des conduites en polyéthylène représentant 50%
        environ du linéaire posé.

4.3 Résultats engendrés pour l'assainissement

27. Assainissement :

        a.     la pose de 86 km de réseaux d'assainissement.
        b.      la réalisation de 3 grandes stations d'épuration de capacité totale 18750 m3/j dans
        les villes deTozeur, Tataouine et Jemmal Zeramdine.
        c.          la réalisation de 3 stations d'épuration type compact dans les localités de
        Boumerdès, Fernana et Mornag de capacité totale 7450 m3/j.
        d.     la réalisation de 4750 nouveaux raccordements aux réseaux d'assainissement

28.    La    réalisation des stations d'épuration a été précédé par des études d'impact sur
l'environnement approuvées par l'ANPE.

4.4 Résultats engendrés pour les zones urbaines

29. le prêt a permis l'introduction dans le réseau :
        a.           de conduites en fonte ductile améliorant ainsi la durabilité du réseau, et
        l'amélioration du rendement par la diminution des pertes et casses.



                                             - 47 -

             b.       de conduites en fibres de verre nouvellement testées à la SONEDE dans les
             ouvrages hydrauliques, elles permettront d'éviter les problèmes de corrosion constatée
             avec les conduites en acier généralement utilisées.

    30. Outre l'introduction des conduites en fonte et en fibre de verre citées précédemment, le prêt
    a permis le remplacement d'une grande partie de compteurs de faible précision par d'autres de
    classe supérieure et de meilleure précision. Dans le même but, et afin de mieux gérer son
    réseau, la SONEDE a introduit pour le réseau du Grand Tunis de nouvelles techniques telles
    que la télémesure et la télégestion sur plusieurs sites de réservoirs. Ceci a permis d'avoir des
    informations continues, fiables et instantanées avec un meilleur archivage des données pour une
    exploitation ultérieure. Le système de régulation au sein du pôle principal de production de Ghdir
    El Goula qui assure plus de 80% des besoins en eau du Grand Tunis dont le réseau a été
    intégralement modernisé.

    31. La mise en service de ces composantes avec l'introduction de conduites de gros diamètres
    en fonte ductile, et l'augmentation des réserves de 25 000 m3 ont permis de maintenir une
    continuité dans le service malgré les fluctuations importantes dans la consommation entre les
    saisons et les journées de pointe, ce qui a permis d'étendre le réseau, d'augmenter le nombre
    d'abonnés et par conséquent d'augmenter la consommation d'eau.

    32. le prêt a contribué à l'augmentation du nombre d'abonnés qui est passé de 343.286 en 1994
    à 482.995 abonnés en 2002 soit un nombre additionnel de 139.709 abonnés et une évolution
    globale de 40,7 % engendrant un nombre additionnel d'abonnés annuel moyen de 17.463 ; soit
    une évolution de 5 % ( annexe 8). Cette augmentation importante du nombre d'abonnés
    s'explique par le fait que les infrastructures réalisées dans le cadre du prêt ont permis de
    subvenir aux demandes sans cesse croissantes des différents organismes chargés du secteur de
    l'habitat tels que l'AFH, AFI, SNIT ...

    33. Sur un total de 96,4 km de conduites achetées tous diamètres confondus dans le cadre du
    projet, 79,4 km ont été posées au 30 juin 2003 ; soit un pourcentage de 82%. Le reste est en
    cours de réalisation. Le montant y afférent sera supporté par la SONEDE. (annexe 9).

    34. le volume consommé est passé de 89 millions de m3 en 1994 à 103 millions de m3 en 2002
    ; soit une évolution annuelle de 2%. Cette consommation projetée en 2030 serait à 206 millions
    de m3 avec une croissance annuelle de 2,5% ( annexe 10).


5. Décaissements

    35. A la date de clôture du prêt (30 juin 2003), les retraits sur le prêt 3782 ont atteint :

             a.      pour la composante assainissement les décaissements ont été évalués à 1,25
             M$US pour la partie du prêt libellée en Dollar; soit 100% et 6,18 M pour la tranche
             libellée en Euros; soit 89% du montant total de cette tranche (6,94 M). Au 31 octobre
             2003 le reste du prêt sera totalement décaissé. (annexe 11).

             b.      pour la composante eau potable rurale, les retraits ont atteint 18,301 millions de
             dollars soit un pourcentage de décaissement de 92%. Au 31 Octobre 2003, la part
             réservée à la composante rurale fixée à 20 M$ millions de dollars sera totalement
             consommée. (annexe 12).

    36. Au 30 juin 2003 les décaissements du prêt 3783 pour le Grand Tunis ont atteint 24,331 M$
    millions de dollars soit 84% du montant total . Au 31 octobre 2003 ils passeraient à 26,515 M$
    millions de dollars soit 92% du montant total du prêt fixé à 29 millions de dollars ( annexe 12 ).




                                               - 48 -

6.   Mise en oeuvre du projet

      L'exécution du projet a fait ressortir les enseignements suivants

      37. l'ouverture d'un compte spécial unique pour la SONEDE et l'ONAS n'a pas facilité la
      gestion de ce compte. A l'avenir il est recommandé de créer des comptes spéciaux séparés pour
      chaque agence d'exécution en cas d'emprunt conjoint.

      38. les missions de la Banque ont permis d'assurer un suivi précis des investissements, des
      décaissements et de l'avancement physique du projet. Toutefois compte tenu de la fréquence de
      ces missions qui nécessitent la mobilisation de tous les intervenants sur le prêt avant l'arrivée de
      la mission et en cours de la mission, Il serait judicieux de créer une unité de gestion du projet «
      UGP » au sein de chaque agence d'exécution.

      39. l'appréciation du dollar et de l'Euro au cours de la période du prêt a engendré de nouvelles
      ressources imprévues en dinars, ce qui amené les agences d'exécution à engager de nouvelles
      composantes afin de résorber le prêt.

      40. Au moment de l'évaluation du prêt, la non disponibilité des études détaillées est parfois la
      cause de retards dans la réalisation des composantes pendant la période des prêts.

      41. les procédures d'obtention des différentes autorisations auprès des autorités compétentes
      pour la pose des conduites ont été à l'origine des retards pour la réalisation de certaines
      composantes.

      42. les recommandations récurrentes de la Banque dans ses « Aides Mémoires » ont amené le
      Gouvernement tunisien à :
               a.    Apurer les arriérés de l'Administration vis-à-vis de la SONEDE et l'ONAS.
               b.     Procéder régulièrement à des ajustements tarifaires de l'eau et des redevances
               d'assainissement.

      Difficultés rencontrées au niveau des procédures

      43. les procédures de passation des marchés tant au niveau de la banque qu'au niveau local
      sont lourdes et lentes, causant ainsi des retards dans l'exécution de certaines composantes. De
      même la multiplicité des procédures des différents bailleurs de fonds qui financent les projets de
      l'ONAS et de la SONEDE complique la gestion des marchés. Il serait donc souhaitable d'assurer
      une formation pour tous les intervenants et ce pour mieux connaître les différences entre les
      procédures tunisiennes et celles des bailleurs de fonds.

      44. le cumul des procédures tunisiennes avec celles de la Banque, quand elles ne sont pas
      contradictoires, rallongent les délais de réalisation . Il serait souhaitable dans le futur de réviser à
      la hausse les seuils des montants des appels d'offres pour la « Non Objection à priori » de la
      Banque.

      45. afin de faciliter la gestion du prêt et de diminuer les délais de procédures, il serait aussi
      souhaitable de créer un bureau local de la Banque qui disposera des prérogatives nécessaires.

7. Performances des agences d'exécution

      7.1 Performances de la SONEDE

      46. Grâce à la performance du personnel de la SONEDE tant au niveau des études, du suivi
      des travaux qu'au niveau de l'exploitation, les composantes ont été réalisées d'une façon



                                                  - 49 -

      satisfaisante, ce qui s `est traduit par des taux de réalisation de 90 % pour le Grand Tunis et 100
      % pour le milieu rural.

      47. l'étude du plan directeur du Grand Tunis, financée dans le cadre du prêt 3783, a accusé un
      retard important qui s'est répercuté en partie sur les délais d'exécution de certaines
      composantes du projet. Malgré ce retard, la SONEDE a pu exploiter les différentes ébauches de
      l'étude jugées pertinentes pour mieux atteindre les objectifs qui lui ont été assignés.

      48.     l'exécution du projet a contribué positivement à l'amélioration des indicateurs de
      performance tant financiers que techniques (annexe 14).

      7.2 Performances de l'ONAS

      49. l'ONAS a porté toute son assistance technique et ses moyens matériels et humains durant
      toute la période d'exécution du projet. De plus, une unité de coordination et de gestion du projet
      a été crée au sein de l'ONAS. Cette unité qui est composée d'un coordinateur et d'un chef de
      projet a contribué au bon suivi du projet.

      50. le projet a contribué en partie à l'amélioration de certains indicateurs de performance. Ainsi,
      il a permis le raccordement de 6.200 nouveaux abonnés aux réseaux d'assainissement.

8.   Performances des autorités Tunisiennes

      51.       Le Gouvernement a soutenu toutes les propositions de la SONEDE et de l'ONAS
      concernant le déroulement du projet et a approuvé toutes les recommandations de la Banque
      durant l'évaluation du projet pendant son exécution et ce compte tenu de la conjoncture du pays
      .

9.   Performances de la BIRD

      52.       La Banque a effectué régulièrement des missions de supervision qui ont porté sur
      l'ensemble des projets qu'elle a financées.

      53.    Elle a également soutenu certaines propositions de la SONEDE et de l'ONAS auprès du
      Gouvernement pour respecter en particulier les clauses financières de l'accord du prêt.

      54.    Elle s'est montrée compréhensive à l'adaptation de la consistance du projet aux réalités
      constatées en cours d'exécution dans le but de mieux suivre l'évolution de l'urbanisation.

      55.   Les recommandations de la Banque ont aidé les deux agences d'exécution à instaurer un
      système de comptabilité analytique, une action d'apurement des arriérés ainsi qu'un ajustement
      tarifaire afin d'améliorer leur situation financière.

10 . Performances des bureaux d'études et des entreprises

      56. Certaines entreprises ont enregistré des retards voir même des résiliations de marché par
      manque d'organisation et pour des difficultés financières .

      57.   Le groupement de bureaux d'étude pose certains problèmes de gestion. Une meilleur
      définition des tâches de chaque membre du groupement devra être précisée au niveau du
      contrat. Une formation pour les ingénieurs d'étude pour le suivi des études réalisées par les
      consultants est souhaitable.

11 . Conclusion et recommandations



                                                    - 50 -

58. Les différents objectifs visés par le projet ont été réalisés voir même dépassés. Les réseaux
et ouvrages ont amélioré l'état sanitaire dans les villes bénéficiaires du projet et ont eu un
impact direct sur la protection de l'environnement et l'amélioration des conditions de vie des
habitants.

59. De même, la SONEDE et l'ONAS ont amélioré leur capacité technique, institutionnelle et
financière.

60. Le délai réaliste pour l'exécution d'un projet d'assainissement ne peut pas être inférieur à 8
ou 9 ans. Ce délai doit servir de base aux prochaines évaluations de projets d'importance
similaire.

61. Le fait d'avoir un seul prêt géré par deux agences d'exécution (SONEDE et ONAS) avec un
seul compte spécial , a montré ses limites. Cette situation, combinée avec la conversion du prêt
du Dollar et en Euros au cours de l'exécution, a crée des problèmes au niveau du suivi des
décaissements du prêt. Ce constat doit servir pour les prochains projets.

62. Ce projet a servi pour la préparation du projet d'assainissement du Grand Tunis (pour les
études d'exécution). Ces deux projets étant financés par le même bailleur de fonds. Ainsi, les
études étaient prêtes avant le démarrage du nouveau prêt. Ce fait pourra servir d'exemple pour
les autres projets.

63. La partie financée par la NIB/NDF aurait due être séparée en un projet indépendant. Cette
partie n'a bénéficié ni d'une supervision particulière de la part des nordiques (NIB et NDF) ni de
la part de la Banque mondiale.

64. Le présent projet a permis d'introduire de nouvelles technologies d'épuration à savoir les
stations d'épuration type compact , de tester de nouvelles pratiques de réalisation des stations
d'épuration en l'occurrence le clé en main et de fournir un outil de base pour le secteur de
l'assainissement rural à savoir l'étude sectorielle de la stratégie en assainissement rural.

65. Il est recommandé d'inclure dans le prochain prêt une composante formation des cadres
techniques, administratifs et financiers dans les technologies de pointe et le suivi des études
sous traitées.

66. Afin d'éviter les différences d'interprétation entre les agences d'exécution et les bureaux
d'étude il est recommandé de recourir à une assistance externe pour l'élaboration des termes de
références.

67. Il serait judicieux pour les prochains projets d'envisager la création d'une unité de gestion et
d'un bureau local de la banque.




                                            - 51 -

ANNEXES
Annexe 1: Détails du Prêt 3782 "Eau Potable et Assainissement" - ONAS
Annexe 2: Détails du Prêt 3782 Assainissement - ONAS
Annexe 3: Liste des projets ONAS financés par la BIRD
Annexe 4: Liste des composantes révisées (3783 Grand Tunis)
Annexe 5: Prêt BIRD 3782-TUN: Nombre d'abonnés
Annexe 6: Prêt BIRD 3782-TUN: Evaluation économique de 30 projets
Annexe 7: 1-Linéaire des conduites initialement prévu. 2-Linéaire des conduites posées.
Annexe 8: Evolution du nombre d'abonnés dans le Grand Tunis
Annexe 9: Linéaire de conduites posées dans le Grans Tunis
Annexe 10: Volume consommé dans le Grand Tunis
Annexe 11: Tableau des décaissements du Projet 3782 ONAS
Annexe 12: Prêt BIRD 3782 SONEDE: Situation et prévisions de décaissements
Annexe 13: Prêt BIRD 3783 SONEDE: Allocation initiale et actualisée
Annexe 14: Indicateurs de performance de la SONEDE
Annexe 15: Tableau des réalisations par composante 3783
Annexe 16: Photographies d'ouvrages ONAS
Annexe 17: Evolution des indicateurs de performance de l'ONAS entre 1989 et 2002
Annexe 18: Coût initial du projet 3782 ONAS
Annexe 19: Coût actualisé du projet 3782 ONAS
Annexe 20: Planning de réalisation du projet 3782 ONAS
Annexe 21: Note sur les arrangements pour la poursuite des opérations et l'exploiatation des
investissements réalisés dans le cadre du Projet 3782 ONAS
Annexe 22: Prêt 3782-TUN: Retraits sur le compte du prêt
Annexe 23: Prêt 3783-TUN: Retraits sur le compte spécial 4024064840 et suivi des demandes de
reconstitution
Annexe 24: Prêt 3782-TUN: Situation des retraits et balance du Prêt en dollars US (Eau potable)
Annexe 25: Prêt 3783-TUN: Situation récapitulative des demandes de décaissement
Annexe 26: Prêt 3783-TUN: Situation des retraits et balance du Prêt en dollars US
Annexe 27: Prêt 3783-TUN: Situation des retraits par nature de demandes
Annexe 28: Suivi des aspects environnementaux (ONAS): Suivi de l'exploitation des stations de
Jemmel-Zeremdine, Tozeur, Tataouine, Fernana et Boumerdes

Annexes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26 and 27 are in
project files with original Borrower's contribution.




                                                     - 52 -

                                         Annexe 6
              Composante alimentation en eau potable des zones rurales
                         Evaluation économique de 30 projets

                             FICHES INITIALES                   NOUVELLES FICHES ACTUALISEES
 Projets /Gpts Populatio Coût du  Cons.   Invest. / Gain   Populatio Coût du Cons.   Invest. / Gain
                  n      projet (m3/foyer  foyer    social    n      projet (m3/foyer foyer    social
                        (103 DT)  /an)      (DT)    par m3          (103 DT)  /an)    (DT)     par m3
                                                     (DT)                                       (DT)
EL BASSATINE      5115   500.000       73  488.759    1.759  14666   289.000      86  118.249    1.438
C. KABOUTI        3106   451.000       73 1919.149    3.820   2236   206.000     110  460.850    3.412
BEJOU             2501   393.000       73  811.983    3.345   3078   325.000      76  546.218    3.304
TRIFAYA             210   38.000       73 1085.714    4.270     288   89.000      63 1854.167    4.456
KERMIA (KELBIA)     700  140.000       73 1102.362    4.805     586  123.000     166 1149.533    3.992
KERKOUAN          1200   237.000       73 1247.368    3.170   1506   116.000      74  423.358    3.156
AIN SALLEM        1723   495.000       73 1666.667    2.797   1854   362.000      72 1113.846    2.808
BALTA             3200 1459.000        73 2335.938    0.352   1921 1157.799       51 3015.102    0.050
C. SOUK ESSEBT    7844 1015.000        73 1079.787    0.322   9778   447.812     107  274.731    0.280
MAHJOUBA            640  300.000       73  2343.75    3.717     626  318.000      35 2544.000    4.309
CITE ESSAADA        270   70.000       73 1396.296    3.063     360  253.285     114 3780.373    3.046
OULED HABBASSI      126   30.000       67 1500.000    4.890     232   28.388      83  727.897    4.683
C. EL GHOUALIF    4766   771.000       37  829.032    2.907   5380   614.181      46  570.800    3.471
NEFFOUSSINE         162  134.000       67 4962.963    8.885     192  111.447      85 3482.719    8.535
ACHBA CHIEB       1513   446.000       67 1689.394    4.688   2964   396.293      78  802.213    4.584
C. ENNABCH        2347   601.000       67 1375.286    3.482   2628   476.656      59  997.188    3.737
HDAIDIA             370   53.000       67  981.481    1.757     558   80.419      83  864.720    1.694
C. MSAADIA          540   78.400       67  871.111    3.527     558   46.439      63  499.344    3.733
NORD
C. BEDARNA        1380   442.000      120 1921.739    7.214   2430   223.757     105  552.486    6.408
C. O.FERJANI        605   29.198      120  224.600    5.254     966  103.951     103  590.631    4.721
C. OGLA             900  370.000      160 1466.667    2.175   1782   276.233     199  930.077    1.762
DGHOUMES          1381   145.000      120  630.435    5.226   1455   161.425     119  664.300    4.500
EL ASSAIDA        1095   216.000      120  981.818    3.007   1374   157.950     125  574.364    2.632
OULED HAMDI         300  140.000      120 2333.333    8.123      78   52.837      94 3032.313    7.619
ETTATAOUER        1760   110.000      120  314.286    3.675   2034   154.640      92  379.951    3.428
CITE BOUZNIF        385  121.000      120 1728.571    4.095     558  115.463      39 1143.198    5.203
GMANA 2             300  128.000      120 2327.273    3.572     246  110.339      46 2451.978    4.001
KSAR O. SOLTAN    1987    97.000      120  244.332    4.187   2242    74.072      68  165.339    4.292
HACHEN              240   35.000      120  729.167    4.589     307   40.497      92  525.935    4.280
DOUIRET
OUELGET             385   97.000      120 1385.714    4.166     450   96.713      90 1179.427    3.918
GMANDA




                                           - 53 -

                                                Annexe 21

      Ministère de l'Agriculture, de l'Environnement et des Ressources Hydrauliques
                              Office National d'Assainissement (ONAS)
                                            Septembre 2003
                         PROJET « EAU POTABLE & ASSAINISSEMENT »
                                        (Prêt BIRD N°3782-TUN)
                                     RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT

  Note sur les arrangements pour la poursuite des operations et l'exploitation des
                                           investissements
                                 réalisés dans le cadre du projet

La présente note présentera les différents arrangements engagés par l'ONAS en vu de poursuivre les
opérations et l'exploitation des investissements réalisés dans le cadre du projet « Eau potable et
assainissement ».

A signaler que la plupart des activités du projet ont été intégrées dans les opérations régulières de
l'ONAS ce qui a minimisé le besoin d'arrangements particuliers pour la transition.

En total, le présent projet a permis la pose de 86 km de réseaux d'assainissement et la réalisation de 6
stations d'épuration dont 2 de type « compact ». Ces ouvrages sont répartis, de point de vu exploitation,
comme suit :
        -       2 STEP's à savoir Fernana et Boumerdès sont en cours d'exploitation par les services de
        l'ONAS ;
        -      1 STEP à savoir Tataouine dont l'exploitation vient d'être délégué au privé (à partir      de
        01/03/203)
        -       2 STEP's à savoir Tozeur et Jammel-Zeramdine ou leur exploitations sont en cours d'être
        déléguées au privé ;
        -       1 STEP à savoir Mornag est en cours de construction et dont la mise en exploitation par
        les services de l'ONAS est prévue début 2004.

Les travaux de construction des stations de Tozeur, Fernana et Boumerdès ont été financés par la BIRD,
alors que celle des stations de Tataouine, Jammel-Zeramdine et Mornag ont été financés par la
NIB/NDF.

* La STEP de Tozeur, mise en exploitation depuis 13/07/2000, a été exploitée en premier lieu par les
services de l'ONAS du département régional de Gafsa- Kebelli - Tozeur (Direction Exploitation). Quatre
ouvriers et un chef de station ont été recrutés pour assurer l'exploitation de cette station.
Dans le cadre du programme de participation du secteur privé dans le secteur de l'assainissement, cette
station sera déléguée au privé. Ainsi, les offres pour la délégation de cette station (avec celle de Nafta et
95 km de réseau) sont en phase de dépouillement.
Les principaux caractéristiques techniques de cette station sont les suivantes :
   l    Capacité hydraulique :                    6654 m3/j
   l    Capacité actuelle de traitement :         2573 m3/j
   l    Rendement épuratoire :                    95%
   l    Coût d'exploitation de la station :       164.460,452 DT
   l    Equivalent habitant :                     55484

Le réseau d'assainissement réalisé dans le cadre du projet pour cette ville (38 km) est actuellement
entretenu (curage) par les services du district de Tozeur du département régional de Gafsa- Kebelli -
Tozeur (Direction Exploitation). Les abonnées paient une redevance d'assainissement variable suivant le
volume d'eau consommée.



                                                   - 54 -

* La STEP de Tataouine, mise en exploitation depuis 11/07/1999, a été exploitée en premier lieu par les
services de l'ONAS du département régional de Gabès-Medenine-Tataouine (Direction Exploitation).
Neuf (09) ouvriers ont été recrutés pour assurer l'exploitation de cette station.
Dans le cadre du programme de participation du secteur privé dans le secteur de l'assainissement, cette
station a été déléguée au privé. Ainsi, l'exploitation de cette station est assurée actuellement par le
privé. Le contrat de délégation est entré en vigueur le 1er mars 2003.
Les principaux caractéristiques techniques de cette station sont les suivantes :
   l    Capacité hydraulique :                     5430 m3/j
   l    Capacité actuelle de traitement :          1413 m3/j
   l    Rendement épuratoire :                     89%
   l    Coût d'exploitation de la station en 2002 :103.170 DT
   l    Nombre d'abonnées :                        38554

Le réseau d'assainissement réalisé dans le cadre du projet pour cette ville (33 km) est actuellement
entretenu (curage) par les services du district de Tataouine relevant du départment régional de
Gabès-Medenine-Tataouine        (Direction   Exploitation).  Les    abonnées     paient  une    redevance
d'assainissement variable suivant le volume d'eau consommée.

* La STEP de Jammel-Zeramdine, mise en exploitation depuis janvier 2000, a été exploité en premier
partie par les services de l'ONAS du département régional de Monastir- Mahdia (Direction Exploitation).
Quatre ouvriers ont été recrutés pour assurer l'exploitation de cette station.
Dans le cadre du programme de participation du secteur privé dans le secteur de l'assainissement, un
dossier d'appel d'offres pour la délégation au privé de l'exploitation           de 3 STEP's y compris cette
station est en cours de préparation.
Les principaux caractéristiques techniques de cette station sont les suivantes :
   l    Capacité hydraulique :                     6700 m3/j
   l    Capacité actuelle de traitement :          3549 m3/j
   l    Rendement épuratoire :                     96%
   l    Coût d'exploitation de la station/an :     136.465 DT
   l    Nombre d'abonnés :                         11420

Le réseau d'assainissement réalisé dans le cadre du projet pour cette ville (16 km) sont actuellement
entretenu (curage) par les services du centre de Jammel-Zeramdine du département régional de
Monastir-Mahdia (Direction Exploitation). Les abonnées paient une redevance d'assainissement variable
suivant le volume d'eau consommé.

* La STEP de Boumerdès, mise en exploitation depuis mars 2003, est exploitée actuellement par les
services de l'ONAS du département régional de Monastir- Mahdia (Direction Exploitation). 01 ouvrier a
été recruté pour assurer l'exploitation de cette station.

Les principaux caractéristiques techniques de cette station de type « compact » sont les suivantes :
   l    Capacité hydraulique :                     700 m3/j
   l    Charge polluante en DBO5 :                 350 kg/j
   l    Capacité actuelle de traitement :          250 m3/j
   l    Rendement épuratoire :                     96%
   l    Nombre d'abonnés :                         3180

Cette station avec celle de Fernana constitue une première expérience de l'ONAS en terme de procédé
de traitement de type compact.

* Pour la STEP de Fernana, mise en exploitation depuis mars 2003, est exploitée actuellement par les
services de l'ONAS du département régional de Jendouba- El kef (Direction Exploitation). 02 ouvrier ont
été recrutés pour assurer l'exploitation de cette station.



                                                    - 55 -

Les principaux caractéristiques techniques de cette station de type « compact » sont les suivantes :
    l   Capacité hydraulique :            270 m3/j
    l   Charge polluante en DBO5 :        162 kg/j
    l   Capacité actuelle de traitement : 180 m3/j
    l   Rendement épuratoire :            95%
    l   Coût d'exploitation de la STEP :
            o    Energie :                1000 DT
            o    Personnel :              800 DT
            o    Analyses :               300 DT
    l   Abonnés à la station :            90% (1880 habitants)

Remarque
Pour la STEP de Mornag : les travaux de construction de cette station sont en cours (Génie civil : 100%
et équipements en cours de livraison). La mise en exploitation de cette station est prévue pour début
2004, alors que son exploitation sera assurée par le département régional de Ben Arous (Direction
Exploitation).

Les principaux données de dimensionnement de cette station sont les suivantes :

                              o           Population :             34700 habitants ;
                              o           Equivalent habitant :    42500 Eq. Habitants ;
                              o           Débit moyen journalier : 3200 m3/j ;
                              o           Charge en DBO5 :         1700 kg DBO5/j soit 500 mg/l ;
                              o           Azote total :            288 kg/j soit 90 mg/l ;
                              o           Azote ammoniacal :       192 kg N-NH4/j soit 60 mg/l ;
                              o           Phosphore total :       80 kg/j soit 25 mg/l ;
                              o           Phosphate :             54 kg/j soit 17 mg/l.

Il ressort de ce qui précède que les ouvrages réalisés dans le cadre du projet ont été intégrés dans les
services de l'ONAS compétents dans les régions correspondantes.
L'importance du réseau réalisé dans le cadre du présent projet n'est pas de nature à perturber la marche
des services concernés et ne nécessite pas de renforcement des moyens de ces services.

Pour les stations d'épuration, certains ont été ou vont être confiées au secteur privé pour assurer leur
exploitation. Pour le reste, l'ONAS a recruté le personnel nécessaire pour assurer un fonctionnement
adéquat.

Pour le suivi de fonctionnement de la station d'épuration, des protocoles d'analyses et de mesure (pH,
débit, DBO5, DCO, etc.) sont réalisés journalièrement et consignés dans un rapport d'exploitation. Pour
le réseau, l'activité d'exploitation est suivi par des rapports journaliers sur le mètre linéaire curé dans
chaque centre d'exploitation de l'ONAS.




                                                    - 56 -

            Société Nationale d'Exploitation et de Distribution des Eaux (SONEDE)
                                Projet Eau Potable et Assainissement
                                             Prêt BIRD 3782-TUN

                Note sur les arrangements des opérations et l'exploitation des
                                              investissements
                                          après la clôture du prêt

La SONEDE, ayant la responsabilité d'assurer la continuité de la distribution d'eau sur tout le territoire, a
mis en oeuvre une organisation souple et efficace en matière d'exploitation et de maintenance
permettant une utilisation optimale des réseaux et des équipements.
Pour assurer cette fonction, la SONEDE a mis en place des structures locales et régionales qui oeuvrent
ensemble, et d'une façon cohérente au maintien en bon état des réseaux et des équipements.

ORGANISATION DE LA GESTION TECHNIQUE DES RESAUX

Concernant la gestion des réseaux et des ouvrages hydrauliques, la SONEDE ne distingue pas entre
urbain et rural. Elle applique les mêmes règles et les mêmes procédures pour les deux milieux.

1. Sur le plans organisationnel, la SONEDE dispose de quatre directions régionales (Nord -
Grand-Tunis ­ Centre et Sud) et de trente huit Districts qui couvrent l'ensemble du territoire, et qui
assurent les deux fonctions commerciale et technique.
Un District est doté de plusieurs unités de travaux qui opèrent dans des secteurs bien délimités et qui
sont dimensionnés en moyens humains et matériels selon des critères précis (nombre d'abonnés, rayon
d'action, importance de l'infrastructure hydraulique etc.).
La SONEDE dispose de 180 unités de travaux pour 1.750.000 abonnés, soit environ 10.000
abonnés/unité.
Ces unités sont composés généralement d'un Chef de travaux (Ingénieur Adjoint), d'un certain nombre
de surveillants de réseaux et d'équipes d'interventions.

2. Gestion technique des réseaux
Le District à travers les Services Techniques (Etudes et Exploitation) et les unités de travaux assure
l'exploitation courante des réseaux, l'entretien curatif (la gestion des interventions) et l'entretien préventif
par la réalisation des programmes annuels préalablement établis, discutés et validés.

Programme d'entretien préventif
Le programme d'entretien préventif comprend :
Les travaux de réhabilitation de conduites et de branchements.
Annuellement, la SONEDE programme environ 150 Kms de conduites représentant 0,5 % de la longueur
totale du réseau. L'objectif consiste à atteindre 1%.
Elle remplace les branchements en plomb (300.000) par du polyéthylène à concurrence de 25.000/an.
L'objectif à remplacer les branchements restants à raison de 50 000/an.

Recherche de fuites
  - Sous-traitance : 1.200 km/an
  - En régie : 1.000 km/an
    (Soit 6% de la longueur totale des réseaux)
    Les zones qui font l'objet d'une recherche de fuites sont identifiées et dégagées
    suite à un travail de sectorisation.
Comptage et régulation
Tous les systèmes hydrauliques ( quelque soit leur importance ) sont régulés et comptés. La
surveillance est assurée à distance pour la majorité des systèmes par des
installations de télémesure. L'objectif tracé consiste à généraliser la télémesure et de doter les pôles



                                                    - 57 -

importants par des installations de télégestion.

Amélioration des centres ruraux
Le programme d'investissement prévoit annuellement un budget pour l'amélioration des centres ruraux.
Ces améliorations peuvent toucher les ressources, les adductions, les réseaux et éventuellement les
réseaux e distribution.

Réalisation des programmes
 - Les travaux d'entretien curatif sont réalisés à 40 % par sous-traitance, et le reste en régie.
 - Les travaux d'entretien préventif sont réalisés à 80 % par sous-traitance, et le reste en régie.
 - Le programme d'amélioration des centres ruraux est réalisé en totalité par sous-traitance.
L'objectif de la SONEDE est de développer la sous-traitance en vue de couvrir toutes les activités de la
Société même celles nécessitant une technicité élevée.

3. Maintenance préventive systématique
Dans le but de réduire les pannes et d'optimiser les coûts d'exploitation, la SONEDE à travers ses
structures régionales de maintenance élabore annuellement un programme de maintenance préventive
selon des critères prédéfinis.
Ces programmes fixent clairement les travaux à faire, le matériel à acquérir, la date de la dernière
intervention, l'opérateur, etc. Ils permettent de suivre les équipements et de réduire les pannes
mécaniques.

CONCLUSION

Suivant la politique instaurée par la SONEDE en matière d'exploitation, de gestion et de maintenance
des différents réseaux et équipements, après la clôture du prêt 3782, les systèmes ruraux seront gérés
de la même manière que les systèmes urbains situés à proximité avec les moyens humains et matériels
disponibles qui seront renforcés en cas de nécessité.




                                                    - 58 -

                                                Annexe 28

        Ministère de l'Agriculture, de l'Environnement et des Ressources Hydrauliques
                               Office National d'Assainissement (ONAS)
                                             Septembre 2003
                          PROJET « EAU POTABLE & ASSAINISSEMENT »
                                        (Prêt BIRD N°3782-TUN)
                                      RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT
                            Note Sur le Suivi des aspects environnmentaux
                    des Stations d'epuration réalisees dans le cadre du projet

                            Suivi de l'Exploitation des Stations d'épuration
               de Jemmel-Zaremdine ,Tozeur ,Tataouine, Fernena et Boumerdas

I / données générales :
I-1 ) Année de mise en service des STEP :

              STEP               Jemmel-Zaremdine   Tozeur Tataouine Fernana Boumerdes
    Année de mise en service           2000          2000      1999      2003       2003


I-2 ) Procédé de traitement :

  STEP Jemmel-Zaremdine        Tozeur Tataouine       Fernana         Boumerdes
Procédé        Aération       Aération Aération Compacte Aération Compacte Aération
               prolongée     prolongée prolongée
                                                     prolongée         prolongée


I-3 ) Paramètres de dimensionnement :

      STEP             Unité      Jemmel-Zaremdine    Tozeur      Tataouine        Fernana     Boumerdes
      Débit            m                6700           6654          5430            270          700
                         3/j


      Charge        Kg DBO5/j           3127           2845          2225            162          350
    biologique


I-4 ) Provenance des eaux usées :

     STEP        Jemmel-Zaremdine    Tozeur Tataouine Fernana Boumerdes
  Domestique           91 %           85 %     90 %      100 %     100 %
  Touristique           0 %           3 %       1 %         -         -
    Industriel          9 %           12 %      9 %         -         -


II Suivi de la qualité des eaux usées :

- Le suivi de la qualité des eaux brutes et épurées s'effectue dans les laboratoires :
                    · Des Stations d'épuration
                    ·  Régionaux
                    ·  Du Centre International de Technologie de l'Environnement.
 - Les paramètres et les fréquences d'analyses sont établis selon un programme bien déterminé .
- Les résultats d'analyses sont réexaminés par les services centraux (DATC)             en proposant aux
exploitants des solutions pour une meilleure gestion de ces stations .
 III) Quantité et qualité actuelles des eaux
(valeurs moyennes jusqu'au Juillet 2003) :



                                                   - 59 -

     Paramètres          Unité         Jemmel                  Tozeur                Tataouine
                                      Zaremdine
        Débit            m /j            3549                   2573                     1413
                           3


                                    Entrée ­ sortie        Entrée ­ sortie          Entrée ­ sortie
  Charge en DBO          Kg/j       1640         64       1536         75         406           45
                   5


     Rendement           %                96                     95                       89
      Epuratoire
                                    Entrée ­ sortie        Entrée ­ sortie          Entrée ­ sortie
         MES             mg/l       536          21        751         30         692           16

IV ) Gestion actuelle des boues

- Les boues produites des Stations d'épuration posent actuellement des problèmes de gestion (difficultés
d'évacuation ),pour cela , l'ONAS envisage de réaliser une étude de gestion qui permettre de présenter
les solutions techniquement faisable et économiquement rentable (valorisation , la mise en décharge ,
l'enfouissement in situ et toutes autres formes d'escamotage .

- Une fois les boues sont séchées et vue la restriction de leur vente et l'absence des normes pour leur
valorisation, les boues sont stockées au niveau des stations d'épuration à part les boues de la station
Tataouine qui est envoyée à la décharge publique.

- Les volumes des boues produites par les trois stations sont indiqués dans le tableau suivant :

                       STEP                         Jemmel-Zaremdine          Tozeur           Tataouine
  Volume de boue humide en m /an                          8395                9284                2849
                                 3        (2002 )
 Volume de boue humide m3/ mois (jusqu'au juillet          777                 895                1573
                       2003 )

V ) Gestion des nuisances : odeurs et insectes

                                           TRAITEMENT
          STEP                         Odeurs                 Insectes
   Jemmel ­ Zaremdine                  Chaux               Insecticides *
          Tozeur                   Sulfate de fer,         Insecticides *
                             Chaux, désodorisant RC 600
        Tataouine                      Chaux               Insecticides *

* Les insecticides sont utilisés selon les recommandations du ministère de la santé publique.

VI ) Destination des eaux épurées :
 - Le rejet actuel des eaux épurées de ces trois stations d'épuration est indiqué dans le tableau suivant :

      STEP          Jemmel-Zaremdine         Tozeur           Tataouine
  Milieu de rejet    Oued EL MALEH      Chott EL JERID    Oued Tataouine

- Le programme de réutilisation des eaux épurées durant le Xème plan est mentionné ci dessous :

         Réutilisation             STEP         Jemmel-Zaremdine      Tozeur           Tataouine
                              Type de périmètre Périmètre irrigué    Terrain de  Parcelle expérimentale
 Situation projetée ( X                                                 Golf
                      èmePlan
               )              Superficie   (ha)       180               150                4


VII) Renforcement des capacités du personnel exploitant des STEP
  Durant l'année 2003 l'ONAS a organisé en collaboration avec des centres spécialisés (Exemple :



                                                    - 60 -

CITET) des activités de formations multidisciplinaires pour le personnel exploitant (cadres et agents) des
STEP's avec plusieurs thèmes : Epuration et gestion des stations d'épuration, Exploitation des biofiltres
et traitement des odeurs dans les STEPs, la sécurité dans les laboratoires et les STEPs, désinfection des
eaux épurées, Traitement des effluents liquides et industriels, les nouvelles techniques d'épuration,
conception et dimensionnement des STEPS              des petites collectivités rurales , conception et
dimensionnement des STEPS urbaines à boue activée, Techniques d'analyses des métaux lourds par
absorption atomique (analyses chromatographiques, observations microscopiques) et prélèvement et
échantillonnage dans le cadre du contrôle de la qualité des eaux.




                                                  - 61 -

- 62 -

