Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3783 TUN
                              Loan Agreement
                    (Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
                                  between
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                                    and
                  SOCIETE NATIONALE D'EXPLOITATION ET DE
                           DISTRIBUTION DES EAUX
                         Dated September 21, 1994
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3783 TUN
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated September 21, 1994, between the INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the SOCIETE NATIONALE
D'EXPLOITATION ET DE DISTRIBUTION DES EAUX (the Borrower).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Republic of Tunisia (the Guarantor) and the Borrower,
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith
between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee
the obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan; and
      (C)   the Guarantor intends to contract from other external sources
of funds (the Cofinanciers) one or more loans (the Cofinanciers Loans) in
an aggregate amount equivalent to ten million seven hundred thousand dollars
($10,700,000) to assist in financing part of the cost of Part C of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in agreements (the
Cofinanciers Loan Agreements) to be entered into between the Guarantor and
the Cofinanciers;
Page  2
      (D)   by a loan agreement of even date herewith (the Republic of
Tunisia Loan Agreement, as further defined in Section 1.02 (e) of this
Agreement) the Bank has agreed to make available a loan (the Republic of
Tunisia Loan) to the Guarantor in an aggregate amount equivalent to twenty-
nine million dollars ($29,000,000) to assist in financing part of the cost
of the Project on the terms and condi- tions set forth in the Republic of
Tunisia Loan Agreement, in the SONEDE Project Agreement of even date
herewith between the Bank and the Borrower and in the ONAS Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and the Office National de
l'Assainissement (ONAS);
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph
(l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which
      any further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the
      provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of
      Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Basic Legislation" means the Guarantor's Law No. 68-22 dated
July 2, 1968, as amended and completed by the Guarantor's Law No. 76-21
dated January 21, 1976, pursuant to which the Borrower has been established
and is operating as an industrial and commercial public institution
(etablissement public a caractere industriel et commercial);
      (b)   "Category" means a Category of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement; and the term "Categories" means more than one Category
collectively;
      (c)   "Central Bank" means the Central Bank of Tunisia (Banque
Centrale de Tunisie) established and operating pursuant to the Guarantor's
Law No. 58-90 dated September 19, 1958, as the same may be amended from time
to time;
      (d)   "Fiscal Year" or "FY" means the twelve (12) month period
corresponding to any of the Guarantor's fiscal years, which period commences
on January 1 and ends on December 31 in each calendar year;
      (e)   "Republic of Tunisia Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement
of even date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank for the Project
(Loan No. 3782 TUN);
      (f)   "SONEDE's Financial, Investment and Operational Targets" means
the financial, investment and operational targets designed to enable the
Borrower to enhance its operational efficiency and strengthen its financial
situation during the Fiscal Years 1994 through 2002, as the same may be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section A (c)
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
Page  3
      (g)   "Performance Contract" means the agreement (contrat-programme),
dated June 10, 1994, between the Borrower and the Guarantor setting forth
reciprocal undertakings designed to enable the Borrower to achieve certain
financial, investment and operational targets during the Fiscal Years 1994
through 1996;
      (h)   "SONEDE Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and the Borrower of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental
to the SONEDE Project Agreement;
      (i)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement; and
      (j)   "Sub-project" means a specific rural water supply sub-project:
(i) which, pursuant to the provisions of Section B of Schedule 2 to the
SONEDE Project Agreement, shall have been approved by the Bank to be carried
out under Part B of the Project; and (ii) to construct, upgrade,
rehabilitate and maintain rural water supply systems.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
twenty-nine million dollars ($29,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of
the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the Central Bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
                  date immediately preceding each date specified in Section
                  2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest
                  Period in which this Agreement is signed.
Page  4
           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                  percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
                  the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
                  borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which
                  may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as provided in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section.
          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                  months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months'
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section
shall be amended to read as follows:
            "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of
      the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for
      each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
      respect of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2
      of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
      Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal
      amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
            "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the
      Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
            "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on
      January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually
on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and,
to this end, shall carry out Parts A, D.1, D.2, D.3 and D.5 (i) and (ii) of
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, economic, engineering, environmental, financial,
public utility and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
Parts A, D.1, D.2, D.3 and D.5 (i) and (ii) of the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall carry out Parts A, D.1, D.2, D.3 and D.5 (i) and (ii) of the
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule
5 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods, works and consultants' services required for Parts A, D.1,
D.2, D.3 and D.5 (i) and (ii) of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                 Management and Operations of the Borrower
      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and public
utility practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
Page  5
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain its
plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in
accordance with sound engineering, financial and public utility practices.
      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
                                 ARTICLE V
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial statements
                  (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
                  related statements) and the records and accounts for the
                  Special Account for each Fiscal Year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                  to the Bank;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                  not later than nine (9) months after the end of each such
                  year: (A) certified copies of its financial statements
                  for such year as so audited; and (B) the report of such
                  audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said records, accounts and financial statements as well
                  as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
                  Section, records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
                  received the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out
                  of the Special Account was made, all records (contracts,
                  orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
      Section 5.02. The provisions of Sections 4.03 and 4.04 of the Project
Agreement between the Bank and the Borrower dated February 7, 1984 (Loan No.
2368 TUN - Seventh Water Supply Project) are hereby amended to read as set
Page  6
forth in Sections 5.03 and 5.04, respectively, of this Agreement.
      Section 5.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the
revenues and expenditures of the Borrower shows that the estimated net
revenues of the Borrower for each Fiscal Year during the term of the debt
to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated debt service
requirements of the Borrower in such year on all debt of the Borrower
including the debt to be incurred.
      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Borrower
                  maturing by its terms more than one year after the date
                  on which it is originally incurred.
           (ii)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred under a loan contract
                  or agreement or other instrument providing for such debt
                  or for the modification of its terms of payment on the
                  date of such contract, agreement or instrument.
          (iii)   The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
                  (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources related to
                        operations and net non-operating income; and
                  (B)   the sum of all expenses related to operations
                        including administration, adequate maintenance,
                        taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding
                        provision for depreciation, other non-cash
                        operating charges and interest and other charges on
                        debt.
           (iv)   The term "net non-operating income" means the difference
                  between:
                  (A)   revenues from all sources other than those related
                        to operations; and
                  (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of
                        taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in
                        (A) above.
            (v)   The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
                  amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if
                  any) of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
           (vi)   The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared
                  by the Borrower not earlier than twelve months prior to
                  the incurrence of the debt in question, which both the
                  Bank and the Borrower accept as reasonable and as to
                  which the Bank has notified the Borrower of its
                  acceptability, provided that no event has occurred since
                  such notification which has, or may reasonably be
                  expected in the future to have, a material adverse effect
                  on the financial condition or future operating results of
                  the Borrower.
          (vii)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
                  necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the
                  Guarantor, debt payable in another currency, such
                  valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing
                  lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency is,
                  at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                  purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of
                  such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable
                  to the Bank.
      Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall generate, for each of its Fiscal Years after its Fiscal Year
ending on December 31, 1993 funds from internal sources equivalent to not
less than 30% of the annual average of the Borrower's capital expenditures
Page  7
incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that year and the two (2) next
following Fiscal Years.
      (b)   Before November 30 in each of its Fiscal Years, the Borrower
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory
to the Bank, review whether it would meet the requirements set forth in
paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the two (2) next following Fiscal
Years and shall furnish to the Bank a copy of such review upon its
completion.
      (c)   If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower's Fiscal Years
covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure or
levels of its rates) in order to meet such requirements.
      (d)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   The term "funds from internal sources" means the
                  difference between:
                  (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources related to
                        operations (excluding operations carried out on
                        behalf of the Guarantor), consumer deposits and
                        consumer contributions in aid of construction, net
                        non-operating income and any reduction in working
                        capital other than cash; and
                  (B)   the sum of all expenses related to operations
                        (excluding operations carried out on behalf of the
                        Guarantor), including administration, adequate
                        maintenance and taxes and payments in lieu of taxes
                        (excluding provision for depreciation and other
                        non-cash operating charges), debt service
                        requirements, all cash dividends and other cash
                        distributions of surplus, increase in working
                        capital other than cash and other cash outflows
                        other than capital expenditures.
           (ii)   The term "net non-operating income" means the difference
                  between:
                  (A)   revenues from all sources other than those related
                        to operations; and
                  (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of
                        taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in
                        (A) above.
          (iii)   The term "working capital other than cash" means the
                  difference between current assets excluding cash and
                  current liabilities at the end of each Fiscal Year.
           (iv)   The term "current assets excluding cash" means all assets
                  other than cash which could in the ordinary course of
                  business be converted into cash within twelve months,
                  including accounts receivable, marketable securities,
                  inventories and pre-paid expenses properly chargeable to
                  operating expenses within the next Fiscal Year.
            (v)   The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities
                  which will become due and payable or could under
                  circumstances then existing be called for payment within
                  twelve months, including accounts payable, customer
                  advances, debt service requirements, taxes and payments
                  in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
           (vi)   The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
                  amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if
                  any) of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
          (vii)   The term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures on
Page  8
                  account of fixed assets, including interest charged to
                  construction, related to operations (excluding operations
                  carried out on behalf of the Guarantor).
         (viii)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
                  necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the
                  Guarantor, debt payable in another currency, such
                  valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing
                  lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency is,
                  at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                  purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of
                  such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable
                  to the Bank.
      Section 5.05. The Borrower agrees, within the limits of its
prerogatives to set levels of its water tariffs:
      (a)   to restructure, not later than December 31, 1998, the existing
block rate structure for water consumption tariffs in accordance with
guidelines satisfactory to the Bank and which would, in particular: (i)
allow the Borrower and the Guarantor to better target consumers who need to
be subsidized; and (ii) permit an in-depth and improved analysis of the
intramarginal rate so as to better capture and predict changes in consumers'
behaviors; and
      (b)   to take all necessary measures to reach, not later than June 30,
2002, the long run marginal cost for water tariffs, including, without
limitation, increases for each of its Fiscal Years after its Fiscal Year
ending on December 31, 1993, to the overall level of existing water tariffs,
of seven percent (7%), or such other percentage necessary to achieve such
requirement.
      Section 5.06. The Borrower shall take all adequate action necessary
to ensure that a separate cost-accounting system to monitor and evaluate the
cost of its operations, including those in rural areas, shall be implemented
and operational not later than December 31, 1996 in accordance with
guidelines satisfactory to the Bank.
                                ARTICLE VI
                           Remedies of the Bank
      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   The Guarantor shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Republic of Tunisia Loan Agreement.
      (b)   The Bank shall have exercised its right under Section 5.01 of
the Republic of Tunisia Loan Agreement.
      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
      (b)   The event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 6.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VII
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely, that all conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of the Republic of Tunisia Loan Agreement
have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this
Agreement.
Page  9
      Section 7.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date
of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VIII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 8.01. The President Director General of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      For the Borrower:
            Societe Nationale d'Exploitation
              et de Distribution des Eaux
            23, Rue Jawaher Lel Nehru
            Tunis
            Republic of Tunisia
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  SONEDE                    14262 TN
                  Tunis
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Caio Koch-Weser
                        Regional Vice President
                        Middle East and North Africa
                        SOCIETE NATIONALE D'EXPLOITATION ET DE
                          DISTRIBUTION DES EAUX
                        By /s/ Oussama Romdhani
                        Authorized Representative
Page  10
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil Works               7,000,000         100% of foreign
    and Pipeline                                expenditures and
    Construction                                50% of local
    for Part A of                               expenditures
    the Project
(2) Materials and             15,000,000        100% of foreign
    Equipment for                               expenditures and
    Parts A and D.3                             70% of local
    of the Project                              expenditures
(3) Technical                  4,000,000        100%
    Assistance, Studies
    and Training
    for Parts D.1,
    D.2 and D.5 (i)
    and (ii) of the
    Project
(4) Unallocated                3,000,000
                              __________
         TOTAL                29,000,000
                              ==========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor;
and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Guarantor.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods, works
and services of consulting firms under contracts not exceeding $100,000
equivalent; and (ii) services of individual consultants under contracts not
exceeding $50,000 equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to assist the Guarantor in: (i)
implementing a suitable demand management program and institutional building
measures so as to increase the operational efficiency of the Borrower and
ONAS and strengthen their technical and financial capabilities; (ii)
providing safe, adequate and easily accessible water supply and sanitation
services in the urban and rural areas, through the expansion and
rehabilitation of existing facilities, in particular those in low-income
households; (iii) promoting the reuse of treated sewage for irrigation and
industrial use; and (iv) encouraging the Borrower and ONAS to contract some
Page  11
of their operations to the private sector.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Urban Water Supply
1.  Expansion of the Gdir-el-Goula treatment plant of Tunis through the
construction of a new treatment unit and the execution of site stabilization
works.
2.  Rehabilitation of selected portions of the Borrower's transport and
distribution pipelines, including the replacement of the 8.5 km 1200 mm
diameter Ras Tabia-Bir Kasaa pipeline and the installation of about 29 km
of smaller diameter pipeline to adjacent communities.
3.  Construction of reservoirs totalling a storage capacity of 25,000m3 in
the Grand Tunis area.
4.  Installation of miscellaneous pipework necessitated to connect the
reservoirs of Part A.3 hereof and improve water distribution.
Part B:   Rural Water Supply
    Carrying out of Sub-projects to service about 200,000 people amongst
about 320 localities.
Part C:   Sewerage
    Construction of sanitary sewage treatment facilities in each of
Tataouine, Tozeur and Jammel-Zermeddine, and extension and rehabilitation
of related collection and sewerage systems as required to make such
facilities operational.
Part D:   Institutional Strengthening
    Carrying out of a program to improve the Borrower's and ONAS' efficiency
in managing their operations, consisting of:
1.  Delivery of a campaign to raise the awareness of the Borrower's
customers on proper use and conservation of water, including, inter alia,
provision of television advertising, brochures, site visits, and production
of a users' guide.
2.  Provision of training to the Borrower's staff.
3.  Provision to the Borrower of equipment necessary for water supply leak
detection, and measuring, monitoring and control equipment.
4.  Provision to ONAS of: (i) laboratory equipment required to control and
monitor the treatment of domestic and industrial waste water; and (ii)
specialized equipment required for the activities referred to in Part D.5
(iii), (iv) and (v) hereof.
5.  Provision of technical assistance necessary for the imple- mentation of:
(i) an adequate update of the water supply master plans for Greater Tunis
and southern Tunisia; (ii) a study to examine options for private sector
participation in water supply services; (iii) final design studies for a
proposed Fourth Sewerage Project; (iv) a study to identify appropriate
disposal and treatment technologies in rural areas; and (v) a cartographic
database for sewerage collection networks designed to improve the management
of ONAS' systems.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                    Payment of Principal
Page  12
    Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
    beginning on April 1, 2000
    through April 1, 2011                1,210,000
And on October 1, 2011                   1,170,000
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as
    of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
    3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:
    Time of Prepayment                         Premium
                                   The interest rate (expressed as a
                                   percentage per annum) applicable to the
                                   Loan on the day of prepayment multiplied
                                   by:
Not more than three years                      0.18
    before maturity
More than three years but                      0.35
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                        0.65
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                     0.88
    more than 15 years
    before maturity
More than 15 years before                      1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
Page  13
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods, works and turnkey contracts
for treatment plants under Part A of the Project shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods, works and turnkey contracts for
treatment plants under Part A of the Project in accordance with this Part
A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to
be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms
agreed with the Bank.
2.  Bidders for the construction of treatment plants under Part A of the
Project shall be prequalified as provided in paragraph 2.10 of the
Guidelines.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of Tunisia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1
through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
Local Competitive Bidding
1.  Contracts for: (i) goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $350,000
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent
of $6,000,000, and (ii) civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$3,000,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $13,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Local Shopping
2.  Small contracts for goods and/or works estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or less per contract and spare parts for brand equipment, up to
an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $1,500,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations solicited, respectively, from a list of at least three (3)
suppliers or at least three (3) contractors, as the case may be, eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of prequalification:
    With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part A.2
hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
2.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each: (i) contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $350,000 or more; and (ii) contract for works estimated to
Page  14
cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2
(d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment
out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
3.  The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.     Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts D.1, D.2, D.3 and
D.5 (i) and (ii) of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants: (i)
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) who shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the
Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the standard
form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall
use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to
(a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less
than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the employment of
individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 each. However, saidexceptions to prior 
Bank review shall not apply to (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting
firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for consulting firms raising the contract
value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for
the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to
$50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Program
    The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement.
A.  Performance Monitoring
    The Borrower shall:
    (a)   Implement the Performance Contract with due diligence and
efficiency and at all times take all necessary action to achieve the
objectives thereof;
    (b)   Monitor and evaluate, in accordance with performance indicators,
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of SONEDE's Financial,
Investment and Operational Targets;
Page  15
    (c)   Prepare and furnish to the Guarantor and the Bank: (i) not later
than the 30th day after the end of each semester in each Fiscal Year; and
(i) not later than June 30 in each Fiscal Year, a report, of such scope and
in such detail as the Borrower and the Bank shall establish, on the progress
achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Project and the conclusions and
recommendations resulting from the monitoring and evaluation activities
performed pursuant to paragraph (b) above, together with any revisions
proposed to be introduced into SONEDE's Financial, Investment and
Operational Targets; and
    (d)   Exchange views with the Guarantor and the Bank on said reports,
and, thereafter, undertake the remedial measures which the Guarantor, the
Bank and the Borrower shall have agreed are necessary to ensure the proper
execution of the Project and the efficient management of the Borrower.
B.  1997-2001 Performance Contract
    The Borrower shall:
    (a)   Not later than December 31, 1997, transmit for the Bank's review
and comments a proposed draft performance contract between the Borrower and
the Guarantor designed to further the achievement of progress in the
financial, investment and operational performance of the Borrower during
Fiscal Years 1997 through 2001; and
    (b)   Thereafter, take all action required to sign said performance
contract during Fiscal Year 1998.
C.  Mid-term Review
    (a)   The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Guarantor and the
Bank, not later than December 31, 1998, a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Borrower and the Bank shall establish, on, inter alia, the
Borrower's progress: (i) in carrying out measures on tariff policies as set
forth in Section 5.05 of this Agreement; and (ii) in utilizing and further
implementing the cost-accounting system referred to in Section 5.06 of this
Agreement.
    (b)   The Borrower shall afford the Guarantor and the Bank a reasonable
opportunity to exchange views on said report, and, thereafter, shall take
all action which the Guarantor, the Borrower and the Bank shall have agreed
is required on the Borrower's part for the successful implementation of the
Project.
D.  Private Sector Participation
    The Borrower shall carry out the study referred to in Part D.5 (ii) of
the Project not later than December 31, 1996.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) (2) and (3)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$750,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Page  16
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as
follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
                Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                specify.
         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
                required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
                shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish
to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified
by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
Page  17
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
