Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL [ISE ONLY
Report No. 15632
iMPLEMENTATION COHPLETION REPORT
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
ECONOMIC RECOVERY LOAN
(Loan 3666-SK)
May 16, 1996
Country Operations Division
Central Europe Department
Europe and Central Asia
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December 31, 1995)
Unit of Currency
Slovak Republic: Slovak Koruna
US$ 1.00 = Sk 29.6
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEM           Country Economic Memorandum
CMEA          Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
EFSAL         Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
EU            European Union
ERL           Economic Recovery Loan
FDI           Foreign Direct Investment
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
IMF           International Monetary Fund
IPF           Investment Privatization Fund
IRB           Investidna a Rozvojova Banka
NBS           National Bank of Slovakia
NPF           National Property Fund
PM            Prime Minister
SAL           Structural Adjustment Loan
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
Sk            Slovak Koruna(y)
SOE           State Owned Enterprise
SSB           Slovak Savings Bank
STF           Structural Transformation Facility
VAT           Value Added Tax
VUB           Vseobedna Uverova Banka



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
ECONOMIC RECOVERY LOAN
3666 SK
CONTENTS
Preface ... i
Evaluation Summary  ..............................
PART I.   Project Implementation Assessment.                                                     1
A.  Background and Project Objectives.                                                    1
B.  Achievement of Project Objectives.                                                   3
C.     Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project.                    6
D. Project Sustainability.                                                               7
E. Bank Performance.                                                                     8
F. Borrower Performance.                                                                 9
G. Assessment of Outcome.                                                                9
H. Future Operations .10
I. Key Lessons Learned .10
PART II.  Statistical Tables .12
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments .13
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits .14
Table 3:  Project Timetable .14
Table 4:       Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .14
Table 5:       Key Indicators for Project Implementation (Policy Matrix) .15
Table 6:       Key Indicators for Project Operation .25
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project .26
Table 8A: Project Costs .27
Table 8B:  Project Financing .27
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits .27
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants .28
Table 11:      Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .28
Table 12:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .28
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions .29
Appendixes:
A.    Mission's aide-memoire ................................ ...  30
B.     Borrower Contribution to the ICR  ................................  32
C.    Map ...................................                                           35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
ECONOMIC RECOVERY LOAN
3666 SK
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Economic Recovery Loan
(ERL) in the Slovak Republic, for which a loan in the amount of US$80 million equivalent was approved
on November 30, 1993 and made effective on March 18, 1994.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1995, the original closing date. The loan was a one
tranche operation, released upon effectiveness, and was fully disbursed by January 31, 1995. Cofmancing
for the project was provided by the Export-Import Bank of Japan in the amount of US$60 million
equivalent.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Carlos Silva-Jauregui (EC2CO) and Ms. Marinela Dado
(EC2CO), assisted by Ms. Rossana Polastri (EC2CO) of the Europe and Central Asia region and reviewed
by Ms. Jane Loos, Project Advisor (EC2DR) and Mr. Luca Barbone, Principal Economist and Acting
Lead Economist (EC2CO). The borrower provided comments that are included as an appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's completion mission in March 1996. It
is based on material in the project file and discussions held with officials of the Slovak Republic. The
borrower contributed to the ICR preparing an independent evaluation of the project.






- ii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
ECONOMIC RECOVERY LOAN
3666 SK
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.           Slovakia began its first year of independence faced with significant economic and social
challenges. In addition to the collapse of the CMEA and the decline of the armaments exports due to the
moratorium self imposed in 1990, the country confronted three shocks that emerged out of the break-up
of the Federation. EiM, foreign trade fell in early 1993 by an additional 14%, due to the disruption of the
trade with the Czech Republic, Slovakia's most important trade partner, despite the efforts to streamline
border procedures. Second, fiscal transfers from the federal budget, equivalent to 7 % of GDP in 1992
were lost. The permanent loss of these fiscal subsidies meant that painful adjustments were needed in the
fiscal accounts as well as the incomes of the population. Third, the country needed to establish some of the
institutional infrastructure (central bank, ministry of foreign affairs, embassies and regulatory institutions)
but faced a shortage of human and fiscal resources. Because of these factors, economic activity continued
to decline in 1993 with output, consumption, investment and employment all on a downward trend, while
inflation accelerated due partly to the introduction of the VAT.
2.           To halt the decline in economic activity and lay the foundation for sustainable growth, the
Government took strong macroeconomic measures to stabilize the economy, and, following a brief hiatus
related to independence, it put in place a program of structural transformation building on the reforms
initiated under the Federation. To support the new Government's program, the Bank prepared an
Economic Recovery Loan (ERL) in the amount of US$80 million equivalent. The ERL was the first World
Bank adjustment loan to the newly independent republic and was conceived as part of the response from
the international community to support Slovakia's reforms after independence. This support also included
an IMF Systemic Transformation Facility (STF) approved in July 26, 1993 in the amount of SDR 64.4
million, a 20-month Stand-by agreement approved in July 1994 in the amount of SDR 115.8 million, and
commitments from the EU and G-24 countries. The ERL was cofinanced by the Export-Import Bank of
Japan in the amount of US$60 million equivalent as part of the G-24 countries' balance of payments
support.
Project Objectives
3.           The Government adopted a strong package of short-term adjustment measures supported
by the IMF and a medium-term structural transformation program that aimed at the continuation of the
rapid transformation to a market economy. The Government's medium-term reform program was based
on: (i) fiscal policies, to facilitate restructuring and growth; (ii) privatization, enterprise restructuring and
private sector development, to maintain the momentum for structural transformation; (iii) financial sector



- iii -
reform, to stem the deterioration of bank portfolios and to increase competition in the sector; and (iv)
social sector reforms through human resource policies, to improve the efficiency of the social safety net,
within fiscal constraints, while protecting vulnerable groups and improving the functioning of the labor
markets.  The ERL supported this first set of structural reforms with pre-board measures designed to
address those areas deemed most critical for achieving recovery and laid out future action plan. These
measures complemented the short-term fiscal adjustment supported by the IMF. Future assistance to the
Government's program was expected to be supported by follow-up adjustment operations with the Bank
and the IMF's Stand-by agreement.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.            The Government's program  was very successful in achieving its macroeconomic
stabilization objectives, producing a fast turnaround that has made Slovakia one of the most successful
transforming economies from the macroeconomic point of view. However, the outstanding results in the
stabilization front contrast with the mixed results obtained from the structural reform effort. For the most
part, the implementation of the structural reforms agreed with the authorities under the ERL was hindered
by political developments, including two changes of government, slow formulation of policies and shifts
in reform strategy due in part to the constraints imposed by the composition of the different government
coalitions. Although the Government complied with most loan covenants and in many areas the outcome
of the reforms was satisfactory, in other areas the reforms did not advance as expected, such as the
measures to facilitate enterprise restructuring and bankruptcy and liquidation procedures.
5.            The Government did not fulfill the agreed commitments with the Bank in a number of
important areas. In the case of household energy prices, no adjustments have been made so far. A recently
approved price law stipulates gradual increases in household energy prices for the next five years, but these
adjustments will still not be enough to reach appropriate economic cost recovery. In the case of raising
the retirement age for full pension eligibility no advances were made and the authorities are not planning
to implement the ERL's recommendation due to the commitments made during the political campaign in
October 1994 and to the change in Slovakia's economic conditions which have generated surpluses in the
social security system in 1994 and 1995. Employee benefits for the first three days of illness were not
reduced to 50 percent of wages as agreed with the Bank. No further effort has been made in this area since
the submitted legislation was rejected by Parliament in 1994. Again, the authorities are no longer pursuing
this reform. Although none of these decisions have produce negative effects on the economy in the short
term, they will most likely need to be addressed in the medium to long term to avoid their detrimental
impact on the budget. Finally, the agreed privatization target for end-1994 (of one third of a1 SOEs) was
not reached on time.
6.            The Government backtracked and implemented some reforms against the spirit of the ERL.
The privatization program suffered the most from the changes in strategy associated with changes in
leadership. The voucher system was cancelled, in favor of less transparent direct sales to insiders. Twenty
nine "essential" enterprises were excluded from the privatization program, including most public utilities,
and the Government wants to regain veto power, using "golden shares", over key decisions in 45
"strategic" enterprises. The Constitutional Court, however, has ruled the latter as unconstitutional since
some of the "strategic" firms have already been privatized. The role of Investment Privatization Funds
(IPFs) in enterprise governance was curtailed in 1995, leaving many enterprises under the control of
managers without an efficient system of monitoring that looks at the interest of small shareholders. Finally,



- iv -
a new state owned bank, Bank Slovakia, was licensed in 1995 with majority capital from NPF to promote
regional development in the central region.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned.
7.            The project can be rated partially satisfactory. The ERL supported the transformation of
the Slovak economy but only achieved some of the proposed objectives. Slovakia enjoys in 1995 one of
the highest GDP growth rates in the region, low and declining inflation, a comfortable surplus in the
current account of the balance of payments and a small fiscal surplus. The structural transformation has
promoted foreign trade diversification and considerable participation of the private sector in the economy
which produces about 65 percent of GDP and employs about 60 percent of the labor force. The access of
Slovakia to international capital markets has been increasing, thus reflecting the growing confidence of the
international community in its current economic performance and future economic prospects. Slovakia's
country risk assessment has been successively upgraded, and recently the country obtained a BBB-
investment grade rating. The positive macroeconomic outlook, however, contrast with the results obtained
regarding the structural reforms, where some the implemented measures have resulted in foreign direct
investment (FDI) not forthcoming and may influence the capacity of Slovakia to meet the demanding
schedule for EU integration.
8.            The ERL was designed as a balance of payments support for the crucial initial years after
independence. Further adjustment and investment loans were expected to follow to consolidate and
advance the reforms. The Bank designed a broad program of cooperation with Slovakia that included an
Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (EFSAL), a labor project and sector projects in forestry,
land market development, housing, railways, power, gas, and health. The sectoral dialogue advanced some
investment projects, especially forestry, but with the change in government after the fall 1994 elections,
the Bank's program came to a halt. Since then, macroeconomic conditions have continued to improve,
weakening the rationale for adjustment operations. The fiscal prudence of the Slovak authorities has
imposed limits on the amount of government guarantees to domestic or foreign indebtness by state
organizations, thus limiting the possibilities for World Bank lending operations in the country. In part
because of this policy we have not been able to reach understandings with the Slovak authorities on a
program of assistance, but also because the Government has taken more time than expected to develop a
long-term agenda for the country where the Bank's assistance could be helpful.
9.            The Slovak experience can provide important lessons:
a.            FiM, the ERL was designed as a single tranche operation to give continuity to the
ongoing reform program and to be a visible measure of international support to the new country.
The ERL was expected to be followed by other projects to further articulate the reform agenda and
investment requirements. Slovakia was in urgent need of external support, and the Bank's new
strategy was flexible and sympathetic to the client's needs. In this sense, the single tranche loan
was successful and financial resources needed to support essential imports were made rapidly
available to the Slovak authorities. It was well understood that lack of a second tranche, with the
attendant conditionality, implied a weakening of the Bank's leverage to influence the full and
timely implementation of the reform agenda sponsored by the ERL. Dialogue regarding future
operations was expected to fulfill this role, and the risk was deemed worth taking given the
possible grave repercussions on Slovakia's stabilization program in the absence of visible external



support. In the event, however, the fast turnaround of the economy and the various changes in
leadership in Slovakia further reduced the Bank's dialogue with the Government and its influence
on the pace and direction of the reform agenda.
b.           Second, the lack of appropriate institutions could be an important impediment to
modernization and restructuring. However, to change from a system of command economy to one
based on market incentives involves no less than a reorientation of the role of the state as well as
a reinvention of old public institutions and the creation of new ones. In retrospect, Slovakia
needed more emphasis on institutional development to enhance the administrative capacity of the
state and improve the likelihood of success in implementing the reform agenda supported by the
loan. While the ERL did pay some attention to institutional aspects, an overall strategy with more
emphasis on clarifying the role of the state and enhancing public administration capacity could have
been pursued early on. The Bank strategy, however, was to advance and consolidate reforms
initiated during the Federation and to set the basis for sustainable growth. Future operations were
expected to directly address the institutional weaknesses of the state, but, as mentioned, the
political and economic events weakened the Bank's presence in Slovakia.
C.           Third, like in other Central and Eastern European countries, the ERL was broadly
designed to support the transformation process. The Bank supported the reforms, facilitated the
transformation and signaled to the international community its backing for this exceptional effort.
However, in every country the political economy plays a crucial role in the design and pace of
implementation of the reform agenda. Due to the inexperience of the authorities and the difficult
circumstances prevailing in Slovakia after independence, the Government committed to a set of
reforms and a timetable of implementation which it understood to be ambitious and difficult to
fulfill, but was prepared to launch the programn and make adjustments where appropriate later on.
The lack of government ownership of some elements of the program, however, proved to be a
liability to its implementation and undermined the authorities commitment to a fast reform pace in
certain areas. In retrospect, more attention could have been given to the political economy of
Slovakia and the implementation capacity of the state during the design of the ERL
recommendations, but the Bank took a calculated risk and went the extra mile to help the client.
Although some of the reforms did not advance as expected, the risk was worth taking and the
overall strategy would appear broadly appropriate under similar circumstances.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
ECONOMIC RECOVERY LOAN
3666 SK
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    Background and Program Objectives
1.           As part of the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic, Slovakia implemented, starting in the
second half of 1990, a far reaching stabilization and systemic transformation program that laid out the basis
for a market economy. The reform program aimed at a rapid transformation of the command economy.
It included macroeconomic stabilization measures and structural reforms, such as price and trade
liberalization, privatization of SOEs, financial sector and social safety net reforms. The program was
supported by the Bretton Woods institutions (through a Structural Adjustment Loan from the World Bank
and two IMF Stand-by agreements) and by the EU and G24 countries.
2.           Slovakia became an independent country on January 1, 1993 with the break-up of the
seventy-four year old Federation, after the victorious parties in the Republic-level elections held in mid-
1992 were unable to come to agreement about the composition and policies of a Federal government.
While Slovakia had made substantial progress in its transition to a market economy, the break-up of the
Federation constituted a major shock that required important adjustments in many areas. Several
administrative arrangements (customs and monetary union) were made between the two successor countries
to minimize the impact of the break-up. The monetary union, however, broke up shortly after
independence due to problems in meeting agreed terms as a result of the loss of foreign reserves on both
sides. The Slovak authorities knew that these arrangements would not spare Slovakia from having to
implement strong macroeconomic measures.
3.           Slovakia began its first year of independence faced with significant economic and social
challenges. In addition to the collapse of the CMEA and the decline of the armaments exports due to the
moratorium self imposed in 1990, the country confronted three shocks that emerged out of the break-up
of the Federation. E.iW, foreign trade fell in early 1993 by an additional 14% due to the disruption of the
trade with the Czech Republic, Slovakia's most important trade partner, despite the efforts to streamline
border procedures. Second, fiscal transfers from the federal budget, equivalent to 7% of GDP in 1992
were lost. The permanent loss of these fiscal subsidies meant that painful adjustments were needed in the
fiscal accounts as well as the incomes of the population. Third, the country needed to establish some of the
institutional infrastructure (central bank, ministry of foreign affairs, embassies, and regulatory institutions)
but faced a shortage of human and fiscal resources. Because of these factors, economic activity continued
to decline in 1993 with output, consumption, investment and employment on a downward trend, while
inflation accelerated partly due to the introduction of the VAT.
4.           To halt the decline in economic activity and lay the foundation for sustainable growth, the
Government took strong macroeconomic measures to stabilize the economy, and following a brief hiatus
related to independence, it put in place a program of structural transformation building on the reforms
supported by the SAL under the Federation. In adhering to its tradition of macroeconomic prudence, the



- 2 -
new Government undertook a major fiscal adjustment effort, with cuts in almost all expenditure categories,
particularly transfers to households. The cuts were intended to more than compensate for the expected
revenue losses associated in part with the implementation of a broad tax reform at the beginning of 1993,
but also with the contraction of the tax base.
5.           As expected, a shortfall in revenues occurred in early 1993 due to the decline in economic
activity. The Government quickly undertook further stabilization measures to contain the deficit to 7%
of GDP in 1993 (compared to the underlying 12% in 1992). Measures included adjustment of the VAT
rates, increases in excise and property taxes, changes in social security legislation, better targeting of social
expenditures and reductions in investment and in subsidies. To facilitate external balance, a 10%
devaluation of the Slovak koruna was implemented. Temporary exchange restrictions were introduced in
early 1993 to counteract the decline in central bank reserves, but they were removed in December 1993.
The fiscal and exchange rate policies were complemented by restrictive monetary and incomes policies.
The adjustment measures were supported by an IMF Systemic Transformation Facility (STF) of SDR 64.4
million approved in July 1993. In July 1994, a 20-month Stand-by arrangement of SDR 115.8 million and
a second purchase under the STF were approved, and the G-24 countries pledged balance-of-payments
support for the reform program with commitments amounting to US$240 million.
6.           Building on the initial short-term adjustment measures supported by the STF and on the
reforms introduced under the Federation, the Government implemented structural measures to sustain
macroeconomic stability and restore growth over the medium term. The reforms focused on four key
areas: (i) fiscal policies; (ii) privatization, private sector development and enterprise restructuring; (iii)
financial sector reforms; and (iv) social sector measures. The ERL supported this first set of structural
measures implemented by the Government and quickly provided balance of payments support to help
Slovakia overcome the initial loss of fiscal transfers and foreign trade revenues associated with
independence. The ERL was designed as a single tranche operation to provide timely assistance, expecting
that the dialogue with the authorities would continue later on through other adjustment and investment
operations. The ERL had pre-board measures that addressed the areas that were most critical for economic
recovery. These measures were deemed to complement the short-term fiscal adjustment measures
supported under the STF. It was envisaged that the remainder of the Government's medium-term program
would be supported by the IMF Stand-by agreement and possible follow-up Bank adjustment and
investment operations. The Export-Import Bank of Japan committed a cofinancing loan of US$60 million
in mid-1994 as part of the G-24 countries' balance of payments support.
7.           The ERL supported the transformation of Slovakia's enterprise sector through the reduction
in subsidies and imposition of hard budget constraints, corporatization, and legal and procedural changes
to facilitate entry of new firms and exit of nonviable enterprises. The loan supported a multi-track
approach to privatization that included in addition to standard methods, continued implementation of the
coupon scheme, and also, liquidation and sale of assets. To continue with the financial sector reform
initiated under the Federation, the ERL supported measures to stem the flow of bad loans and to improve
the quality of new lending by encouraging competition. To provide a cushion for those individuals likely
to be affected by the transformation, especially through enterprise restructuring, the loan supported
measures to adequately fund the social assistance budget and to monitor the efficiency of the social safety
net. Measures to support small business development through training, easing entry and facilitating labor
mobility were designed to reduce the duration of unemployment.
8.           Like with other transforming economies, the Bank's assistance strategy for Slovakia



envisaged a multi-sectoral work program of investment operations and adjustment loans whose principal
objective was to help accelerate the state's withdrawal from productive sectors, rationalize the activities
that remain in the state's domain and promote the development of a strong private sector. The Bank's
proposed projects covered several sectors including financial, industry, health, housing, energy and
forestry. The measures supported by the ERL provided a framework for the preparation of follow-up
adjustment operations, including an Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (EFSAL) to establish
a competitive and efficient banking system capable of financing private sector activities. Other adjustment
operations were envisaged to address public sector reforms, including advances in the regulatory policies
and governance of enterprises that remain in the state sector. The ERL was also designed to lay the
groundwork for future investment operations by supporting needed policy reforms to underpin such
operations, for example, energy pricing reform for future operations in energy (gas and power), or support
for a social policy analysis unit and new health care financing with adequate cost control mechanisms for
possible projects in the human resource area.
9.            The preparation of the loan addressed concerns on the administrative capacity of the new
country. The loan was designed to disburse in one tranche after compliance with pre-board conditions in
the policy matrix because it was felt that second tranche conditionalities would have been difficult to agree
on and to subsequently implement on time. The ERL had both upfront conditionality and further "action
plan" commitments on measures to be taken by the authorities after disbursement. The loan, for example,
contained up-front actions regarding the expenditure aspects of fiscal policy, while in privatization, targets
included a combination of upfront conditionality and specific follow-up commitments, like privatization
of one third of all SOEs by end 1994. The implementation of the Government's program was monitored
by the Bank through supervision of the ERL and in the preparation of other projects. The Bank's plan was
to adjust its program of assistance as the Government proceeded with implementation of the reforms. The
conditionality in the loan was guided by the experience under the Czechoslovak SAL. A broad range of
issues and recommended policy measures were incorporated in the ERL, making it an ambitious operation.
10.          The Bank's management had concerns about the country's limited track record in structural
adjustment despite the fact that, under the Federation, it had successfully implemented a broad range of
measures. The concerns arose mainly from Slovakia's different approach to the structural reform program.
Although the Slovak government affirmed its commitment to transformation, ruling out any fears of a
return to heavy-handed interventionism, there were concerns about the evolving understanding of its
commnitment in the areas of privatization and financial sector reform, and the social and political viability
of energy pricing policy and social sector reforms. Because of these risks, it was felt that a smaller size
ERL could be followed by another structural adjustment operation, with the proposed IMF Stand-by
arrangement providing the anchor for further structural adjustment.
B.    Achievement of Project Objectives
11.          Stabilization Accomplishments. After a cumulative decline of 23 percent in 1990-93, GDP
rose by 4.9 percent in 1994 and by 7.4 percent in 1995, making Slovakia one of the fastest growing
economies in the region. Aided by the mid-1993 devaluation, a wage level about one-tenth of Western
Europe's, and successful penetration of foreign markets, the rapid export growth (20 percent in real terms)
in 1994 was the primary reason for the impressive economic turnaround. Domestic demand, however,
continued to fall in 1994, especially gross investment which fell by an additional 12 percent. In 1995
output growth was broad based and driven by the recovery of domestic demand. Private consumption



increased by 3.4 percent and gross investment by an impressive 33 percent in 1995. As a result of the
strong internal adjustment and the excellent export performance, the current account of the balance of
payments improved from a deficit of 5 percent of GDP in 1993 to a strong surplus of almost 5 percent in
1994 and 4 percent in 1995. Gross foreign reserves quintupled during the first three years of independence
to reach US$5 billion or almost 6 months of imports by the end of 1995. Slovakia has also successfully
tapped international capital markets since autumn 1993.
12.          Slovakia's tradition of macroeconomic prudence was tested after independence. The
authorities, however, put in place tight monetary policy and strong fiscal adjustment measures. After
successfully adjusting to the loss of budgetary transfers from the Federation budget, amounting to some
7 percent of GDP in 1992, the overall budget deficit declined from 7 percent in 1993 to 1.3 percent in 1994
and moved to a 0.6 percent surplus in 1995. This outcome was made possible by the strict control of
discretionary expenditures and better than expected revenue performance during 1994-95. Average
inflation came down from 23 percent in 1993 to 13 percent in 1994 and to less than 10 percent in 1995.
This declining trend continues in 1996 as annual inflation in February declined to 6.2 percent. The
National Bank of Slovakia (NBS) maintained its tight monetary policy as domestic credit rose 4 percent and
broad money 19 percent on average during 1994-95. With the buoyancy in economic activities,
unemployment which peaked around 15 percent at the beginning of 1994 and 1995 due to seasonal factors,
has declined to less than 13 percent of the labor force.
13.          Structural Accomplishments. The impressive gains made in the macroeconomic front so
far contrast with the slower progress registered in the implementation of structural reforms, upon which
long-term growth rely. Privatization of state owned enterprises (SOEs), which began with the mass
privatization program (coupon method) under the Federation, slowed down since independence due to
changes in the privatization strategy associated with the changes in government priorities. During 1995
the authorities cancelled the second wave of mass privatization, that had been started by the previous
(interim) government and replaced it with standard privatization methods, mostly to insiders (managers and
workers). The shift to direct sales and tenders resulted in privatization delays, although the pace picked
up significantly in the second half of 1995 with the sale of about Sk4O billion (in book-value) of assets
during the year. Moreover, this trend continued during the first quarter of 1996 and the Government
expects to finalize the privatization program before the end of the year. However, privatization has turned
less transparent and suitable to political influence. At the same time, the Government has decided to retain
ownership or control in an important number of enterprises. The state intends to maintain full ownership
in 29 "essential" enterprises, including most public utilities, and to retain or regain veto power over key
decisions in another 45 "strategic" enterprises using "golden shares". The Constitutional Court recently
ruled this policy as unconstitutional since some of these firms have already been privatized.
14.          The Government, insisting that investment privatization funds (IPFs) too often intervened
in the day-to-day management of enterprises and sometimes defrauded investors, regulated IPFs through
legislation adopted in mid-1995 and restricted its capacity to exercise enterprise governance on behalf of
the small shareholders. While this legislation helped strengthen the regulatory framework for IPFs and
enhance transparency in the capital markets, it disagreed with the spirit of the ERL through limiting the
role of IPFs in enterprise governance. Political uncertainty and the lack of transparency in privatization,
have kept direct foreign investment at low levels, averaging US$163 million a year during 1994-95.
15.          Slovakia's approach to banking reform has been generally successful. It builds on the
measures introduced under the Federation to improve banks' portfolios and institute prudential lending.



- 5 -
The measures were supported by the SAL. Corporatization and partial privatization of banks has raised
significantly the quality of their management. Substantial progress was made in banking supervision with
the introduction of mandatory annual audits by external auditing firms approved by NBS, upgrades of
standard quarterly reports, replacement and updates of prudential regulations, and strengthened in NBS'
banking supervision capacity. Recapitalization through provisioning and building up reserves, instead of
recurrent large capital injections by the Government, represents a key element of Slovakia's banking
reform. The 1994 study of the major banks, supported by the ERL, came to the conclusion that, applying
international accounting standards, Slovakia's largest banks would be able to generate sufficient resources
to address their remaining problems associated with the inherited bad portfolio. This is already the case
with the Slovak Savings Bank (SSB) which has accumulated provisions and reserves to cover its bad
portfolio. NBS also adopted rules on loan classification and loan-loss provisioning in accordance with
international practice effective July 1, 1995.
16.          Along with encouraging new entrants into an open banking system and measures to prevent
imprudent lending, the Government maintained strict regulations on activities of specific banks. The
number of banks operating in Slovakia has risen from a handful in 1990 to over 30 in 1995. Nevertheless,
as it is the case in other areas of the reform program, there were delays in implementing the
recommendations of the ERL, for example, in the privatization plans for Vseobedna Uverova Banka
(VUB), the largest bank in Slovakia. Privatization of the major banks was delayed due to changes in the
privatization strategy. However, in 1996 the Government is developing an agenda to privatize the three
largest banks VUB, SSB, and Investi6na a Rozvojova Banka (IRB). Although the agenda is still
incomplete, the two models under discussion exclude foreigners as strategic investors. Moreover, the tax
deductibility of loan provisions, which had been planned to be adopted in 1994, remains to be introduced,
primarily because of the Ministry of Finance's fiscal concerns, but this delay has not deter banks from
provisioning and building up reserves.
17.          The energy sector has an important role to play because of Slovakia's strategic location (as
a gateway to the West) and its fiscal implications. Due to the need for greater energy efficiency, household
energy pricing policy was an important reform issue under the ERL. The Government committed to raise
energy prices for household consumers by a minimum of 25 percent. All three administrations, however,
chose not to pursue this part of the agenda due to the political ramifications. An agreed 10 percent price
increase in 1994 never took place and further price adjustments contemplated for 1995 (also agreed with
the IMF) were postponed. To date, household energy prices remain unchanged since late 1993, in spite
of the original misalignment and the accumulated inflation rate. These prices remain subsidized by the
enterprise sector. While this political economy decision has put the burden on the enterprise sector, thus
increasing production costs, it has not produced any significant impact on the fiscal accounts of the
Government or the profitability of the sector because the cross subsidy from the enterprise sector has been
sufficient to cover the losses incurred from the household sector pricing policy.
18.          Like in other transforming countries, Slovakia's system of social benefits was comprised
of a complex and costly set of publicly funded entitlement programs that were provided on a universal
basis. The Government committed to reform the social safety net towards a system with better targeting
and related to individual initiative, as wage income progressively assumes a more important role than
income from benefit programs. At the beginning of 1993, Slovakia regrouped the inherited benefit
programs and moved towards self-financed insurance for pensions, health services, unemployment and
sickness benefits. The Government also modified eligibility rules and support levels for some categories
of benefits, such as the adoption of an income ceiling graduated by family size for child benefits. To



- 6 -
reduce budgetary costs and to improve the targeting and efficiency of benefit programs, the Government
committed through the ERL to an increase in retirement ages for men and women for full pension
eligibility, to a reduction of the level of sickness benefits during the first three days of illness and to the
establishment of a unit to undertake a comprehensive reform of social benefit programs. However, there
has been little or no progress in implementing these measures. The interim government considered the
retirement age reform politically unfeasible before the October 1994 elections. The current government
undertook not to implement this reform due to its political pledge during the fall 1994 elections campaign.
The Government has not pursued the sickness benefits reduction proposal since its rejection by Parliament
in early 1994. While discussions on legislation for the comprehensive reform of the social benefits have
ensued in the past two years, the authorities have taken a more deliberate and gradual stance in this area
than had been envisaged under the ERL. Although social safety net expenditures are not accelerating as
in other transforming economies, they represent about 15 percent of GDP and about 31 percent of total
expenditures, and impose a severe burden to labor markets as employer and employee contributions to the
social funds represent an additional 50 percent of the wage bill.
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
19.          The ERL policy matrix comprised a set of upfront actions prior to Board presentation and
commitments for long-term policy measures. As the transition process was fraught with uncertainty, the
Government intended to collaborate with the Bank to make adjustments to the program. However, this
program of cooperation slowed down as changes in government during 1994 influenced the pace and
direction of some of the reforms and the intensity of collaboration with the Bank. For the most part, the
implementation of the structural reforms agreed with the authorities under the ERL was beset with political
developments, slow formulation of policies and shifts in strategy. The Government of Prime Minister
Meziar, that had been voted into office in mid-1992, lost its parliamentary support in early 1994 and a
transitional coalition government, led by Prime Minister Moravalk, was in charge of reform policies for
six months. The coalition government emphasized the continuation of economic reform and privatization
as urgent priorities. However, as a caretaker government, while its program was ambitious and well
focused, its ability to implement lasting reforms was limited. Following national elections in October 1994,
Mr. Mediar returned to power and formed a new coalition government with the rightist Slovak National
Party and the leftist Workers' Association Party. The composition of this government coalition has
imposed political constraints that have influenced the reform's pace and direction.
20.          In the areas of fiscal retrenchment and monetary policy, the Government made substantial
progress. Subsidies in the consolidated government budget fell by an additional 0.7 percentage points of
GDP between 1993-95. The social assistance and unemployment benefits were fully funded in the 1994
and 1995 budgets. In conducting monetary policy, NBS moved to reliance on Treasury bills as the primary
instrument for deficit financing and on indirect instruments for monetary management. The NBS has also
been developing experience for open market operations, using since 1995 central bank bills, to drain
liquidity from the banking system and to sterilize foreign exchange inflows.
21.           Progress in the adoption or implementation of legal and administrative measures was
likewise mixed. Amendments to the investment funds and securities laws enhanced transparency with
stricter monitoring procedures and disclosure requirements but they also limited the IPFs' role in enterprise
governance. To foster the development of a dynamic private sector, the Ministry of Economy published
a handbook on licensing and registering new businesses in Slovak, English and German. Moreover, the



-7 -
Government introduced legislative measures towards simplification of business registration and the
establishment of a binding non-judicial process for resolution of commercial contractual disputes and
resolution of debt-collection problems. While restructuring was facilitated by the process of netting out
inter-enterprise arrears, amounting to almost 20 percent of estimated inter-enterprise indebtedness in early
1993, little has changed in the legal framework and institutional capacity for financial reorganization and
liquidation. The implementation of effective liquidation/bankruptcy procedures has been marred by
problems of an inexperienced and overburdened judicial system and technical difficulties with the drafting
of a new bankruptcy law amendment.
22.           In order to develop strategies for facilitating the transition in various areas, the authorities
completed several studies such as the portfolio reviews of major banks, the assessment of constraints to
private sector development, diagnostic studies of 20 enterprises with the largest amount of nonperforming
loans, sectoral restructuring and privatization studies of the textile subsector, and an energy tariff study
towards full economic cost recovery. However, the impact of these studies in helping to formulate the
Government's reform policy is unclear. The authorities introduced the fee-for-service scheme for health
care without adequate cost control mechanisms in 1993, producing negative results as costs escalated. The
Government, however, took measures to modify health care financing in order to contain costs, introducing
a payment system that tightened the basis for remuneration of health care providers and discouraged fraud.
23.           Administrative constraints have also hampered the implementation of the program. When
the transitional government came to power in April 1994, the authorities recognized the problems with
administrative capacity in undertaking privatization at the speed agreed with the Bank. The voucher
privatization could only be realistically completed by mid-1995. In banking, while there have been key
steps taken in 1995 in the adoption of improved loan classification and provisioning standards, as
mentioned above, tax deductibility of loan-loss provisions has been delayed since 1994 when it was planned
to be introduced.
D.    Project Sustainability
24.           Key elements of the ERL program are likely to be sustainable. The loan supported
fundamental structural reforms and the Government program put Slovakia on a path to recovery. As
mentioned above, the political environment in Slovakia led to a slowdown in the pace of structural reforms
in 1994 and in some cases changed its direction. The privatization process suffered from stop-and-go
policies. Some reforms were not introduced or delayed due to changes in political and economic priorities
or because of the constraints imposed by an overburdened administrative capacity. Nevertheless, most of
the reforms endorsed by the ERL are unlikely to be reversed and have helped transform the Slovak
economy into a (still developing) market economy. With the return of strong output growth in 1994-95,
the Slovak population is benefiting from the results of the transformation, especially now that growth has
become broad based and real wages are rising.
25.           The macroeconomic conditions in Slovakia have improved  substantially  since
independence, but in particular during 1994-95. The continued application of prudent macroeconomic
management has produced a fast turnaround. Outpuit growth is one of the strongest in the region and
inflation continues to decline. The government fiscal balance recorded a surplus of 0.6 percent of GDP in
1995, compared to a deficit of about 12 percent in 1992 and shows the strong fiscal adjustment effort
implemented by the authorities. The external current account has a comfortable surplus position of about



-8 -
4 percent of GDP and gross international reserves reached US$5 billion in 1995. Slovakia's international
creditworthiness continues to improve in parallel with its macroeconomic stability. Recently, Standard and
Poor's upgraded the country risk assessment to a BBB- investment grade. Overall, the macroeconomic
results during 1994-95 have been very positive and this trend is expected to continue in 1996.
26.           Slovakia has good prospects for achieving positive economic results over the next few
years. Being a small open economy, Slovakia can expect to grow at a moderate pace even if foreign
markets absorb its exports at considerably lower rates than has recently been the case. But in order to
maintain the rate of output growth observed during the past two years, or grow even faster so that the
income gap with the EU can be significantly narrowed, overall productivity will have to increase much
faster. Such productivity gains are beginning to take place as the Slovak industry makes the necessary
investments in upgrading and modernizing its human resources and production technologies. This could
be accelerated with larger inflows of foreign capital and know-how than has been the case so far. This
would, however, require a more transparent and depoliticized privatization of the economy and stable rules
about the relationship of the private sector with the state. Without deepening the structural reform agenda
and improving the conditions for the development of the private sector, long-term sustainable growth and
accession to the EU could be at risk.
E.    Bank Performance
27.           The Bank's strong and visible support was important to give continuity to the
transformation program and to support the newly independent state. The Bank's involvement in policy
discussions with Slovakia started in January 1993, immediately after independence, and progressed with
the preparation of the first Country Economic Memorandum (CEM). The CEM provided an overview of
the economy but focused on policy reforms and institutional changes necessary for transition to a market
economy. Discussions on the structural aspects of the transformation program intensified during the
preparation of the ERL. The dialogue with the authorities was useful in articulating the Government's
strategy in many areas, most specially in privatization, financial sector reform, energy policy and the social
safety net.
28.           The Bank prepared the ERL using a fast track approach and provided timely support to the
Government. The preappraisal mission took place in September 1993 and the Board presentation occurred
in November 1993. Nine supervision/project preparation missions touching on various issues of the ERL's
policy matrix recommendations followed during 1994-95. The Bank opted for a single tranche loan as a
strategy to facilitate and give continuity to the ongoing reform program. The management, however, had
concerns about the implementation capacity of the authorities, and the likelihood of the timely
implementation of the loan recommendations. These concerns were the result of signals early on that parts
of the program could be delayed, like the pace of privatization, due to the implementation capacity of the
authorities, or the adjustment on household energy prices and pension reform because of political
considerations. The management recognized the risk but chose to go ahead because it thought the reforms
could be advanced with future adjustment and investment projects. In retrospect, the program was too
ambitious given the conditions prevailing in Slovakia at the time. The single tranche loan reduced the
Bank's leverage to promote full and timely implementation of the reform agenda, but it was a risk worth
taking. Slovakia needed fast assistance and the Bank showed its responsiveness as well as flexibility in its
client orientation and willingness to take a calculated risk.



-9 -
F.    Borrower Performance
29.           Preparation. Borrower performance during preparation was satisfactory.  The new
Government worked in close collaboration with the World Bank staff to clarify sector priorities, and
through a healthy dialogue, facilitated the conditions for project preparation. Although there were some
episodes of lack of coordination and communication among the Slovak authorities, due mostly to the
centralized decision making process of the Ministry of Finance, none of these episodes interfered or
delayed the preparation of the project.
30.          Implementation. The ERL was the first World Bank adjustment loan to Slovakia as an
independent country. The borrower complied with the actions needed for board presentation but failed to
comply with some of the commitments made in the loan policy matrix for future actions. As mentioned
above, the Government did not implement the agreed measures in household energy pricing policy,
retirement age for full pension eligibility, sickness benefits and the quantitative target for privatization by
end-1994. Implementation of some of the loan recommendations suffered as a result of the political
developments in Slovakia in 1994. Early on there were signs that the government of Mr. Mediar was
weakening. After its fall in March 1994, the interim government of Mr. Moravti'k continued to implement
the loan provisions, however, taking the pragmatic view that some of the commitments made with the Bank
were politically nonviable or were going to take more time than originally envisaged. The authorities
postponed reforms in energy pricing and pension reform and concentrated in advancing the privatization
program, especially through the voucher system, and the regulatory framework of the financial sector.
In spite of the good effort in preparing the second wave of mass privatization, time ran out. In October
1994 the Slovak population voted in favor of HZDS, Mr. Mediar's political party. Forming a viable
coalition took three months, during which structural reforms virtually halted.
G.    Assessment of Outcome
31.           The project can be rated as partially satisfactory. The ERL supported the transformation
of the Slovak economy and provided funds for imports when they were most needed. The ERL was
successful in achieving some of its objectives, supporting the continuation of a rapid transformation agenda
with policies that addressed areas critical for recovery. The fast turnaround of the economy and the stable
macroeconomic environment are positive signs. Slovakia enjoys one of the strongest output growth rates
in the region, low and declining inflation and a comfortable position with respect to its external accounts.
The fiscal effort of the last three years has been remarkable. In parallel with the fast recovery, access to
international capital markets has successively improved as well as Slovakia's country risk assessment,
which was recently upgraded to a BBB- investment grade. The positive macroeconomic outlook, however,
contrast with the results obtained regarding the structural reforms, where some the implemented measures
have resulted in FDI not forthcoming and may influence the capacity of Slovakia to met the demanding
schedule for EU integration.
32.           As mentioned before, the structural reform agenda was hindered by political developments
that in some cases delayed or cancelled the implementation of the proposed reforms and in others promoted
reforms that were against the spirit of the ERL. In the short term, however, none of these measures seem
to have had a large detrimental impact in the country's recovery, barring low foreign investment and a
public image abroad that contrast with some of the very positive economic results obtained during the first
three years of independence. With its different approach, Slovakia continues to address important



- 10-
remaining issues of its transformation process.
H.    Future Operations
33.           The ERL was designed as a balance of payments support during the first years of
independence. Further adjustment and investment loans were expected to follow to advance and
consolidate the reforms initiated during the Federation. The Bank designed a broad program of
cooperation with Slovakia that included an EFSAL, a labor markets project and sectoral projects in
forestry, land market development, housing, railways, power, gas and health. During the last year of the
Federation, the sectoral dialogue resulted in one loan to Slovakia, Telecommunications (US$55 million
equivalent), which was prepared in 1992 and approved in July of 1993, before the ERL. Operations in
other sectors were under different stages of preparation, a few fairly advanced like the EFSAL and the
forestry project, but with the change in government after the fall 1994 elections and the fast turnaround
of the economy the proposed program came to a halt. Since then, macroeconomic conditions have
continued to improve, rending unnecessary any adjustment operation. The fiscal prudence of the Slovak
authorities have imposed limits on the amount of government guarantees to loans and to the share of the
budget used to service the loans, therefore World Bank's requirement for sovereign guarantees limited the
areas for direct lending, as other organizations could lend without a guarantee. In part because of this
policy we have not been able to reach understandings with the Slovak authorities on a program of
assistance.
l.     Key Lessons Learned
34.           The Slovak experience can provide important lessons about the design and implementation
of an adjustment loan under the circumstances of a newly independent country. The most significant ones
can be summarized as follows:
a.            Eirs, the ERL was designed as a single tranche operation to give continuity to the
ongoing reform program and to be a visible measure of international support to the new country.
The ERL was expected to be followed by other projects to further articulate the reform agenda and
investment requirements. Slovakia was in urgent need of external support, and the Bank's new
strategy was flexible and sympathetic to the client's needs. In this sense, the single tranche loan
was successful and financial resources needed to support essential imports were made rapidly
available to the Slovak authorities. It was well understood that lack of a second tranche, with the
attendant conditionality, implied a weakening of the Bank's leverage to influence the full and
timely implementation of the reform agenda sponsored by the ERL. Dialogue regarding future
operations was expected to fulfill this role, and the risk was deemed worth taking given the
possible grave repercussions on Slovakia's stabilization program in the absence of visible external
support. In the event, however, the fast turnaround of the economy and the various changes in
leadership in Slovakia further reduced the Bank's dialogue with the Government and its influence
on the pace and direction of the reform agenda.
b.            Second, the lack of appropriate institutions could be an important impediment to
modernization and restructuring. However, to change from a system of command economy to one
based on market incentives involves no less than a reorientation of the role of the state as well as



- I1 -
a reinvention of old public institutions and the creation of new ones. In retrospect, Slovakia
needed more emphasis on institutional development to enhance the administrative capacity of the
state and improve the likelihood of success in implementing the reform agenda supported by the
loan. While the ERL did pay some attention to institutional aspects, an overall strategy with more
emphasis on clarifying the role of the state and enhancing public administration capacity could have
been pursued early on. The Bank strategy, however, was to advance and consolidate reforms
initiated during the Federation and to set the basis for sustainable growth. Future operations were
expected to directly address the institutional weaknesses of the state, but, as mentioned, the
political and economic events weakened the Bank's presence in Slovakia.
c.           Ihird, like in other Central and Eastern European countries, the ERL was broadly
designed to support the transformation process. The Bank supported the reforms, facilitated the
transformation and signaled to the international community its backing for this exceptional effort.
However, in every country the political economy plays a crucial role in the design and pace of
implementation of the reform agenda. Due to the inexperience of the authorities and the difficult
circumstances prevailing in Slovakia after independence, the Government committed to a set of
reforms and a timetable of implementation which it understood to be ambitious and difficult to
fulfill, but was prepared to launch the program and make adjustments where appropriate later on.
The lack of government ownership of some elements of the program, however, proved to be a
liability to its implementation and undermined the authorities commitment to a fast reform pace in
certain areas. In retrospect, more attention could have been given to the political economy of
Slovakia and the implementation capacity of the state during the design of the ERL
recommendations, but the Bank took a calculated risk and went the extra mile to help the client.
Although some of the reforms did not advance as expected, the risk was worth taking and the
overall strategy would appear broadly appropriate under similar circumstances.



- 12 -
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:    Summary of Assessments
Table 2:    Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:    Project Timetable
Table 4:    Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation (Policy Matrix)
Table 6:    Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:    Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:   Project Costs
Table 8B:   Project Financing
Table 9:    Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:   Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:   Bank Resources: Missions



- 13 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives         Substantial      Partial      Negligible     Not Applicable
Macro policies                        la                           E ]a
Sector policies                       D              l              a
Financial objectives                  0                            L                L I
Institutional development             L                            LI               LI
Physical objectives                   L              LI                             0
Poverty reduction                     la                           L I
Gender issues                         L              L             LI
Other social objectives               a                            LI 0              0
Environmental objectives              L              L             0L
Public sector management              L                            LI               LI
Private sector development            L                            LI               LI
Other (specify)                        I             L               I              L
B. Project sustainability              Likely                  Unlikely             Uncertain
0                       L                     LI
C. Bank Performance               Highly Satisfactory        Satisfactory            Deficient
Identification                        L                                             LI
Preparation assistance                 I                                            LI 
Appraisal                             E]                      0                     L
Supervision                           L                       la                    El
D. Borrower performance           Highly Satisfactory        Satisfactory            Deficient
Preparation                           LI                      0                     L
Implementation                        L                       la                    L
Covenant compliance                   L                       0                     L
Operation (if applicable)                                     E L                   L
E. Assessment of outcome          Highly Satisfactory Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory Highly Unsatisfactory
L              VI            L                 LI



- 14 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Not Applicable
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps i^. Project Cycle               Date Planned                 Actual Date
Identification                        July 13-14, 1993              July 13-14, 1993
Preparation                     September 13-24, 1993          September 13-24, 1993
Appraisal                            October 7-8, 1993             October 7-8, 1993
Negotiations                       October 26-28, 1993           October 26-28, 1993
Letter of Development                                              November 3, 1993
Policy
Board presentation                 November 30, 1993              November 30, 1993
Signing                                December 1993               February 18, 1994
Effectiveness                           April 19, 1994               March 18, 1994
Loan Closing                        December 31, 1995             December 31, 1995
Project Completion                      June 21, 1996                 May 16, 1996
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal         Appraisal       Actual      Actual as Percentage
Year             Estimate                        of Estimate
(US$ million)
1994               80             16                20
1995                0             64                80
Date of Final Disbursement: January 31, 1995



- 15 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
(Policy Matrix)
Objectives                        Measures                                Actual
Change In              There has been a sizable reduction in  Nominal subsidies of the general
composition of         nominal subsidies in the 1994 budget  government increased from Sk 17.3
spending to            submitted to the Parliament in        billion in 1993 to Sk 18.5 billion in
facilitate             October 1993, consistent with IMF     1994 and were reduced to Sk 18.3
restructuring         targets.                               billion in 1995.
Total agricultural subsidies in the   Nominal subsidies were reduced
1994 budget have been reduced in     from Sk 9.2 billion in 1993 to Sk 7.6
nominal terms, including the          billion in 1994 and Sk 7.2 billion in
budgetary contribution to the State   1995. The Ministry of Agriculture
Fund for Market Regulation and to    prepared principles for 1994 and
the Support Fund. Measures to         1995 on transforming the subsidy
improve the efficiency of            program. It undertook an
agricultural subsidies (described in  assessment of the effectiveness of
the Letter of Development Policy)    existing subsidies that would provide
will be implemented.                  the basis for the preparation of the
financial and economic criteria for
granting agricultural subsidies.
The Government has provided          The 1994 budget provided Sk 3.6
funding in the FY94 Budget to        billion of current expenditures for
ensure the proper financing of the    social assistance. In addition, there
core social safety net. This implies  was an allocation of Sk 0.2 billion of
full budgetary funding for social    capital transfers to budgetary
assistance (between Sk 3-5 billion in  organizations for social assistance.
1994) and for any unemployment       Actual social assistance expenditures
benefits that exceed revenues of the  amounted to Sk 5 billion in 1994 and
employment insurance fund.           to Sk 5.5 billion in 1995.
Improving              Credit auctions and open market       In January 1994, more than 70% of
monetary               operations will become the main      the increase in credits to banks was
management            instruments for managing liquidity in  channeled through auctions. NBS
the banking system. As of             suspended both the auction credit
November 1, 1993, a minimum of       and Lombard facilities in early
70% of credit to commercial banks     February 1994 to meet monetary
will go through auctions. The         targets. At the same time that the
interest rate charged for Lombard    auction credit and Lombard credit
credits and for rediscounts will be  were suspended, NBS imposed bank-
linked to the auction interest rate.  by-bank credit ceilings on all banks
Only banks judged to be in good       for the first two quarters of 1994.
standing by the NBS supervision       NBS issued short-term bills in 1995
department will be allowed to        to absorb excess liquidity from the
participate in the credit auctions.  banks and abolished the last bank-
specific ceilings in January 1996.



- 16 -
Objectives                          Measures                                 Actual
As of November 1, 1993, the            The ceiling on Treasury bill interest
Government will remove the ceiling     rates was removed and NBS has
on Treasury bill interest rates and    been paying the average auction
will ensure that market forces         price. At the end of 1995, 90% of
determine interest rates in the        the Treasury bills were sold outside
Treasury bill auctions. NBS            NBS.
purchases of Treasury bills in the
auctions will be severely restricted,
and NBS will pay the average
auction price for the securities. The
majority of Government securities
will be sold outside the NBS.
Strengthening the       NBS has informed commercial banks      Commercial bank audits of 1993
financial system        that it will require annual audits by  accounts were received by NBS in
external auditors whose selection and  May 1994. Banks conducted
terms of reference must be cleared     external audits for 1994 and 1995
by NBS.                                using the same auditors, but NBS did
not stipulate terms of reference for
the external audits.
NBS has informed commercial banks      NBS' Banking Supervision
that it will require that standard     Department issued a directive to
quarterly reports to the supervision   commercial banks on quarterly
department are cleared by external     report requirement for 1993. The
auditors to the commercial bank in     directive was not reissued after
good standing with NBS.                1993.
NBS has agreed to contract special     Consultants hired by NBS completed
studies, including portfolio reviews,  portfolio reviews of the four major
to determine the state of the banking  banks in the second half of 1994.
system, examine options for further    The plan for upgrading bank
strengthening of banks, and develop    supervision capacity was approved
an effective strategy for bank         by the NBS Board. NBS adopted
supervision.                           new regulations on mandatory loan
classification and loan-loss
provisioning in accordance with
international practice, effective July
1, 1995.
NBS has agreed to prepare a plan of    NBS issued revisions to regulations
action to strengthen banking           on capital adequacy, liquidity, large
supervision. In the context of this    borrowers, and foreign exchange
plan, NBS will hire the required       exposure. NBS hired a full time
number of experienced banking          adviser in the Banking Supervision
supervisors to augment existing local  Department and has been hiring
capacity.                              other foreign advisers and trainers.
NBS' Banking Supervision
Department staff increased from 12
in late 1993 to 42-45 in early 1996.



- 17 -
Objectives                        Measures                                Actual
The NPF has agreed to hire           A capital increase for VUB was
consultants to prepare a plan to     completed in December 1994, but
complete the privatization of VUB     NPF shareholding remains
by selling all the shares of NPF to   unchanged. Privatization plan for
the private sector and to strengthen  VUB, IRB and SSB has been
the financial condition of VUB by    delayed and is still under
offering additional shares to private  preparation.
strategic investors; if necessary, a
financial reorganization may have to
be implemented.
The Government has prepared a plan    The capital base has been increased
to increase IRB's capital base from  from SK 500 million to SK 1 billion
private sources over the next three  in October 1994. Latest increase
years.                                amounted to SK 350 million from
private investors. The current share
of private holdings in the capital
base is 64%, compared to 51% at
the beginning of 1993.
Until at least 51% of the Slovak      SSB reduced its lending activities in
Savings Bank's (SSB) shares are       1994 but increased lending slightly
privatized (excluding NPF and         in 1995. SSB's credit ceiling in
municipalities), there will be no     1995 accounted for one-half of total
increase in SSB's lending activities.  deposits but less than 20% of bank
All SSB assets in excess of          loans.
outstanding loans will be deposited
in the interbank market, held as
Treasury bills, or deposited with the
NBS. Interbank deposits of SSB will
be monitored closely by the
supervision department of NBS to
ensure that deposits are lent to banks
in good standing.
KON has been restricted from          Restrictions on deposit taking and
deposit taking and new lending and    new lending are in place. The
has committed to a fixed schedule to  authorities intend to convert KON
repay the banks and NBS.             into a work-out agency for bad
loans, but KON officials are seeking
to remove restrictions on the bank's
activities and to become a full-
fledged bank.



- 18 -
Objectives                         Measures                                Actual
Lending institutions established by   In July 1995 a banking license to a
the Government or NPF will only be    non private bank was approved by
allowed to apply for a bank license   NBS for Bank Slovakia.
after private participation increases  Shareholders include the NPF with
to more than 51 % of total capital,   60% of Bank Slovakia shares, the
and a large, strategic private investor  Insurance Company with 26.4%,
is among the institutions's owners.   SSB with 6.6% and the city of
NPF agrees not to use its shares to   Banska Bystrica with 7%.
influence lending decisions by banks.
Accelerating pace      The Government has published a        Standard privatization slowed down
of privatization       program to privatize one-third of all  in 1993-94. The one-third
enterprises (including state farms)   privatization target by the end of
majority owned by the state as of     1994, equivalent to enterprises with
January 1, 1993 (based on book        book value of Sk 95 billion, was not
value of fixed assets) by the end of  met on time. The Government
1994, using all available methods of  announced a shift in privatization
privatization to achieve this goal.   policy which entailed, in addition to
the cancellation of the second wave
of voucher privatization, permanent
state ownership in 29 "key"
enterprises (including most public
utilities); and state control in 45
"strategic" enterprises through
exercise of veto power on major
decisions. According to the NPF,
the book value of enterprises
privatized amounted to Sk 5 billion
in 1993, Sk 13 billion in 1994 and
Sk 42 billion in 1995. The
Government intends to finalize its
privatization program, excluding
"key" enterprises during 1996.
The Government has agreed to          The interim government started the
organize and prepare a second wave    second wave voucher program in
of voucher privatization, to begin the  September 1994 with the sale of
distribution of coupons to citizens   voucher books to 3.5 million
and to announce the companies to be   Slovaks. The government elected in
included in the coupon scheme by      the fall of 1994, initially postponed
the third quarter of 1994.            and, in June 1995, decided to cancel
the second wave of voucher
privatization. In January 1996, the
Government distributed
"privatization bonds" in exchange
for the voucher books.



- 19 -
Objectives                          Measures                                 Actual
The Ministry of Privatization has      A modification to the large
prepared a preliminary plan to         privatization law was passed in mid-
streamline, simplify, and clarify      March 1994. Consultants funded by
procedures and decision making for     USAID completed a detailed plan
privatization so as to facilitate and  and the authorities implemented a
accelerate the pace of privatization.  major recommendation of the
A detailed plan will be prepared by    consultants plan, namely, the hiring
December 1993 and implementation       of transactions teams. The
will begin by the end of 1993.         usefulness of the plan was overtaken
initially, by the interim
government's plan for voucher
privatization and, more recently, by
the change in the current
government's privatization policy.
The Government has agreed to           The amendment to the Investment
develop a regulatory framework for     Funds Act adopted in July 1995
investment funds that protects the     restricted the voting rights of first
interests of investors and promotes    wave funds and introduced
competitive markets and yet permits    transparency and limits on fees
the funds to play an effective role in  charged by investment companies
corporate governance. To this end,     managing the funds. The
the Government (i) will not            amendment to the Securities Act,
introduce further restrictions on      also adopted in July 1995,
investment fund holdings; (ii) has     introduced stricter monitoring
prepared a draft law on disclosure by  procedures and disclosure
funds to their shareholders and        requirements.
potential investors of the fund's      While these legal acts enhanced
portfolio of shares including, for     transparency in the capital markets
example, the value of shares owned     and strengthened the regulatory
in each company, their investment      framework for investment funds,
strategies, and compensation paid to   they restricted the funds' role in
investment advisors and managers;      enterprise governance.
and (iii) has required funds to notify
the Anti-Monopoly Agency if they
obtain a significant ownership
interest in enterprises that compete
with each other.
The Government has publicly            The Government has not changed the
announced Slovakia's policy that the   policy of requiring the purchaser to
state will accept responsibility for   accept responsibility for
environrmental liabilities caused by   environmental liabilities within the
state enterprises prior to their       premises of the enterprise but the
privatization. Environmental audits    government will accept this
will be completed prior to             responsibility outside of the
privatization to determine the         premises. NPF policy, upon
magnitude of the state's liability.    agreement with the buyer, is to
reduce the price of the firms to
reflect environmental liabilities.



- 20 -
Objectives                         Measures                               Actual
Promote private        Drafted an amendment to the Civil     The draft amendment establishing a
sector                 Code to simplify the procedures for   system of high level clerks to
development           processing and shorten the time for    perform clerical and routine tasks
registration of new businesses.      l-. ~sently done by commercial judges
was submitted by the Ministry of
Finance to the Council of Ministers.
Registration has improved with
gi ~ater consistency and experience
of ommercial judges. In 1995,
reg stration took 2-3 months,
co;.ipared with 3-6 months in 1993.
Drafted a law providing for binding,  Law became effective in June 1994.
non-judicial arbitration of
commercial disputes and submitted it
to the Council of Ministers for
approval.
The Government has agreed to          US AID financed study was carried
commission a comprehensive           out in January 1994 and identified
assessment of constraints to, and     lack of credit as the main constraint.
measures to assist in the            The authorities have taken actions to
development of the private sector, to  support private sector development
be completed by April 1, 1994.       through the Small Business Agency.
Based on this assessment, the
Government will prepare an action
plan to remove barriers to private
sector development.
The Government will arrange for      The Ministry of Economy published
publication and distribution of a    the handbook in Slovak, English and
handbook on the procedures and        German. Bank staff found the
requirements for obtaining licenses  handbook which includes regulations
and for registering businesses in    to start businesses, invest in existing
Slovak and two other languages       businesses and establish joint
widely-used in commercial            ventures to be well-done.
transactions.
Facilitate             The Government has agreed to carry    Results of studies of 14 companies in
enterprise             out two additional studies of key    the textile subsector were submitted
restructuring          industrial sectors in early 1994.    to the Bank in August 1994.
These studies will identify          Recommendations are to be
enterprises which are most likely to  implemented by 7 companies.
be of interest to foreign investors
and will be the focus of special
promotion efforts to find such
investors. They will also identify
which enterprises have no prospects
of viability and will undergo speedy
liquidation.



- 21 -
Objectives                         Measures                                 Actual
The Government has agreed to           Phase I of the diagnostic studies of
complete detailed diagnostic studies   20 enterprises were completed and
of 20 loss-making enterprises by      reports were submitted to the Bank
April 1, 1994, with                   in October 1994. Phase 2 of the
recommendations on plans to           studies was completed in May 1995.
restructure and/or privatize them.
Implementation of these plans will
begin shortly thereafter.
A mechanism has been established to    FIZAKO, a private company
account for and net out inter-         appointed by the Government to deal
enterprise arrears as a first step to  with inter-enterprise arrears, cleared
identifying the net debtors in the    Sk 10 billion out of an estimated Sk
arrears chain.                         80-90 billion in 8 voluntary clearing
rounds by September 1993.
Subsequently, two mandatory rounds
took place which cleared another SK
9 billion of arrears. The NPF
provided Sk 1 billion to FIZAKO to
finance loans bridging the arrears
chains during the mandatory rounds.
The Government has agreed to          The amendment to the Bankruptcy
prepare accelerated out-of-court       Act provided for out-of-court
procedures for financial               creditor conciliation and firm
reorganization and liquidation of     reorganization. However, in
corporatized enterprises. This will    practice, it has slowed company
be accompanied by mechanisms to       reorganizations and liquidation
strengthen and simplify existing debt  procedures. Conciliation procedures
collection and enforcement             provide for equal treatment of all
procedures.                            domestic creditors, which negates
the priority of secured credit already
established in Slovak law. The
Ministry of Justice is drafting a new
amendment to replace mandatory
reorganization with a more
transparent process, focussing on
court-based settlements.
The Government will arrange for        The system of using court
identification of the measures needed  magistrates has been useful for
to streamline existing liquidation    streamlining liquidation procedures.
procedures for state-owned             The courts, however, are not
enterprises and will begin to         equipped technically to handle
implement these measures before the   bankruptcy cases and there is a
end of this year.                     scarcity of judges trained in
bankruptcy and reorganization
techniques and in asset evaluation
methods.



- 22 -
Objectives                          Measures                                 Actual
The Government has transformed         Few enterprises were corporatized in
more than 10% of the SOEs              1994. EC Phare provided equipment
remaining as of 1993. The              to the registry courts to assist them
Government has committed to            in the corporatization of enterprises
converting 25% of SOEs by April        scheduled for voucher privatization.
1994. Ultimately, the Government       However, it was not necessary to
intends to corporatize all remaining   corporatize all the remaining
viable or potentially viable state-    enterprises that were to be sold by
owned enterprises by end of 1994.      standard methods since the most
common method was to sell the
firms directly, without
corporatization.
The Government has instructed the      The audit was completed and the
NPF to appoint an independent          final report was received by the
accounting firm acceptable to the      Bank.
World Bank to complete by April 1,
1994, an audit of the National
Property Fund (NPF), following
sound accounting practices.
The Government agrees that the use     An amendment to the privatization
of NPF's financial resources, which    law provides for the use of NPF
are mostly one-off revenues, will be   revenues, in payments of costs of
restricted to the one-off expenditures  privatization, payment of debts of
associated with restructuring. The     enterprises scheduled for
Government has identified priority     privatization, provision of capital to
uses of NPF revenues as: the direct    banks, provision of loan guarantees
costs of the privatization process, the  to "strategic" enterprises and the
initial costs of restructuring of viable  option to cover certain
enterprises (only organizational and   environmental liabilities. NPF
financial restructuring), liquidation  revenues were used to, among other
costs of non-viable enterprises        things, capitalize Bank Slovakia in
(severance payments of employees,      1995.
closing costs of installations, and
environmental clean-up costs of
industrial sites). Operating or
investment subsidies to enterprises or
guarantees will not be funded by
NPF resources.



- 23 -
Objectives                        Measures                                Actual
Restructure            The Economic Council has approved     The minimum 25% price increases
energy enterprises     an increase in prices for household   to compensate for 1993 inflation was
consumers of natural gas and          not implemented. The tariff study
electricity by a minimum of 25%.      was completed in December 1994
The Government will also hire        and was presented to the
consultants to prepare a phased plan  Government in March 1995. The
to adjust prices for natural gas, heat  authorities did not implement a 10%
and electricity to final consumers to  price increases by fourth quarter of
reach appropriate economic cost       1994 agreed with the Bank and price
recovery.                             increases in 1995, as agreed under
the IMF Stand-by. A phased plan to
adjust prices during 5 years has been
prepared and is to be implemented
starting in 1996.
Greater efficiency     In the interest of administrative     The Government maintains unified
of social spending     efficiency and contributor            collection of contributions for the
compliance, the Government has        social programs.
agreed to maintain unified collection
of contributions for all four social
programs.
The Government agrees to gradually   Work on the timetable was stalled as
raising, on a phased basis, the      the interim government considered it
eligibility age for full pensions from  politically unfeasible before the fall
60 years for men and 57 years for     1994 elections. The current
women to 65 years for both men and   Government chose not to implement
women beginning in 1994. A           this measure because of its pledge
timetable for the phasing will be     during the fall 1994 election.
agreed with the World Bank.
Benefits for individuals opting for
early retirement will be actuarially
reduced.
The Government has submitted         The income ceiling was adopted and
legislation to Parliament to better   implemented. The authorities
target child benefits. The income     intention to streamline the social
ceiling for eligibility has been     safety net through reductions in the
graduated by family size.            number of available social benefits
and better targeting through
legislation remains under discussion.
The Government has submitted         There has been no reconsideration of
legislation to Parliament that       the sickness benefits proposal which
employee benefits have been reduced  was rejected by Parliament in early
from 70% to 50% of wages for the      1994.
first three days of illness as a first
step toward improving work
incentives and financial viability of
the Sickness Fund.



- 24 -
Objectives                          Measures                                 Actual
The Government has provided full       The 1994 budget provided Sk 3.6
funding in the FY94 budget for         billion of current expenditures for
social assistance (estimated to        social assistance. In addition, there
require from Sk 3 billion to Sk 5      was an allocation of Sk 0.2 billion of
billion) to provide minimum income     capital transfers to budgetary
support for the long-term              organizations for social assistance.
unemployed.                            Actual social assistance expenditures
amounted for Sk 5 billion in 1994
and to Sk 5.5 billion in 1995.
The Government has agreed to           The Ministry of Health announced
conduct a study by the end of 1993     new methods for the remuneration of
to assess monitoring and cost control  health facilities. The fee for service
capacity for individual facilities and  scheme that had built-in incentives
programs throughout the national       for cost escalation was replaced by a
health care system. Based on the       new payment system in mid-1994 to
findings of that study, it will develop  contain health costs and reduce
and implement a plan for phased        fraud. Under the revised system,
introduction of the fee-for-service    hospitals are allocated fixed budgets
compensation of health care            in advance and primary care
providers only in those areas which    providers are paid on a
are confirmed to have adequate         capitation/performance basis. The
monitoring mechanisms in place to      actual health expenditures for 1994
control health costs. If National      (excluding wages and capital
Health Insurance receipts in 1994      expenditures) amounted to Sk 23
were to fall short of actual 1993      billion. This amount was more than
health expenditures in real terms, the  sufficient to maintain current
shortfall would be provided by the     expenditures at the real 1993 level.
state budget in order to maintain a    For 1995, health expenditures are
minimally acceptable level of health   estimated at Sk 29 billion.
services. No resources beyond this
amount would be provided under the
state budget.
A Social Reform Advisory Council       The Council met several times in
and a technical secretariat has been   1995 after a long hiatus since its
established to monitor and evaluate    initial meeting in January 1994. A
social benefit programs, and to        comprehensive reform of social
develop a strategy for comprehensive   benefits legislation is under
reforms designed to reduce costs,      discussion.
improve work incentives, and
improve the targeting and efficiency
of these programs. The work
program of these units will be
developed in consultation with the
World Bank.



- 25 -
Objectives                         Measures                               Actual
Enhancing labor        The Government has agreed that job    The Ministry of Labor and Social
mobility and work      placement services, which currently   Affairs completed the first stage
incentives             cover only local and regional job     assessment of information
opportunities, are to be provided on  technology needs to adopt a
a national basis.                    nationwide registry.
The Government has submitted a        The 1994 budget approved by
1994 budget with an allocation of Sk  Parliament provided for Sk 97
137 million for requalification      million for requalification training.
training.                            This amount was increased to Sk 326
million in the 1995 budget.
A proposal has been submitted to the  The Ministry of Labor issued
Cabinet that incentives for job       instructions, effective January 1994,
creation and small business          that the incentive program for small
development under the Ministry of     business promotion be provided in
Labor, Social Affairs and Family's   the form of loans rather than grants.
active employment program are to      The loans are provided interest free,
be provided as loans rather than as   repayable in two years.
grants.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not Applicable



- 26 -
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study               Purpose as defined at         Status            Impact of Studies
appraisal/redefined
1. Special studies     Determine the state of the       Done        National Bank of Slovakia
on portfolio reviews   banking system, examine                      implemented recommendations
options for further                          on loan classification and
strengthening of banks, and                  mandatory loan-loss
develop an effective strategy                provisions. Supervision
for bank supervision.                        capacity has been improved.
2. Restructuring of    Identify enterprises which        Done        Study of 14 companies in the
key industrial         are more likely to be of                      textile subsector were
sectors                interest to foreign investors,                completed. Recommendations
and those which have no                      to be implemented by 7
possibility of viability and                 companies.
will undergo speedy
liquidation.
3. Diagnostic          Recommend and implement           Done        Banks have yet to implement
studies of 20-loss     a plan on how to restructure                  fmancial restructuring
making                 and/or privatize these                       recommendations.
enterprises            enterprises.
4. Private sector      Assess constraints to and         Done        Measures to support private
development study      measures to assist in the                     sector development have been
development of the private                   implemented through the Small
sector and prepare a plan to                 Business Agency.
remove barriers to its
development.
5. Energy tariff       Prepare plan to adjust price      Done        New price law adopted in
study                  for natural gas, heat and                     April 1996 stipulates energy
electricity to find consumer                 price policy. Household
to reach appropriate                         electricity prices will be
economic cost recovery.                      gradually adjusted starting in
1996.
6. Health care study   Assess monitoring and cost        Done        Fee for service was introduced
control capacity for                         in 10/93 without good
individual facilities and                    monitoring and cost controls;
programs throughout the                      since then, measures have
national care system.                        been taken to contain costs
through fixed budgets for
hospitals and
capitation/performance
payments for primary health
care providers.



- 27 -
Table 8A: Project Costs"
Appraisal estimate                        Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                               (US$ million)
Item                                     Local        Foreign        Total            Local      Foreign        Total
costs         costs                          costs       costs
TOTAL                         --            140             140            --         1212/        1212/
MThe IMF, EU and G24 countries also provided financing in support of Slovakia's transformation process.
2' The difference between actual and estimated figures is due to the fact that there is an undisbursed amount of US$19 million of the
Export-import Bank of Japan loan as of May 1996.
Table 8B: Project Financing"
Appraisal estimate                      Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                              (US$ million)
Source                                    Local       Foreign        Total            Local      Foreign        Total
costs        costs                          costs       costs
1. IBRD/IDA                                 --          80            80                --          80           80
2. Export-Import Bank of Japan              --           60            60               --         412/         412/
TOTAL                         --          140           140               --          121          121
"The IMF, EU and G24 countries also provided financing in support of Slovakia's transformation process.
2' The difference between actual and estimated figures is due to the fact that there is an undisbursed amount of US$19 million of the
Export-Import Bank of Japan loan as of May 1996.
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable



- 28 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Slovak Republic
Economic Recovery Loan
Covenant        Present
Agreement      Section         Type           Status                 Description of Covenant
Loan       3.01               M             C"        Borrower and the Bank to exchange views on the
Agreement    (a & b)                                     progress achieved in carrying out the program from
time to time. Borrower to provide the Bank with a
report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
program prior to such review.
Loan        3.02              P             C         Procurement governed by Schedule 4 to the Loan
Agreement                                               Agreement.
Loan       3.03               A             C         Borrower to: (a) maintain satisfactory records and
Agreement    (a, b & c)                                 accounts in accordance with sound accounting
practices; (b & c) have records and accounts,
including those for the Special Account, audited in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
1/ The transition government provided the Bank with an Economic Policy Statement in April 1994.
Covenant type:                                                                 Present Status
A =  Accounts/audits                                                         C= Complied with
M = Monitoring/reviews
P =  Procurement
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Not Applicable
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned       Revised         Actual
Stage of project cycle             Staff Weeks    Staff Weeks    Staff Weeks
Preparation to appraisal                40.0           50.4            52.4
Appraisal                               35.0            2.1             1.6
Negotiations through Board approval      7.0           12.9            12.8
Supervision                              14.0          17.9            17.2
Lending Development                      2.0            2.0             2.4
Implementation Completion Report         6.0            6.0             6.0
TOTAL                                104.0          91.3             92.4



- 29 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating2
No. of    Days                                                                 Types of
Stage of project cycle            Month/Year   Persons           in       Specialization       Implementation   Development  Problems3
Field                                status          objectives
Pre- appraisal                          9/93           14         12          E, P, F, S
Appraisal                              10/93            1          2              E
Supervision / Project
Preparation Missions
1. EFSAL                                1/94           8          16           E, F, P                 2                 2              T
2. ERL supervision/EFSAL                4/94            6         12      E, F, P, Lawyer
preparation
3. EFSAL                                6/94           11         18           E, F, P                 2                 2              P
4. Health Project                       2/94            6         12              H                    2                 2               P
5. Health Project                       6/94           4           6              H                    1                  1             T
6. Social Safety Net/Labor              1/94           4          12              L                    I                  1             T
Restructuring
7. Power                                5/94            1          3              F                    2                 2              P
8. Power                                9/94            1          3              F                    2                 2              P
9. Lending Program                      1/95           6         6-14       E, F, H, L, S              2                 2              P
Completion                             3/96            3         11              E
I - Specialization                                     2 - Performance Rating                        3 - Types of Problems
E  Economist                                           I = Minor problems                            F - Financial
F - Firnacial Analyst                                  2 = Moderate Problems                         T - Technical
H - Health Specialits                                  3 - Major Problems                            M - Maugerial
L = Labor Specialist                                                                                 P - Policy
P- Privatization asd Private Sector Specialist
S - Social Sector Specialist



-30-                                Appendix A
Page 1 of 2
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
ECONOMIC RECOVERY LOAN
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT MISSION - AIDE MEMOIRE
1.          A World Bank mission visited Bratislava during March 25 - April 5, 1996, to discuss with the
borrower its views on project implementation and agree on the steps to be taken in preparing the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Economic Recovery Loan (ERL). The mission was
composed of Mr. Carlos Silva-Jauregui (mission leader), Ms. Marinela Dado and Ms. Rossana Polastri. The
mission met with representatives of the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs, Ministry
of Economy, Ministry of Privatization, Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Health, National Property Fund,
National Bank of Slovakia, Slovak National Agency for Foreign Investment and Development and Slovak
Statistical Office, as well as with representatives of commercial banks, investment privatization funds and
research institutes. The mission would like to express its warmest thanks to the various government officials
for the assistance provided during the mission.
2           The mission discussed and reached a common understanding with the Ministry of Finance
(MOF) on the content and timing of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR). Moreover, it was agreed
that the MOF will be responsible for preparing the borrowers independent evaluation of the loan
implementation. Upon return to headquarters, the mission will keep in close relation with the Government
officials involved in the preparation of the borrower's independent contribution to the ICR and would stand
ready to assist the authorities.
3.          The ERL in the amount of US$80 million equivalent was granted to Slovakia after
independence and approved by the board on November 30, 1993. The loan was closed on December 31, 1995,
the original closing date and was fully disbursed by January 1995.
4.          The Slovak government adopted a strong package of short-term adjustment measures and a
medium-term structural transformation program based on: (i) fiscal policies, to facilitate restructuring and
growth; (ii) privatization, enterprise restructuring and private sector development, to maintain the momentum
for structural transformation; (iii) financial sector reform, to stem the deterioration of bank portfolios and to
increase competition in the sector; and (iv) social sector reforms through human resource policies, to improve
the efficiency of the social safety net, within fiscal constraints, while protecting vulnerable groups and
improving the functioning of the labor markets. The ERL was designed to support a first set of structural
reforms with pre-board measures designed to address those areas deemed most critical for achieving recovery.
These measures complemented the short-term fiscal adjustment supported by the IMF.
5.          The Government expressed its appreciation to the Bank for its assistance and the financial
support received through the ERL. The ERL helped in mobilizing other financial resources to Slovakia at the
time when they were most needed and signaled the support of the Government's program to the international
community.
6.          Next steps. The following program was agreed for the preparation of the ICR:



-31 -                               Appendix A
Page 2 of 2
*     Receipt of borrower independent contribution
(Ministry of Finance responsible)               May 1, 1996
*     Draft report to Ministry of Finance              May 6, 1996
*     Final report                                     July 1, 1996
Bratislava, Slovakia
April 3, 1996



-32-                                Appendix B
Page 1 of 3
CONTRIBUTION OF THE BORROWER
TO THE IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ECONOMIC RECOVERY LOAN
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
(Prepared by the Ministry of Finance)
I. Objectives Regarding the Economic Program of the Slovak Republic Supported by the ERL
I .   The fundamental objective of the Slovak Government's Economic Program in the second half of 1993
and in 1994, which was supported by the Economic Recovery Loan from the World Bank, was to strengthen
confidence in the economy, domestically and abroad, and to set the basis for sustainable growth. Accordingly,
the program aimed at fiscal consolidation, improving monetary management, strengthening the financial
system, accelerating pace of privatization process, promoting private sector development, measures to facilitate
enterprise restructuring, greater efficiency of social spendings, enhancing labor mobility and work incentives.
2.    ERL in amount of USD 80 million was designed for strengthening balance of payments position to
maintain the stabilized exchange rate of Slovak Crown in terms of internal currency convertibility and
liberalized foreign trade. Furthermore, in compliance with the STF loan from the IMF, the first tranche of
which was released in amount of SDR 64 million in July 1993 and the second one in the same amount in July
1994, the ERL should assist to cover the assumed deficit of external current account in 1994, which was
estimated by the IMF and the World Bank at about USD 250-300 million, and contribute to strengthen foreign
exchange reserves of the Slovak Republic.
3.    Objectives and intentions of the Slovak Economic Program were included in the Memorandum of
Development Policy, the draft of which was agreed by the Government in October 1993 and the final version
in January 1994. Memorandum of Development Policy was based on the Policy Matrix agreed with the World
Bank.
II. Assessment of the Program Objectives Achievement
4.    Achievement of the major program objective, which was recovery of economic growth, can be rated
as successful. Positive results were achieved in macroeconomic stabilization, what created preconditions to
reach a sustainable economic growth. The Slovak economy after GDP decline of 4.8% in 1993 recorded real
GDP growth of 4.8% in 1994 and 7.4% in 1995. Against the first half of 1993, Slovakia's creditworthiness has
improved considerably domestically and abroad. Economic performance of the Slovak Republic in
conjunction with a relatively low external indebtedness has improved perceptions of the Slovak international
credibility and facilitated an access to the international capital markets, as evidenced by gradual improvement
of assessment by the international rating agencies up to the current investment credit rating.



- 33 -                               Appendix B
Page 2 of 3
5.    The program of fiscal consolidation aimed at decline of fiscal deficit from 7.6% of GDP in 1993 to
targeted 4% of GDP in 1994. In compliance with this target, the 1994 State Budget was adopted by
Parliament. The important part of the 1994 deficit decline was a sizable reduction of enterprise and
agricultural subsidies. In spite of projections of the fiscal consolidation program assuming for 1994 fiscal
deficit of 4% of GDP, the real fiscal deficit reached 1.4% of GDP. Positive trends of sound fiscal policy were
recorded again in 1995, with the fiscal surplus 0.5% of GDP.
6.    To achieve objectives of strengthening of financial system and monetary management, the following
major measures were implemented: National Bank of Slovakia (NBS) asked commercial banks to ensure
elaboration of annual audits by external auditors under international standards; NBS hired experienced foreign
bank supervisors to work the NBS's Bank Supervision Department to monitor banks and train local supervisory
; measures were taken to limit lending activities of the Slovak Savings Bank, which held approximately 90%
of household deposits in Slovakia; the Consolidation Bank as an institution specialized in collecting bad loans
was restricted from deposit taking, lending and other commercial banking activities; Treasury bills and
Government securities became the major instruments in financing of governmental deficit.
7.    The process of structural reforms in the second half of 1993 and in the following years was delayed
against the original program assumptions mainly in privatization and enterprise and banking restructuring.
In 1994, advancement of the structural reforms in the Slovak Republic was negatively influenced by a lack of
a political stability, which resulted to the changes of the Government in April and in December.
8.    The privatization process, after stagnation in 1993 and 1994, was intensified in 1995, when the
Government upholded the program of direct sales and other standard privatization methods. Through direct
sales and tenders were privatized enterprises with the total value of Sk 50 billion (USD 1.7 billion).
9.   In connection with the program assessment regarding enterprise restructuring, it is necessary to state,
that a process of liquidation of non-viable enterprises was not satisfactory intensified and bankruptcy process
supported by out-of-court procedures were not implemented in praxis. There was a lag in this area influenced
by the fact, that the Government considered the maintenance of social peace as a basic assumption to establish
macroeconomic stabilization.
10.   One of the main tasks in connection with the bank system recovery is to recognize and properly estimate
risks included in assets of the banks and simultaneously be prepared to face consequences by the necessary
requirement of creation the covering funds. The National Bank of Slovakia adopted in 1994 four basic
regulations of prudent business activity, concerning bank capital adequacy, bank credit exposure, bank liquidity
and bank foreign exchange position and in March 1995 the Bank Council of the National Bank of Slovakia
adopted the Provision on rules of claims evaluations and off-balance sheet liabilities of banks according to
risks included and for creation of funds for coverage of these risks. The Government intends to solve the
problem of bad loans by division of funds creation (provisions and reserves) for existing risks from classified
claims for several years period and for those banks, that will accept a restructuring program will enable tax
deduction of reserves and provisions up to 80% of a level of non-covered risks, counted by obligatory
regulations of the National Bank of Slovakia. In this connection, a draft of the Law on reserves and provisions
for ascertaining the income tax base was elaborated.
11.  In the area of energy efficiency, the measures aimed at increasing energy prices by the minimum 25%
were not carried out due to possible problems of social bearableness of the transformation.



- 34-                                Appendix B
Page 3 of 3
12.   Encouraging results were achieved in the area of labor market by implementing both passive and active
programs, mainly requalification training. Nevertheless, a lag of housing privatization negatively influenced
enhancing of labor mobility. There was not prepared and adopted a plan to raise gradually, on a phased basis,
the eligibility age for full pensions to 65 years for both men and women.
III. Conclusions
13.   The ERL may be evaluated as successful from the point of view of reaching of the basic objective -
supporting the economic growth recovery and increasing the credibility of the Slovak economy domestically
and abroad. However, the lack of a stable political environment during 1994 as well as the Government effort
to maintain social peace and adequate social bearableness of the process of transformation led to a lag of some
of structural reforms.
14.  It was succeeded to prepare and realize the ERL in a record period of a few months (the World Bank
introductory mission in September 1993 and the Executive Board's approval in November 1993), what in
comparison with a standard timetable of 6-9 months can be booked to the credit of the World Bank's authorities
by supporting of the program of macroeconomic stabilization and structural reforms of the Slovak Republic.
15.   Since the time when the ERL was closed, the macroeconomic situation has improved significantly. The
Slovak Republic shows dynamic GDP growth, low inflation rate, stabilized balance of payments and
favourable exchange reserves. The Slovak Republic is successful in a gradual decreasing of unemployment
level, though this tendency could be influenced unfavourably by further steps in the enterprise restructuring.
Urgent issues, that failed to be resolved regarding the ERL were the Bankruptcy Law implementation in praxis
and restructuring of banks.



MAP SECTION






IBRD 2794A
BELARUS
GERMANY    i      POLAND
<   C2KH  t.X.          S        UKRAINE                                 <
CZECH
REPUBUC         -
POLAND
AUSTRIA - _                                        CZECH
_. _  HNGARY  /        I \            REPUBLIC
ROMANLA    1                                                                                                                                          T. R-o_
ITALE       A CROATL -. *'                                                      -         ;           3
S.- ~        I.
/   $   /s'   ,>fl   y   M.k.16,                 C VYCHOD   SLOVEN             -r =P)
L.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
- 8    Tof   <;5  (    <        t]          2          i   tk                                                  HUNGARY Hri-N
(   '                                         _                   <             i                                                                          12~--    NATIONAL CAPITAL
_  ,                                                          T o&ABr .                                                                                     =    AUTOBAHN
zo                                                                                                        UKRAINEMAIN ROADS
K/  Y                                                          k 6l  DOUBLE TRACK ELECTRIC RADE CE R                                IR
)                                         .                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DOUBLE TRACK NARROW GUAGE RAILROADS
KILOMETERS                               -.--.--.  SINGLE TRACK ELECTRIC RAILROADS
IS    3T    45    60                 ~--   SIGL TRC STANDARD GUAGE RAILROADS
AUSTRIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5                                                            S           D         R
9-b'  '^  _"'   r  " 'ralz"war                                                                                                       MILES                                  -  '-  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
'or o s c s c o 2 s o -  :'T                                                                                                                             -   R IV E R S   R E P U B L I C
*    F A' AFF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* AL NAP~~~~~~~~~~NTONLCAIA
MAIN ROADS ~ ~   ~    AY RT









1MAdING
Report No:      15632
Type: ICR



