0Aj I3 6-    - Sk
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCkAL USE ONLY
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: P- 6166 SK                                      Report No.P-616"SK
Type: PR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSIRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECULTVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
ECONOMIC RECOVERY LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$80 MILLION
TO
THE SLOVAK REPUBLIC
Novenber S, 1993
This domet has a resticted distribution and may be used by ripents only in the performane of
I their offel dut  Its contes may nototrwise be ddosed without Word Bank authoriation.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Cufency Unit - Slovak Koruna (Sk)
Jan            Apr            Jul            Aug
,          }993           12§ _1993                     1993
US$1.00 =             28.3           28.6           28.6           33.1            32.6
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVWiIONS AND ACRONYMS
BSD    -       Bank Supervision Department
CCFF  -        Compensatory and Contingency Financing Facility
CIF    -       Cost, insurance and freight
CMEA -         Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
CPA    -       Countty Procurement Assessment
CSFR  -        Czech and Slovak Federal Republic
EBRD  -        European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EC     -       European Community
EIB    -       European Investnt Bank
ERL   -        Economic Recovery Loan
GATr -         General Agreement on Trade and Tanffs
CDP   -        Gross Domestic Product
1BRD   -       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB    -       Intemational Competitive Bidding
IMF   -        Intenaional Monetary Fund
IRB    -       Investicna a RozvojovA Banks
KON   -        Konsolida6na Banka
MLT   -        Medium and long term
MOE   -        Ministry of Economy
NBS   -        National Bank of Slovakia
NPY    -       National Property Fund
OECD  -        Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development
SAL   -        Struchtral Adjustanrt Loan
SCP    -       System of company registration of stock ownership
SDR   -        Special Drawing Rights
SEP    -       Slovak Power Company
SFMR  -        State Fund for Market Regplation
Sk     -       Slovak Koruna(y)
SOB   -        Stateovwned enteiprise
SPP    -       Slovak Gas Company
SR     -       Slovak Republic
SSB    -       Slovak Savings Bank
STF    -       Systemic Transformation Facility
VAT   -        Value added tax
VUB   -        Vleobena lOverovi Banks
SLOVAK REPUBLIC-FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIL& USE ONLY
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
ECONOMIC RECOVERY LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:             Slovak Republic
Amount:               US$ 80 million equivalent
Term8:                17 years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Decriptiow.           The proposed loan supports Slovakda's ongoing transformation by financing many of
the one-off costs associated with restructuring and the break-up of the Czech and
Slovak Federation. The loan would support the Govemment's program of structural
adjusment and the key reforms that contribute to thl restoration of growth. The
reforms focus on four areas: (a) fiscal retrenchment; (b) strengthening and
diversifying the financial sector; (c) continued privatization, private sector
development and enterprise restrcturing; and (d) a more efficient social safety net.
Benefits
and Risks:            This loan would support the key structural reforms to put the Slovak economy on a
path of recovery. Without these reforms, there is a high probability that output will
continue to decline or stagnate in the medium term. The policies supported by tbis
loan are expected to have a sufficiently large positive iwmact on growth to justify
taking the rik associated with a more aggressive reform effort. The benefits will be
in the form cf higher growth, greater competitiveness and improved living standards
in the medium tsrm.
The risks are both domestic and intemational. The domestic consensus for reform
may weaken as Slovalda enters its fourth year of falling output Massive lay-offs
from restructured state-owned enterprises may result in growing dissatisfaction with
the reform program. Maintaining domestic political stability will also be crucial for
promoting private investment, both domestic and foreign. Therefore, close
monitoring of the social safety net's effectiveness, which is necessary to maintain the
consensus for reform, is a crucial element of the loan.
The recovery and accessibility of OECD markets will be critical for an open economy
like Slovakia.- Slovakia's industries tend to be in precisely those sectors where there
is substantial overcapacity in other countries. Further progrss on market access for
Slovak exports will be important for reducing the adjustment costs of restucturing.
The Slovak Government has litde direct influence over these extemal factors, but a
credible reform program and effective diplomatic efforts can reduce the risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Poverty Categoy       Poverty-focused operation. This opetion addreses poverty issues through social
safety net forms that guatee fundig of means tested social assistance and
measures that promote job reation and labor mobiity.
Esthmated
Disbursements         US$ 80 million of the loat would be disbursed in one trche upon loan effectiveness
which is expected in Deceber 1993.



SLOVAK REPUBLC
ECONOMIC RECOVERY LOAN
Table of Contents
L. Country Policies and Elements of the Bank Group Assistance Strategy ...............   I
A. ntroduction ........                                                               I1
B. Th Government's Reform Agenda and Bank Support ....................   5
C. Elements of the Bank Group Assistance Strategy ...................... .            8
D. Level of Bank Support and Trigger Points ...........................  10
E. RoleofIFC andMIGA ....             ...................................   12
F. Cooperation and Cofinacing with Othe; Agencies ......................  12
G. Summary and  sues f  Board Consideration .........................  12
1. The Government's Economic Recovery Program and World Bank Support ........       ....  13
A. Flscal Policies for Recovery  .................            ...................  14
B. Strengthening the Financial System    ............... .................  17
C. Privatiation, Private Sector Development and Enterprise Restructuring ... ...... 21
D. hnprove Efficiency of Social Spending and Labor Markets .......       ..........  28
m. EcononiProspects  ............................................  32
A. Medium-Tern Scenario .32
B. Extrnd Fimcing ndCreditworthiness .............             ...............  33
IV. Ibe Proposed Loan ............................................   37
A. Loan Amount and Borrower        ....................................   37
B. Procurement .            .       ..........................................  37
C. Disburseent ..........................................   38
D. Accounts ..........................................                               38
E. Audit        ..........................................    38
F. Monitoring Arrangements      .....................................   38
G. Tranche Release Conditions     ....................................   39
H. EnvironmentalAssessmentRequirements                     . . . .   39
1. Benefits and Risks ..........................................   39
V. Recommendation ............................................                              40
ANNEXES
Annex A: Letter of Development Policy .     ...................................  41
AnnexB: Policy MiWx  ..........................................                             55
Annex C: Key Econonilc and Sociald icators ...........           ....................  62
Annex D: Timetable of Key Processing Events  .........         ......................  68
Annex E: Status of Bank Group Operations in the Slovak Republic ......      .............  70



Report and Recommendation of the President of the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
to the Executve Directors
on a Proposed Econonic Reovery Loan
In an Amount Equivalent to US$80 Million
to the Slovak Republic
I.           I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Economic Recovery
Loan (ERL) to the Slovak Republic in support of a program of structural reforms to restore growth. lbe
loan would have a term of 17 yes, including 5 years of grace at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate and would be disbursed in one tranche of US$80 million.
2.           The Slovak Republic inherited its membership in the IW  and the IBRD on January 1,
1993 as one of the successor stes to Czechoslovakia. An economic mission visited the Slovak Republic
In April 1993 and a draft Country Economic Memorandum - 'Slovakia: Resucturing for Recovery" -
- is svailable. An abbreviated Country Assistance Strategy is Included below.
L Country Policies and Element of the Bank Group Assistance Strategy
A. Introduction
Historical Background
3.           Slovakia was part of Czechoslovakia from 1918, when the latter was created from
disparate parts of the old Austro-Hungarian Empire, until the 'velvet divorce' of 1992. Most of Austro-
HungUy's industrial base was inherited by Czechoslovaia, which was, unti the second world war, one
of the 10 richest countries in the world. Of the two republics, Slovakia, to the east, had been primarily
rural and much poorer than the neighboring Czech lands, and was much less industrialized. It employed
roughly half as many people in industry and twice as many in agricultre as did the Czech lands. The
country emerged from the war relatively undamaged, and with the emergence of a communist government
in 1948, there was a strong push for rapid industrialization in Slovakia to achieve convergence of Incomes
across the Federation. Slovakia's per capita income rose from around 60% of that in the Czech lands
in 1948 to nearly 80% in 1968 and reached near parity in the 1970s. This growth was financed in part
through transfers from the Federation and relied heavily on markets in the former CMEA.
4.           As a result of these developments, Slovakia's economy became heavily Indutrialied,
especally compared to advanced market economies (Figure 1). However, the pattem of industriaization
was concentrated on heavy industries and armament-related branches and was based on subsidized
imported raw materials. The semi-finished products, heavy machinery and weapons produced by these
industries were "sold" predominanty in CMEA markets. Many of the large enterprises were located,
for strategic reasons, in the eastern part of the country, i.e. close to CMEA economies. Compared tc
the Czech lands, where industries and manufacturing skills matured over decades and had been integrated
into the world economy, some of Slovakia's industry is less competitive and thus will require more severe
restructuring and downsizing.
5.           Slovakla shared in the macroeconomc stabilization success ofthe former Czechoslovakia
since the 'Velvet Revolution' in 1989. As part of the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic, it has



2
Implemented, since the second half of 1990, a far-Figure 1
reaching stabilization and transformation program,
supported by both Bretton Woods institutions and           (per enct
the EC (see Box 1). Low inflation, low foreign
debt, a balanced federal budget, and a balanced
current account were the results of this reform
program. As in other transforming countries,          Induflry
output fell massively due to the collapse oi the                  54
CMEA, the contraction of domestie demand and                       .XAQtI;&uN
the far-reaching price and trade liberalization.
Cumulatively, exports declined by more than 50%
over 1991 and 1992, Investment fell fom 34% of  sI.W 40.1
GDP in 1990 to 25% in 1992, and consumption   High Income Countries  SIovakia
declined by 25% in real terms during the same
period. Consequendy, GDP fell by 24% in rea
terms between 1990 and 1992. Unemployment
rose quicldy and stood at 10% at the end of 1992
in Slovakia, compared to less than 3% in the                 Figure 2
Czech Republic (Figure 2).
Monthly Unemployment
Pos-lpdepeadence  Shocks  and  Further
A.diust-nt Measures.                                  .--            ....
6.           The Slovak Republic emerged as           - - ---
an independent country after the dissolution of thes
Czech and Slovak Federal Republic on December                  l
31, 1992. The break-up of the seventy-four year
old Federation occurred after the victorious 4
parties in the elections in June 1992 were unable
to come to agreement on the composition and
policies of a Federal government. The break-up      J  -,             ......
of the Federation was entirely peaceful, carefully       _,,,t|, ,
managed, and implemented with a minimum of
disruption. The decision to dissolve the
Federation was accompanied by a series of negotiated agreements through the autumn of 1992 on the
division of publicly-owned assets and liabilities and on the treatment of international and domestic
obligations. The two Republic Governments reached agreements on a customs union and a currency
union, although the latter came to an end in early February 1993. At the same time, a temporary clearing
urangement was established in order to minimize the disruption of trade between the two countries.



3
Box 1: Accomnlabmeint under the Czechoslovak SAL
n late 1990, the Parilaen of the former Czecn ad Slovak Federal Republic (CSF%) adopted a comprehensive
eoDnomi tasomatio prgram wbkh  e Govemment began to implement in eady January 1991. Tbe World  ank Suctual
Adjustment Ims (SAL) for USS450 Allion asauppot of tbs pgram was approved by the 8oard on June 26, 1991 and became
efibtee an August 14, 1991. It was oofinancad by the Export Impost Dank of Japan in the aamun of US$200 million equivalent. The
IMP an     dCzechoslovalatra8sforaonprogremwlth a 14-mothi sand-by arrangem ent in January 1991 In the amount equivalent
to SDR 620 mIllion coupled with acs under the odl ipost edlement of the Compensatoty and Contingency Financing Faciliq (CCFF,
up to SDR466 nillion and possible -genay finaning underthe CCPF of up to SDR 147.S million. A futher stand-byarangctmnt
in the awount equvWaetto SDR 236 million In auppoatofthe Govemmentrsprogram was approvedby the IMF Board on April 3,1992.
The CSFR SAL focused on stabilization and incentive policies that repremnted the first steps toward a market
ecoaomy. The trafomation program suppotted by the SAL is described in the Memorandum of Development Policy, dated June 6,
1991 and the matrix of policy measutes attacbed to it. he folowing specific actions were conditions for tranehe release in the Loan
A4teemeat:
*        Mateconom ramewo*. Satisfactoryexecutionofstabilizationpolicies, reductionof subaidies, ad
introducton of a new tax gsyem.
*        Ptice and Trade Liberalization. Regulated prices rdueed fiomn over 855% of tumover to about 6% in
1991. Price controls on al but a few items eliminated in 1992. New imnport tabiffe, approved by
GATr, became effective on January 1, 1992. lh temporary import surcharpg was phased out.
*             Pfivtizaion. Preparation of almost half of all medium and large scale stat-owned enterpries
for privatization using a variety o methods. Small privatization through auctions is virtually complete.
-  *     FiancIal Sector Refoo n   Adoption of legislation which provides a regulatory famework for the
Uicensing and operations of banks and for supervisionby the Central Bank; and adoption of prudential
regulations. PrivatizAtion of several state-owneyd banks under the coupon shem.
*        Inirax. Preparation of (a) a  tcost ery study for the power sector; b) an increase of electricy
prices payable by houneholds by at teast 70 pren in nominal ters; (c) envieal1 impact
amnt- prec_s.
*        I abor.Matkd. Government contrls on gross w-.ge toation  were limited to  isnimum wag
requirements for private enterpdses and to minimum wage requirements and total wage bill ceilings for
sate-ownd enteprises.
*        TarnetionofSocial Benefits Payments. Establishmentofsocial insurance fundsanda ptogramofsocial
assistance. btroduction of selected measures to improve efficiency in the eaith and education sectors.
The first and second tranches of the SAL were released to the Pederation which complied fully with the loan
condionalty. With the dissolution of the Federation, the loan was apportioned based on population in the ratio 2:1 and, third tranche
conditions having been fulfilled, the third trnche was released to the Federation and disbursements made separtely to each Republic.
7.                Slovakia began its first year as an independent country faced with significant economic
and social challenges.t In addition to the collapse of the CMEA  and the decline of armaments exports
due to the e,mbargo imposed under the Federation, the country must confront the following three shocks.
First, foreign trade has falen further, due to the decline in trade with the Czech hepublic, which
accounted for half of Slovakia's foreign trade. Despite efforts to streamline border procedures, a
1/       Further backj -ound materia on the economy and on recent developments is providea in the draft
Country Econunic Memorandum entitled *Slovakia: Restucuring for Recovery'.



4
reduction of about 20% In trade volume between the Czech and Slovak Republics appears to be the price
of independence. Exports have therefore been projected to decline another 13-14% in 1993, and the
small current account st rplus in 1992 Is expected to tum into a deficit of about 2.5% of GDP in 1993
(see Table 1). Second, fial transfers from the feder7  budget equivalent to 7.5% of GDP were lost
with the break-up of the Federation. lhird, the countr needs to establish an institutdonal Infrastructure
(sUch as a central bank, a full fledged ministry of foreign affairs, and regulatory institutions), but is faced
with a shortage of both human and fiscal resources.
Table 1: Key MarecnomIc Indicators
1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997
(Aual rcentae Chanee
GDP at Market Prics                 -6.0    .8.5    -3.0      0.6      1.3     2.6
(Constant 1992 Prices)
Agriculture                  2'.1   -11.0    -4.5    -1.0      4.3      0.0
Industry                    -8.4   -1S.0    -7.3    -2.1    .1.4        0.5
Services                     0.4      0.5     2.0      3.5     4.1      4.8
Merchandi Exports                  -10.6   -13.6      2.3     3.0      3.5     4.1
Merhandis iaports                  -12.3   -14.6      3.6     2.3      2.5      1.9
(Shame -of amDP
aross Investment                    25.1    19.2    17.8    18.0    18.4    18.9
Government                   7.7      5.2     3.8      4.0     4.3      4.7
Nongoverment                 17.4    14.0    14.0    14.0    14.1    14.2
Naional Savings                     25.3    16.7    14.7    15.4    15.S    16.7
Government                   -S.3    -1.8    -1.9    -0.4      0.4      1.7
Nongovernment               30.6    18.5    16.6    15.8    1S.1    15.O
SUvings-Investment Gap               0.2    -2.5    -3.0    -2.6    -2.8    -2.2
Government                  -13.0    -7.0    -5.7    -4.4    -3.8    -2.9
Nogovenument                 13.2     4.5     2.6      1.8      1.0     0.8
Cwrret Account                       0.2    -2.5    -3.0    -2.6    -2.8    -2.2
Mechandis Exports                   65.4    57.0    60.4    62.1    63.5    64.5
Merchans Tmpoits                    72.6    62.0    66.3    67.8    69.3    69.4
Current Account (US$ Mb)            19.0  -250.4  -298.9  -262.8  -298.7  -243.1
Gros reserve in months of
imports of goods and services I/    1.1     1.9     2.6      2.9     3.2      3.3
Official reserves in months of
imports of goods and services      0.6      1.1      1.7     2.0     2.3      2.4
Soure: Data provided by the Slovak authorities and staff projections.
Note:
1/     Includes foreign exchange resorves of commercial banks.



5
8.           Because  of  these  factors,             Figure 3: Fall in real GDP
economic activities are expected to contract
fulrther in 1993. Investment and consumption
have been projectcd to decline by 30% and 7%,               Grou Domesuc Product
respectively in real terms, and GDP is likely to         (In billions of constant koruny)
decline another 8-9%  in 1993 (Figure 3).        2sC
Unemploymen is projected to reach 15% by end-                             .... .... 22a.s  ...4
1993, with much higher levels in some parts of   2)   njs
the country.                                     Is O    ..
9.           Despite  these  adverse   a. 
developments, Slovakia's medium term prodpacts         ....  ....
are favorable, with a skilled and competitively-
priced labor force, a strong manufacturing        ai    iii,  os   _9         s sos,,
tradition, and close proximity to European     It*Oeu otsflrate
markets.   The "Czechoslovak" tradition  )f    SOUICO Slovak 3at1UIcaI at¢IC
nacrCecnownic prudence has continued as the
new Government made an impressive adjustment
to lost fiscal transfers from the Federation.
inflation has remained low (despite the break-up of the monetary union and the mid-year devaluation),
as evidenced by the average monthly increase of consumer prices of only 1% over the past 6 months.
The increase in inflation from 10% in 1992 to 26% in 1993 was mainly due to the one-off effects
associated with the Introduction of the VAT in January 1993. TEe exchange rate, which was massively
devalued in 1990 under the Czechoslovak regime was devalued again in 1993 by 10% to enhance the
competitiveness of the Slovak koruna. There has been substantial progress in areas such as trade
iberaLization avd reorientation of exports to the West and the creation of a social safety net. Slovakia
is advanced in privatization, with all small businesses auctioned off and almost half its medium and large
state-owned enterprises now in private k. mds. Also on the positive side of the balance sheet, Slovakia
has a low external debt of only $2.6 biliion (about 26% of GDP). Debt service is projected to remain
below 6% of exports in 1993. Nonetheless, significant challenges lie ahead and will need to be addressed
in the Government's reform program outlined below.
B. The Government's Reform Agenda and Bank Support
10.          To halt the decline of economic activity and lay the foundation for future growth, the
Government is taking the necessary measures to stabilize the economy, and, following a brief hiatus
related to independence, is putting in place a program of reforms to support (i) privatization and private
sector development; (ii) financial sector restructuring and infrastructure ievelopment that "crowds
in" the private sector; and (iii) human resource policies to maintain the competitiveness of the Slovak
labor force and to minimize the social costs of reform and restructuring. The Bank will be working
closely with the Government in these areas as it formulates its detailed reform policies and
implementation strategies.
11.          Maintaining Macroeconomic Stability. Recognizing that the domestic private sector and
direct foreign investment can only flourish in an environment of macroeconomic stability, the Government
made stabilization its immediate objective. The cornerstone of the Government's program is a strong
fiscal adjustment to reduce the deficit from 14% in 1992 to 7% in 1993. Measures include an adjustment



6
of the VAT  es, an increase In excises and in property taxes, changes in social security legislation,
beter targeting of social expenditures and reductions in Investment and in subsidies. The program targets
an inflation rate of 26% during 1993. lke current account deficit will also be reduced to 2.5% of GDP
in 1993, compared with an underlying deficit (before transfers) of 7.5% of GDP in 1992. The 10%
devaluation of the Slovak koruna implemented mid-year should facil'tate external adjustment. Temporary
exchange restrictions Introduced earlier in the year will eventually be removed. The gross reserves of the
National Bank of Slovakia are targeted to Increase from 2 weeks of Imports at the beginning of 1993 to
the equivalent of one month's imports by the end of 1993. The fiscal and exchange rate policies are
being complemented ',y restrictive monetary and incomes policies. A non-inflationary wage policy is
being implemented through tripartite agreements tetween employers, employees and the Government.
To support its adjustment measures, the Government negotiated an agreement with the lMF under the
Systemic Transformation Facility (STF) (approved on July 26, 1993). Negotiations are underway on a
program that could be supported by a Stand-by and a second STF purchase. The prospects for agreement
on a Stand-by arrangement by early 1994 are quite favorable.
12.          Privatizaion and Private Sector Development. From a system where virtually all goods
and services were provided by the state and state-owned enterprises, Slovakia's private sector has made
impressive strides over the past three years. Compared to most transition economies, Slovakia is well
advanced in privatizing state-owned enterprises. Small scale privatization is almost complete, and about
half of all medium and large scale enterprises have been partially or completely privatized, primarily via
the coupon method. The diffuse governance that resulted from coupon privatization has led the
Government to broaden its approach to privatization methods in the 'second wave' wbich is now
underway. Coupon privatization works best for enterprises with sound prospects, but fails to generate
the funds needed in enterprises with serious cash flow problems or that require strong governance.
Because Slovakia has more sectors in financial difficulties, the Government feels it cannot rely as much
as the Czech Republic on coupon privatization. The intent is to rely more on 'standard methods" of
privatization, such as auctions, tenders, direct sales, public offerings on the stock market, management
buyouts and liquidation, with residual privatization left to the coupon scheme if 'standard methods'
proceed more slowly than expected. The more concentrated ownership which these approaches yield, the
Government hopes. will improve enterprise management and governance, bring in the additional financial
capital and investment needed by enterprises and attract strategic foreign investors and needed business
expertise.
13.          The Government does not expect to have a role in active enterprise restructuring, except
for closure costs related to nonviable enterprises. However, there will be social costs associated with
necessary lay-offs such as severance pay and retraining. Basic legislation and decrees in support of
private sector development have also been passed, and measures are now being considered to furffier
simplify and improve the business environment.
14.          Removing Bottlenecks to Private Sector Growth:  Developing Financial Sector
Inficture. A financial system that poorly allocates credit continues to be a major impediment to
private sector growth and to Slovakia's recovery. Despite previous government interventions and
recapitalization operations, weak banks, burdened by bad loans of the past, are likely to become weaker
still, as more enterprises undergo restructuring and liquidation. Financial markets and instruments outside
the banking system are as yet not robust enough to intermediate sufficient credit. Securities markets do
not yet function well - a crucial element since Slovalda has relied on coupon privatization and improving
governance by investment privatization funds (IPFs) as the mainstay of its privatization approach to date.



7
A comprehensive fnancial sor reform and restructuring that addresses these weaknesses will have to
be an essential component of the next stage In the systemic transforn ion process (for details, see paras.
63-74).
15.          Relieving Infrastructure Bottlenecks.  The Government plans to address the key
Infrastructure bottlenecks still impeding economic growth and private sector development.
Infrastructure investments in vihually all areas have deteriorated over mans years and are not oriented
to the needs of private domestic and foreign investors. The Government is painfully aware of how
Imporant catching up will be, both to develop the Industrial and service sectors and to attact foreign
Investment. The Government is beginning to address the most urgent priorities.
16.          There are, for example, severe capacity constraints in telecommunications, a sector
which was systematically neglected under the old regime, and now suffers *om inadequate system size
and obsolete technology. The first Slovakia Telecommunications project, recently approved by the Board,
constitutes a major first step to remedy these shortcomings. Further investments in telecommunications
are planmed to facilitate domestic and international trade and to support foreign direct investment.
Tra;sportation infrastructure is inadequately managed. The raLways and airports and the Bratislava
river port are financially stressed, with high operating costs that burden Slovakia's budget. The
Government has plans to restructure this sector to increase its reliability and efficiency.
17.          Currently, there is no housing shortage in Slovakia, but the absence of a housing market
impedes labor mobility and job creation (both of which are essential for restructuring). The Government
has taken several steps as preconUitions for creating a housing market, among them a new law to facilitate
privatization of communal housing. Its implementation is now on the agenda. In addition, the
Government plans to further increase rents in public housing and to encourage 3 private rental market,
to continue to liberalize the construction industry, and to develop a viable housing finance system.
18.          In the energy sector, the Government's objectives are to Improving efficiency, establish
an effective regulatory framework, reduce price distortions, and strengthen the strategic role of energy
networks, particularly power and gas, within the European energy system. In the power sector, the
Government plans to focus on investments that require most immediate at ion such as those that
improve the reliability of power transmission and the connection of the transmission system. Slovakia's
natural gas transit system merits special attention. It is one of the most valuable assets in the country,
which at present generates gas transit fees of US$400-500 million per year (about 7-9% of projected 1993
merchandise exports) and these are likely to grow. Careful restructuring and commercialization of the
gas sector is important to ensure that the long run benefits to the country are maximized. Expansion of
gas transit and rehabilitation of the gas transit system are bigh priority investments that can make
significant contributions to Slovakia's economic strength.
19.          Human Resources and Social Safety Net. Slovakia's rapid transformation to a market
economy contains the risk that population groups most affected by the price increases, declining real
wages and loss of employment, may be forced into poverty. The Government will have to pursue a two
pronged approach based on *active" labor market poldcies, as well as "psive" Income maintenance
polides that protect those most adversely affected by the economic transformation. This will be key to
making further reforms politically sustainable. Job creation in the private sector will be the most
important mechanism for preventing the emergence of poverty. Further targeting of social transfer
programs will be necessary, but emphasis will be given to means-tested social assistance to protect and
support those who actually live in poverty.



8
20.          One of Slovakia's greatest assets is its skilled and highly competitive labor force, which
is among the best educated in Central Europe. Unemployment is estimated to reach 15% in 1993, which
is comparable to other Central and East European countries, but far higher than the unusually low level
of 3% in the Czech Republic. The Government has established a program of active labor policies such
as retraining, job placement and small business development to respond to growing unemployment.
These active programs complement unemployment benefits paid through local labor offices. Wages are
competitive at levels less than 10% of those in Germany, and well below those in Poland or Hungary.
Slovakia's location in the heart of Europe makes it well positioned to take advantage of the prcximity of
EC markets, and there is substantial scope for labor-intensive economic activities to develop in border
regions.
21.          As in other transforming countries, Slovakia's system of social transfers is complex and
provides extensive entitlements with high benefit levels. These not only distort work and retirement
incentives, but also cost the budget dearly. In spite of initial social sector reforms und' aken under the
Federation's adjustment program, spending on social programs including health still accounts for about
40% of total government expenditures and almost 21% of GDP. The Government is taking several
measures to streamline the social expenditure programs, to render them more efficient, to improve their
fmancing and to tighten the social safety net and target it better to the poor. In particular, there are plans
to redesign the system of health financing so that health expenditures can be more strictly controlled.
Slovakia is, however, still far from a comprehensive reform of its social policies.
C. Elements of the Bank Group Assistance Strategy
22.          The overriding objective of the Bank's assistance strategy to Slovakia is to help accelerate
the state's withdrawal from productive sectors, rationalize the activities that will remain in the state's
domain, and promote the development of a strong private sector. The Bank Intends to do this directly,
via support to the Government privatization program, and indirectly, by supporting a program of financial
sector reforms and infrastructure investmnents that facilitate and 'crowd in" private sector activities.
Moreover, mitigating the social costs of adjustment will be crucial for the political sustainability of the
reform program. Since a stable macroeconomic environment is key to the recovery, the Bank will also
concentrate on reinforcing the successes in stabilization and systemic change already achieved. These
objectives will be accomplished by providing balance of payments support for ongoing and furither policy
reforms and by assisting the Government in carrying out investment projects that support private sector
development. Lending will consist of adjustment operations and investment projects, with more
emphasis on the latter once t::e critical balance of payments support has been provided.
23.          Adjustment operations, beginning with the Economic Recovery Loan (ERL), will
support Slovakia's systemic and structural reforms, in particular the restructuring or liquidation of state-
owned enterprises; financial sector reform; and restructuring of the social safety net and pro-active labor
policies. The financial sector component of the ERL, in particular the diagnostic and defensive measures
proposed for the enterprise and financial sectors (see paras. 72 and 92-93), provides a framework for the
preparation of proposed follow-up adjustment operations, including the EFSAL that will focus more
directly on the banks themselves and their enterprise clients, with the aim of establishing a competitive
privatized banking system capable of funding private sector activities. Other adjustment operations might
address public sector reforms, including advances in regulatory policies and governance of enterprises
that relmain in the ste sector. The ERL is also designed to lay the ground for future investment
operatf.ns through its support for policy reforms needed to underpin these proposed fitmre operadons.
For example, policy reform in energy pricing will pave the way for future operations in the energy and



9
environment sectors, while support for a social policy analysis unit will lay the groundwork for future
operations in the human resource area.
24.          Investment Projects are aimed at removing bottlenecks for developing the private sector.
Direct financial support to the private sector, such as through line of credit operations, are not planned
in the near term. The initial focus of our proposed financial sector operations, as noted above, will be
on bank rehabilitation and restructuring. In the medium term, a healthier banking system should alleviate
the credit constraints by intermediating higher levels of savings and external financing towards the private
sector.
25.          The telecommunications loan, approved by the Board in May 1993, will greatly facilitate
development of the private sector by supporting the expansion and strengthening of the international and
domestic long-distance networks to provide modem services to business. It will contribute to the smoother
integration of Slovakia's private sector into international markets by supporting sectoral policies in line
with EC guidelines. In transport, the Bank, together with the EBRD, is supporting a major study focusing
on the rallways, which will need to be restuctured to serv;ce the changing pattern of production and
trade, as well as to reduce fiscal pressures. The agreed restructuring plan would lay the basis for a
possible future lending ope, .tion.
26.          In energy, a power loan would support more efficient and reliable power transmission
required to connect Slovakia with the EC grid, promote implementation of the legal and regulatory
framework, enhance energy conservation, improve pricing and support the transformation of the utility
company Into a joint-stock company, so as to facilitate the effective privatization of some of its constituent
parts. In the gas sector, a possible future Investment loan would help rehabilitate and modernize the
existing gas delivery system, support restructuring of the gas company, and, possibly, expand the transit
capacity once supply and purchase contracts with exporters and importers in neighboring countries can
be put in place.
27.          In the housing sector, the Bank will assist the Government in managing the transition
from a highly controlled system into one where the private sector will play a dominant role in the supply
and allocation of housing. A Bank project would support the development of market-oriented housing
finance schemes, and assist the local authorities in managing the privatization of the communal housing
stock and in adjusting urban planning and management systems to the changing economic environment.
28.          The Bank's assistance strategy also aims at supporting the Government's efforts to manage
Slovakia's natural resources on a more commercW basis, with a greater role for the private sector. For
example, in forestry, we are preparing a loan which would help halt the forest destabilization caused by
air pollution and support environmentally and economically/fnancially sound management of forestry
resources, with private sector involvement. We also plan to address environmental issues and ensure that
privatization poWces are "environment-friendly". CThe ERL links the privatization of state-owned
enterprises with environmental concerns by supporting the Government's policy to assume responsibilities
for envirownental liabilities pri3r to their privatization). We are also assisting the Govermnent and
enterprises to phase out ozone depleting substances with the help of grant funds from the Global
Environment Facility (GEF).
29.          Slovakia's privatization and transformation process needs to be supported by lending in
the human resources, social safety net and health areas. The Bank's strategy in the social sectors in
Slovakia supports Government efforts to (i) Improve the financial viability, efficiency, and targeting of



10
its social insurance and soci assistance programs, while at the same time protecting the minimum living
standard of individuals adversely affected by the transition; (ii) improve labor market efficiency and
develop human resources; and (Iii) improve health status of individuals with financially sustainable health
services that are well-targeted and delivered effectively. As a first step, the ERL supports policy
initiatives aimed at retraining labor, making job placement information available nationwide, gradually
increasing retirement ages and making retirement decisions budget neutral, assessing the feasibility of a
fee-for-service health care system and ensuring that sufficient budgetary resources are available to provide
minimum income support for the long term unemployed. Grant funds have already been mobilized to
prepare future projects in the social sectors.
30.          ESW and Other Support. Finally, the Bank will also provide policy advice through
economic and sector work and technical assistance.  A draft Country Economic Memorandum,
addressing key areas of policy reform (stabilization policies, enterprise and financial sector refbrm,
privatization and the social safety net) has recently been prepared. Future CEMs will address
macroeconomic and sectoral issues (such as private sector development, infrastructure and regulatory
issues, poverty, external trade and market access) and will be prepared every 18 months. Sector studies
will focus on potential lending areas s: h as forestry, transport, energy, housing and health. Technical
Assistance will also be mobilized through grants to support project preparation and through cooperation
with other donors (see para. 39).
D. Level of Bank Support and Trigger Points
31.   Slovalia's adjustment program is ambitious, and smoothing the adjustment will require significant
external financing in the near term, to cover the current account deficit (projected at about $275 million
annually (2.7% of GDP) between 1993 and 1996), as well as to meet debt service obligations and to
permit a significant build-up of reserves from their present very low levels. In the early stages of
adjustnent, balance of payments support will be crucial, and credit from official sources (mcluding the
Bank, the G-24, EBRD, and EDB) will therefore outweigh those from conmercial sources. However,
some commercial financing is already forthcoming, and in the medium term, commercial creditors and
foreign direct and portfolio investment are expected to play a proportionately larger role than official
credit.
32.          Ihe projected build-up of Slovakia's external debt over the next few years is significant.
However, this is projected to represent only a one-time increase since the stabilization and systemic
transformation policies pursued by the Government and supported by this loan are expected to put the
economy on a path of recovery and growth which will ease the relative debt burden and reduce
significantly the need to contract more debt in the future. In addition, over time, we would expect
foreign direct investment and private commercial credit to become the most important form of external
financing (see para. 112 for more detail).
33.          ppsq             . Our proposed base case lending program of about US$500 million
over the thee year FY94-96 period assumes (i) continued good macroeconomic performance; (ii)
continued implementation of the sectoral reforms agreed in the Letter of Development Policy (Annex A);
and Ciii) satisfactory implementation of Bank-supported investment projects and adjustment operations.
We anticipate about 6-7 projects over this period: at least one additional adjustment operation, focusing
on the. financial and enterprise sectors in FY95, and a series of investment operations that address
adjustment issues or bottlenecks in transport, housing, energy, or health. The precise phasing of these
projects would depend on the pace of policy reforms across sectors. Adjustment lending is expected to



11
initially account for roughly one-third of the base case lending, and fall as a proportion of total lending
in the outer years.
34.          The proposed base case lending program would result in average Bank disbursements of
about US$112 million a year during 1993-96. Because of the frontloading of the adjustment operations,
the Bank would account for an average of 38% of total disbursements from multilatera} institutions; 30%
of official creditors' and 16% of medium and long term creditors during the 1993-96 period. Projected
multilateral disbursements early in the 1993-96 period consist largely of balance-of-payments support
from the IMF, 1BRD and EC. Thereafter, disbursements from multilateral sources would be dominated
by project loans. Projected debt to GDP ratio remains in the 30-36% range over the next years, and the
projected debt service ratio does not rise above 1 1 %. The Bank's exposure woud remain comfortably
within exposure guidelines. (For detailed figures and projections see Table 3).
35.          Low Case Scenario. There are essentially two types of downside risks, requiring different
responses from the Bank. In the event of additional exogenous shocks - in the form of a more hostie
trade environment or a substantial reduction of gas and petroleum transit from Russia, which would
disrupt industrial restructuring and result in lower foreign exchange eWnings - we would revisit the
composition of our lending program, and an increase in adjustment lending at the expense of investment
projects may become necessary to overcome possible balance of payments problems so as not to
jeopardize the implementation of the reform program. Obviously this would be contingent on the
Government taking additional adjustment measures in the face of these shocks.
36.          A second risk is a general slowdown in the reform efforts due to internal political
pressures. Although the Government's resolve to stay the course and implement painful adjustments has
been impressive so far, its commitment to the difficult adjustment policies that still lie ahead could be
severely tested. Loss of employment is likely to follow from the necessary restructuring of some
industrial sub-sectors. A prolonged recession, or even more protectionist trade policies in Europe, could
force the Government to postpone or temporarily abandon its course. Inadequate macroeconomic policies
or a stagnation in privatizing state-owned enterprises would preclude further adjustment operations, and
failure to implement the sectoral reform policies agreed upon in the Letter of Development Policy would
limit us to investment projects in those sectors where our dialogue continues to be successful. Under such
a scenario, lending would be scaled back to about US$ 250 million during FY 94-96, with only one
investment project in FY95 (most likely in forestry or power) and in PY96 (n housing or health).
Particularly good progress in project preparation, in power transmission or in improving and expanding
gas transit capacity, for example, could allow us to propose two, rather than one, investment projects in
FY95 or FY96 and increase our low case lending to slightly more than the $250 million during FY94-96.
On the other hand, insufficient progress towards establishing a regulatory framework for the utility
companies, economic pricing of power tariffs or towards privatizing the housing market could force us
to limit investment projects to only one project in either FY95 or FY96, which would reduce our lending
to about US$200 million during FY94-96.
37.          Portfolio Management. Following independence, Slovakia assumed its share (US$ 150
million) of the Czechoslovakia SAL at the beginning of 1993. In full compliance with all policy
conditionalities, the third tranche of the loan was fully disbursed during the first half of 1993. A
Telecommunications loan, co-financed with the EBRD and EEB, was approved by the Board in July 1993,
and a GEF grant to protect Slovakia's biodiversity was signed in September 1993. Portfolio management
presents no major issues at this stage; however, for the future, given the expansion of the portfolio and
the limited implementation capacity, additional supervision resources might be required.



12
E. Role of IFC and MIGA
38.          With private sector development among Slovakia's priorities, and key to its transformation
and recovery, IFC and MIGA can play an important role. IFC has so far held an investment seminar
for some 40 enterprises, and Is currently involved in an intensive promotion program to engage foreign
Investors in agribusiness and to identify potential Investments in the sector. It is also considering
investments in textHes, tourism, white goods manufacture, and a joint venture for the rehabilitation of
a coa fired power plant. Slovakia is a member of MIGA. There has been no activity yet, but a
guarantee involving a Slovak commercial bank is currently under consideration. MIGA has also
registered two other projects in Slovakia in the electronics and bottling industries. In response to a
request from the Government, FIAS has conducted a diagnostic study of the foreign investment
environment in Slovakia. A FIAS workshop/retreat aimed at developing a direct foreign investment
strategy for the country is also under consideration.
F. Cooperation and Cofinancing with Other Agencies
39.          Bank staff bave been working closely with the IMF in monitoring the macro-economic
policy framework, and there is participation in joint missions. Working level contacts with the EC, EIB,
EBRD, OECD and other aid agencies routinely take place. EIB and EBRD are cofinancing the
Telecommunications loan. EC-Phare has participated in social sector joint missions. Broadly speaking,
the division of labor has been for the Bank and the IMF (as well as the EC and G24) to take the lead in
providing balance of payments finance, while other financiers have focussed mostly on financing
investments. Grant funds have been obtained from the Japanese Grant Facility to help prepare projects
in forestry, social safety net, the gas sector and industrial restructuring.
G. Summary and Issues for Board Consideration
40.          Slovakia has good prospects for overcoming the obstacles it is currently facing and
returning to a path of economic growth and substantially higher standards of living in the medium term.
Uts skilled labor force and competitive wages, proximity to both West and East-European markets, its
strategic location in the European gas pipeline network, enabling it to collect substantial transit fees in
foreign exchange, and its very low external debt, provide a good basis for integrating the economy into
world markets and attracting foreign investment. Sound macroeconomic and systemic policies, aimed
at fundamentally reallocating resources and raising productivity rapidly through private sector activities,
have been put in place. The Government has made impressive progress in the implementation of its
reform program.
41.          This encouraging start notwithstanding, the country faces considerable obstacles on its
way to becoming a prosperous market economy. Many enterprises will prove unviable, even after they
have been privatized, because they lack a comparative advantage in the new environment or may be too
slow in adopting modern cost accounting and marketing techniques. The continued recession in Western
Europe and collapse of markets in Eastern Europe will make it very difficult to increase exports even for
successfully adjusting enterprises. A further significant increase in unemployment, or of budgetary
subsidies, if closure of a number of large enterprises proves politically unacceptable, could lead to
macroeconomic instability. In such a case, the Government's commitment to continued rigorous
implementation of the reform program could be severely tested.
42.          The Board may wish to discuss the following issues:



13
*     Vulnerability of Slovakia's economic recovery to external shocks (such as
significantly reduced access to foreign markets, or lower gas transit fees), and
how much of the required adjustment should be financed from external sources
and how much should be absorbed by domestic adjustment.
*     Government's commitment to continued rigorous Implementation of the reforn
program in light of possible prolonged austerity and difficulty in maintaining
political consensus.
*     Emphasis on investment lending in Bank assistance strategy and the speed at
which adjustment lending is being replaced by investment projects aimed at
promoting private sector activities.
H. The Government's Economic Recovery Program and World Bank Support
43.          With the adoption of a strong package of short-term adjustment measures supported by
the IMF's Systemic Transformation Facility (STF), the Govermment of Slovakia is well on its way to
restoring macroeconomic stability. Building on this initial adjustment, and on the reforms introduced
under the Federation, the Government intends to implement the structural measures that are necessary
both to sustain macroeconomic stability and to restore growth over the medium term. The proposed
Economic Recovery Loan would support a first set of structural measures to accompany the STF. The
remainder of the Government's medium-term program would then be supported by a proposed Stand-by
with the IMP and by possible follow-up adjustment operations with the Bank.
44.          The Government's medium-term reform program is described in detail in the draft
Country Economic Memorandum entitled "Restructuring for Recovery". The proposed Economic
Recovery Loan would support the first set of structural reforms under this program, with pre-Board
measures designed to address those areas deemed most critical for achieving recovery. These measures
would complement the short-term fiscal adjustment measures supported by the IMF under the STF, and
would focus on four critical areas:
*     Fiscal policies to facilitate restructuring and growth;
*     Financial sector reforms to stem the deterioration of bank portfolios and to
increase competition in the sector;
*     Privatization. private sector development and enterprise restructuring to maintain
the momentum for structural transformation;
*     Social sector reforms to improve the efficiency of the social safety net within
fiscal constraints while protecting vulnerable groups and improving the
functioning of labor markets.
45.          The structural reforms to be supported under the Economic Recovery loan are described
in the sections that follow. Each section starts with an analysis of the key issues. Tfhe Government's



14
long-run reform agenda, which is also described in the Letter of Development Policy (Annex A), is
briefly discussed thereafter. The specific measures supported by this loan are then highlighted in bold.
These actions will be taken before Board presentation or are agreed or announced actions whose actual
Implementation will, because of their nature, be implemented following Board presentation.
A. Fiscal Policies for Recovery
46.          Shifting the Composition of GoveMment Spending. The composition of Government
spending needs to shift in a direction that facilitates, rather than thwarts, economic restructuring. In the
short run, this Implies further cuts in subsidies, accelerated liquidation of nonviable firms, and a more
effective social safety net. In the medium and long run, when a functioning market economy has been
established, the overall role of the Government will be largely reduced and the tax system will be less
onerous, with lower effectve corporate tax rates to enhance profitability and encourage investment, and
lower payroll taxes so as to reduce the disincentives to create jobs.
47.          Expenditure reductions have focused on two areas - subsidies and untargeted social
benefits. Subsidies absorb a major part of the 1993 budget - amounting to 11% of total spending and
6% of GDP. Agriculture absorbs about half of all subsidies, much of which is spent compensating
farmers for poor growing conditions. The remaining budgetary subsidies are for district heating, railways
and urban transport. The government has already identified Sk 1. 1 billion of additional savings in 1993
through cuts in subsidies to agriculture (Sk 700 million), coal (Sk 200 million), energy subsidies to the
aluminum plant (Sk 80 million) and housing (Sk 120 million). Slovakia's system of social benefits
consists of numerous individual entitlements mostly provided on a universal basis. The current cost of
maintining such a program (mcluding health) is large-around 21% of GDP. In 1993, most social sector
budgets were mainained at their nominal levels, implying real cuts of 25-30%. With restructuring, the
costs of this system can be expected to rapidly increase and to become an unsustainable fiscal burden.
48.           he 1994 Budizgt. The FY94 budget has been prepared and remains to be approved by
Parliament. The FY94 budget will look quite different from that of FY93. Subsidies, especially to
agriculture, will be substantially reduced. Social security revenue and expenditures which accounted for
almost one-third of revenues and expenditures in 1993, will be taken off-budget and financed through
pay-as-you-go social insurance funds.2 The additional fiscal costs associated with restructuring will be
provided for in the budget if obligations exceed contributions to the unemployment fund or the social
assistance budget.
49.          Revenues Total revenues in 1994 are expected to increase by about 11% in nominal
terms relative to projected revenues in 1993. Tax revenue projections for FY94 are based on the
assumption that the tax shares in 1994 will be the same as the actual shares in 1993, with the exception
of VAT where there were administrative difficulties in collecting taxes at the beginning of the year and
changes in rates mid-year. Instead, it is assumed that 50% of VAT revenue will result from collections
at the new 25% tax rate and the remaining 50% from the new 6% rate (in 1993 these shares were 66%
and 34% respectively). Overall VAT revenue is expected to decrease by Sk 2 billion from its level in
the 1993 budget. Individual income tax revenue, on the other hand, is expected to increase by Sk 7-8
2!    For purposes of comparability with 1993, the discussion of the 1994 budget throughout this document
includes the sotial funds as on-budget items.



15
billion but this increase will be offset by an expected decrease in corporate tax revenue of Sk 7 billion
as a result of a large expected decline in enterprise profitability.
50.             penitures. Expenditure reductions in 1994 (which should amount to iS% relative to
1993) will also focus on further reductions in subsidies and efficiency gains in the social s'ctors. Tlhe
Government plans to aggressively cut subsidies with an overall reduction of about 25%. This implies
expenditures on subsidies of Sk 14-15.5 billion for FY94 (down from Sk 20 billion allocated in FY93).
The Government is achieving this through reduced subsidies to agriculture, mining, energy, the aluminum
enterprise, and iron mines. Most of the subsidy reductions are expected to take place in agriculture
(described below). In the energy sector, there will be cuts in the subsidy rate to producers and higher
energy prices for consumers. This is a first step in a phased plan to place the pricing of energy on a
commercial basis. Tbe subsidy for the aluminum plant (already cut by Sk 80 million in 1993) will be
reduced to zero in PY94. Further subsidy reducions will be achieved by financing the closure cost of
iron mines through the revenue obtained by their liquidation.
51.          In addition, the Government has adopted a variety of other measures to control spending,
The Ministry of Finance has instituted a more decentralized approach whereby sectoral Ministries are free
to reallocate funds within a given budgetary ceiling. A wage control policy that affects state-owned
enterprises with over 25 employees will be put into effect as of October 1, 1993. Ecterprises with losses
will not be allowed to increase nominal wages and enterprises with positive profits but outstanding tax
arrearsv will be allowed tD pay management only the basic wage until there is tax compliance.
52.          AM r. Subsidies to agriculture can be divided into five categories: per hectare
subsidies for farms located in marginal areas (which accounted for 43% of total agricultural subsidies in
1993); interest rate subsidies for working capital (20% of total in 1993); direct cash transfers for milk
production or on-farm technology (20% of total in 1993); budgetary contributions to the Fund for Market
Regulation (17% of total in 1993); and, finally, budgetary contributions to the soon-to-be-created
Financial Support Fund which would essentially subsidize interest rates on long term loans for land
purchase. The Fund for Market Regulation is an entity controlled by the Ministry of Agriculure which
purchases and sells, domestically or abroad, agricultural products. The Fund for Market Regulation
receives a yearly budget injection of funds and also uses its own funds for intervention purchases of meat,
milk and wheat at guaranteed mnimum prices and for export subsidies.
53.          The Government will take several important measures aimed at increasing the efficiency
of agricultural subsidies. First, within a period of two years, the subsidy program to compensate poorer
farning conditions in marginal areas (i.e., the per hectare subsidy payments automatically granted to
farms operating on low-quality land) will be transformed into a regional development program for the
poorest rural areas. The funds that would have been allocated to per hectare payments will be used to
provide financing for infrastructure projects, viable alternative uses of land for non-agricultural activities,
training of local workforce and employment creation, or income transfers for the lowest household
income categories.
54.          Second, during 1994, the Ministry of Agriculture will adopt strict financial and economic
criteria to be applied by the district commissions in charge of reviewing business plans and approving
subsidy requests. Interest rate subsidies and direct production subsidies will continue to be granted, as
in the past, only to creditworthy enterprises that prepare an acceptable business plan. Simultaneously,
the Ministry of Agriculture will adopt and implement sectoral restructuring programs, especially for
cereals and livestock, with the objective of adjusting production in these sectors to long term trends in



16
domestic and foreign demand and achieving substantial productivity improvements in production,
marketing and processing. The criteria used for the selection of subsidy recipients will be linked to the
achievement of the targets of the sectoral restructuring programs.
55.          Sggial Security. The social insurance programs started operating on a simulated self-
financing basis on January 1, 1993. The revenues of the fbur newly created programs (pensions, health
services, unemployment b' 'nefits and sickness benefits) are currently collected through contributions based
on a 50% payroll tax. Ihe insurance programs for pensions and sickness benefits are expected to be
launched on a fully self-financed basis in 1994 whereas the other two may receive supplementary
resources from the state budget. The Government intends these funds to be self-financing in aggregate
and might allow transfers among them to achieve this objective. Simulations show that three of the funds
may achieve balance (with unemployment possibly receiving some transfers from the state budget due to
transitionally high unemployment). The health fund, on the other hand, may run a deficit because of a
proposed change to a fee-for-service compensation scheme.
56.          The Govermnent has prepared amendments to the laws which govern the state's
contribution to the National Insurance Funds. The changes in policy include insuring children with their
parents (currently they are insured separately) and insuring women on maternity leave together with their
husbands. Whereas currently employed pensioners are exempt from contributions to the finds, in the
future their income from employment would be treated the same as any other employed individual. f
these amendments are approved, the state's contribution to the funds in FY94 is expected to be Sk 12.5
billion. On the other hand, should the amendments fail to pass, the state's required contributions will
be Sk 23.5 billion. Further measures to reduce social spending are described below in the section on
"Improving the efficiency of the social safety net and labor markets*.
57.          Financing the Costs of Restructuring. While fiscal retrenchment will be crucial for
macroeconomic stability as well as for recovery of the real sector, restructuring will imply an increasing
fiscal burden in the near term. The fiscal implications of restructuring fall into three broad categories -
- greater demands on the social safety net, costs associated with recapitalization of selected banks, and
closure costs of insolvent state-owned enterprises. Preliminary estimates of these fiscal costs of
restructuring are in the range of 2-2.5% of GDP in 1994. External financing of these one-off costs will
be crucial for increasing the availability of credit for the private sector. Some of these one-off costs of
restructuring may als M be financed by the one-off revenues from privatization now held by the National
Property Fund. More detailed estimates of the fiscal costs of restructuring will be prepared in the context
of preparations for a possible financial and enterprise sector loan in Slovakia.
58.          Fiscal Reform Program to be Supported by the Loan. The loan will support a further
adjustment of fiscal policy. Fiscal targets for 1994 will be agreed with the IMF in the context of
discussions on a Stand-by. A proposed 1994 budget has been submitted to Parliament. The proposed
World Bank loan will focus on fiscal policy reforms in the following areas:
Changing the composition of spoending to facilitate restructuring. Measures to alter the
composition of the budget in 1994 will focus on reducing expenditures on subsidies and
increasing the efficiency of the social safety net while allowing for expenses relating to
bank restructuring and the closure costs of non-viable enterprises. Ihe loan will support
specific measures to reduce subsidies to agricultre and to increase the efficiency of
socia! spending.



17
*     There has been a siza"le reduction in nominal subsidies in the 1994 budget
submitted to the Parliament In October 1993, consistent with IMF targets.
*     Total agricultural subsidies in the 1994 budget have been reduced in nominal
terms, including the budgetary contribution to the State Fund for Market
Regulation and to the Support Fund. Measures to improve the efficdency of
agricultural subsidies (described in the Letter of Development Policy) wiUl be
implemented.
An effective safet net. Fiscal stringency often places a heavy burden on the most
vulnerable sectors of the population. In order to provide protection against falling into
poverty, the efficiency of the social safety net needs to be increased and the budget must
adequately provision for the core safety net-unemployment benefits and social assistance.
Ibis will have to be accompanied by sizeable savings from better targeting. The loan
will support both sets of measures.
*     The Government has provided funding in the FY94 Budget to ensu  the
proper financing of the core social safety net. This implies full budgetary
funding for social assistance (between Sk 3-5 bllion in 1994) and for any
unemployment benefits that exceed revenues of the employment insurance
fund.
f In the context of forthcoming discussions with the IMF on a Stand-by arrangement,
there is a need for expenditure reductions to meet fiscal targets, the Government will take
those efficiency enhancing measures for the social sectors described below (see paras.
100-107) and In the Letter of Development Policy.
B. Strengthening the Finandal System
nD     g MonMan MManageent
59.          The Slovak Republic had relative success in managing monetary policy duing the first
half of 1993 as evidenced by the reversal in the outflow of reserves and low inflation. However, there
have been two main sources of pressure on the NBS to loosen monetary policy and expand the monetary
base. First, there was pressure to lend to bank-s and to lower interest rates. In response to these
pressures, the NBS decided to suspend credit auctions in May 1993 and to rely on the 9.5% interest
rediscount facility as the main instrument for injecting liquidity in the banking system. In addition, the
NBS decided to give priority to the rediscount of bills of exchange from the agricultral and export
sectors. By making NBS credit to banks less expensive than deposits, it encouraged banks to increasingly
rely on NBS credit. This resulted in sluggish performance in the mobilization of real deposits and in less
financial resources being available for lending, particularly to private enterprises.
60.          Second, there was pressure to finance the budget. Between January and August 1993,
NBS credit to government increased by 77%, mostly financed by expanding base money.3 Moreover,
3/    Bae money is defined as cunency in circulation plus banks' reserve requtements.



18
this reliance on NBS financing increased further in June 1993 whan the government decided to set a
ceiling on the price of Treasury bills, wlth the yield fixed at 12%. By discouraging banks and private
investors from holding Treasury bills, the new interest rate compelled NBS to purchase most of the
treasury bills. This has resulted in the NBS becoming the main source of finance for the budg;.t deficit.
61.          Although the NBS has been successful in keeping inflationary pressures under control,
this resulted from the special conditions faced in early 1993 as a result of the dissolution of the monetary
union with the Czech Republic. However, continued expansion of base money could result in greater
inflationary pressures which could undermine the credibility of the new currency and lead to a capital
outflow. It is, therefore, important that the authorities stimulate banks and the government to resort to
sources of finance other than the NBS. To dissuade banks from using NBS flnancing and encourage them
to attract deposits, the NBS should resume the credit auctions. In addition, to encourage the Government
to raise domestic finance from banks and other investors, the Government should resume the Treasury
bill auctions without setting a price ceiling.
62.          Monetary Reforms to be Supported by the Loan. Monetary policy targets and measures
will be discussed with the IMF in the context of forthcoming Stand-by negotiations. The ERL will
support the following monetary reform measures which are critical for improved performance of the
bankig sysem:
0     Credit auctions and open market operations will become the main
instrnents for managing liquidity In the banking system. As of November
1, 1993, a minimum of 70% of credit to commercial banks will go through
auctions. The interest rate charged for Lombard credits and for rediscounts
will be linked to the auction interest rate. Only banks judged to be In good
standing by the NBS supervision department will be allowed to participate
in the credit auctions.
a     As of November 1, 1993, the Government will remove the ceiling on
Treasury bill interest rates and will ensure that market forces determine
interest rates In the Treury bill auctions. NBS purchases of Treasur bills
in the auions wiU be severely restricted, and NBS will pay the average
auction price for the secuities. The majority of Government securities will
be sold outside the NBS.
Sftrngkeningte Banking Sysm
63.          Financial sector reforms have focused on the development of a competitive, private sector
banking system. Over the past three years, the number of banks has increased from two to sixteen; in
addition, nine branches of foreign banks have been established. Two state-owned banks, including the
largest commercial bank, were included in the fist wave of privatization such that the savings bank is
the only major state-owned bank that remains to be privatized.4 In 1992, bank lending to the state
enterprise sector declined while lending to the emerging private sector increased, resulting in an 18%
A/    The ote major state owned bank, Konsolidacni Banka, wilH be restrcted to collection of its existing
loans.



19
share by the private sector in total bank loans at end-1M, compared to less than 1% at end-1990.
Overall, there are encouraging signs of positive results from bankmg reform.
64.          However, the banking system is still beset with structural problems and financial markets
remain undeveloped. The difficulties facing the banking system mirror the complex and interconnected
adjustment facing all sectors of the economy. Reform in the banking system should focus on four areas:
(a) accelerating development of bank supervision capacity; (b) strengthening the financial condition and
improving governance of the privatized banks; (c) dealing with the risks facing the statemowned savings
bank and the consolidated bank; and (d) refraining from establishing more state-owned banks.
65.          Accelerating Developmet of Bak Supervision Capaiy. The increasing number of
private banks and the current structural and governance problems in the banking system necessitate the
accelerated development of banking supervision capacity. Since the development of local capacity will
take time, the banking supervision department of NBS should in the next few years utilize foreign
expertise and contract out some supervision activities, such as requiring external auditors to approve
reports by banks to NBS. In addition, special studies should be commissioned in problem areas, such
as portfolio reviews.
66.          Banklng Supervision Reforms to be SUDOrted by the Loan. The loan will support the
following measures that would accelerate the development of bank supervision capacity:
a     NBS has informed commercial banks that It wiH require annual audits by
ernal auditors whose selection and terms of reference must be cleared by
NBS.
*     NBS has Informed commercial banks that it will require that standard
quarterly reports to the supervision department are eleared by external
auditors to the commercial bank in good standing with NBS.
*     NBS has agreed to contract special studies, including portfolio reviews, to
determine the state of the banking system, examine options for further
strengthening of banks, and develop an effective strategy for bank
supervision.
*     NBS has agreed to prepare a plan of acion to strengthen banldng
supervision. In the context of this plant NBS will hire the required number
of experienced banking supervisors to augment existg local capacity.
67.          Strengthening Privatized Banks. The newly privatized state-owned banks, VUB and IRB,
have been the principal lenders to state-owned enterprises and carry the bulk of the inherited
nonperforming loans. VUB, whose share of the loan market has dropped from 70% in 1990 to 40% in
1992, was the major lender to state enterprises, many of which have now been privatized, but are in
financial distress. Tne portfolio of IRB contains loans to a small number of state enterprises which were
considered of strategic importance and therefore had implicit government guarantees. Ihe exposure of
IRB to the state controlled nuclear power industry alone represents one-third of its loans. Two initiatives
were undertaken to address the problem of nonperforming loans. In 1990, working capital loans of VUB
were transferred to a consolidation bank (KON) along with corresponding liabilities, primarily NBS



20
credits. In 1991, bonds were issued by the National Property Fund (NPF) to recapitalize VUB and IW
and replace certain loans on the books of the banks which were then written off. Despite these actions,
the loan portfolio of VUB and 1RB continued to deteriorate resulting in inadequate capitalization. Now
that these banks have been privatized, traditional mechanisms for dealing with inherited bad loans such
as government recapitalization or replacing nonperforming assets with government backed bonds would
either renationalize the banks or bail out the stockholders. In either case, the credibility of the
privatization program Is negatively aifected.
68.          In addition to their weak financial condition, VUB and IRB are faced with a govermance
structure that is still dominated by the Govermnent. This is due mainly to the 47% share held by NPF
in both banks; when the 3% share reserved for restitution claims but held by NPF are added, NPF is
effectively the majority owner of the bank. In the case of VUB, seven of nine members of the Board of
Supervisors are Government officials. That NPF controls these banks and at the same time is the major
stockholder in enterprises creates risk of unwarranted influence on bank lending decisions. The
fundamental solution is the divestiture by NPF of its shares in the banks to the private sector.
69.          Bank Strengthenlig to be Supported by the Loan. The loan will support the following
measures to strengthen the financial condition and improve governance in VUB and IRB:
*     The NPF has agreed to hire consultants to prepare a plan to complete the
privatization of VUB by sellng all the shares of NPF to the private sector
and to strengthen the financial condition of VUB by offering additional
shares to private strategic investors; If necessary, a financial reorganization
may have to be implemented.
*     The Government has prepared a plan to increase IRB's capital base from
private sources over the next three years.
70.          Managing Risks Inherent in SSB and KQN. SSB accounts for approximately 90% of the
household deposits, which are implicily guaranteed because SSB is a state bank. Historically, SSB has
redeposited its funds primarily with VUB which then undertook commercial lending to state enterprises.
SSB is still a major source of funds for VUB, although the SSB deposits in VUB have been declining and
are subject to a schedule of maturities over the next three years. SSB's lending activities in the past were
primarily to individuals for housing and other subsidized loans, such as support to newlyweds. SSB has
become increasingly active in the lending market, both to the private sector and state enterprises. SSB's
lack of lending capability and experience may result in a high proportion of bad lending decisions. In
addition, there is the issue of SSB being a state-owned bank which may be forced to lend on a non-
commercial basis. On the other hand, privatizing SSB at this time given the undeveloped state of bank
supervision will put household deposits at risk.
71.          While KON has been established originally as a temporary holding institution for certain
problem loans, it has been granted a universal banking license. The management of KON is planning
to engage actively in commercia banking services, including deposit taking. The financial condition of
the bank and state ownership will most likely lead to incremmntal resources being misallocated since
I/    Investi6ni Banka (B) was the precursor to IRB and serviced clients in both the Czech and Slovak
Repblics. B was split in 1992 with the Slovak accounts transferred to IRB.



21
management is not subject to the right incentives and proper governance. KON's activities should be
restricted to collecting on the existing loans and paying its creditors.
72.          Defensive Measures in the Financial Sector to be Supported by the Loan. The loan will
support the following defensive measures focussing on SSB and KON:
*     Until at least 51% of the Slovak Savings Bank.'s (SSB) shares are privatized
(excluding NPF and municipalities), there will be no increase In SSB's
lending activities. All SSB assets In excess of outstanding loans will be
deposited In the Interbank market, held as Treasury bills, or deposited with
the NBS. Interbank deposits of SSB will be monitored dosely by the
supervision department of NBS to ensure that deposits are lent to banks in
good standing.
*     KON has been restricted from deposit taking and new lending and has
committed to a fixed schedule to repay the banks and NBS.
73.          RefaninIg  m   imishing StateOned Bo. To establish credibility in Its policy
of moving towards a competitive, private sector banking system, the govenment should refrain from
establishing new ste-owned bank. Instead, to strengthen the banking system, the goverrment should
actively atact private straegic investors to invest in existing banks. In addition, the government should
establish conditions that would maximize the effectiveness of the existing 16 banks by moving towards
market interest rates, strengthening weak banks, and improving supervision capacity.
74.          Ensra,ing MarkL-Oriented Banking to be Supported by the Loan. The loan will
support the following action by the government:
e     Lending institutions established by the Government or NPF will only be
allowed to apply for a bank llcense after private participation increases to
more than 51% of total capital, and a large strategic private investor is
among the institution's ownmers. NPF agrees not to use its shares to influence
lending decisions by banks.
C. Privatizatlon, Private Sector Development and Enterprise Restructuring
75.          Privatizatn. The Slovak Republic is well advanced in privatizing its economy largely
due to the success of small scale privatization and the innovative voucher privatization scheme. Most
small shops (over 9,300) have been privatized through auctions or restitution to original owners. Over
550 medium and large enterprises (about half of the total) have been partially or completely privatized
in the first wave of privatization. At least a majority of shares were transferred to the private sector in
about 450 of the enterprises thus effectively privatizing them. However, the National Property Fund still
has a majority shareholdi4g in about 100 enterprises of which about 30 are considered "strategic" and
will not be completely privatized. As discussed below, the Government has placed about 103 enterprises
in liquidation - also an effective method of privatization. The Government has enacted a law on housing
privatization that should permit the rapid privatization of the approximately one-fourth of housing units
that are in state ownership.



22
76.          The most important private owners of the privatized enterprises are the 184 Investment
Privatization Funds which bought shares in the voucher auctions using coupons contributed by Slovak
citizens. lbe funds were often formed by banks and insurance companies who also own the investment
companies that advise the new funds on selecting a portfolio. 'here Is some concern about the substantial
economic power of these funds and their promises to their shareholders to buy back their shares at a
substantial premium. However, preliminary evidence indicates that the funds have played a valuable role
in corporate governance and have tried to influence the managers to increase efficiency, profitability, and
thus the value of the portfolios held by the funds. The National Property Fund only has a staff of 60 and
does not seem to play as important a role in corporate governance.
77.          The Govermnent is proceeding with a second wave of privatization. The line ministries
have processed "privatization projects' for many of the approximately 519 enterprises scheduled for the
second wave. The Government intends to rely more on standard' methods emphasizing foreign
investment rather than voucher privatization in the second wave. Standard methods include direct sales,
auctions, tenders, joint ventures, and liquidation. Privatization of an enterprise is said to have occurred
when a majority (at least 51 %) of the shares are owned by private investors, including investment funds,
or the enterprise is being liquidated. In the case of 365 small or medium sized enterprises (book value
of equity of less than Sk 250 million), the intention is that these enterprises will be privatized exclusively
by standard methods and will not be included in voucher privatization. In the case of the 154 large
enterprises (book value of equity of more than Sk 250 million), a majority shareholding will be reserved
for strategic investors. Only the remaining minority shareholding will be included in voucher
privatization. These large enterprises account for about 85% of the assets to be privatized in the second
wave. If standard methods of privatization are not as successful as desired, however, the Government
may have to rely more on voucher privadzation in order to maintain the pace of privatization.
78.          The Government is also attempting to develop a regulatory regime for the investment
funds. One objective emphasized by the government is to reduce what is viewed by some as excessive
concentration of economic or political power in the ten or twenty largest funds. Other equally important
objectives are to improve the role of the funds in corporate governance and to protect the shareholders
in the funds. The Government currently limuts a fund's shareholding in any one enterprise (to a
maximum of 20% of the enterprise's total shares) and the size of the its total portfolio (to a maximum
of 10% of all the shares sold through voucher privatization).
79.          As part of the proce8sing of privatization projects, each enterprise entering the second
wave of privatization must complete an environmental audit. This audit must address both ongoing and
past pollution, follow specific principles and rules elaborated by the Ministry of Environment, and be
cleared by the local representative of the Ministry of Environment or by the central Ministry in important
cases. In the past, the Govenunent required new private owners of enterprises to bear the responsibility
of cleaning up past pollution. Slovakia, however, has decided that the state should now take
responsibility for any past environmental damage caused by state enterprises. Even though the state is
taking responsibility for past environmental liabilities, it is still important for environmental audits to be
carried out prior to privatization to assess the scope of potential liabilities.
80.          Constraints to a Growing Private Sector. Thanks in large part o rapid privatizationunder
the first wave, the private sector is growing quickly in Slovakia. From virually nothing in 1989, the
private sector now accounts for about 20% of output (not including the medium and large scale
enterprises privatized in the first wave). But because the base is small, the growth does not yet
compensate for the decline in the state sector. Since the 'Velvet Revolution" the Government has been



23
trying to create an environment supportive of private sector development, but there are still significant
problems. Some constraints to private sector development derived from the disruptions associated with
Slovakia's independence and unfamiliarity with new markets, some from lack of regulation, while others
derive from excessive or Inappropriate regulation.
81.          In the initial stages of statehood, Slovakia was faced with the difficult task of establishing
its own, independent institutional and legal support for the newly developing private sector. With the
abolition of the system of commercial arbitrators under central planning, Czechoslovakia had just begun
the process of establishing a commercial courts system. At the time of the Velvet Revolution, the new
Slovak commercial courts were plagued with administrative and procedural problems and staffed with
judges who were applying new and unfamiliar commercial laws and business registration requirements.
With the break-up of the Federation, the commercial courts were deluged with applications to register
as Slovak companies, resulting in delays of up to six months. Debt collection also became a major
problem as a serious backlog of commercial cases emerged. Issuance of trade licenses were also delayed
as the new Minstry of Interior worked to establish regional offices and issue over 200,000 Slovak trade
licenses. The backlog in issuing trade licenses has rapidly decreased, but the need to simplify and
quicken the procedure for registration of commercial businesses is recognized.
82.          Under the first wave of privatization, the need for restitution of previously nationalized
real property in urban areas was one factor delaying transfer of ownership to the private sector.
Procedures and deadlines were established for claiming restitution, resulting in clarification of ownership
rights for most real property against which claims were made. Restitution should not be a significant
factor contributing to delay in the second wave of privatization of industrial enterprises but may
contribute to delay in privatization in the agricultr  sector. Remaining property rights issues concern
the ability to use real property, enterprise shares and movables as collateral. Wbile "factoring' is
possible under existing commercial law, it is still not a common practice.
83.          Ihe first wave of privatization also introduced widespread shareholding property rights.
At present, a shareholder's rights in company ownership are defined in the commercial code but are not
generally well-known by the public. However, despite the lack of a comprehensive securities regulatory
framework, several markets for trading shares in recently privatized companies have developed. A nascent
stock exchange has been established, trading 10 listed companies and over 40 unlisted companies on a
weekly basis. The majority bank-owned stock market is planning on introducing daily trading by the end
of the year. The RM System is an 'over the counter' market developed out of the over 190 local offices
created to carry out the first wave of voucher privatiation. The RM System trades the largest volume
of shares with over 80 companies, although trades take several weeks to execute. It also intends to
introduce daily trading by the end of the year. The foreign and domestically owned Bratislava Options
Bourse trades forwards on shares. MTe Ministry of Finance, through a wholly-owned joint stock company,
has established the SCP, the official system of company registration of share ownership.
84.          To fully develop the ability of the private sector to raise capital, investors should be able
to trade freely on capital markets without artificially imposed limitations on ownership. Currently there
is no independent agency responsible for the regulation of securities trading. Financial and trade
regulation has been concentrated in the Ministry of Finance, which has appointed two Securities
Commissioners, drafted legislation requiring more disclosure of information to potential investors, but
has also stopped investment funds from trading shares and imposed limitations on maximum shareholding.
Foreigners are prohibited from selling shares under an interpretation of the foreign exchange rules.
ZK



24
85.          Financial Distress in the Enterprise Sector. The funcial difficulties experienced by both
state-owned and privatized enterprises can be traced back to a variety of shocks, particularly the collapse
of the CMEA market, the ban on arms exports imposed under the Federation, the shock of dissolution
and the ongoing transfornation to a market economy. Adjustment to these shocks has been slow, and
in some cases the response of both enterprises and Government has exacerbated the eventual adjustment
costs. For example, forced bank financing of enterprise losses and further investment in some industries
may have created significant over-indebtedness. Enterprises' initial response was to continue to produce
for inventory and in the face of collapsing sales, incur arrears. Out of the 400 enterprises still under the
control of the Ministry of Economy (MOE), 198 were making losses during the first half of 1993, with
total losses amounting to Sk 2.7 billion, as of June 30, 1993. Overdue payables of these enterprises to
their suppliers increased to Sk 21.1 billion, by December 31, 1992, and further to Sk 30.2 billion by June
30, 1993. The financial distress experienced by a few large enterprises has been transmitted at a rapid
pace throughout the economy, creating a chain of arrears.
86.          The Government's initial response was to provide support through the financial system
to some SOEs, in an attempt to cushion the initial impact of the shock or to finance investments in
conversion of armaments industries. The Government also provided more direct support in the form of
budgetary subsidies - amounting to Sk 30 billion during 1991-92 and Sk 21 billion in the 1993 budget.
More recendy, the Government has sometimes used off-budget mechanisms, such as loan guarantees
offered by the National Property Fund (NPF) to channel resources to some troubled enterprises. NPF's
statutes allow it to provide loan guarantees to a limited number of enterprises in which it is envisaged that
the state would, through NPF, keep a permanent equity participation and in which its shareholding
exceeds 34%. The Government has also started liquidation of non-viable SOEs through procedures
nider the Law on State-Owned Enterprises. The Ministry of Economy has Initiated or completed
liquidation of 103 SOEs, mostly medium-sized, with a total work force of about 20,000.
87.          Restucturing Enterprises in the. Energy Sector. The energy sector in S'ovakia has a
particularly important role, given Slovakia's strategic location in the European gas pipeline and power
transmission network. There are three major issues - corporatization, pricing and regulation. The key
enterprises are slated for corporatization, with a view to later privatization, but progress has been slow,
with only the oil and gas company privatized and the remaining enterprises (SEP, SPP and Slovtransgas)
not yet corporatized. The Government intends to gradually eliminate subsidies in gas, heat and electricity
prices which cause inefficiency in energy consumption. The Government has reduced or eliminated many
of the distortions in the average level of prices for primary energy sources. But residential customers'
tariffs remain about half of their economic cost, while industrial tariffs exceed economic cost in order
to subsidize the residential customers. Regulation of public utilities is fragmented and excessively
intrudes on management prerogatives. A proposal for a new regulatory law, encompassing the gas,
electricity, telecommunications and water sectors was prepared by the Antimonopoly Office in June 1993
and will be submitted to the National Council by September 1993. The plan for regulation should
Droceed in three phases: (V) the legal structure, duties and rights of public utilities must be established
by legislation, (ii) the regulatory function and powers must be established by legislation, and (iii) a code
of regulations to implement the legislation must be established. The legislation should be adopted before
the public utilities are privatized.
88.          Accelerating Privatization to be Supported by the Loan. To ensure that the Government's
new emphasis on privatization by standard methods does not result in major delays, a greater diversity
of privatization methods will be supported. Furthermore, the new investment funds should be encouraged
to effectively govern the new private enterprises in which they own shares. The Government recently



25
announced three steps to achieve these objectives. First, at least one-third of all enterprises now in
majority government ownership will be privatized by the end of 1994 using all available methods of
privatization including greater reliance on voucher privatization if necessary. The Government has
prepared an implementation plan that describes in more detail how this target will be achieved. Second,
it will accept responsibility for past environmental damage caused by state enterprises and thus increase
the attractiveness of the enterprises to private investors. Third, it will encourage Investment Privatiztion
Funds to play a strong, positive role in corporate governance by permitting them to own a significant
block of shares in enterprises.
*     The Government has published a program to privatize one-third of all
enterprises (including state farms) majority owned by the state as otJanuary
1, 1993 (based on book value of fixed assets) by the end of 1994, using all
available methods of privatization to achieve this goal.
*     The Government has agreed to organize and prepare a second wave of
voucher privatization, to begin the distribution of coupons to citizens, and
to announce the companies to be included in the coupon scheme by the third
quarter of 1994.
*     The Ministr of Privatizaon has prepared a preliminary plan to streamline,
simplify, and clarify procedures and decision making for privatization so as
to fadlitate and accelerate the pace of privatizatlon. A detailed plan will be
prepared by December 1993 and implementation will begn by the end of
1993.
*     The Government has agreed to develop a regulatory framework for
Investment funds that protects the intersts of investors and promotes
competitive markets and yet permits the funds to play an effective role In
corporate governance. To this end, the Government () will not introduce
further restrictions on Investnent fund holdings; (ii) has prepared a draft
law on disclosure by funds to their shareholders and potential investors of
the fund's portfolio of shares including, for example, the value of shares
owned In each company, their Investment strategies, and compensation paid
to Investment advisors and managers; and (iii) has required funds to notify
the Anti-Monopoly Agency If they obtain a significant ownership interest in
enterprises that compete with each other.
*     The Government has publicly announced Slovakia's policy that the State wilD
accept responsibility for environmental liabilities caused by state enterprises
prior to their privatization. Enviromnental audits will be completed prior
to privatization to detenne the magnitude of the state's liability.
89.          Private Sector Dveloment to be Supported by the Loan. Tne major barriers to private
sector growth have been identified, but over time, additional constraints will emerge and will need to be
alleviated. For promotion of new businesses the government has:
*     Drafted an amendment to the Civil Code to simplify the procedures for
processing and shorten the time for registration of new businesses.



26
0     Dafted a law providing for binding, non-judicial arbitration of commercial
disputes and submitted It to the Council of Ministers for approval.
90.          The Government recognizes that an appropriate regulatory framework providing for fair
competition, adequate protection of intellectual property rights and well-regulated capital markets is key
to facilitating the development of its private sector. The current regulatory franework does not address
many key market issues and yet also creates artificial distortions of markets in other areas. The
Government will take the following steps:
*     The Govemment has agreed to conunission a comprehensive assessment of
constraints and measures to assJst in the development of the private sector,
to be completed by April 1,,1994. Based on this assessment, the Government
will prepare an action plan to remove barriers to private sector development.
*     The Government will arrange for publication and distribution of a handbook
on the procedures and requirements for obtaining licenses and for registering
businesses In Slovak and two other languages widely-used In commercial
transactions.
91.          Enterprise Restruc=uring to be SuMorted by the loan. It is imperative that the process
of enterprise restructring and liquidation be accelerated. The key issues are: (i) enforcing a hard budget
constaint; 0i) restoring financial discipline; (iii) enabling market-based workouts and (iv) facilitating
speedy liquidation of enterprises with no prospects of futurs viabiity. By rapidly phasing out subsidies
and NPF loan guantee, the Government would signal to SOEs that if they want to survive, they must
renegotiate existing debt and auract commercial financing. Corporatization of SOEs is also a critical step
towards market behavior. Also, netting out inter-enterprise arrears and instituting mechanisms that
restore paymeuts discipline are crucial. Key measures already taken by the Government and additional
steps to be undertaken to facilitate enterprise restructuring are the following:
92.          Restructuring Studie. In the industrial sector, the Government has initiated restructuring
studies of some key enterprises in several sectors, such as the chemical sector, and has initiated sectoral
restruchtring and privatization studies of important textile and armaments industries, which together
represented more than 20% of total industrial output in 1990.
*     The Government has agreed to carry out two additional studies of key
Industrial sectors In early 1994. These studies will Identify enterprises which
are most likely to be of interest to foreign Investors and will be the focus of
special promotion efforts to find such Investors. They will also Identify
which enterprises have no prospects of viability and will undergo speedy
liquidation.
93.          Identifying Major Loss-Makers. The Government has identified the 20 state-owned
enterprises with the largest non-performing loanS from the banking system. These enterprises are likely
candidates for restructuring toward privatization.
*     The Government has agreed to complete detailed diagnostic studies of 20
loss-making enterprises by April 1, 1994, with recommendations on plans



27
to restructure and/or privatize them. Implementation of these plans will
begin shortly thereafter.
94.           Netttng Out Inter-Enterprise Arrears. For viable enterprises, a mechanism has been
established under a law passed in July 1993, making it compulsory for enterprises, both public and
private, to report overdue receivables and liabilities to a private company specially created to net out
inter-enterprise arrears. Under this scheme, which has now been operative for about nine months, on
a voluntary basis, approximatively Sk 10 billions of arrears have been netted-out. A contrbution by NPF
may be used to provide a limited cash injection to implement the netting-out mechanism.
0     A nmechanism has been established to account for and net out inter-enterprise
arrears as a first step to identifying the net debtors in the arrears chain.
95.           Market-based Workouts. Enterprise creditors, and in particular banks, are expected to
play an important role in restructuring of enterprises with prospects of viability. Therefore, the
Government will encourage market-based workouts that emerge from negotiations between enterprises
and their creditors. An amendment to the Czechoslovak bankruptcy law provides the basis for financial
restructuring and provides protection from creditors during work-outs approved by the creditor
committee.
*     The Govenment has agreed to prepare accelerated out-of-court procedures
for financial reorganization and liquidation of corpozatized enterprises. This
will be accompanied by mechanisms to strengthen and simplify existing debt
collection and enforcement procedures.,
96.           Liquidations of Non-viable Enterprises. The Government has initiated or completed
liquidation of 103 SOEs. On the basis of this experience, it is has been recognized tnat the liquidation
process for non-viable enterprises or specific units in enterprises can be accelerated.
TMhe Government will arrange for identification of the measures needed to
sreamline existing Uquidation procedures for state-owned enterprises and
will begin to implement these measures before the end of this year.
97.           Comoratization. Restructuring and exercising of effective governance is facilitated when
state-owned enterprises have been converted into joint-stock or limited liability companies
(corporatization), and are supervised by Boards comprised of individuals appointed for their experience
and professional skills. Therefore, the Government will corporatize state-owned enterprises at an
accelerated pace. Ihe Initial focus will be on those enterprises slated for privatization in the second
wave, but the limited number of enterprises in which the Government will keep some participation will
also be included.
J/    lzTis might include a policy for standard treatment of government claims on enterprises, fmancial
assistance for liquidation (such as severance pay, environmtl costs), and better debt collection and
enforcement mechanisms. In privatized enterprises, the Govemment should encourage the use of a
menu of options to restructure debt that respects the rank order of creditors and equity holdersm



28
*     The Government has transformed more than 10% of the SOBs remaining as
of 1993. The Government has committed to converting 25% of SOEg by
April 1994. Ultimately, the Government intends to corporatize all remaining
viable or potentially viable state-owned enterprises by end of 1994.
98.          NPF. The NPF has a large portfolio of investments in enterprises, many of which need
significant restructuring, and is also the recipient of significant revenues from the privatization process.
Transparency of NPF's financial situation is of critical importance.
*     The Government has instructed the NPF to appoint an independent
accounting firm acceptable to the World Bank to complete by April 1, 1994,
an audit of the National Property Fund (NPl), following sound accounting
practices.
e     The Government agrees that the use of NPF's financial resources, which are
mostly one-off revenues, will be restricted to the one-off expenditures
associated with restructuring. The Government has identified priority uses
of NPF revenues as: the direct costs of the privatization process, the initial
costs of restructuring of viable enterpries (only organizational and financial
restructuring, liquidation costs of non-viable enterprises (severance
payments of employees, closing costs of installations, and envirommental
cean-up costs of industrial sites). Operating or investment subsidies to
enterprises or guarantees will not be funded by NPF resources.
99.          Restructuring Energy Entrises to be Supprted by the Loan. The loan will support
policies to enhance the restructuring and corporatization of the power sector, the reform of the existing
legal and regulatory framework, and the adjustment of natural gas, heat and power prices to reach
appropriate cost recovery levels. The Government will agree to corporatize SPP and SEP by end 1994.
Legislation on the regulatory framework will be submitted to Parliament by 1994.
*     The Economic Council has approved an increase in prices for household
consumers of natural gas and electricity by a minimum of 2S%. The
Government will also hire consultants to prepare a phased plan to adjust
prices for natural gas, heat and electricity to final consumers to reach
appropriate economic cost recovery.
D. Improve Effciency of Social Spending and Labor Markets
100.         A Large and Complicated Social Benefit System. Slovakia's system of social benefits
consists of over sixty individual entitlements. These programs provide cash income to help defray the
costs of childrearing, marriage, and other life-cycle events, and to make up for wage income lost due to
unemployment, retirement, sickness, disability, and other causes. Most are provided as universal
entitlements - not means tested and not related to individual initiative. Although benefit levels for most
entitlements are modest, cumulated benefits can provide an important disincentive for individuals to work.
Because benefits are paid to so many people, the cost of maintaining social programs (including health)
has become a major fiscal burden - comprising about 40% of total government expenditures and about
21% of GDP.



29
101.         Under the former system, in which wages were kept uniformly low for ideological
reasons, this system of social benefits played an essential role in meeting household consumption needs.
But the inherited system of social benefits is inconsistent with the goals of Slovakia's economic reform.
Under the liberalizing economy, wage and investment incomes will progressively assume a more
important role in providing for household consumption needs. Public policy should support that transition
by encouraging individuals to assume greater responsibility for meeting household welfare needs through
their own initiative, and no longer to rely upon the state as the provider of those needs. Over time, social
benefit programs should be simplified and better targeted. Household welfare contingencies - for health
care and loss of income through retirement, disability, or other causes - should be met largely through
insurance, both public and private.
102.         Recent Refbrms in Social Benefit Programs. The Government has started the reform of
social transfer programs by regrouping the inherited benefit programs and moving towards self-financed
insurance for the principal benefit programs: pensions, health services, unemployment benefits and
sickness benefits. Insurance Funds have been established for each of these benefits; premiums for them
have been collected in the form of payroll taxes since January 1993. These revenues are currently
passing through the state budget, but the Governmuent Intends that the four fuids start operation as self-
financed, independent entities beginning in January 1994. The Government has also modified eligibility
rules and benefit levels for some categories of benefits in order to reduce budgetary costs. These are
construetive and welcome changes, but they constitute only the initial steps in what should eventally be
a more comprehensive reform. Further progress is needed in the following areas: (i) better targeting
to the most vulnerable and poor; (ii) greater efficiency and work incentives of benefit programs; and (iii)
reducing costs of the system of social protection. Adequate funding of the social assistance program,
which is the central vehicle for preventing poverty, has been guaranteed under the reform program. Cost
reduction is needed for the new social insurance programs, as well as for the benefits financed by the
public budget. Financing social insurance through payroll taxes raises the marginal cost of hiring labor
and reduces incentives to create jobs. It is desirable to reduce the level of payroll taxes over time in
order to stimulate job creation.
103.         Longer-Term Reform. In the future, a number of further changes in social benefit
programs are needed. These include the following:
Reduction of UntarMd Social Benefit Programs. As other means of support
(including wage growth and successful operation of the new insurance programs)
are developed, there should be a phased reduction of social benefit programs
which are no longer necessary to ensure that households do not fall into poverty.
These might include a phased reduction of family allowances.
Development of Mu'ti4ier Prorm for Retirement Support. The public pension
program currently provides the only source of retirement income for workers.
The move to a market economy implies a smaller role for the government and
an increasing role for the private sector in the provision of pensions and old-age
savings for individuals. Private pensions would allow individuals to provide for
retirement in direct proportion to their own contributions. In order to promote
the growth of supplementary private pensions, the Government should pursue
actions to develop financial markets and a suitable regulatory framework.



30
Continuing Review of the Social Insurance Program. Pension benefits are a
particular area of concern, since they account for the largest share of benefit
expenditures, and will rise with the aging of the population. Retirement ages for
pensions are very low by international standards and in relation to survival in
Slovakia. Pension benefits for early retirement are not actuarially reduced, thus
encouraging early retirement and inflating pension outlays. In these and in other
respects, eligibility and benefit provisions need to be modified. These
modifications will affect pension outlays, and could lead to a financial imbalance
In the Pension Fund. ITe program should thus be kept under review to consider
whether further changes in pension provisions are necessary to maintain Fund
solvency and permit lowering of payroll taxes.
Health Insurance. The proposed fee-for-service system for compensating health
care providers would introduce powerful incentives for all providers to expand
services. For this reason, it entails a serious risk of rapid increase in health
costs. Health costs under a fee-for-service system can only be controlled through
a well developed monitoring mechanism, which can promptly detect changes in
levels and patterns of services in each health facility, compare them with
developments elsewhere in the system, identify undesirable changes in health
services, negotiate appropriate corrective action with health-care providers, and
monitor the results. Implementation of the new fee-for-service compensation
system should only be implemented on a phased basis, as an effective monitoring
capacity is put in place to control costs.
104.         Social Befit Reforms to be Supported by the   n. The loan will support several
immediaw reforms in social benefit programs designed to improve financial sustinability througb
mproved targeting and efficiency. It will also support the development of a strategy for long-term
reform of social benefit programs designed to address the needs identified above. The specific actions
to be supported by the Loan are the following:
*     In the InterMst of administrative efficiency and contributor compliance, the
Goverment has agreed to maintain unified collection of contribudons for aU
four soc8a programs.
*     The Govement agrees to gradually raising, on a phased basis, the eligibility
age for full pensions from 60 years for men and 57 years for women to 65
years for both men and women beginning in 1994. A tImetabW for the
phasing will be agreed with the World Bank. Benefits for Individuals opting
for early retirement wil be actuarially reduced.
*     The Government has submitted legislation to Parliament to better target
child benefits. The income ceiling for eligibility has been graduated by
family size.
*     The Govenment has submitted legislation to Parliament that employee
benefits have been reduced from 70% to 50% of wages for the first three
days of illness as a first step toward improving work incentives and financial
viability of the Sickness Fund.



31
*     The Goverranent has provided full funding in the FY94 budget for social
assistance (estimated to require from Sk 3 billion to Sk S bilUlon) to provide
minimum Income support for the long-term unemployed.
*     The Government has agreed to conduct a study by the end of 1993 to assess
monitoring and cost control capacity for Individual facilities and programs
throughout the national health care system. Based on the findings of that
study, It will develop and tmplement a plan for phased introduction of the
fee-for-service compensation of health care providers only In those areas
which are confirmed to have adequate monitoring mechnis  In place to
control health costs. If National Health Insurance receipts in 1994 were to
fall short of actual 1993 health expenditures In real terms, the  rfall
would be provided by the state budget In order to maintain a minimally
acceptable level of health services. No resources beyond this amount would
be provided under the state budget.
*     A Soda Reform Advisory Council and a techmical secretariat has been
es;tablihed to monitor and evaluate social benefit programs, and to develop
a sftra    for comprehensive reforns designed to reduce costs, Improve work
Incentives, and improve the targeting and effciency of these programs. The
wrk program of these units will be developed in consultation with the World
Bank.
105.         &mg=ent DeveloVm=. Slovaida has a highly skilled labor force that is experiencing
high rates of unemployment for the first time in recent history. Educational attainment of the labor force
compares favorably with the most advanced OECD countries, and is higher than in several OECD
countries, including Austia and Italy. The Slovak labor force Is also highly competitive relative to the
OECD (where wages are about ten times higher) and compared to many of its neighbors (the average
gross dollar industrial wage in Slovakia is about 45% below Hungary, 30% below Poland, and 20%
below the Czech Republic). Unemployment is expected to reach 15% by the end of 1993, with
substantial variation across regions. Major job losses have occurred in the public sector, particularly in
trade, construction and certain heavy industries. However, managers of many enterprises are making
great efforts to delay staff layoffs through reliance on involuntary part-time work or extended holidays.
These delays have led to considerable labor redundancy, as evidenced by the greater decline in labor
productivity in Slovakia compared to some other transition economies.
106.        Unemployment benefits are provided for a six month period at 60% of prior wages and
are financed through a 4% payroll tax. These benefits are provided by a well developed national network
of local employment offices. These offices also provide job placement services, requalification training,
and other active programs to stimulate employment. As enterprise restrcturing proceeds, further
unemployment is inevitable. The Government can contain the growth of unemployment through actions
to: a) increase labor mobility through nationwide job placement, privatization of housing, and continued
requalification taining, and b) promote job creation through encouragement of small business
development and, in the longer term, reduced payroll taxes. Such measures will only be effective if
socW benefits are modified to preserve work incentives.
107.        Employment Measures to be Supported by the Loan. The Loan will support the following
measures to enhance labor mobility, job creation, and work incentives:



32
*     The Government has agreed that job placement services, which cuently
cover only local and regional job opportunities, are to be provided on a
national basis.
*     The Govermnent has submitted a 1994 budget with an allocation of Sk 137
million for requalificatlon training.
*     A proposal has been submitted to the Cabinet that incentives for job creation
and small business development under the Ministry of Labor, Social Affairs
and Family's active employment program are to be p; avided as loans rather
than as grants.
m. Economic Prspects
A. Mediun-Term Scenario
108.         Ihe scenario for the medium term is based on a strategy of aelerated restructuring
which has fiscal consequences in the near term, but enables a stronger and more rapid recovery. Tbis
scenario assumes: (i) successful implementation of measures under the Systemic Transformation Facility
approved by the IMP Board on July 26, 1993 and eventual agreement on a Stand-by; and (ii) successful
implementation of structural reforms outlined in the Letter of Development Policy. The costs of
restructuring will have fiscal implications that are assumed to remain substantial in 1994-95 and will lead
to increased budgetary expenditure in some categories. Although there are projected gains in efficency
with better targeting of social spending, the expected rise in unemployment would increase the costs of
severance payments, social assistance and unemployment benefits. As restructuring proceeds, ceruin
closure costs of state-owned enterprises will be assumed by the state and the Government may also have
to contribute to restoring the solvency of the banking system. Overall, despite improvements in tax
admiistration, these steps will result in a fiscal deficit in the range of 3-6% in the mid-1990s, which
decline as restructuring costs subside. The efficiency gains from restructuring efforts will hopefully lead
to a halt in the contraction of output by 1995 when growth is projected to recover slightly.



33
Figure 4: Medium Term Scenario Results
GroUh Rate of GOP                                     Govemnrmnmt Budget ealance
(percent)                                            (percentage o1 GDP)
I .-..---..-.- -.--..  -..--..-.....-.-.. -c  . .                      -        - . .- - .      ---.-
t _ -. -.                                                             ...-.-...--..----...............................
-2    .-.-...-- .                                                      .  ............. .................. ........ __
-4   -   . - - . - - - - - . . -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--------
-Irt.  ,._,_. ........ 2 x-*--.-_..-....-.-....-.-.......... _ . i
9i       * 13 I.S  183'  ItN  388  1038  "'a                  33   84  19  an  1337  95  less  1039
Inflation                                          Current Account Balance
(pereent)                                            (percentage of GOP)
'.t_      _ _ _           _ _ ._ _ _ _ _ _ _   .......................G \.
24~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ lt. ----        - - - -- - - -
Mi  IMI!  u' ss34              lN   an  23 'na   i9  n884   s1  3947 IMS  on   HIM  3983
109.            The exteal fancing requirements of this scenario will amount to subsati  inflows
of gross medium and long term capital. These higher levels of gross borrowing are necessary to finance
the increase in imports, the increase in repayment obligations, and the buid-up of official foreign reserve
to 2-3 months of imports. Total external debt is expected to rise but in relatively moderate amounts.
As GDP growth continues and exports increa  significantly, the country will be in a comfrtable position
to repay its moderate debt Ihe debt service rado s projected to peak at 11% in the mid-199Os and
gradually fil thereafter.
B. External Ffnadng and Creditworthiness
110.            Financin    Plan.  The external financing requirements of the Government's reform
program are shown in Table 2. Gross medium and long term borrowing would average about US$700
million annually in 1993-96, tapering to about US$575 million in 1998. Tis would help finance (i)
projected current account deficits that would average about US$ 278 million or 2.7% of GDP annually
in 1993-96. (Projected deficits in the aurrent account are expected to improve significanty in the medium
to long term to 1.5% of GDP, thanks to export growth of 4% and an import elacticity of 0.8.); (ii)



34
principal repayments on Slovakia's external debt that are projected to average about US$ 375 million in
1993-96; and (iii) official reserves accumulation which are projected to reach US$1.6 billion at the end
of 1996 (equivalent to 2.3 months of imports), up from 0.4 billion at the end of 1992.
111.         Offiial Credirs, Over the 1993-96period, gross medium and long term disbursements
from official creditors are projected to be higher than those from commercial sources, reflecting the
involvement of official creditors during the early phase of the transformation program. The projected
financing plan for Slovakia includes (i) a purchase of SDR 64 million in 1993 under the IMF Systemic
Transformation Facility (STF) and a second purchase in 1994 under the STF when agreement on a Stand-
by arrangement is projected to be reached; (ii) bilateral and multilateral commitments for balance of
payments support from the G-24 countries of about US$300 million in 1994 and another US$300 million
over the 1995-96 period; and (iii) commitments for project financing from other multilaterals (such as
EDI and EBRD) which are assumed to average US$125 million in 1993-96.
112.         Ed=  Creditors and Foreign Investment.  Beyond 1996, borrowing from private
creditors is expected to play an increasingly important role in Slovakia's transformation, reaching about
70% of medium and long term disbursements in 1998. The National Bank of Slovakia undertook a
private bond placement of US$240 million in early September 1993. Slovakias access to international
ficial markets is a sign of the country's strengthening creditworthiness. The foreign commercial banks
are expected to become an Important source of financing for the restructuring needs of newly privatized
fims and investment projects of private companies and other financial institutions. The projections
asume a gradual increase in direct foreign investment from US$210 million in 1993 to US$275 million
in 1996, before stabilizing at US$375 million from 1998 onwards. These inflows should be sustainable
over the medium term as privatization is completed, private investment grows, and as productivity gains
are achieved throughout the economy.
113.         C:ditworthinsL  Slovakia's favorable overall debt position is worth noting (Table 3).
At independence, the debt to GDP ratio stood at 26% and debt service as a percentage of exports was
7.5%. Under our base case scenario, total debt outstanding and disbursed (DOD) as a percentage of GDP
is projected to rise from 29% in 1993 to 36% in 1996 and from 43% in 1993 to 48% in 1996 as a
percentage of exports. These ratios are projected to decline to 33% and 43%, respectively by 1998, in
line with the expansion of GDP and exports. Debt service as a percentage of exports is projected to
increase from 6% in 1993 to 11% in 1995 when significant amortization payments on official (mostly
IMF) and commercial debt are scheduled. The debt service ratio would gradually decline in subsequent
years to less than 10% by 1998.
114.         Debt service to the Bank as a percentage of exports of goods and services Is projected
to rise from 0.1I% in 1993 to 0.4% in 1996. Meassr -d as a sbat. of medium and long term debt service,
debt service to the Bank would increase fre  ?% in  ).93 to about 5%  in 1996. Debt service to preferred
creditors as a percentage of medium and l-iig term debt service would rise from 18% in 1993 to 34%
in 1996 due to principal repayments to the IMF beginning in 1994. While World Bank debt is expected
to increase in absolute terms and as a share of total debt, the indicators of exposure remain well within
the Bank's guidelines (Table 3).



35
Table 2: Medlumwnera Financing Plan (in nmiions of USS)
1992      1993         1994        1995        1996
Current Account )eficit 1l               -19        250         299         263         299
Ptincipal Repayments 21                 438        241          359         544         356
of which:
Muldtiatera                            31         IS           96         193         129
of whdch
IMf                                     16         0           85         182         118
1BRD                                     0         0            0           0           0
EC                                      0          0            0           0           0
Other mutilateral 3                     IS        1S           11          11          11
Bilateal                                  14         5            7           4           4
of wAicb:
Japan                                   0          0            0           0           0
G-24(non-EC)                            3          2           4            4           4
Private Commecial 4/                     392       221          256         348         224
Tota Frnancing Needs                      419        491         658         807         655
Gross Disbursements:                      395        615         775         758         631
of wbich:
Multiael                               230        236          391         274         309
of which:
I                                      111        95           87           0           0
IBRUD 5/                               44         89          103         103         151
EC                                     75          0          120          70          50
Other Muliater 31                       0         52           81         101         108
Bilateal                                 90          18         191         154          32
of which:
Japan                                    69         11         113          70           0
0-24 (non-EC)                            22          7          78          84          32
Private Commercia 31                     74        361          194         330         290
Diret Foreign Investment                 1t0         210         225         250         275
Net MILT Capital, n.e.i. 6/               -85         71         100         100         100
Net Short-tam Capita                      104        -54          40           0           0
Changes in Reserves (+-decwrese)          -95       -350        -482        -301        -351
Total Finacing Soures                     419        491         658         807         655
Source: Data provided by the Slovak authoities and staff projectios.
1/ Includes the Czech Republic.
2/ Debt service figures base on debt contacted as of end 1992 am' estimates.
3/ Other multilateral creitos include Nordic Investent Bank, IntWratonal Investment Bank, EBRD and
EIB.
4/ Includes bonds, financial institutions, suppliers credits, and export cred'".
Sf The brkdown of World Bank projected disbursements for 1993 is as ,ollows: $40 million for
Czechoslovakia SAL, $17 million for Telecommunications Loan, and $32 miillion for the
Economic Recovery Lan.
6/ Emrs and omissions, valuation changes, net credit extended and other capital nei.



36
Table 3: Selece4d Debt ldicators 1/
992      1        1994     199S    1996
Total deb (Miins of USS)                         2590      2910    3366      3579    3854
Total dobtlUDP                                    26.0     29.1    34.2      35.4    36.4
Total de IExports of goods and sries 2/           34.0     42.9    47.7      47.6    48.0
Total debt servGDP 31                              5.7      3.9      5.6       8.0     6.2
Total debt srviceExporb of goods and services 2 31  7.5     5.8      7.8      10.8     8.1
inte   Payments/Exports of goods and services 21 3/  1.7    2.3      2.8      3.0      3.2
3RD debt sevie/Export of goods  and sevice 213/   0.1       0.1      0.2      0.3      0.4
3RD debt scrvce/MLTdebt service 3/                0.9       2.1      2.4      2.7      4.6
3RD debt/Total debt                               4.2       6.8      8.9      11.3    14.4
Peferred debt servioeMLT service 3/ 41            15.7     17.5    30.3      34.4    34.3
Source: Dsta povided by tho Slovak authoitis and aff projections.
1/ Excluding debt to h Czech Republio.
V Total export of goods and srvioes.
3/ Deb srvice 6gues based on debt conotrd as of end 1992 arn estimates.
4/ The  tio increaes maiy due to princpal paymewn to te IMP  _eginl  in 1994).



37
IV. The Proposed Loan
113.         Rationale for lhe Loan. lTe loan supports Slovakia's ongoing transformation by financing
many of the one-off costs associated with restructuring and the breakup of the Federation. The loan will
provide an umbrella for Bank support to subsequent sector reforms and project loans.
116.         Loan Design and ComWonens. T he proposed loan supports the Government's adjustments
program and puts into place key reforms that contribute to the restoration of growth. The main policy
reforms to be supported under the loan are: (a) fiscal retrenchment, (b) strengthening and diversifying
the financial sector, (c) continued privatization, private sector development, and enterprise restructuring,
(d) a more efficient social safety net. The proposed loan is based on the existence of a satisfactory
macroeconomic framework in the form of an agreed program under the Systemic Transformation Facility
with the IM.
A. Loan Amount and Borrower
117.         The proposed loan, in an amount of US$80 million equivalent, would be made to the
Republic of Slovakia through the Ministry of Finance for 17 years, including a 5 year grace period, at
the Bank's standard variable iterest rate.
B. Procurmet
i18.        The proposed loan would finance 100% of the CIF costs of general imports, excluding
luxury goods, military equipment, nuclear reactors and parts, uranium tobacco and tobacco processing
machinery defined under the Standard International Trade Classification. The loan would also finance
oil imports up to a maximum of $20 million. Procurement of goods and services will be according to
the Bank's Procurement Guidelines (May 1992). Imports made by ministries, public enterprises and
private importers above US$5 million per contract would be procured in acordance with simplified
International Compedtive Bidding (ICB). The Bank's standard bidding documents for goods and
commodities would be used for ICB procurement under this loan.
119.         Contracts for commodities in excess of US$5 million each would be awarded following
established commodity market practices, provided these practices are found acceptable by the Bank. A
detaied description of these practices for each commodity the borrower proposes to finance with the
proceeds of this loan would be prepared and submitted to the Bank for its prior review and acceptance.
Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost below US$5 million each, both for public and
private sectors, would be awarded on the basis of evaluation and comparison of at least three quotations
obtained from suppliers from at least two eligible countries. Direct contracting (single source purchase)
would be allowed only for proprietary items or where the need for compatibility with existing items calls
for sdization.
120.         Procurement would be coordinated by the National Bank of Slovakia under arrangements
satisfctory to the Bank. The National Bank of Slovakia has considerable experience in procurement
under the Czechoslovak SAL. The National Bank of Slovakia would provide bi-annual progress reports
on procurement activities to the Bank.



38
121.         Contracts below US$20,000 would not be eligible for Bank financing. Tbis threshold is
consistent with satisfactory access by small and medium size importers, and the operation would remain
manageable from an administrative point of view. Retroactive financing would be acceptable for up to
US$16 million for eligible imports paid for during the four month period preceding loan signing.
C. Disbursenent
122.         Disbursements would be made on the basis of documented disbursement applications
except for expenditures below US$5 million, which would be based on statements of expenditure. Tbese
statements would indicate the origin of the goods, invoice, customs declaration and evidence of payment
and would be available for review by Bank supervision missions and external auditors.
123.        Importers cooperating with the National Bank would be required to provide on the
prescnbed summary forms information on imports needed for preparing withdrawal applications. These
importers would be allowed to retain all supporting documents in their files provided they agree to
maintain them for one year after their audits, allow access to the Bank staff to review them and to
auditors to audit them. This arrangement has worked satisfactorily under the Czechoslovak SAL. The
closing date for this loan is December 31, 1995.
D. Accounts
124.         A Special Account will be established for the loan which will have an autorized
allocation of $8 million. The National Bank would keep the accounts on the operations under this loan,
to comprise (I) a record of drawings on the loan; and (ii) a record of transactions on the special account
and copies of the statements of these accounts. These records would be updated monthly, and quarterly
statements of transactions and balances, together with the necessary recommendations for disbursements
ainformation on claims in process, would be forwarded to the Bank.
E. Audit
125.         The National Bank would maintain records of all transactions under the loan in
accordance with sound accounting practices. The National Bank would also ensure     the importers
maintain properly the supporting documents, on the basis of which statements of expenditure would be
prepared. All accounts would be audited within six months of the end of the fiscal year by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. The accounts and. auditors report would be submitted to the Bank within
six months of the end of the fiscal year.
F. Monitoring Armngements
126.         The Ministry of Finance and the National Bank will be responsible for monitoring
implementation of the program. The Bank will monitor the implementation of the transformation
program with the help of the policy matrix attached to the Letter of Development Policy, through semi-
annual reviews, as well as in the context of preparation and supervision of other projects.



39
G. Tranche Release Conditions
127.         The loan would be disbursed in one tranche after compliance with conditions described
in the text and the attached policy matrix. Longer term policy commitments appear in the Letter of
Development Policy, but are not formal tranche release conditions.
a Environmental Assessment Requirements
128.         In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD.
4.00, Annex A), the proposed operation has been placed in Category "U" and does not require an
enviromnental assessment. This operation supports the use of environmental audits and government
responsibility for environmental liabilities of enterprises prior to privatization.
I. Benefits and Risks
129.         This loan would support the key structural reforms to put the Slovak economy on a path
of recovery. Without these reforms, there is a high probability that output will continue to decline or
stnate in the medium-term. The policies supported by this loan are expeed to have a sufficiently large
positive impact on growth to justify taking the risks associated with a more aggressive reform effort The
benefits will be in the form of higher growth, greater competitiveness and improved living standards in
the medium term.
130.         The risks are both domestic and international. Implementation capacity is limited in some
areas and the reform program will have to be adapted to locally available skills and ongoing technical
assistance. The domestic consensus for reform may weaken as Slovakia enters its fourti year of falling
outut. The trade unions have taken a very constructive role in the transition thus far. However,
massive lay-offs from restructured state-owned enterprises may result in growing dissatisfaction with the
reform program. Maintaing domestic political stability will also be crucial for promoting private
investment, both domestic and foreign. This is why close monitoring of the social safety net's
effectiveness, which is necessary to maintain the consensus for refrmn, is such a crucial element of the
loan.
131.         The external risks are also numerous. The recovery and accessibility of OECD markets
will be critical for an open economy like Slovakia. Slovakia's industries tend to be in precisely those
sectors where there is substantial overcapacity in other countries (such as steel, chemicals, aluminum and
armaments). Further progress on market access for Slovak exports will be important for reducing the
adjustment costs of restructuring. Moreover, balance of payments support from other donors may not
be forthcoming but ongoing efforts have been made to secure commitments. The Slovak Government
has little direct influence over these external factors, but a credible reform program and effecive
diplomatic efforts can reduce the risks.



40
V. Recommendation
132.         1 am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
Bank and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Atachments
Washington DC
November 5, 1993



41
ANNEX A
LETrER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY



42
ANNEX A
MINISTER OF PINCE                             Page 1 of 13
OP THE SLOVAK REPUBLIC
Jllus T 6 t h                    November 3, 1993
lr. Lewis Preston
Prosident
International Bank for
Rooons.Aruction and Development
1818 H Street, NV
Uashington. DC 20433
Dear Hr. Preston.
The Attached Letter of Development Policy outlines the
Government of Slovakia's economic reform program. The Slovak
economy has experienced a number of economic shocks in recent
years. The Government of Slovakia has Tsken numerous actions
- to adjust to these shocks. The attached letter describes the
approach  we are  taking  to  restoring  growth in the Slovak
economy. the specific actions we have recently adopted as wall
as the longer term measures we are planning.
Based  on  the  policies and actions  described  in The
atzached lettor and accompanying matrix to this loan, we
request the Vorld Bank's support to our reform prograx through
an  Economic Recovery  Loan in  the amount of USS80 million.
Given the complexity of the transition to a market economy. it
is inevitable That there will be some uncertainty associated
with  zhe implementation  of this program. Ve Will work very
closely  with  the  Vorld  Bank  to  make adjustments where
appropriate.
le  understand that this loan   is a part of a broader
program  that is  given  to  the  Slovak  Republic  f or the
structural adjustment program.
Yours sincerely,



43
AwNNEX A
Page 2 of 13
LETMR OF DEVELOPMNT POLICY
The Slovak Government is committed to a rapid transition to a market economy. Since the Velvet
Revolution in 1989, Slovakia has made enormous strides in this direction. The price and trade regimes
have been liberalized, inflation has remained under control, taxation has been reformed in line with
European norms, nearly all small-scale enterprises have been auctioned to the public, about half of all
medium and large scale enterpris6s have been privatized, the banking system has shifted to a more
commercial basis, and a social safety net has been established to protect the poor. While these measures
have improved the competitiveness of the Slovak economy - the private sector is growing rapidly and
Slovak exports have successfully penetrated OECD markets - the costs have also been substantial.
Output has falen by some 20% in the past two years and is expected to decline a further 8-9% in 1993.
Unemployment is high at about 13% and expected to rise firther.
the central objective of the Government's reform prog,m is the restoration of growth. The
collapse in output reflects the massive shocks experienced by ti economy - the collapse of the CMEA
in 1990 and the break-up of the Czechoslovak Federation in X 92. Since Slovakia's independence on
January 1, 1993, the Government has tried to maintain macroeconomic stability tirough an austerity
budget, prudent monetary policy, and a devaluation of the currency. These measures were supported by
the IMF's Systemic Transformation Facility. However, we do not want to lose momentum on structura
refoms. The reform program described below outlines the immediate measures for which we are
requesting World Bank support as well as the longer term policy objectives of this Government.
Bacdground
The collapse of the CMEA was a major shock for Slovakia, which has always been highly trade-
dependent, particularly on markets to the east. Slovakia traditionally produced semi-finished goods, based
on imported inputs from the former Soviet Union, which were often processed into final goods in the
Czech Republic and resold in the CMEA. Thus, the loss of external markets, combined with a collapse
of domestic demand, was the primary cause of the output decline from 1990-92. However, unlike most
economies of Eastern Europe, Slovakia experienced a fiurher shock at the end of 1992 with the
dissolution of the Czechoslovak Federation. TMe fiscal transfers that Slovakia received under the
Federation were lost as was easy access to the Czech market when a border and separte currencies were
introduced. In addition, much of the admisrative capacity of the Federal Govermnent had to be
established in the Slovak Republic.
The break-up of the Federation was peaceful and accompanied by a series of negotiated
agreements on a monetary and customs union, the division of publicly-owned assets and liabilities and
on the treatment of int rnation;l and domestic obligations. The division of Federal property was based
on two broad principles: (1) territoriality and (2) the ratio of population in each Republic. The monetary
union was short-lived. Both the Czech and Slovak Republics experienced a large loss of foreign exchange
reserves in late 1992 and January 1993, leading to the decision to dissolve the moneta  union on
February 8, 1993. Because of the extensive trade links across Republics, agreement on a customs union
that would ensure the free movement of goods, services, capital and labor was a high priority. After the



44
AN=E 
Page 3 of 13
dissolution of the monary union, it became necessary to establish a clearing arrangement for inter-
Republic trade flows. Eventually, Czech and Slovak trade will occur on a convertble currency basis.
We have recently begun to introduce the new Slovak currency.
Macroeconondc Framework
Progress on Stablilzation
Since Independence, we have attempted to adhere to our tradition of prudent macroeconomic
policy. The Government tried to submit a balanced 1993 budget to Parliament, but revenue shortfalls
mid-year resulted in a deficit. Nonetheless, the 1993 budget reflected a major adjustment from the
underlying deficit in 1992 of 14% of GDP.7 This adjustment was based on cuts in almost aWI expenditure
categories, particularly transfers to households, other current expenditures and investment. In addition,
the Government decided to proceed with implementation of a major reform of the tax system in 1993,
which greaty increased uncertait about revenue projections. The tax reform replaced the numerous
turnover taxes with a value added tax, and introduced personal income and corporate profit taxes. The
payroll tax was replaced by contributions from employees and employers to four social funds - pensions,
health insurance, sickness and employment.
Adminisrative difficulties associated with the new tax system did contribute to the shortfall in
revenues in the early part of 1993, but the primary problem was the contraction of the tax base. The
Govenment moved quicldy to identify further fiscal measures (equivalent to 2.5% of GDP for the second
half of 1993, or 5% on an annual basis) that will contin the deficit to 7% of GDP. These included an
adjustment of VAT rates (ftom 5% and 23% to 6% and 25%, respectively), a 6% increase in excises,
a 25% increase in property taxes, and changes in social security legislation that will generate a 1% gain
in revenues. Further expenditure cuts - consisting of better targedng of social expenditures and
reductions in investment and subsidies - are expected to generate savings equivalent to 1.5% of GDP.
The size of the external adjustment required in 1993 was highly uncertain because of poor data
on inter-Republic commerce, which consues abouthalf of Slovalia's external trade. Slovakia has been
able to preserve current account convertibility, despite the disruptions associated with the split of the
Federation and the substanta capital flight in late 1992 and early 1993 as citizens anticipated a
devaluation of the future Slovak crown. The National Bank of Slovakia's (NBS) reserves fell to very low
levels. Our initial response was to introduce some exchangb controls (i.e., import financing
requirements), restrict commercial banks' access to NBS's foreign exchange and to attempt to sell state
enterprises to foreign investors. These measures, combined with a small surplus on the trade account,
did contribute to an improvement in NBS's reserve position. In order to further strengthen Slovakia's
external position, the National Bank of Slovakia devalued by 10% on July 12, 1993.
Enterprises have made significant adjustments to the loss of old export markets. The former
CMEA's share of Slovak exports has fallen from 60% in 1989 to 30% in 1992 (excluding the Czech
Republic). The former Soviet Union has diminished in importance as a major trading partner and has
2/    Ths undedying deficit of 14% is based on estimates by the IMP of the actual Slovak Republic deficit
plus the deficit in the Fedemi budget attributable to Slovakia.



45
Page 4 of 13
been increasingly replaced by the OECD, which now accounts for about onehalf of Slovak exports
(excluding the Czech Republic). lTis is clearly a favorable development, although we continue to be
concerned about access to Increasingly protectionist markets, particularly in Europe.
The Government negotiated an agreement with the IMF to facilitate the Slovak economy's
adjustment to the fiscal and external imbalance that resulted from the break-up of the Federation. The
agreement for a purchase of SDR 64.35 million under the Systemic Transformation Facility (STF) was
approved by the IMF's Board of Directors on July 26, 1993. We intend to have an agreement on a
stand-by arrangement before expiration of the STF at the end of January 1994. This is likely to include
fiter fiscal adjustnent, continued monitoring of external account developments, the removal of
temporary exchange controls, and continued progress on structural reforms. Our program of structural
reforms will consolidate the gains achieved by the stabilization program and contribute to a reversal of
the decline in Slovakia's output. Although we expect a further fall in GDP in 1994 (of about -3%), we
expect the efficiency gains from restructuring to result in the restoration of growth thereafter.
Supportive Fiscal Policy
We understand that fiscal retrenchment will be crucial for macroeconomic stability as well as for
recovery of the real sector. However, restructring Is likely to increase the fiscal burden in the near
term. The fiscal implications of restructuring fall into three broad categories - greater demands on the
social safety net, costs associated with the restructuring of the financial sector, and the closure costs of
insolvent sate-owned enterprises. SuccessfWl restructuring will not only lead to economic recovery, but
will also allow us in the future to lower effective corporate tax rates to enhance profitability and
encourage investment, and In the longer term, reduce payroll taxes so that there are greater incentives
to create private sector jobs. While fiscal stringency precludes lowering tax rates in the near term, we
will review the scope for a tax reform that relies on lower rates and a broader base in the longer run.
This will also reduce the overall size of the public sector.
On the expenditure side, the objectve will be to change the composition of spending to facilitate
restructuring. In the 1994 budget, we will try to provide a social safety net that gives protection from
poverty while reducing untargeted benefit programs, firther reduce subsidies, and increase the efficiency
of investment. In addition to reducing the size of the deficit, these measures will encourage and facilitate
economic restructuring.
Public investment has been sharply reduced in recent years as the state's role in the economy has
been curtailed and as required by fiscal stringency. This makes it all the more important that the return
to public investment be as high as possible. In order to achieve this, we will embark on a program to
improve the effectiveness of public investment. This will include training ministerial staff in the
appropriate procedures required for such evaluations.
We intend to reduce subsidies in the 1994 budget in nominal terms. Agriculture, which received
almost half of all direct subsidies in 1993, will be the primary source of savings although consideration
will be given to the need to adopt special measures to deal with the drought that has affected agriculture
in 1993. In addition to limiting the growth of agricultural subsidy expenditures, the Government will take
measures to increase their efficiency. First, we will prepare and adopt within two years a plan to
transform the existing subsidy program to compensae poorer farming conditions in marginal areas (per



47
ANl         A
Page 6 of 13
financing the budget deficit. We will hire experts to assist with Treasury bills management, open market
operations and repurchasing agreements with banks.
To make banking regulation and supervision an effective instrument for enhancing the corporate
governance of banks and to limit depositors' risk, we will take certain additional measures. With respect
to regulation, the current recommended loan loss provision guidelines shall be made mandatory. This
should ensure that banks make adequate provisions on bad loans and that private banks' capital becomes
an effective instrument to encourage prudent lending. Regarding supervision, there is a need to assist
our bank supervisory staff to be able to effectively respond to the requirements posed by the rapidly
Increasing number of private banks. We will therefore recruit experienced foreign bank supervisors to
work in a line capacity in the NBS's Bank Suparvision Department (BSD) to monitor the banks and train
local supervisory staff. In addition, as a transitional measure until the BSD's supervisory capacity is
strengthened, we will require the banks to have external audits undertaken according to imiernational
standards, and to have their quarterly off-site reports to the BSD cleared by the external auditors.
Finally, portfolio reviews of the banks will be undertaken in order to clarify their financial condition.
We will also take actions at the bank-specific level. To strengthen the financial condition of VUB
and to limit futher portfolio deterioration, the capital of the bank will be increased by attracting new
investments from strategic private Investors. We will commit to the development of a plan that will
enable VUB to meet existing capital adequacy requirements and also eventually complete the privatization
of the bank by eventually selling the shares of the National Property Fund (NPF). With regard to
Investiana Banka (IRB), we will require it to comply with the capital adequacy regulations over the next
three to fbur years. In this context, the bank's management is negotiating with NPF and other
Government agencies on possible workouts for the inherited bad loans. As necessary, we are prepared
to take fiurher measures to enable the bank to comply with prudential regulations.
With regard to the Slovak Savings Bank (SSB), we are concemed that its efforts to become a
universal bank could jeopardize its deposit base. SSB holds 90% of household deposits in Slovakia, and
its staff has litte experience in commercial lending practices. Moreover, the implicit full deposit
insurance on SSB deposits implies that SSB's management has little incentive to limit the riskiness of its
loans. Therefore, we will undertake measures to curb SSB's activities by allowing no increase in its
lending until over 51% of SSB's shares are in private hands (excluding NPF and the municipalities).
Otherwise, SSB will be permitted to place deposits on the interbank market, hold Treasury bills or deposit
funds at the NBS. This ceiling on SSB lending is a temporary measure to prevent further portfolio
deterioration and to facilitate eventual privatization of this bank. The NBS, the Ministry of Finance, the
Slovak Savings Bank and outside advisors are also preparing a policy on deposit insurance.
Consistent with the objective of moving towards a private banking system, we will maintain
Konsolidakna Banka as an institution specialized in collecting bad loans, and will ban it from deposit-
taking activities and engaging in any other commercial banking activities. In addition, no new state-
owned banks will be established. Finally, we will ensure that, pending the sale of NPF shares in the
banks to the private sector, NPF will not use its shares to influence the lending decisions of the banks.



48
ANNEX A
Page 7 of 13
Privatization
Compared to most transition economies, Slovakia is well-advanced In prlvatizing state-owned
enterprises. Small-scale privatization is almost complete, and about half of all medium - and large-scale
enterprises have been partially or completely privatized, primarily through the coupon method. We
believe that rapid privatization Is essential for economic reform and intend to maintain the rapid pace of
privatization using all methods of privatization. We will rely more on standard methods of privatization
(such as auctions, tenders, direct sale, public offerings on the stock market, management buyouts, and
liquidation) unless this will slow the pace of privatization.
Our primary objective in privatization is to transfer state-owned enterprises to new owners that
will improve the supervision and governance of these enterprises to increase their efficiency and
profitability. Standard methods of privatization may be able to transfer ownership to both domestic and
foreign Investors who will be the most capable of supervising and governing enterprises. If it appears,
however, that these methods of privatization will take a long time to implement then we will make greater
use of the coupon method of privatization.
Specifically, our policy is to privatize, by rne end of 1994, one-third of all enterprises (measured
by the book value of their assets as of January 1, 1993) still in majority state ownership using all methods
of privatization. In determining this, an enterprise wbich is a joint-tock company is considered
privatized when at least 51% of the shares are privately owned, excluding any shares set aside for
restitution. Enterprises that were included in the first wave of privatization but did not meet the 51%
standard may be included along with other enterprises still entirely owned by the state in achieving this
level of privatization. If it appears by September 1994 that the privatization of one-third of all state
enterprises by the end of 1994 through standard methods will not be achieved, we will increase the
number of state enterprises tD be privatized using the coupon method to meet our target for 1994. We
will initiate a second wave of coupon privatization by October 1994, by which time we will distribute
coupons and amounce the companies to be included in the coupon privatization.
We recognize that achieving this pace of privatization will require more streamlined and
accelerated procedures. We will simplify procedures so that investors (including foreign investors)
interested in buying an enterprise can obtain approvals from a single agency (sometimes referred to as
"one stop" shopping). Therefore, we have prepared a plan for implementing our privatization program,
including changes in organization, procedures, budget, staffing, and use of external assistance by respon-
sible agencies and ministries, so that we can achieve the announced level of privatization by the end of
1994.
Rapid privatization using standard methods means that the government will have to be more
flexible in setting an acceptable sales price or other terms and conditions of the sale. The true measure
of the value of state assets today is what buyers are willing to pay rather than the original cost or the
book value of these assets or other measures of value. The major changes in the structure of the Slovak
economy and in patterns of trade between countries in the region have caused large changes in the value
of state assets which must be recognized in the privatization process. In general, immediate revenue to
the government is less important than the promotion of a competitive markat economy through rapi
privatization and improved governance.



49
ANNE A
Page 8 of 13
We also believe that liquidation of state enterprises is necessary in many cases where enterprises
have no economic future. The liquidation and sale of the assets of these enterprises and their liberation
for use elsewhere in the economy can be a relatively simple and fast method of transferring assets to the
private sector where they can be better used for productive purposes.
Though we favor obtaining new owners for state enterprises using standard methods of
privatization, in many cases the best owners for enterprises are likely to be the investment funds created
during coupon privatization. Such funds can play an important role in monitoring and supervising the
economic performance of newly-privatized enterprises, and the Government will encourage them in this
important task. In particular, funds can perform this role only if they can freely buy and sell shares
amongst themselves and with other investors, are permitted to own a controlling block of shares in
enterprises, are free of unnecessary government controls and are subject only to the regulations required
for investor protwion. We recognize that in countries with developed market economies, large
institutional investors such as mutual funds, pension funds, and investment funds play an important role
in the supervision and governance of the enterprises in which they own shares. This is even more
important in Slovakia because of the lack of other possible owners who can supervise and monitor
enterprises. Currently, these funds may have inadequate capability to effectively monitor and supervise
enterprises but have strong incentives to increase this capability in order to increase the value of the
shares that they own.
One weakness of the first wave of couipon privatization, however, was the inadequate framework
for regulation of the newly created investment funds. Thus we intend to regulate these investment fimds
to assure that the many small Slovak shareholders in these funds are protected and that the funds do not
act in anti-competitive ways. We agree that the best regulatory approach is disclosure of information
about the operations of the funds, both to their shareholders and to the anti-monopoly agency of the
governmuent, rather than direct government controls or limits on their investment activities or their
portfolio. We will ensure that the appropriate regulatory framework, with a special emphasis on
informing market participants, is put in place. With regard to the protection of fund shareholders, we
intend to pass legislation that will require funds to disclose such important information as their investment
strategy, the composition and value of their portfolio of shares, and the fees paid to investment advisors
and managers of the funds. In this way, shareholders can make informed choices about in which funids
they prefer to invest. If necessary, the shareholders may replace the managers of the fund at the anmn
meeting if a majority of shareholders find the management of the fund unsatisfactory.
With regard to the potential for anti-competitive activities on the part of funds, a fund or group
of related funds may become a controlling owner in more than one company producing the same product
and thus restrict competition. To address this problem, we intend to enact legislation that would require
a fund (or group of related funds) that becomes a controlling owner of two or more enterprises that have
more than 20% of a product market (ncluding imports of the product) to report this control to the Anti-
Monopoly Agency in Slovakia. The Agency would then have 30 days to dermine whether this control
is anti-competitive. In addition, funds should report all large purchases and sales of shares to the Agency
so that the Agency can monitor significant changes in ownership; however, advance approval of these
=tansactions by the Agency is not required before they can become effective.
Investors are often very concerned about exisfing environmental damage that they may be required
to clean up If they purchase a state enterprise. This is likely to hinder our effort to make greater use of
standard methods of privatization. Slovakia has decided that the Government should take responsibility



50
ANNEX A
Page 9 of 13
for any past environmental damage caused by state enterprises. As part of the Government taking this
responsibility, we will carry out environmental audits of enterprises before privatization to clarify the
timing of the damage and the standards for environmental protection and the necessary clean up costs.
We intend to progress with housing privatization as quickly as possible. This will improve labor
mobility and the maintenance and utilization of the housing stock. Legislation was passed in Parliai *:4
in July 1993 to privatize communal housing. After privatization, the efficient utilization of the housL
stock and labor mobility requires that new owners be allowed to freely buy and sell housing units and
rent them to tenants without burdensome government regulations and controls.
Private Sector Development
Slovakia is committed to establishing a market economy through the development of a vigorous
and dynamic private sector. Toward this end, we have established, with our own funds and with the assis-
tance of various inernational donors, the National Agency for the Development of Small- and Medium-
scale Enterprises. We are committed to expanding the level and type of assistance that will be made
through this Agency with other donor assistance programs to increase the establishment available and
growth of privately-owned businesses. It is our intent to provide entrepreneurial training through the
Agency in three key areas: (i) business management and fnance; (ii) commercial law and trade
transactions; and (iii) product identification and marketing.
We recognize that doing business in Slovakia is often more complicated than necessary, and we
place a high priority on improving the environment for private sector development. These obstacles
constrain both domestic investors and, particularly potential foreign investors who often lack knowledge
of the local situation. We have identified certain constraints to the development of the private sector,
which we are taking steps to remove. Immediately after the establishment of Slovakia as a sovereign
nation, many difficulties were encountered specifically related to the establishment of the new commercial
courts system and the requirement that businesses receive new trade licenses issued by the Slovak
Republic. Obtaining trade licenses and registration of businesses with the newly established commercial
courts was cumbersome and time-consuming. We also recognize that a backlog of commercial contact
disputes and debt-collection matters quickly built up in the change-over to the new system.
We recognize that as the process of privatization continues, Slovakia will need to examine its
regulatory regime to identify constraints to private sector development. To this end, we have
commissioned a study to identify specific constraints and to propose alternatives that meet both the
government's regulatory responsibilities and the need to encourage private investment. Slovakia is
committed to implementing the recommendations of the action plan In 1994. As part of this action plan,
we will: a) analyze the problems contributing to the backlog of applications for new enterprise
registration and commercial contractual disputes pending in the newly-established commercial courts and
consider measures to mitigate the backlog; b) simplify the system for registering nevw enterprises; and c)
establish a simple, binding, non-judicial process (arbitration) for the resolution of commercial contractual
disputes and debt collection.
As part of that plan, we have drafted an amendment to the Civil Code, which will both clarify
requirements for registration of businesses as well as simplify the procedures for registering. The draft
amendment will be submitted to the Council of Ministers, submitted to the Parliament for approval, and



51
ANNEX A
Page 10 of 13
is expected to take effect on January 1, 1994. A separate law establishing a binding, non-judicial process
for resolution of commercial contractual disputes and resolution of debt-collection problems through
arbitration has been drafted and will be presented to the Council of Ministers by November 1993. It will
be presented to the Parliament for approval in December 1993 and is expected to take effect on January
1, 1994. In addition, we have established pilot, computer-assisted judicial administration programs and
will be expanding this key aspect of judicial support for effective contractual dispute-resolution through
the court system.
Three areas of regulation have already been Identified to support private sector development.
First, it is the policy of Slovakia to promote fair competition within our newly-emerging markets. To this
end, we have established and staffed an Anti-Monopoly Agency, protection against unfair competition
is provided in the constitution, and we are in the process of adopting fair competition legislation. It is
anticipated that such legislation will be submitted to Parliament in December :993, to take effect on
Jamnary 1, 1994. Second, Slovakia has established several competitive securities markets. We will
establish prudential regulation of . ar capital markets by a securities commission. Regulation will be based
on a policy of free-market trading of shares without legislated restrictions, accompanied by disclosure of
appropriate information by enterprises and investment funds to shareholders and potential investors.
Tlird, we will improve the means by which real property, enterprise shares, and movables (such as
equipment) can be used as collateral for lending to private sector companies.
Slovakia wishes to encourage foreign investment in Slovak enterprises. To promote such
investment, we will strengthen the capacity of the Slovak National Agency for Foreign Investment. In
addition, we will publish and distribute widely a handbook on the requiroments and procedures for obtain-
Ing trade licenses and registering businesses In Slovakia in Slovak, and two other widely-used commercial
languages.
Enterprise Restructuring
The Government is committed to facilitate speedy restructuring of the enterprise sector, in
particular in industry. Following the collapse of the CMEA, a significant proportion of the Slovak
industrial sector is no longer competitive. Some industrial enterprises need to be liquidated, while others
will have to undergo substantial restructuring and downsizing. In particular, we expect significant
downsizing of the industrial sector, concentrated especially in heavy industries, polluting industries and
industries which are inefficient energy consumers.
With respect to liquidation of non-viable enterprises, the Government has initiated or completed,
under the law on state-owned enterprises, liquidation of about 100 enterprises. We recognize that speedy
liquidation is essential to reduce the cost to the economy of supporting non-viable enterprises and to
promote growth. We believe that the process of liquidation of the non-viable enterprises or specific units
in enterprises can be accelerated. Therefore, we have identified the measures needed to streamline
existing liquidation procedures which we will implement before the end of this year.
We have identified the 20 state-owned enterprises with the lacgest amount of non-performing
loans from the banking system. We intend to initiate and complete, by April 1, 1994, detailed diagnostic
studies of these twenty enterprises including recommendations and plans to restucture or liquidate them
with ultimate objective of privatization. Implementation of these plans will begin shortly thereafter. The



52
ANNEX A
Page 11 of 13
bulk of the restructuring measures, in particular, physical Investments, will be undertaken by the new
owner after the enterprises will have been privatized. Tne Government will only be involved in
organizational and financial restncturing.
In the industrial sector, we bave initiated sectoral restructuring and privatization studies of the
textile and armaments industries. We intend to carry out two additional studies of key industrial sectors.
These studies will, inter alia, identify enterprises which are most likely to be of interest to foreign
investors and will be the focus of special ,'romotion efforts to find such investors. The sector studies will
also identify enterprises which have no prospects of viability and which will undergo speedy liquidation.
Enterprise creditors, and in particular banks, are expected to play an important role in
restrucuring of enterprises with prospects of viabiity. Therefore the Government will encourage market-
based workouts that emerge from negotiations between enterprises and their creditors. During the first
half of 1994, we intend to submit to the Parliament the legislation that permits accelerated out-of-court
procedures for financial reorganization and liquidation. This should be accompanied by mechanisms to
strengthen and simplify existing debt collection at-d enforcement procedures.
Transparency of NPFs financial situation Is of critical importance to us. The NPF has a large
portfolio of investments in enterprises, many of which need significant restructuring, and is also the
recipient of significant revenues from the privatization process. herefore, the Government will appoint
an independent accounting firm to initiate a study by January 1, 1994 to carry out and complete by April
1, 1994, an audit of NPF, following interatonal accounting standards. The use of NPF's financial
resource, which are one-off revenues, will be restricted to the one-off expendiures associated with
resteucturing. Legitimate uses of NPF revenues include: the direct costs of the privatization process,
the initial restructuing costs of viable entrpris (only organizational and financial restrucuring, not new
physical investment) and liquidation costs of non-viable enterprises (severance payments of employees,
closing costs of installations, and environmental clean-up costs of industrial sites). Operating or
investment subsidies to enterprises or guarantees will not be funded by NPF resources.
We recognize that restructuring and exercising effective governance is facilitated when state-
owned enterprises have been converted into joint stoek or limited liability companies (commercialization),
and are supervised by Boards comprised of individuals appointed for their experience and professional
skills. Therefore, we intend to commercialize state-owned enterprises at an accelerated pace. At least
10% of remaining st-owned enterprises have been converted Into joint stock companies and we are
committed to transfonning 25% of those remaining by April 1994. Ultimately, we intend to
commercialize all remaining viable or potentially viable state-owned enterprises by the end of 1994.
Eneg Efficie
The energy sector in Slovakia has a particularly importat role, given Slovaiia's strategic
location, the fiscal implications and the need for greater energy efficiency as part of economic
restructuring. There are three major reform issues - corporatizaton, pricing and regulation. The
Government intends to gradually eliminate subsidies to gas, heat and electricity and will prepare a plan
for future price increases. We bave already made substantial progress in liberalizing prices for industrial
consumers. As a fiuther step, we will raise prices of gas, heat and electricity for household consumers
by a minimum of 25%. We will also prepare a plan for raising energy prices to full economic cost



53
ANNEX A
Page 12 of 13
recovery. Restructuing of the energy sector will proceed with technical assistance which we have
secured. A new regulatory law encompassing the gas, electricity, telecommunications and water sectors
has been prepared and will be submitted to Parliament by the end of 1993. Within the corporatization
program outlined above, we intend to transform SEP (the state energy company), and SPP (the stae gas
company) into a joint stock company by the end of 1993. These reforms are expected to contribute to
a more efficient energy sector in the future.
labor Markets
The restruturing of enterprises will necessitate a major reorientation of labor to productive
employment in new jobs. This reorientation of labor often involves changes in occupation, skill
requirements of jobs, and the location of work. It also often involves temporary unemployment. We
expect- that higher job mobility and the need for improving of skllls will be permanent features of the
labor market as our economy evolves in response to changing technology and changing opporatnities.
We also expect that frictional unemployment will also continue to exist, although at levels lower than we
are currently experiencing under the transition.
Over the past three years, we have developed an array of programs and a nationwide delivery
system to alleviate the effects of unemployment and to facilitate the movement of labor to more
productive jobs. These programs are of two types: (a) passive programs, consisting largely of job
placement services and unemployment benefits, and (b) active programs, consisting of requalification
trainig, support for self-employment creation, and other measures. These programs have proven
effective in aiding job mobility and replacing income lost through unemployment. They do so at a
relatively modest cost: amounting to about Sk 1,300 per month for each unemployed worker. To further
reduce the budgetary cost of these programs, we have taken several measures recenly to tighten eligibility
criteria for unemployment benefits, to reduce the level of benefits to a minimum level consistent with
essential consumption needs, and to provide unemployment benefits under Insurance financing.
Under the Economic Recovery Loan, we shall undertake a number of additional measures to
support improved labor mobility and to ensure adequate coverage of the subsistence needs of the
unemployed. Requalification training will be expanded at the expense of wage subsidy programs to
ensure that the unemployed find jobs that are sustainable. We will also provide budget financing of
unemployment benefits as a supplement to insurance financing to ensure full availability of these
entitlements. In addition, rapid progress on housing privatization and measures described above to
encourage the private sector should facilitate labor mobility and job creation.
Social Safety Net
At the start of our transition to a market economy, we faced a difficult set of choices involving
the role and structure of social safety net programs. Like other countries in the region, we had inherited
a complex and costly set of publicly funded entitlement programs which played a central role in meeting
our citizens' needs for health services, childbearing necessities, and replacement of lost wage income due
to sickness, disability, maternity leave, and retirement. These benefits were provided as universal
entitlements, based only upon individual needs and not related to individual initiative. Moreover, our



54
ANNEX A
Page 13 of 13
health care system used resources inefficiently because it lacked internal incentives for effective delivery
of health care.
A fundamental goal of our reform Is for individuals to assume greater responsibility for meeting
household welfare needs through their own initiative, and no longer to rely upon the state as the provider
of these needs. We are committed to reform of social safety net programs so as to achieve these
objectves. As wage Income progressively supplants transfer income from benefit programs, we expect
that a mber of existing programs will eventually be phased out, combined, or streamlined. But for the
praent, we need to wo;k within the constraint of existing benefit programs.
We have started the reform of our socW safety net programs by regrouping the inherited benefit
programs and moving towards self-financed insurance for the principal programs: pensions, health
services, unemployment and sickness benefit. Beneficiary conributions for these four new insurance
progams have been collected since Jamnary 1993, although these revenues are currendy passing through
the state budget. The insurance programs for pensions and sickness benefits are to be implemented on
a fully self-financing basis beginning In January 1994. Unemployment insurance is to go into operion
at the same time, although it may require some supplementary resources from the state budget on a
temporary basis during transitional high unemployment. Health insurance is to be Implemeted when
satisfactory oost-control measures are in place.
We have also taken actions to tighten eligibility conditions and to reduce benefits in a number of
programs. These changes are expected to yield significant cost savings. During the coming months, we
shall supplement these actions with further measures designed to reduce costs, improve work incentives,
and improve the targeting and efficiency of benefit programs. These include implementing a progressive
increase in pension ages for men and women, lowering the income ceiling for receiving child benefits,
and reducing the level of sickness benefits during the first three days of sickness.
We recognize that reforms to the safety net must be monitored closely to protect the poor and that
we must establish the analytical capacity for ongoing assessment and reform of social programs. To this
end, we have established a unit that is responsible for monitoring and evaluating social safety net
programs, and for developing a phased program of furher reforms designed to reduce costs, improve
work incentives, and improve the targeting and efficiency of these programs. Ibis Socia Reform
Advisory Council reports to the Economic Council, and includes represenation of the Ministry of Labor,
Social Affairs and Family, the Minstry of Health, the National lnsurance Company, beneficiary groups,
and independent experts.
This Letter of Development Policy outlines Slovakia's program for economic recovery. We
recognize that the agenda outlined in this letter and in the policy matrix to this loan is ambitious. But
the Slovak Republic has already accomplished a great deal in its first year of independence. Slovakda also
has a skilled labor force, a strong manufauring tradition and close proximity to European markets.
Medium-term economic prospects are favorable, but the transitional costs associated with our reform
program necessitate external support to insure their success. Based on the policies and actions described
in this letter, I hereby request on behalf of the Government of the Slovak Republic a loan in an amount
equivalent to US$80 million that would support our efforts to carry out this program.



55
ANNEX B
POICY MATRIX



56
ANNEX B
Page 1 of 6
SLOVAKIA: Policy Matrix
Obiedvo                                                              Measure
Change in composition of spending to facilitate  * There has been a sizable reduction in nomina subsidies in the
restrturing                                  1994 budget submitted to the Parliant in October 1993,
consstot with IMF targets.
0 Total agricultural subsidies in the 1994 budget have been
reduced in nominal terms, including the budgetary contdbution to
the State Fund for Market Regulaton and to the Support Fund.
Measures to improve the efficiency of agricultual subsidies
(described in the Letter of Development Policy) will be
implemented.
* The Goverment has provided funding in the FY94 Budget to
ensure the proper financing of the core social safety neL This
implies full budgetary funding for social assistance (between Sk 3-
5 billion in 1994) and for any unemployment benefits that exceed
revenues of the employment insurance fund.
vmroving moetary management                  * Credit auctions and open mkt operations will become the
main instruments for m_naging liquidity in the banking system.
As of Novenber 1. 1993, a mn_inum of 70% of credit to
commercial banks will go through auctions. The interest rate
chaged for Lombard credits and for rediscounts will be linked to
the auction interest rate. Only banks judged to be in good standing
by the NBS supervision department will be allowed to participate
in the credit auctions.
* As of November 1, 1993, the Govemment wil remove the
ceiling on Treasury bil interest rates and wiUl ensure that makt
forces determine interest rates in the Treasuty bill auction& NBS
purchases of Treuy bills in the auctions will be severely
restricted, and NBS will pay the average auction price for the
securities. The majority of Govemment securities will be sold
outside the NBS.



57
ANNEX IB
Page 2 of 6
Strengthening the financial system           * NBS has informed commercial banks that it wiU require amnual
audits by external auditors whose selection and terms of reference
must be cleared by NBS.
* NBS has informed commercial boabs that it will require that
standard quarterly rports to the supervision department are
cleared by extemal auditors to the commercial bank in good
standing with NBS.
* NBS has agreed to contract special studies, including portfolio
reviews, to determime the state of the banking system, examine
options for further strengthening of banks, and develop an effective
strategy for bank supervsion.
* NBS has agreed to prepare a plan of action to stregien
banking supervision In the context of this plan, N1BS will hire the
required number of experienced bankdng supetvisors to augment
existing local capacity.
e The NPF has agreed to hire consultants to prepare a plan to
complebt the privatization of VUB by selling al the shares of NPF
to the pnvate sector and to strength  the financial condition of
VUB by offering additional dwes to pnvate strategic invesrs; if
necessy, a financial reorgization may have to be implemented.
e Ito Government has prepared a plan to increase IRB's capital
base from private sources over the next throe years.
* Until at least 51 % of the Slovak Savings Bank's (SSB) shares
axe privatized (excluding NPF and municipalities), there wil be no
increase in SSB's lending activities. All SSB assets in excess of
outsading loans will be deposited in the intrbank market, held as
Treasuy bills, or deposited with the NBS. Inteb   deposits of
SSB will be moitored closely by the upevision department of
NBS to ensure that deposits are, lent to ban  in good standing.
* KON has been restricted fiom deposit taking and new lending
and has committed to a fixed shedle to repay the banks and
NBS.
* Leading institutions established by the Govemment or NPF will
only be alowed to apply for a bank license after private
participation increases to more than 51% of total capital, and a
large, strategic prvate investor is among the institutionses owners.
NPF agrees not to use its shares to influence lending decisions by
banks.



58
ANNEX B
Page 3 of 6
Accelerating pae of privatization           * The Government has published a program to privatize one-third
of all enterprises (including state farms) majority owned by the
state as of January 1, 1993 (based on book value of fixed assets)
by the end of 1994, using all available methods of privatization to
achieve this goal.
* The Government has agreed to organize and prepare a second
wave of voucher privatization, to begin the distribution of coupons
to citizens and to announce the companies to be included in the
coupon scheme by the third quarter of 1994.
* The Ministry of Privadzation has prepaed a preliminary plan to
streamline, simplify, and clarify procedures and decision mkinDg
for pnivatization so as to facilitate and accelerate the pace of
privatization. A detailed plan will be prepared by December 1993
and implementation wil begin by the end of 1993.
e Tne Government bas agreed to develop a regulatory framework
for investment funds that protects the interests of investors and
promotes competitive markets and yet permits the funds to play an
effective role in corporate governance. To this end, the
Goverment (i) will not introduce further restrictions on
investment fimd holdings; (ii) has prepared a draft law on
disclosure by funds to their shareholders and potential investors of
the fund's portfolio of shares including, for exanple, the value of
shares owned in each company, their investment strategies, and
compensation paid to investment advisors and managers; and (iii)
has required funds to notify the Anti-Monopoly Agency if they
obtain a significant ownership interest in enterpdses that compete
with each other.
* The Government has publicly announced Slovakia's policy that
the state will accept responsibility for envionmental iabiities
caused by state enterprises prior to their prfiatiZation.
Environmental audits will be completed prior to privatization to
determine the magnitude of the state's liability.
Promote pnvate sector development           * Drafted an amendment to the Civil Code to simplify the
procedures for processing and shorten the time for registration of
new businesses.
* Drafed a law providing for binding, non-judicial arbitradon of
comnercial disputes and submitted it to the Council of Ministes
for approval.



59
ANNEX B
Page 4 of 6
* The Governnent has agreed to commission a comprehensive
assessment of constraints to, and measures to assist in the
development of the private sector, to be completed by April 1,
1994. Based on this assessment, the Government will prepare an
action plan to remove barriers to private sector development.
* The Government will arrange for publication and distrbution of
a handbook on the procedures and requirements for obtaining
licenses and for registering businesses in Slovak and two other
languages widely-used in commercial transactions.
Facilitate enterprise restructuring          0 Te Government has agreed to cany out two additional studies
of key industrial sectrs in early 1994. These studies will identify
enteprises which are most likely to be of interest to foreign
investors and wiU be the focus of special promotion efforts to find
such investors. They will also identify which enterprises have no
prospects of viability and wiUl undergo speedy liquidation.
* The Government has agreed to complete detailed diagnostic
studies of 20 loss-mnaking enterprises by April 1, 1994, with
recommendations on plans to restructure and/or privatize them.
Implementation of these plans will begin shortly thereafter.
J A mechanism has been established to account for and net out
inter-enterprise arrears as a first step to identifying the net debtors
in the arrears chain.
e The Government has agreed to prepare accelerated out-of-court
procedures for financial reorganization and liquidation of
corporatized enterprises. This wiU be accompanied by
mechanisms to strengthen and simplify existing debt colection and
enforcement procedures.
* The Goverment will arrange for identification of the measures
needed to streamine existing liqwidation procedutes for state-
owned enterprises and wiUl begin to implement these measures
before the end of this year.
* The Govemment has transformed more than 10% of the SOEs
remaining as of 1993. The Government has committed to
converting 25% of SOEs by April 1994. Ultimately, the
Govermment intends to corporatize all remaining viable or
potentially viable state-owned enterprises by end of 1994.
* The Government has instructed the NPF to appoint an
independent accounting firm acceptable to the World Bank to
complete by April 1, 1994, an audit of the National Property Fund
(NPF), following sound acounting practices.



60.
ANNEX B
Page 5 of 6
* The Govemment agrees that the use of NPF's financial
resources, which are mostly one-off revenues, will be restricted to
the on-off expenditures associated with raectuing. The
Government has identified priority uses of NPF revenues as: the
direct costs of the privati2ation process, the initial costs of
restructuring of viable enterpises (only organiational and
financial restucturing), liquidation costs of non-viable enteprises
(severn  payments of employees, closing costs of installations.
and environmental clean-up costs of industrial sites). Operating or
investment subsidies to enterprises or guarantees will not be funded
by NPF resources.
Restucture ener  ntprises                   * The Economic Council has approved an increase in prices for
household consumers of natual gas and electricity by a minimum
of 25 %. The Goverment wil also hire consultants to p   a
phased plan to adjust prices for natural gas, heat and electidcity to
final consumers to reach appoprpate economic cost recovery.
Greater efficiency of social spending       * In the interest of administrative efficiency and contributor
compliance, the Government has agreed to maintain unified
collection of contributions for all four social programs.
* The Goverment agrees to gradually raising, on a phased basis,
tfhe eligibility age for full pensions frotm 60 yeats for men and 57
years for women to 65 years for both men ad women beginning
in 1994. A imetable for the phasing will be agreed with the
World Bank. Benefits for individuals opting for early rtrement
will be actuarally reduced.
* The Government has submitted legislation to Parliament to
better target child benefits. The income ceiling for eligibility has
been gradusted by family size.
* The Govemtent has submitted legislWaon to Padiament that
employee benefits have been reduced fiom 70% to 50% of wages
for the first three days of illness as a first step toward improving
wok incentives and financial viability of the Sicbkess Fund.
* The Government has provided full funding in the FY94 budget
for social assistance (estimated to require from Sk 3 billion to Sk 5
billion) to provide minimum income support for the long-term
unemployed.
* The Govenment has agreed to conduct a study by the end of
1993 to assess monitoring and cost control capacity for individual
facilities and programs throughout the national health care system.
Based on the findings of that study, it will develop and implement
a plan for phased introduction of the fee-for-service compensatio
of health care providers only in those areas which are confinned to



61
AsNNEX ID
Page 6 of 6
bave adequate monitoring meebanisms in place to control health
costs. If National Health Insurance receipts in 1994 were to fall
short of actual 1993 health expenditures in real terms, the shortfall
would be provided by the state budget in order to maintain a
minimally acceptable level of health services. No resources
beyond this amount would be provided under the state budget.
* A Social Reform Advisory Council and a technical secretariat
has been established to monitor and evaluate social benefit
programs, and to develop a strategy for comprehensive reforms
designed to reduce costs, improve work incentives, and improve
the targeting and efficiency of these programs. The work programn
of these units will be developed in consultation with the World
Bank.
Ehancing labor mobility and wo*r incentives  * The Government has agreed that job placement services, which
currently cover only local and regional job opportunities, are to be
provided on a national basis.
_ The Governuent has submitted a 1994 budget with an allocation
of Sk 137 million for requalification training.
* A proposal has been submitted to the Cabinet that incentives for
job creation and small business development under the Ministry of
Labor, Social Affairs and Family's active employment program are
to be provided as loans rather than as grants.



62
ANNEX C
KEY SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC INDICATORS



63
Table 1: Social indicators   1/                                   Amex C
page 1 of 5
1989     M190       1991  - 199
GNP Per Capita - Atlas ltethod                           3130      2860      2200       1930
(in current USS)
Population and vital stattstics
.... ..... ........ ................*
Totat population (in thousands)                          5288      5311      5290       5308
Total population growth (Z)                               0.4       0.4      -0.4        0.3
Life expectancy at birth (in years):
Nole                                                    67        67        67         67
female                                                 73         75        75         75
Population age structure (in S):
0-14                                                    26        25        25         25
15-64                                                  64         65        65         65
65 and above                                            10        10        11         11
Crude birth rate (per thousand)                            15        15         15        14
Crude death rate (per thousand)                            10        10         10        10
Infant mortality rate (per thousand)                       14        12
Food, health, and nutrition
.................. ........................_..
Per capita supply of:
Calories (per day)                                    3234      3333
Proteins (gratm per day)                               104       105
Population per physician                                  282       274       282        286
Labor force 2/
........... ...............
Total labor force (in thousands)                         2498      2478      2281       2160
Female (in percent)                                    46         45        43         43
Agriculture (in percent)                                12        12        11          9
Industry (in percent)                                  44         43        43        43
Education
Enrollment rates (X of school age children):
Priary: Total                                              98        98       100        100
Secondary:  Total                                          96        96        97         96
Cotlees, specialized schools and
universities                                            25        26        27         28
Pupil-teacher ratio:
Primary                                                    25        29        23         22
Secondary                                                  17        16        16         15
Source: Slovak Statistical Office.
Notes:
1/ 1992 data are preliminary.
2/ End of year. Excludes the armed forces and double emploment, includes women on maternity leave.



64
Table 2: Key Macroeconomic Indicators                                   Annex C
pMge 2 of 5
4 -    Actual -....   Est. +----- .             --Projected----------------
1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997   1998
Gross Domestic Product (GOP)       234.2   243.6   291.2   281.5   330.5   359.6   395.5   43S.1   469.9  5S07.5
(in bitlions of current koruny)
Gross Domestic Product (CDP)       364.7  355.6   299.3   281.5   257.4   249.6   251.0   254.2   260.8   271.3
(in billions of 1992 koruny)
Gross Domestic Product (GDP)        15.6   13.6    9.9    10.0    10.0    9.8    10.1    10.6    11.2    12.0
(in billions of current USS)
GDP Per Capita (in current USS)   2949.4  2561.2  1871.8  1879.1  1885.8  1846.7  1898.1  1979.6  2095.6  2245.2
(in percent)
Gross Domestic Product (GDP)         1.1   -2.5   -15.8   -6.0   .8.5    -3.0        0.6     1.3     2.6    4.0
Gross Domestic 1ncome (GOY)          1.1   -2.5  -14.3   -7.6   -8.0   -2.9          0.5     0.7      2.0     3.6
GDP per Capita                       0.6   -2.9  -15.5   -6.4    -8.7   -3.2         0.4      1.1     2.4    3.8
Inflation                            1.3   10.4   61.2   10.0   26.0   12.2    9.4           8.6     5.3    3.8
Share in GDP:
Agriculture                       9.4     7.4     6.6     5.6     5.4     5.3     5.3     5.2    5.1      4.9
industry                         58.5   59.1   57.5   54.3   50.5   48.3   47.0   45.7   44.8   44.4
Services                         32.2   33.5    36.0   40.1    44.1    46.4    47.8    49.1    50.1    S0.7
Annual ICOR                         29.0   -12.4    -2.2    -5.4    -2.9    -6.3   31.2    14.2    7.1       4.7
Gross Investment/GOP                29.7   33.5   34.8   25.1    19.2   17.8   18.0   18.4   18.9   19.5
Domestie Savings/GDP                28.5   24.2   27.1    16.8   15.8   13.6   14.1   14.6   16.0   17.4
National Savings/GOP                  ..      ..      ..   25.3   16.7   14.7   15.4    15.5   16.7   17.8
Marginal hational Savings Rate        ..      ..      ..      ..  -32.8   -7.1    21.6   17.5   31.0   31.7
Government Investment/GOP             ..      ..      ..     7.7     5.2    3.8    4.0       4.3     4.7      5.1
Government Savings/GDP                ..      ..      ..   -5.3   -1.8   -1.9    -0.4        0.4      1.7     2.8
Mon-Governrent Investment/GDP         ..      ..      ..   17.4   14.0   14.0   14.0   14.1   14.2   14.4
Non-Government Savings/GOP            ..      ..      ..   30.6   18.5   16.6    15.8   15.1    15.0   15.0
Government Revenues/GDP               ..      ..      ..   61.9   47.2   45.5    45.0   45.4   44.9   44.1
Government Expenditures/GDP           ..      ..      ..   75.9   54.4    51.4   50.3   49.9   48.4   47.0
Government Budget Balance/GDP         ..      ..      ..  -14.0    -7.2    -5.9    -5.3    -4.4    -3.5    -2.9
Merchandise Exports Volume            ..      ..      ..  -10.6  -13.6       2.3     3.0     3.5     4.1      4.1
Growth Rate   1/
Merchandise Exports/GDP   1/          ..      ..      ..   65.4   57.0   60.4   62.1   63.5   645    64.6
Merchandise imports votume            ..      ..      ..  -12.3   -14.6    3.6       2.3     2.5      1.9    2.3
Growth Rate   1/
Nerchandise Imports/GDP   1/          ..      ..      ..   72.6   62.0   66.3   67.8   69.3   69.4   68.8
Current Account Balance   1/          ..      ..       .    19.0  -250.4  -298.9  -262.8  -298.7  -243.1  -200.8
(in miflions of current US$)
Current Account Balance/GDP   1/      .       ..      ..    0.2   -2.5   -3.')   -2.6   -2.8         2.2    -1.7
(in percent)
Source: Data provided by the Slovak authorities and staff projections.
Notes:
1/ Including the Czech Republic.



65
Table 3: Balance of Payments  1/                               Annex C
(in millions of current USS)                            page 3 of 5
Eat. ..         -  -- ----.-- Projected       cted.......... ---........
1992     1993      1994      1995      1996     19"9      1998
A. Exports of 6NFS                 74S7.0   6585.7   6839.7   7232.1    7714.6   8288.1   8884.4
1. Werchandise (FOB)             6515.0   5707.8   5933.5   6285.6   6718.3   7237.3   7778.3
2. Mon-Factor Services            942.0    877.9    906.2    946.5    996.3    1050.8   1106.1
B. Imports of GNFS                 8282.0   6919.6   7246.4   7618.3   8114.6   8611.1    9139.3
1. Merchandise (FOB)             7229.0   6204.9   6516.0   6862.8   7327.2   7M8.7   8282.1
2. Non-Factor Services           1053.0    714.7    730.5    755.5    787.5    822.4    857.2
C. Resource Balance                -825.0   -333.9   -406.8   -386.2   -400.0   -322.9   -254.9
0. met Factor Income                 30.0      40.5     -0.1      IS.4      -6.7    -28.2    -53.9
1. Factor Receipts                160.0    202.5    219.2    287.4    310.9    326.1    346.0
2. Factor Payments 2/             130.0    162.0    219.4    272.0    317.6    354.3    400.0
E. Net Current Transfers            814.0      43.0    108.0    108.0    108.0    108.0    108.0
F. Current Account Balance           19.0   -250.4   *298.9   -262.8   -298.7   -243.1   -200.8
C. Long Term Capitatl Inflous        17.5    588.8    738.9    7455   767.2    518.2    553.0
1. Direct Investment              100.0    210.0    225.0    250.0    275.0    310.0    375.0
2. Net LT Borrowing (ORS0        -137.5    278.8    413.9    395.5    392.2   1W8.2           78.0
a. Disbursements                 283.8    519.8    687.8    758.0    630.8    486.4    572.5
b. Repayments 21                 421.3    241.0    273.9    362.5    238.6    378.2    494.5
3. Net LT Credits Extended         55.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
M. Total Other Items (net)          -35.8    -83.4      40.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
1. Net Short-Term Capitat         106.0    -54.0      40.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
2. Capital Flots n.e.i.           317.5       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
3. Errors and omissions          -457.3    -29.4       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
1. Change in Net Reserves            -0.7   -255.0   -480.0   -482.7   -468.5   -275.1   -352.2
1. Net Credit from the IMF         94.3      95.0      1.9   -181.9   -117.8    -49.0    -54.1
2. Other Reserve Changes          -95.0   -350.0   -481.9   -300.8   -350.7   -226.1   -298.1
J. As Shares of GDP (current USS):
1. Resource Balance                -8.3     -3.3      -4.1      -3.8      -3.8      -2.9     -2.1
2. Current Account Balance          0.2      -2.5     -3.0      -2.6      -2.8      -2.2      -1.7
K. Foreign Exchange Reserves:
1. Total Foreign Exchange  3/    715.9   1065.9   1547.8   1848.6   2199.3   2425.4   2723.5
Reserves (excluding gold)
2. Gold (end-year)   4/            53.1      53.1     53.1      53.1      53.1      53.1      53.1
3. Total Reserves (including      778.0   1119.0   1600.9   1901.7   2252.4   2478.5   2776.6
gold and SDR Holdings) 3/ 4/
4. Total Reserves in months         1.1       1.9      2.6       2.9       3.2       3.3       3.5
of imports of goods and
servIces  3/ 4/
5. Official Reserves (including   418.3    650.0   1081.9   1332.7   1633.4   1809.5   2067.6
gold and SOR Holdings)
6. Officfal Reserves in months      0.6       1.1       1.7      2.0       2.3       2.4       2.6
of Imports of goods and
services
L. Exchange Rates
1. In Nominal Terms                28.3     33.0        ..        ..
(Koruny/USS)
2. In Real Terms: Index           100.0      92.1     92.1      92.1      92.1      92.1     92.1
Source: Data provided by the Slovak authorities and staff projections.
Notes:
1/ Including the Czech Republic.
2/ Debt service figures based on debt contracted as of end 1992 are estimates.
3/ Including comercial banks.
4/ Based on gold valuation of the Mational Bank of Slovakia.



66
Table 4: Foreign Financing                                          AnrM   C
(in mitVons of current USS)                                     page 4 of 5
*-------Actual . .   Est. .-P.---------.j.-Projected---         .......
1989   1990   1991  19    1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1°98
Gross Disbursements:
....................
Convertible medium- and long-term          338   441    915    395    615    m        758    631    486    s73
of ihich:
Nultilaterat                              0       2    525    230    236    391    274    309    208    191
of which:
IMF Purchases                          0      0    382    11t      95     8?      0      0      0       0
IBRD                                   0      0     66     44      89    103    103    151    110    111
EEC                                    0       0     76     75      0    120     70     50       0      0
Other multilateral   3/                0       2      1      0     52     81    101    108      98     80
Bitateral Creditors                       8       6     27     90     18    191    154     32       1      0
of which:
Japan                                  0      0       0     69     11    113     70      0       0      0
G-24 (non-EEC)                         6      0      27     22      7     78     84     32       1      0
Other bilateral                        3       6      0      0      0      0      0      0       0      0
Private                                 330   433    363       74    361    194    330    290    278    382
Net Disbursenents  1/  2/
Convertible msdifmu  and Long-term          -35    250    646    -43    374    416    214    274      59     24
of which:
Nultilaterel                              -4      0    522    199   221    295      81    180      62     38
of which:
INf Not Credit                         0      0    382     94      95      2   -182   -118   -49    -54
.8RD                                   0      0     66      44     89    103    103    151     95     96
EEC                                    0       0     76     75      0    120     70     50    -75    -77
Other multitaterat   3/               -4       0     .2    -15     37     70     90     97     91      73
Bilateral Creditors                       -5    -17      7     76     13    186    150     28    -29    -76
of which:
Japan                                  0      0       0     69     11    113     70      0     *8      -8
G-24 (non-EEC)                         4      -3     24     19      S     73     81     28    -21    -67
Other bilateral                        -9    -13    -17    -12     -3     -3     -1      0       0      0
Pr'vate                                  -27    267    116  -318    140    -62    -18      66      26     62
Net short-term capital                       ..    ..    ..   104    -54        40      0      0       0      0
Source: Oata provided by the Slovak authorities and staff projectfons.
Notes:
1/ Debt service figures based on debt contracted as of end 1992 are estimates.
2/ Excluding debt to the Czech Repubitc.
3/ Other multilateral creditors include Nordic Investment Bank, International Investment Bank, EBRO and E1t.



67
Table 5: Debt Service Projections  1/                                    Anrex C
(in millions of current USS)                                    page 5 of 5
-----Actual ... ..  Est. ----------------PPoJe td .              ..
1989   1990   1°99   1992   1993   1994   1995   19"6   199t   1998
Principal Repayments 2/
.... ....................
Convertible mmdiui- and long-term          373    190    270    438    241    359    544    356    427    549
of which:
Multilateral                              4       3      3     31     15     96    193    129    146    153
of which:
INF Repurchases                        0      0       0     16      0     85    182    118     49      54
18RD                                   0      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      15     15
EEC                                    0       0      0      0      0      0      0       0     75     77
Other multflateral   4/                4       3      3     15     15     11     11      11      7      7
Bfiateral Creditors                       13     22     20     14      5      7      4      4      29     76
of which:
0      0      0      0      0      0      0       0      8      8
6-24                                    1      3      3      3      2      4      4      4      21     68
Other bifateral                        12     19     17     12      3      3       1      0      0      0
Private                                 357    165    247   392    221    256    348    224    252    320
Interest Payments 21
. t......,   _.....
Totat convertible                           136    153    159    130    154    195    229    255    269    290
of which:
Mediu and long term                           9     90    126    106    138    170    200    226    241    261
NiAdtilaterat                              9      9     23     54     52     64     78      85     99    108
of which:
INF                                    0      0      16     32     35     38     30     19      14     11
18RD                                   0      0       0      5      8     13     22     30     41      48
EEC                                    0       0      1     14      6      6     14      19     21     19
Other multilateral   4/                9       9      6      3      3      7     11      17     24     30
Bilateral Creditors                       4       4      3      4      8      8     21     33      35     33
of which:
Japan                                  0       0      0      0      4      4     12      17     17     17
0-24                                   0       1      1      3      3      4      9      15     17     16
Other bilateral                         3      3      2      1      1      0      0       0      0      0
Private                                  87      77    100    48      79     98    101    108    107    120
Short-term                                  37      63     33     24     16     25     29      29     29     29
Nemowand&u Items
....... ....................._
Total DOD (miltions of USS)               2031   2124   2729   2590   2910  3366  3579   3854   3913   3937
Total Debt Service                         510    343    428   568   395    554    814    651    737    879
In percent:
Debt Service Ratio   3/                      ..    ..            7.5    5.8    7.8   10.8   8.1    8.6   9.5
Total DOD/CDP                              13.0  15.7  27.6  26.0  29.1   34.2  35.4   36.4   34.9  32.7
Total WDJ Exports of goods and               ..     .      ..  34.0  42.9   47.7  47.6   48.0   45.4   42.6
servf ces 3/
Interest peyments/GDP                      0.9    1.1    1.6    1.3    1.5    2.0    2.3    2.4    2.4    2.4
Interest Payments/Exports of               8.0    8.3    4.7    1.7    2.3    2.8    3.0    3.2    3.1   3.1
goods and services 3/
Source: Data provided by the Slovak authorities and staff projections.
Notes:
1/ Excluding debt to the Czech Republfc.
2/ Debt service figures based on debt contracted as of end 1992 are estimates.
3/ Total exports of goods and servIces.
4/ Other multilateral creditors include Nordic Investment Bank. International Investment Bank, EBRD and EIB.



68
ANNEX D
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS



69
1.        IIMe taken to prepars:                      Three months
2.        Project prepared by:                         Government with assistance of
IBRD) staff
3.        Identification and pre-appraisal mission:    September 13-24, 1993
4.        Apprasal mission:                            October 7-8, 1993
S.         Negotiations:                               October 26-28, 1993
6.        Planned Board Presentation:                  November 30, 1993
7.        Planned effectiveness:                       December 1993
8.        Expected project completion:                December 1995
9.        Relevant SAR:                                None



70
ANNEX E
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SLOVAKIA



71
ANEX
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE SLOVAK REPUBUC
STAMNT OF BANK LOANS W
(As of September 30,1993)
US$ Million
Loan     Fisd                                                                    (Ls Canceatios)
r        .Ye_XM      Borower                      Project                       I        Undisbursed
One Loan (A) Fpty Disbur
3374-0   1991 M    Slovak Republic    Structual Adjustment Loan
Total Fully Disbursed SAL, SECAL and Prga  Loans             150.0
Loams Under Disnursement
3637     1994"   Slovak Telecommunications Teleommunications                     SS        SS.0
Total                                      205.0
Of Which. Repaid                      -
Total Now Held by the Bank                 20S.0
Total Amount Sold                           0.0
Of Which Repaid                        0.0
Total Undisbursed 
B. STATEMENT OF FC NVShNT
(As of September 30, 1993)
To date, there are no IPC opaons in the Slovak Republic
Nover 3, 1993
a/  The tt  of these projects is described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA financed projecs In arecution, whkih
is updated twice yearly and cltculated to the Executive Direcors on April 30 and October 3L
b/  1h orginal FY91 $450 miion SAL to the former Czech and Slovak Federa Republic was spJit, as of Jwansy 1,
1993, betwe  the Cech Republic ($300 million) and the Slovak Republic ($150 mllion).
si Not yet effectw&



IBRD 25102
17                                    18r                                  19                                   2 0:                                  21                                   22                                  j 2 
SLOVAK REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                POLAND
0    MA-OR TOWNS AND VILLAGES                                             -                
NATIONAL CAPAL                                             T.
-     MAIN ROADS
'-'-'-RAIlROADS                              o.
RrvERS                                                                           K J                                                       _                                           t* 
-   -  INTERNATIONABOUNDARIES                                                         * _                  '   I.                        ^  '-'__
\) /     Qge~~rdrgiov
r'e mo CZECH REPUBLIC
t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~v ;v t                                                                                                       /                                                                       A9Io 
/- \      /                     .r /nJdV6~~                     ~ ~~homIf                                                                                =                                 <!
_, BRA/ TISIansk6                                                                 Y A                                                                               ,V                                              UKRAINE
To I9.o ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ c                      zoCom
_ To&;d ,o8                                                                                                        ~\   _ A  r HUNGARY          1              )      <       /             q     v      -            T
- r.-  -                           ^                                                                                                                                                                          CZECH '  .,                 UKOAO4E
To1~~~~~~~o,                                                                                MILES~~~ecT.Mik
M..=    Th.M  Ro,                    b9                                                                                                                yS,_>                                                          <  Rrw   ,-           ~   -
AUSTRI                                                                                                                                                     T._elh$VS  m t k l  l                     <        AU3TRIA >- '        a} SI
4,                                                               ky                                                            F.n  8   .    .          .    . 
S     AoR. Vo, I1 0...                                                                                                                      15,~y ..  a    lo  20  30  40 530  600>    HUNGARY  j                                                    1H Ni
*t                                                                                                                                                   KOO METEItERS                                           , 0        C       -        ROMANIA     i 
*~~~~~~~~~~~#^rr                         I                                                                                                         r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ALY  .  6'^rCRAYA'1 ;':o,
0 -~0 2r-  3k1 .  2rr            10                       _  -SE PTEMBER  1 993



