Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
I
NTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
May 26, 2010 
 
H.E. Nguy
n
V
n
Gi
àu 
Governor  
State Bank of Vietnam 
Socialist Republic of Vietnam 
 
Re: 
Vietnam: HIV/AIDS Prevention Project (Grant No.H152-VN) 
Amendment to the Development Grant Agreement ______
1. 
We refer to the Development Grant Agreement dated May 26, 2005 (the “Development 
Grant Agreement”) entered into between the Socialist Republic of Vietnam (the “Recipient”) and 
the International Development Association (the “Association”) for the above-mentioned Project.  
We also refer to the letter from Mr. Nguyen Van Binh, Deputy Governor, State Bank of Vietnam, 
dated April 28, 2010, requesting for an amendment to the Development Grant Agreement. 
 
2. 
We are pleased to inform you that, after due consideration the Association concurs with 
your request, and consequently proposes to amend the Development Grant Agreement as follows: 
 
3. 
Section 1.02 (i) of Article I to the Development Grant Agreement is hereby amended to 
read as follows: 
 
“(i) 
“Health Care Waste Management Plan” means the plan dated January 2005, 
adopted by the Recipient’s Ministry of Health through Decision No. 431/QD-BYT dated 
February 23, 2005, satisfactory to the Bank, which sets out the environmental mitigation 
measures in respect of the treatment of the health care waste generated at the rehabilitation 
centers and community-based clinics at the pilot sites under Part A and part B of the Project.” 
4. 
Section 2.03 of Article II to the Development Grant Agreement is hereby amended to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2012 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date.” 
 
5. 
The table under paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Grant Agreement is 
hereby amended to read as follows: 
 
Page  2
-2-
Category
“Amount of the 
Grant allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR equivalent)
%
of
Expenditures 
to be Financed
(1) Provincial Sub-
Grants under Part A of 
the Project 
14,250,000 
100% of Sub-Grant 
amount disbursed 
(2)  Innovation Sub-
Grants under part B.1(d) 
of the Project 
330,000 
100% of Sub-Grant 
amount disbursed 
(3)  Civil works 
50,000 
100% 
(4)  Goods 
1,880,000 
100% 
(5)  Consultants' services 
3,420,000 100% 
(6)  Training 
1,790,000 
100% 
(7)  Incremental 
Operating Costs 
1,310,000 100% 
(8)  Unallocated 
70,000 
 
TOTAL 
23,100,000”
6. 
Paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to the Development Grant Agreement is hereby amended to 
read as follows: 
 
“4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods costing less 
than $300,000 equivalent per contract; (b) works costing less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract; (c) services of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; 
(d) services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract; (e) training; (f) incremental operating costs; and (g) Provincial and Innovation Sub-
grants; all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.” 
7. 
Schedule 2 to the Development Grant Agreement is amended to read as shown in 
Attachment 1 to this letter of amendment. 
8. 
Schedule 3 to the Development Grant Agreement is amended to read as shown in 
Attachment 2 to this letter of amendment. 
Page  3
-3-
9. 
Paragraph 1(c) of Schedule 5 to the Development Grant Agreement is hereby amended to 
read as follows: 
 
“(c) 
the term “ Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $6,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Grant Account plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 5,000,000. 
10. 
Except as specifically amended herein, all other provisions of the Development Grant 
Agreement remain in full force and effect.  
 
11. 
Please confirm your agreement with this amendment by countersigning, dating and 
returning to us the enclosed copy of this letter.  Upon receipt by the Association of the 
countersigned copy of this letter, this amendment shall become effective as of the date of the 
countersignature. 
 
Very truly yours, 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Victoria Kwakwa 
 
Victoria Kwakwa  
Country Director 
 
AGREED: 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
 
By  Nguyen Van Binh
Authorized Representative 
 
Name Nguyen Van Binh
Title  Deputy Governor of the State Bank of Vietnam
Date  June 4, 2010
Page  4
-4-
Attachment 1
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in establishing and maintaining 
national, provincial and local policies and capacity to design, implement and evaluate information 
and service delivery programs designed to halt the transmission of HIV/AIDS among vulnerable 
populations and between vulnerable populations and the general population. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives. 
PART A
:
Provincial HIV/AIDS Action Plans
Preparation and implementation of Provincial HIV/AIDS Action Plans in selected 
provinces and cities, through the provision of Provincial Sub-grants. 
PART B: National HIV/AIDS Policy and Program
1. 
Policy and Program Development 
(a) 
Provision of opiate substitution therapy in the form of methadone maintenance, 
and condom use promotion. 
 
(b) 
Development of supportive national and provincial policies and strengthening of 
research capacity for HIV prevention, care and treatment among vulnerable populations.  
 
(c) 
Support for programs of knowledge sharing and training in HIV/AIDS 
prevention, care and treatment. 
(d) 
Development of innovative and effective HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment 
approaches and models among vulnerable groups, through the provision of Innovation Sub-
grants.  
2. 
Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
Development of a national Monitoring and Evaluation results framework, operational 
plan and system, consisting of: 
(a) 
Adoption of revised Monitoring and Evaluation plan which establishes the 
structure for monitoring and evaluation, national indicators and road map for the collection and 
use of data;  
Page  5
-5-
(b) 
Establishment of a national Monitoring and Evaluation Unit within the 
Department of HIV/AIDS Control of MOH to coordinate national monitoring and evaluation 
activities;  
 
(c) 
Establishment of regional Monitoring and Evaluation centers; 
 
(d) 
Provision of training to national, regional, provincial personnel; and 
(e) 
Strengthening of: (i) biological and behavioral surveillance of priority 
communities and vulnerable populations; (ii) health facility surveillance of HIV/AIDS services; 
(iii) effectiveness research; and (iv) Monitoring and Evaluation dissemination and data use 
mechanisms.   
PART C
:
Project Management
Strengthening of the national and provincial Project management and implementation 
capacity, including audit of the Project accounts. 
*
*
*
Page  6
-6-
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2 
PARTICIPATING PROVINCES AND CITIES  
 
1. Hai 
Phong 
2. 
Ho Chi Minh City 
3. Hanoi 
4. Can 
Tho 
5. Da 
Nang 
6. Lang 
Son 
7. Quang 
Ninh 
8. Dong 
Thap 
9. Baria-Vung 
tau 
10. Binh 
Thuan 
11. Thua 
Thien 
Hue 
12. Ha 
Tinh 
13. Tay 
Ninh 
14. An 
Giang 
15. Bac 
Giang 
16. Ben 
Tre 
17. Cao 
Bang 
18. Dong 
Nai 
19. Hau 
Giang 
20. Khanh 
Hoa 
21. Kien 
Giang 
22. Lai 
Chau 
23. Nam 
Dinh 
24. Nghe 
An 
25. Son 
La 
26. Thai 
Binh 
27. Thai 
Nguyen 
28. Thanh 
Hoa 
29. Tien 
Giang 
30. Vinh 
Long 
31. Yen 
Bai 
32. Soc 
trang 
 
Page  7
-7-
Attachment 2
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I.
 
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans 
and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 and revised in October 2006 (the Procurement Guidelines), 
and with the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV of the 
“Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” dated May 
2004 and revised in October 2006 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular procurement 
methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, have the meanings 
ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other than 
Consultants’ Services
)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  The 
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, providing for domestic 
preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the 
Recipient and works to be carried out by domestic contractors. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
Limited International Bidding
.
Goods which the Association agrees can only be 
purchased from a limited number of suppliers may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Limited International Bidding.  
2. National 
Competitive 
Bidding
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding 
and the following additional provisions set forth in the Annex to this Schedule.  
3. Shopping
.
Works for the rehabilitation of community-based clinics and goods,  in each 
case estimated to cost less than  $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
 
4. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods, including anti-retroviral drugs, which the Association agrees 
meet the requirements for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of said procurement method. 
Page  8
-8-
5. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
.
Vehicles to be made available to implementing agencies 
may be procured directly from the United Nations Office for Project Services, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.9 of the Procurement Guidelines. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality- 
and Cost-based Selection.   
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Association agrees meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, may, 
with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set forth in 
the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source 
basis.  
Section IV
.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association: 
(a) 
in respect of contracts for goods, works and services (other than consultants’ 
services): (i) each contract
 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more, and (ii) each 
contract procured on the basis of Direct Contracting; and 
(b) 
in respect of contracts for consultants’ services: (i) each contract with a firm 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (ii) each contract 
 
procured on the basis 
of Single Source Selection. 
2. 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association. 
 
Page  9
-9-
Section V
.
Procurement audit 
The Recipient shall (a) carry out annual procurement audits of the Project through an 
independent entity acceptable to the World Bank, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
World Bank, (b) by no later than December 31 of each year, commencing from 2010, provide to 
the World Bank for its review and comments, the report of such procurement audit and promptly 
review with the World Bank the recommendations presented in said report. 
 
Page  10
-10-
Annex to Schedule 3 
National Competitive Bidding 
 
The procedure to be followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth in 
Article 18 on 
Open Bidding of the Law on Procurement  61/2005/QH11
 dated November 29, 
2005, Law 38/2009/QH12 dated June 19, 2009 on Amending and Supplementing a Number of 
Articles of Laws Concerning Capital Construction Investment, and 
Decree 85/2009/ND-CP, 
Guiding Implementation of Law on Procurement and Selection of Construction Contractors 
under the Construction Law
 dated October 15, 2009 (collectively, “National Procurement Laws”) 
with due consideration to economy, efficiency and transparency as set forth in, and broad 
consistency with, Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Association in May 2004 and revised in October 2006 (the 
“Guidelines”) and required by paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  Whenever any 
procedure in the National Procurement Laws is inconsistent with the requirements of said 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines, the latter shall prevail, including the following: 
Eligibility
1. 
The eligibility of bidders shall be as defined under Section I of the Guidelines; 
accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder shall be declared ineligible for contracts financed by 
the Association for reasons other than those provided in Section I of the Guidelines. Foreign 
bidders shall be eligible to participate in bidding under the same conditions as national bidders. In 
particular, no domestic preference over foreign bidders shall be granted to national bidders in bid 
evaluation, nor shall foreign bidders be asked or required to form joint ventures with national 
bidders in order to submit a bid. Bidders located in the same province or city as the procuring 
entity shall not be given preference over bidders located outside that city or province. 
 
2. 
In addition to the foregoing requirements, equitized Government-owned enterprises in 
which the Recipient holds less than fifty percent of the shares are eligible to participate, 
provided 
that
 the procuring entity or investment owner does not own shares (or represent the Government's 
shares) in the enterprise and the governing Board and management team are autonomous from the 
procuring entity and the investment owner.  Military or security units or enterprises established 
under, reporting directly or indirectly to, or owned wholly or partly by, the Ministry of Defense or 
the Ministry of Public Security shall not be permitted to bid. 
 Registration
3. 
Registration shall not be used to assess bidders’ qualifications. A foreign bidder shall not 
be required to register as a condition for submitting its bid and, if determined to be the lowest 
evaluated responsive bidder, shall be given reasonable opportunity of registering, without any let 
or hindrance. Bidding shall not be restricted to any particular class of contractors, and non-
classified contractors shall also be eligible to bid. 
 
Page  11
-11-
Advertising; Time for Bid Preparation
4. 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national newspaper, 
allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days, from the date of the invitation to bid or the date of 
availability of the bidding documents, whichever is later, for the preparation and submission of 
bids, and potential bidders shall be allowed to purchase bidding documents up to any time prior to 
the deadline for the submission of bids.  In addition, the Recipient is encouraged to advertise in 
the Government Public Procurement Newspaper and on a free and open access website.  
Standard Bidding Documents
5. 
Standard Bidding Documents, acceptable to the Association, shall be used. 
 Qualification 
Criteria 
6. 
Qualification criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding documents
,
and all criteria 
so specified, and only such specified criteria, shall be used to determine whether a bidder is 
qualified. Qualification shall be assessed on a pass or fail basis and merits points shall not be 
used. Such assessment shall only take into account the bidder’s capacity and resources to perform 
the contract, specifically its experience and past performance on similar contracts, capabilities 
with respect to personnel, equipment and construction and manufacturing facilities, and financial 
capacity. 
 
Bid Submission, Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation
7. 
Bidders may submit bids, at their option, either in person or by courier service or by mail. 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for submission of bids. Bids 
received after the deadline for bid submission shall be rejected and returned to the bidders 
unopened. In addition: 
(a) 
Bidding documents shall be sold to anyone who is willing to pay the required fee 
of the bidding documents which shall not exceed the costs of printing, reproduction and 
delivery, and no other conditions shall be imposed on the sale of the bidding documents.  
 
(b) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria that shall be 
clearly specified in the bidding documents and quantified in monetary terms for 
evaluation criteria other than price; merit points shall not be used in bid evaluation. 
 
(c) 
A contract shall be awarded to the technically responsive bid that offers the 
lowest evaluated price and no negotiations shall be permitted. A bidder shall not be 
required, as a condition for award, to undertake obligations not specified in the bidding 
documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally submitted. 
 
(d) A 
bidder shall not be eliminated from detailed evaluation on the basis of minor, 
non-substantial deviations. 
 
(e) 
No bidder shall be rejected on the basis of a comparison with the employer's 
estimate and budget ceiling without the Association’s prior concurrence. 
Page  12
-12-
(f) 
A copy of the minutes of the public bid opening shall be promptly provided to all 
bidders who submitted bids, and to the Association with respect to contracts subject to 
prior review.  
 
Rejection of All Bids and Re-bidding
8
All bids shall not be rejected or new bids solicited without the Association’s prior written 
concurrence. 
 
Complaints by Bidders and Handling of Complaints
9. 
The Recipient shall implement an effective and independent protest mechanism allowing 
bidders to protest and to have their protests handled in a timely manner.  
 Fraud 
and 
Corruption
10. 
The Association shall declare a firm or individual ineligible, either indefinitely or for a 
stated period, to be awarded a contract financed by the Association, if it at any time determines 
that the firm or individual has, directly or through an agent, engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in competing for, or in executing, a contract financed 
by the Association. 
 
Right to Inspect/Audit
11. 
Each bidding document and contract financed from the proceeds of a Credit shall include 
a
provision requiring bidders, suppliers, contractors and subcontractors to permit the Association, 
at its request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the bid submission and performance 
of the contract and to have said accounts and records audited by auditors appointed by the 
Association. The deliberate and material violation by the bidder, supplier, contractor or 
subcontractor of such provision may amount to obstructive practice. 
 License
12. 
Foreign contractors shall be given a reasonable opportunity to apply for and obtain work 
license, which shall not be arbitrarily withheld. 
Publication of the Award of Contract
13. 
The Recipient shall publish the following information on contract award in the 
Government Public Procurement Newspaper or on a free and open access website or on another 
means of publication acceptable to the Association: (a) name of each bidder who submitted a bid; 
(b) bid prices as read out at bid opening; (c) name and evaluated price of each bid that was 
evaluated; (d) name of bidders whose bids were rejected and the reasons for their rejection; and 
(e) name of the winning bidder, price it offered as well as the duration and summary scope of the 
contract awarded.  This publication shall be updated regularly.
 
Page  13
-13-
