Page  1
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
June 4, 2010 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Re: 
IDA Grant No. H152-VN 
(Vietnam HIV/AIDS Prevention Project) 
 
Revised 
Performance 
Indicators 
   
Dear Sir/Madame: 
 
We refer to paragraph 15 (a) of Schedule 4 to the Development Grant Agreement dated  
May 26, 2005 between the Socialist Republic of Viet
nam (the “Recipient”) and the International 
Development Association (the “Association”) (the “Agreement”) for the above-mentioned 
Project concerning the Performance Indicators. 
 
In view of the recent amendment of the Agreement dated May 26, 2010, we hereby agree 
that the revised Performance Indicators to monitor and evaluate the carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof are those set forth in the Annex to this letter. 
 
Please confirm the agreement on behalf of the Association to the application of the 
revised Performance Indicators by signing the form of confirmation below. 
 
Very truly yours, 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
 
Nguyen Van Binh
Authorized Representative 
 
Confirmed: 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: Victoria Kwakwa
AGREED: 
Page  2
Page  3
ANNEX
Vietnam HIV/AIDS Prevention Project 
Performance Indicators 
 
·
Percentage of vulnerable groups in participating provinces reporting safer injection 
practice (from an estimated 20% at baseline to 70% at project end) 
 
·
Percentage of vulnerable groups in participating provinces reporting condom use in 
sexual intercourse ( from an estimated 40% at baseline to 80% at project end ) 
 
·
An increased percentage of vulnerable groups (from an estimate 10% at baseline to 80% 
by project end) are reached by provinces services. 
 
·
An increased percentage (for an estimated 10% at baseline to 90% at project end) of 
provinces prepare high quality provincial plans 
 
·
An increased percentage of provinces (from 0 to 90% at project end) establish adequate 
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) systems. 
 
·
An increased percentage of provinces (from an estimated 10% at baseline to 80% at 
project end) meet targets specified in provincial plans. 
 
·
National and regional research institutions strengthened, through establishment of AIDS 
M&E departments and recruitment and training of AIDS M&E staff. 
 
·
Mechanisms developed to regularly disseminate M&E results and to use data for program 
improvement. 
Page  4
·
Increased percentage of provinces offering Methadone services  (from an estimated 0 at 
baseline to 6 by project end) 
 
·
Increased number of injecting drug users enrolled in Methadone services (from an 
estimated 0 at baseline to 2,000 by project end) 
 
