Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24121-YEM
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-29320; PPFI-QO160)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 20.8 MILLION (US$ 30 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR AN
EMERGENCY FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT
May 22, 2002
Rural Development, Water and Environment Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 2001)
Currency Unit = Yemeni Rial (YR) & US$
YR 167.98 = US$ 1
US$ 1 = YR 167.98
FISCAL YEAR
January I  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EFRP                 Emergency Flood Rehabilitation Project
FAO                  Food and Agriculture Organization
GCRB                 General Corporation for Roads and Bridges
GDP                  Gross Domestic Product
GSNDR                General Secretariat for Natural Disasters and Relief
BLIC                 Higher Level Inter-Ministerial Committee
HTB                  High Tender Board
IDA                  International Development Association
IMC                  Inter-Ministerial Committee
LWCP                 Land and Water Conservation Project
MAI                  Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation
MOCHUP               Ministry of Construction, Housing, and Urban Planning
MOPD                 Ministry of Planning and Development
ODA                  Overseas Development Administration
OSOCC                On-Site Operation Coordination Center
PIU                  Project Implementation Unit
PMU                  Project Management Unit
PWP                  Public Works Project
UNDP                 United Nations Development Program
UNDRO                United Nations Disaster Relief Organization
WFP                  World Food Program
WHO                  World Health Organization
Vice President:  Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:  Mahmood Ayub
Sector Manager/Director:  Salah Darghouth
Task Team Leader:    Tijan Sallah



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
EMERGENCY FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  9
6. Sustainability                                                                     10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    11
9. Partner Comments                                                                   12
10. Additional Information                                                            16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 28
MAP: IBRD Map No. 28383
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P048522                                    Project Name: EMERGENCY FLOOD
REHABILITATION PROJECT
Team Leader: Tijan M. Sallah                           TL Unit: MNSRE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                     Report Date: May 23, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: EMERGENCY FLOOD REHABILITATION              L/C/TF Number: IDA-29320;
PROJECT                                                   PPFI-QO160
Country/Department: YEMEN, REPUBLIC OF                               Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector. AA - Agriculture Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD: 07/18/1996                             Effective: 03/21/1997        03/21/1997
Appraisal:  10/01/1996                             M12:                      05/26/1999
Approval:  12/23/1996                            Closing: 07/31/2000        12/31/2001
- Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF YEMEN/Emergency Flood Rehabilitation Project PMU
Other Partners: UNDP
STAFF               Current                                 At Appraisal
Vice President:     Jean-Louis Sarbib                       Kemal Dervis
Country Manager:    Mahmood Ayub                             Inder Sud
Sector Manager:      Salah Darghouth                         Salah Darghouth
Teim Leader at ICR:  Tijan M. Sallah                        Nejdet N. Al-Salihi
ICR Primary Author:  Tijan M. Sallah
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                    S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
This project was designed in response to the floods of June 1996, which caused substantial loss of
human lives and damage to livestock, crops, houses, irrigation infrastructure, flood control works, roads,



rural water supply and other infrastructure. The floods were the worst in Yemen's recent history, the
heaviest in about seventy years. It caused substantial damage and dislocation in mainly three governorates:
Hadramaut, Shabwa, and Marib. It affected, to a lesser extent, Abyan, Al-Mahra, and Al-Jawf
governorates. Bank estimates of the total direct damage at the time, using information provided by the
General Secretariat for Natural Disasters and Relief, was about US$200 million (or about 12 percent of
GDP then). Half of the estimated damages directly affected the agriculture sector (fannland, irrigation and
wadi structures, and other related agricultural infrastructure) and the remaining damages were in rural
infrastructure, roads and bridges, in addition to water supply, housing, health and educational facilities.
The economic costs of the damage to rural infrastructure adversely affected economic activity in
1996 and 1997 as remedial measures were sought to overcome the crop and livestock losses as well as the
disruption to transport, communications and other essential infrastructure. The estimated physical losses to
agriculture by the Government included, among other things, damage to flood protection and spate
irrigation earth dikes (500 in number), masonry dikes (89 in number), irrigation canals (11,020 in number),
and flood protection dikes (45 in number). Also, 3,500 ha of arable land was adversely affected, with
2,300 ha completely destroyed and estimated 37,000 ha of arable land was severely eroded with much of
the topsoil washed away. With respect to transportation infrastructure, 16 locations on highways were
severely damaged.
To respond to the flood emergency, firstly, IDA provided immediate assistance to deal with urgent
priority needs within the scope of ongoing IDA-supported projects. To this end, US$14.5 million was
reallocated from existing credits to finance rehabilitation in agriculture, transport, water supply, power and
education. Secondly, IDA provided support through this Emergency Flood Rehabilitation Project. The
objectives of this project were: (i) to help restore the country's essential economic infrastructure (roads,
agriculture, rural water supply) and domestic food production capability damaged by the heavy rains and
flooding and facilitate access to production centers, markets and social services; (ii) to strengthen Yemen's
institutional capacity to manage disaster recovery programs and develop programs to mitigate the country's
vulnerability to flood damage; and (iii) to serve as a catalyst for donor financing and coordination of the
reconstruction effort.
The project's objectives were realistic, and therefore achievable. They were consistent with IDA's
1996 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Yemen, which concentrated on helping establish the basic
economic institutions of a modem state and on providing basic infrastructure. They were consistent in
particular with the CAS's ernphasis on improving portfolio implementation and sustainability of past and
future investments. Project objectives (i) and (iii) were fully achieved, however, project objective (ii) was
not realized because of failure on the part of UNDP to provide the required financing during project
implementation which it promised to the Govemrnment at the time of appraisal.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable.
3.3 Original Components:
To achieve its objectives, the project was to finance the following components:
(a) Agricultural Infrastructure: Rehabilitation of embankments and other flood protection works;
rehabilitation of existing irrigation systems, canals and service roads; and installation of
secondary canals, wells, bunds, and weirs in the govemorates most affected by the floods,
- 2 -



mainly Shabwa, Marib, and Hadramaut (Base Cost: US$13 million);
(b) Transport Infrastructure: Rehabilitation of main roads and associated structures (e.g., bridges,
culverts) in the most affected locations, mainly in Shabwa, Marib, Hadramaut, Al-Jawf, and
Abyan (Base Cost: US$13 million);
(c) Water Supply Infrastructure: Rehabilitation of urban and rural water supply facilities through
the supply of equipment such as chlorinators, pumps, generators, and pipes in all the affected
govemorates (Base Cost: US$1.1 million); and
(d) Consultant Services and Studies: Assistance in the design and implementation of civil works,
contract management and construction supervision, and the preparation of studies, including a
flood preparedness and mitigation study (Base Cost: US$2.2 million).
Criteria for selection of priority works or activities were: (i) for Agricultural Infrastructure: (a) to
rehabilitate wadi embankments and related structures near rural human settlements and in areas where
large numbers of hectares of agricultural land are involved; and (b) to rehabilitate and improve irrigation
infrastructure in the areas most severely affected by the floods; and (ii) for Transport Infrastructure: (a) to
rehabilitate roads and bridges in areas most affected by the floods and with the greatest traffic intensity to
reduce vehicle operating costs, and (b) to rehabilitate critical roads to communities which would otherwise
be without access to the larger economy to reduce their socio-economic isolation. In all these rehabilitation
works, flood resistant design and construction was to be used.
3.4 Revised Components:
Component                                               Base Cost      Rating
AGRICULTURE, RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE,
IRRIGATION AND WADI CONTROL                            $13,000,000.00;      S
ROADS AND BRIDGES                                     $13,000,000.00;       S
WATER SUPPLY                                           $ 1,100,000.00;      S
FLOOD STUDY AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                   $ 2,200,000.00;     U
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project's quality at entry was satisfactory. Although prepared with enormous speed within the
record time of six months in response to the emergency, it nonetheless received thorough review within the
Bank by peers and management during preparation and was subsequently found satisfactory in design (i.e.,
quality at entry) and supervision in QAG reviews.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Except for the failure to implement the component on the flood preparedness and mitigation study
to introduce a flood preparedness program and engineering measures to reduce the country's vulnerability
to future floods, this project successfully implemented all the other three components and thereby
-3-



substantially achieved the majority of its development objectives. Project outcome is therefore satisfactory.
As far as the agricultural infrastructure component is concemed, the project succeeded in implementing
wadi rehabilitation and flood protection civil works using gabions, in some nine wadis in Shabwa
govemorate, using largely community contracting, which far exceeded appraisal targets. It succeeded in
rehabilitation of all the spate diversion works envisaged in the appraisal report for Shabwa, including
reconstruction of the Ali Salem diversion weir, and the Wadi Dhomarine recharge weir, creating
employment for some 1,000 laborers and benefiting some 37,000 farmers.
For Hadramaut, the project succeeded in wadi rehabilitation flood protection works and wadi
training for the villages of Gawada (estimated 2,000 people) and Otfa (1,400 people), and Husn Bin
Dhuban, and for the reconstruction of the Moza Shibamn diversion weir and wadi course rehabilitation to
protect the historical city of Shibam (one of the world's first skyscrapers made of mud vernacular
architecture) and benefited some 5,000 people (450 ha of agricultural land). It also successfully
implemented the rehabilitation of 81 (against the appraisal target of 10) flood-damaged retention weirs on
Wadi Masila and Wadi Idem, the damaged Ainat Sheikh Bin Ahmed recharge weir, and the reconstruction
of other minor damaged diversion weirs and irrigation canals, using community contracts, as well as the
rehabilitation of 25 kilometers of flood-damaged agricultural service roads.
For Marib, although project activities were modified because of Abu Dhabi Fund financing for
some activities originally envisaged under the project (i.e., rehabilitation of the Marib Dam irrigation
scheme), the project nonetheless achieved some 82,000 cubic meters of wadi flood protection works
(27,000 m3 of stone masonry work and 55,000 m3 of gabion work) in about 1205 flood-damaged
locations.
As for the transport (roads and bridges) component, the project succeeded in reconstructing 10
major Irish crossings/roads and 4 major bridges damaged by the floods, which are located on major road
arteries in the affected govemorates (Shabwa, Hadramaut, Marib and Abyan) of the country. Agricultural
infrastructure as well as the damaged road and bridges structures have been all reconstructed at high
standards of construction under the close supervision of the PMU and PIUs. All the roads/irish crossings
reconstruction were carried out and supervised by the then Government owned, but autonomous, General
Corporation for Roads and Bridges (GCRB), using force account and supervised again by the resident
engineer in the PMU. The bridges were all rebuilt by local contractors through national competitive
bidding (NCB) procedures. To the credit of the project, this was the first time in the history of Yemen that
bridges have been built by local contractors. This has helped start a local contracting industry in bridge
building and the structures built are of a high standard and far exceeded PMU expectations, and have
already withstood the recent floods.
Overall, this project has helped restore critical essential agriculture and transport infrastructure,
which have been rebuilt with more flood-resistant designs to the satisfaction of the farming population in
Shabwa, Hadraznaut, Marib and Abyan. Reconstruction works have generated large employmnent of local
labor, helped build local contractor capacity, and facilitated population mobility and access on major road
arteries in the country. This has contributed to restoring the productive agricultural base of affected rural
populations and helped facilitate trade and commerce, and access to social services.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Agricultural Infrastructure (Base Cost: US$13 million; IDA-financed). Except for the modification of
the Marib subcomponent, the project substantially achieved, and in some cases, exceeded the
appraisal targets under this component. Under this component, the Staff Appraisal Report
-4 -



(SAR/Technical Annex) envisaged support for rehabilitation of embankments and other flood protection
works; rehabilitation of existing irrigation systems, canals and service roads; and installation of secondary
canals, wells, bunds and weirs in the governorates most affected by the floods, mainly Shabwa, Marib and
Hadramaut. For Shabwa, wadi rehabilitation and flood protection civil works were to be carried out in 8
wadis (i.e., Ain, Beihan, Markha, Abadan, Hamam, Dura', Khawra, and Yesbom), comprising 1 NCB
contract, 52 Direct Contracts (DC)/Force Account (FA), and 677 community contracts. For Hadramaut,
rehabilitation of large wadi structures and other flood protection works were to be implemented,
comprising of 4 NCB contracts, 21 Direct /FA contracts, and 3 community contracts (packages). For
Marib, flood protection civil works were to be carried out for Canal B; for south Canal B,S; rehabilitation
were to be carried out for secondary canals for sectors 4,5, 11 and 12 (Canal B,S), and rehabilitation works
were to be carried out in other wadis in Marib govemorate.
For Shabwa, the project succeeded in implementing wadi protection and spate irrigation
rehabilitation and improvement civil works at a total cost of about US$3.75 million, using gabions, in some
eight wadis in Shabwa govemorate, using largely community contracting, far exceeding the targets
envisaged at appraisal. Ninety NCB contracts and 803 community contracts were implemented. The
community contracts were carried out with the full participation of the beneficiaries and this will help
ensure sustainability. The project succeeded in rehabilitation of all the spate diversion works envisaged in
the appraisal report for Shabwa, including reconstruction of the Ali Salem diversion weir, and the Wadi
Dhomarine recharge weir, creating employment for some 1,000 laborers and benefiting some 37,000
farmers. The Ali Salem (US$0.35) and Dhomarine (US$0.56) weirs were financed under this project but
designed and supervised partially under the IDA-financed Land and Water Conservation Projects (Cr.
2373-YEM). Exceeding the appraisal target and at a lower cost, building facilities were also implemented
through NCB in Ataq and Beihan for a total cost of US$0.65 million (against the appraisal US$0.734) to
provide for institutional support to engineers/surveyors in carrying out flood protection design and
supervision of the implementation of works.
For Hadramaut, the project achieved its appraisal targets by having successfully implemented wadi
protection and spate irrigation rehabilitation and improvement works and wadi training for a total of
US$2.2 million. Six contracts were implemented under NCB procedures for a cost of US$1.22 million and
107 contracts were implemented under Community Contracts for a total estimated cost of US$0.99 million.
The project provided support for flood protection and wadi training for the villages of Gawada (estimated
2,000 people) and Otfa (1,400 people), and Husn Bin Dhuban, and for the reconstruction of the Moza
Shibam diversion weir and wadi course rehabilitation to protect the historical city of Shibam (one of the
world's first skyscrapers made of mud vemacular architecture) and benefited some 5,000 people (450 ha).
It also successfully implemented the rehabilitation of 31 flood-damage retention weirs (against the appraisal
10) on Wadi Masila and Wadi Idem, the damaged Ainat Sheikh Bin Ahmed recharge weir, the
reconstruction of other minor damaged diversion weirs and irrigation canals, and the rehabilitation of about
20 kilometers of flood-damaged agricultural service roads.
For Marib, grant money was available from the Abu Dhabi Fund for rehabilitation of the damaged
canals. The Abu Dhabi Fund has visited site of the damaged canals, including consultants who are
evaluating flood damage with a view to rehabilitation of items not inplemented through the project at the
request of the Ministry of Planning. For Marib, although project activities were modified because of the
availability of Abu Dhabi financing for the originally envisaged project activities (i.e., flood protection for
Canal B; Canal B,S; sectors 6,7, 8,9, 10 on Canal B,S), the project nonetheless achieved part of the
appraisal target by rehabilitating part of the secondary canal in sectors 4 and 5 in Canals B,S. The
remaining reallocated funds were directed at wadi flood protection works. Although implementing the
flood protection works experienced considerable delays due to local problems related to a historic tendency
- 5 -



in the Marib region to request for compensation, not based on valid claims, in Govenmment-financed
projects, the PMU/PIJ nevertheless negotiated its way and successfully implemented some 70,000 cubic
meters of wadi flood protection works (27,000 m3 of stone masonry work and 55,000 m3 of gabion work)
in about 1,205 flood-damaged locations in this difficult govemorate. The project also successfully
introduced new flood protection technologies using stone masonry and gabions, which many inhabitants of
Marib were unfamiliar with. It also helped small local contractors to start contracting business.
Furthermore, from the Credit funds allocated for Marib, an amount of US$0.23 million was redirected to
Tihama (Hodeidah) govemorate to implement an urgently needed rehabilitation of the fuse plug at the
Waqir Weir, which commands the Wadi Siham irrigation system, and which was carried out using the
Tihamna Development Authority's own construction facilities. The Waqir Weir commnands about 4,000 ha
of the Wadi Siham irrigation area and had considerable investment sunk into it under a previous
Bank-financed operation, the Tihama V Development Project. Modest rehabilitation of the fuse plug was
key to preventing further losses from this significant investment.
Transport Infrastructure (Base Cost: US$13 million: IDA-financed). The appraisal targets for this
component has been fully achieved and even exceeded under the project. Under this component, the
SAR envisaged support for rehabilitation of main roads and associated structures (e.g., bridges, culverts) in
the most affected locations, mainly in the govemorates of Shabwa, Marib, Hadramaut (which was added
later because of urgent flood-damaged structures which needed rehabilitation and the availability of unused
funds), Al-Jawf and Abyan. Although it is difficult to compare unit cost per meter of each item as
envisaged at appraisal with its actual because of modifications in design (e.g., some structures originally
designed as irish crossings [IC] were modified to more suitable structures, such as bridge or culvert, and
vice versa) and some unexpected/new related activities, such as demolition of old structures, the total funds
allocated at appraisal have significantly achieved the works envisaged, resulting even in some unused funds
which were redirected to other priorities consistent with the objectives of the project. The project
satisfactorily implemented 11 force account (FA) works through GCRB and 5 NCB contracts. Details of
these are given in Annex 1 on the key performance indicators.
For the Force Account works, Package 1 comprised rehabilitation works in four locations: Wadi
Al-Khaleg and Wadi Al-Salamat in Al-Jawf, which involved replacement of damaged structures at both
locations with a new Irish Crossing (IC) of 96 m and 180 m respectively; Wadi Deeqa in Abyan, which
involved replacement with a new 100 m Irish Crossing; and Wadi Arem in Shabwa, which involved
replacement with a new 35 m Irish Crossing. With the exception of Wadi Arem (appraisal estimate at
US$0.042 million) completed under the Road Maintenance Fund, these force account works were
completed on time under this project's financing for a total contract value of US$0.504 million equivalent
Package 2 comprised rehabilitation works in Wadi Assail in Al-Jawf, which involved replacement with a
new 216 m IC. These works were completed on time for an estimated cost of US$0.6 million. In the case
of the latter, the design was changed from an Irish Crossing to a small bridge which was more suitable.
Package 3 comprised works in one location in Wadi Al-Hajiriyah in Marib, which was originally designed
as an IC but modified during construction to a box culvert. With the floods, GCRB resorted to
implementing the original, more suitable IC but experienced problems with local beneficiaries who wanted
to maintain the existing damaged box culverts, resulting in suspension of works. Prior'to work suspension,
GCRB completed 2,250 m3 of protection works at a cost of US$0.48 million.
Package 4 comprised rehabilitation works in Wadi Gala'a (Bridge 30 m) for an estimated cost of US$0.22
million.
-6 -



Package 5 comprised works in Wadi Maafir in Shabwa, which involved an IC and protection work. Due to
problems with local residents, works were temporarily suspended. In due course, because of changes in the
wadi course, the IC was relocated to another location. All works were satisfactorily completed for an
estimated cost of US$0.67 million.
Package 6 comprised works in Wadi Markah in Shabwa, which involved a new IC, which has been
completed on time at a total contract value of US$0.74 million.
Package 7 comprised works on the 115 km Shuqra-Ahwar road in Abyan govemorate, which was split into
two packages: package 7 (Wadi Sugum in Abyan) included works in 22 locations for a contract value of
US$0.55 and package 8 included works in 12 locations for a contract value of US$0.629. All these works
have been successfully completed.
From the unused funds of the roads and bridges component, three additional packages for flood-damaged
locations in Hadramaut were executed through force account. Package 9 was implemented to rehabilitate
37 kilometers of the Seiyun-Tarim road for US$1.48 million. Package 10 was implemented to rehabilitate
16 km of the Tarim-Ainat road for US$0.79 mnillion, and package 11 was implemented to rehabilitate 15
kilometers of Al-Ghuraf-Al Rodud road and the 3 km of the Ainat access road for US$0.457 million.
During the design phase of the roads/IC and bridges, 5 local engineers in GCRB worked closely in
apprenticeship with 3 foreign engineers and thereby received training and also gained experience
subsequently in the supervision of the construction.
For the National Competitive Bidding contract works, there were start-up delays, especially in
areas such as Marib and Shabwa, due to unjustified claims from the local population, some of which were
accommodated to enable physical works to proceed. The contracts implemented were 1 large Irish Crossing
and 4 bridges as follows:
Wadi Hammam new Irish Crossing in Shabwa which is 1,011 meters long, and the contract for which was
signed in February 1998 for a contract value of US$2.9 million and completed in time in July 1999. This
contract also included rehabilitation of the old 868 m IC, bank protection work of 1,822 m3 and road
rehabilitation of 1,879 m and 2 m of box culvert.
Wadi Beihan bridge in Shabwa, which is 200 m long, the contract for which was signed in February 1998
and completed in February 1999 for a contract value of US$1.24 million and experienced three months
delay in implementation due to local resident's pressure on the contractor to recruit local labor and rent
their water tanker, which were finally accommodated, and stopping of contractor from evacuating his
equipment after work was completed.
Wadi Amakin bridge in Shabwa, which is 285 m long, the contract for which was signed in July 1998 and
completed in March 2000 for a contract value of US$1.33 million. This contract also included 100 m3 of
protection works, 530 m of road rehabilitation, and about 2,250 m3 of gabion protection works.
Wadi Ablah bridge in Marib, which is 100 m long, the contract for which was signed in July 1998 and
completed in December 1999 after some 9 months delay, for a contract value of US$1.43 million. This
-contract included 1,890 m3 of protection works, 454 m of road rehabilitation, and 852 m3 of gabion
protection works. This contract experienced delays because, during implementation, the local population in
Marib posed difficulties by demanding that the contractors raise the ramp of the bridge to a height of 6 m
-7 -



for about I km length to enable them to use it as an embankment for a reservoir on the right bank of the
wadi. The project and contractor technically found this demand unacceptable because, by closing all
culverts across the road within the length of the raised embankmnent, this posed serious danger to the road
and completed bridge and furthermore risked endangering the population downstream of the bridge.
Wadi Harib-Ain bridge in Marib, which is 200 m long, the contract for which was signed in July 1998 and
completed in November 2000 after about 5 months delay, for a contract value of US$0.94 million.
All the aforementioned NCB contracts were implemented by local contractors, utilizing local labor
of, on average, about 50 workers per bridge during the entire construction period. The bridges have been
designed using pre-cast and pre-stressed elements lifted on piers. This experience is the first time in the
history of Yemen that bridges, which normally have been constructed by foreign contractors, were built by
local contractors. This has helped start a local contractor industry in bridge building and the structures
built, although simple in design, are at high standards and far exceeded PMU expectations, and have
already withstood the recent floods.
Water Supply Infrastructure (Base Cost: US$1.1 million: IDA-financed!. Under this component, the
appraisal report envisaged funds would be provided from the project for the procurement of chlorinators,
pumps, generators, and pipes for use in the flood affected govemorates. As agreed during appraisal, this
was implemented under the Public Works Project (2879-YEM), and all procurements were satisfactorily
completed and delivered.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable. Because of the emergency nature of this flood rehabilitation project, no NPR or
ERR was done at the time of appraisal and therefore none was attempted for this ICR
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project has been significant. First, the project
succeeded in building local contractor capacity in the building of bridges. Four out of the five national
competitive bidding contracts were for bridge building, and they were all awarded and implemented at a
high standard of construction by local contractors. Second, the community participation approach utilized,
involving collecting stones, transporting them to site, pitching them and the feeding of workers by the
comnunity during the wadi rehabilitation works, in addition to having generated substantial rural
employment, also built ownership and maintenance capacity for the implemented works, thereby ensuring
investment sustainability. Third, the project provided opportunity for a large number of new small
contractors to ernerge and acquire experience in the implementation of small works scattered in several
locations. In the case of Marib, the small contractors gained new experience on the use of gabion
technology. Moreover, considerable institutional support was provided by the project to the local
contracting industry for construction and rehabilitation of roads and bridges damaged in the floods.
Significant capacity building was also undertaken for the field arns of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Irrigation (MAI) and GCRB for implementation of works with MAI gaining hands-on experience on design
and supervision of works. Fourth, the project provided opportunity for a new generation of Yemenis to
gain experience and develop skills in wadi works using local material, skills which are about to disappear.
- 8 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The main factor outside the control of government or implementing agency which affected project
implementation and outcome was the failure of the parallel financier, UNDP, to follow through with their
US$1 million pledge to finance the flood preparedness and flood mitigation study after it recruited a
consultant to prepare a terms of reference for implementation of the study in 1998. This study was to help
prepare the basis for Yemen to be able to manage the country's vulnerability to future flood damage.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Because this project is an emergency, multi-sectoral project, expediting difficult implementation
decisions were key to successful outcomes. The timely establishment of the inter-ministerial Steering
Committee chaired by the Minister of Planning generated high level of political support, which helped,
during implementation, in supportive decisions and adequate provision of counterpart budgetary resources.
The Govemment demonstrated flexibility in responding to changing circumstances during
implementation. Although the project was envisaged to close on July 31, 2000, the credit closing date was
extended to December 31, 2001 to enable the effective utilization of unused funds (which resulted from
efficient procurements and the conservative cost estimates at appraisal) on some critical rehabilitation
works associated with the flood damage, such as the rebuilding of the fuse plug at the Waqir Weir, which
commands the Wadi Siham irrigation system, and the rehabilitation of the Seiyun-Tarim and Tarim-Ainat
roads, as well as the Shuqra-Ahwar road.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The Project Management Unit (PMU) operated with two sector coordinators, one for agriculture
and the other for roads and bridges, working with the three field implementation arms (PIUs) in Shabwa,
Hadramaut, and Marib. Although overall project management was quite effective, the project experienced
some weaknesses in the coordination of the agriculture component. This was particularly pronounced in
the case of the Marib PIU, where implementation delays were experienced on the agriculture component.
For others, implementation of the agriculture component was expedited by the presence of strong PIUs in
Shabwa and Hadramaut, which compensated for sector coordination weaknesses. The PIU Directors in
these areas took the lead and operated fairly independently, coordinating project actions with the PMU.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The estimated actual total project costs as of March 11, 2002 (three months after closure) was
US$31.59 (against the appraisal estimate of US$35 million). The only significant cost or financing change
from appraisal was caused by a drop in the US$/SDR exchange rate from US$1.44 to I SDR at appraisal
to US$1.34 to 1 SDR around Credit closing. Since the Credit was denominated in SDR, the drop in the
SDR value meant less dollars for the project; however, funding shortfalls compared to appraisal estimates
were compensated for by efficiency gains through competitive procurement and some gains from cost
overestimates because of the emergency appraisal. Upon completion, out of the total project cost of
US$31.59 million, US$27.44 million was financed by IDA and US$4.15 million by the Government.
-9-



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
The overall sustainability of the investments made, especially the agricultural infrastructure
rehabilitation, is likely, because they were built with the participation of communities, using simple
technologies and utilizing mostly local material. Community involvement and their contribution in cash
and kind to reconstruction efforts has helped build stakeholder commitment to reconstructed work. The
sustainability of the roads and bridges rehabilitated/built is also likely because they were carried out in
consultation with the Ministry of Construction and some were implemented directly by the
government-owned but autonomous General Corporation for Roads and Bridges. Involvement of these two
government entities has built ownership for the reconstruction work, although risks do exist with respect to
Govemment provision of adequate recurrent financing for periodic maintenance of these structures rebuilt.
For particularly the bridges built, the fact that they were implemented by local contractors for the first time
in Yemen's experience will help such structures to be much easier maintained and to endure.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project in many cases utilized existing project implementation units and had substantial
community involvement, as such transition to regular operations is smooth.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
IDA's perfornance in identification, preparation and appraisal has been highly satisfactory.
Almost from the onset of the flood disaster, IDA responded with speed by instructing relevant staff in the
field to participate in technically and financially assessing the extent of the damage. IDA's Resident
Mission, together with UNDP, took a lead role in mobilizing the support of other donors in damage
assessment and immediate emergency relief. IDA reallocated flmds from existing operations in Yemen
related to the floods to finance urgent rehabilitation works. IDA also subsequently fielded a fully staffed
team to carry out more detailed technical and financial assessment, which resulted in the preparation of this
project, including securing Board approval, within six months of the onset of the disaster.
7.2 Supervision:
IDA's performance on supervision has been quite satisfactory. IDA maintained close supervision
of project activities by delegating supervision task management to be carried out from the Resident
Mission. IDA generally provided adequate resources to carry out periodic supervisions, which helped keep
the Government's focus on the project and remove bottlenecks in implementation. IDA monitored
supervision quality, through carrying out QAG reviews of the project. IDA also demonstrated flexibility to
reallocate funds to more pressing priorities related to the flood damage in cases where the local situation in
some parts of Yemen were not conducive to timely implementation of agreed activities.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Based on the above and IDA's catalytic role in supporting implementation efforts which resulted in
the significant achievements of the project, IDA's overall performance has been satisfactory.
- 10 -



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower's performance in preparation has been highly satisfactory, although the Borrower could
have been more pro-active in requesting UNDP to honor the support they pledged during appraisal.
However, that aside, from the onset of the disaster, the Ministry of Planning together with the Ministry of
Agriculture and the Ministry of Construction demonstrated their commitment by providing a counterpart
local team to work with donors in expediting project preparation activities. This resulted in a record
project preparation period of six months for what usually takes an average of 24 months in Yemen.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government's implementation performance was satisfactory. First, the Govermnent demonstrated
its commitment to the project by establishing on time a high level inter-ministerial steering commitment
chaired by the then Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Planning to oversee project implementation.
Second, it established a Project Management Unit in time staffed by competent professionals and headed by
an able director, highly experienced on procurement and engineering, from the rank of Deputy Minister.
This helped greatly to reinforce project focus and expedite implementation. Third, it provided adequate
counterpart funds and strong institutional support from the concerned line ministries.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the Project Management Unit (PMU) and its field arms, the project
implementation units or PIUs, have been satisfactory. The PMU relied on existing project implementing
units (PIUs) or authorities for implementation of project activities and created a PIU only in areas where
there were no better alternatives. The PMU established, on time, the special accounts for the project,
carried out competitive procurements of goods and services and made them available to the PIUs for
implementation. The PMU followed closely project implementation, maintaining good physical and
financial records, which were reviewed by IDA supervision missions and by private auditors. The PMU
periodically carried out field visits to project areas to review physical progress, resolve problems, and agree
on next steps.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Borrower's overall performance has been satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The main lessons leamed from this project are as follows:
(a) Emergency projects require strong political commitment from the top and speedy actions to ensure
success. Under the project, the establishment of an oversight body in the formn of an Inter-ministerial
Committee chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Planning helped expedite the timely
provision of counterpart funds and therefore timely implementation of project activities. Also, given
the multi-sectoral nature of the project, support from the head of the Ministry of Planning, a non-line
Ministry, helped infuse neutrality in expediting project decisions.
(b) Selectivity is the key to success in the context of natural disasters where the needs are great and the
available resources are limited. Under the project, affected areas were scattered in remote and difficult
-1 1-



areas, and a criterion for the project to direct support to an affected area were if the community was
receptive to the support and willing to participate and contribute in kind to reconstruction works.
(c) Multi-sectoral components pose difficult coordination problems. Choice of sector coordinators is
therefore key to success. Difficulties were encountered under the project in coordinating especially the
agricultural component because of demands made by the sector coordinator.
(d) Involving local comrnmunities in the design and implementation of rehabilitated structures helps promote
the sustainability of those structures.
(e) In the case of emergency projects, in view of the fact that parallel financing is usually outside IDA's
control, it should be firrned up and, if possible, brought under IDA's management, to prevent
coordination and financing delays.
- 12 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Borrower's Contributfon to the ICR
There was no revision made to the objectives of the project. The mid-term review in 1999/2000
was carried out by a consultant after coordination with IDA supervision mission reduced the scope of the
components and simplified and clarified the implementation arrangements and a detailed report was
submitted in time.
Quality at Entry
Quality at entry was satisfactory. Ownership of the project by the GOY as considered to be an
Emergency Project and was consistent with the Borrower's strategy for the rehabilitation of embankments,
and flood protection works, service roads, secondary canals, village protection and rehabilitation of main
roads and associated structures (i.e., bridges, roads, culverts in the most affected locations in Shabwa,
Hadramaut and Marib Govemorates).
Achievement of Objective and Output
It is worth mentioning, that the overall outcome of the project is rated satisfactory excluding the
Flood Preparedness and Mitigation Study which was supposed to be carried out from the UNDP Grant of
US$1.0 million and, in spite of UNDP approval to give the grant for this study, the UNDP has not provided
the funds and requested the GOY to include additional budget to carry out this study. In general, the
project's development objective in all the areas affected badly (i.e. Shabwa, Hadramaut and Marib) has
been successfully achieved. Physical targets were reached in most cases, and exceeded in some. The
capacity of most institutions involved has been strengthened and farmers, as well as Local National
Committee, have participated in many project activities by providing labor or through cash payment,
creating the basis for the sustainability of these activities.
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
Counterpart Funds: During the project implementation period, GOY provided adequate
counterpart funds.
Project Cost and Financing
The total cost of the project, including price and physical contingencies, estimated at US$35
million, with a foreign exchange component of US$26.54 million, which is about 73 percent of total project
costs. IDA's financial contribution would be SDR 20.8 million (US$30 million equivalent), which is about
86 percent of total project costs. Local cost financing by IDA is justified in view of the emergency nature
of the project and extra budgetary burdens shouldered by the GOY as a result of the floods. The UNDP
would provide US$1 million on a grant basis as a part of technical assistance which was not granted.
- 13-



Evaluation of Objectives
The objectives of the project were consistent with Yemen priorities and implementation capacity as
well as IDA's country assistance strategy. The project design provided an adequate balance between
actions well suited to respond quickly to the emergency situation, and actions with more long-term and
durable impact on the needs of the population in the govemorates affected by flooding of 1996. All project
activities were targeted.
Achievement of Objectives
(a) Agricultural component
At the closing date, most of the project objectives had been achieved. The PIUs in Shabwa, Marib
and Hadramaut govemorates have implemented the rehabilitation and repairs to embankments and other
flood protection works, existing irrigation systems, including canals and service roads, installation of
secondary canals, wells, bunds, and diversion weirs. However, in Marib govemorate and due to
considerable start-up delays in the region, works envisaged at appraisal, for the rehabilitation of Marib
Irrigation Scheme, infrastructure damaged by floods, were therefore revised, and this reallocation has been
part of the reason for delays on this component of the agricultural sector rehabilitation work.
(b) Roads and bridges component
The criteria stipulated at appraisal for the selection of roads to be rehabilitated has been
substantially adhered to during implementation, and the roads and bridges component is substantially
completed.
For the key performance indicators of the component see Annex 1.
(c) Water supply component
Allocation was made at appraisal for the rehabilitation of urban and rural water supply facilities
for a total amount of US$1.1 million. This amount was later revised downwards to US$0.69 million based
on actual contract requirements. All procurements have been completed under this component.
(d) FEPMstudy
The study was supposed to finish September 1998, but it has experienced substantial delay on the
part of UNDP. UNDP's response was that it would follow up with its commitment only if the Government
establishes an initial Flood Preparedness and Mitigation Unit that will be the first line of defense in
establishing an early waming system and in addressing concems associated with future flood damages.
Although the Unit has been established to deal generally with all natural disasters but, to date, no support
has been forthcoming from the UNDP.
A Later Addition to the Project
The construction of Dhomanne recharge dam and Ali Salem spate diversion works, and the
rebuilding of the fuse plug at Wakir Weir which commands the Wadi Siham Irrigation system.
- 14 -



* The rehabilitation of Sayun-Tarim and Tarim -Ainat Roads.
* The rehabilitation of Shuqra -Ahwar road.
Project Implementation Record
Project preparation by the Govemment, with assistance from IDA staff, took only three months.
An appraisal mission visited Yemen in June 1996. Negotiations were held in early September and the
Credit Agreement was signed on December 1996, and became effective on March of 1997, the original
closing date was set for July 31, 2000. Project implementation started expeditiously due to the advance
preparation and good initial performance of the Project Management Unit (PMU) and Sector Project
Implementation Units.
Factors Affecting Project Results
The results of the project, which has been largely successful, were substantially affected by the
following factors:
(a)    the existence of a Steering Committee, headed by the Minister of Planning and
Development, generated high level support during the first year of the project;
(b)    successful collaboration and team work with IDA's Resident Mission and the supervision
staff;
(c)    pro-active supervision and close monitoring of implementation by the Task Manager, and
(d)    Government and IDA were flexible and responsive to changing circumstances during
project implementation.
IDA Performance
IDA staff responded quickly to the emergency situation helping the Government to prepare a
project that was well suited.
During implementation, IDA's close supervision of project activities provided essential support and
guidance to the Government. To ensure the completion of major project components and the additional
works IDA agreed to some reallocation of resources and extensions of the closing date.
Overall the performance of IDA is rated satisfactory to highly satisfactory.
Government Performance
The project received strong institutional and political support from the Government and its line
ministries. The good performance of the Roads and Bridges S/Coordinator, PIUs in Shabwa and
Hadramaut govemorates facilitated the implementation of works.
The PMU maintained accurate records of project accounts which were audited by private auditprs.
The audit reports were submitted to IDA.
The overall performance of the Government was satisfactory.
- 15 -



Project Impact
The project has had significant impacts on the benefiting populations in the rural areas.
*  The wadi protection works has helped farmers by preventing further losses of their agricultuml land
and provided protection to human settlements.
* The community participation approach in the wadi works has generated significant amount of rural
employment and built ownership for the implemented works.
* The rehabilitation and repairs of roads and bridges has reduced vehicle operating cost, as well as
vehicle depreciation, and also facilitated access for rural populations to the large economy (markets for
inputs and outputs).
* Overall improvements of the devastated infrastructure has helped stem the tide of the migration of the
affected rural population to the cities.
* Engagement of local labor by local contractors from the regions of works had improved the social
condition in, and established a safer atmosphere work and created some stability and social rest in these
areas.
* A large number of new small contractors from the governorates emerged and showed their capabilities
to carryout small value contracts. This outcome has given some benefits to regional contracts and local
labor and led to improving the social and economic condition in many areas of the project, and
employment of local labor to benefit from this project and feel its outcomes.
* Introducing the use of new building technologies in areas not familiar with the use of precast concrete
elements, gabion boxes and filter materials, especially in Marib govemorate, for bridge construction,
wadi rehabilitation and protection works.
* Providing institutional support and capacity building to regional agricultural offices in the project areas
that were lacking the minimum logistics and caliber to carryout tasks pertained to wadi rehabilitation
and flood control works. Procurement of agricultural machinery, heavy equipment, and vehicles to
these regional offices has provided a good momentum and sound base to embark on activities related to
wadi training and rehabilitation works. Construction of building facilities for the administration,
residential houses for cadre, engineers technical staff have constituted an attractive motive and
incentive for a well trained personal to works in these remote areas, and get themselves established as
permanent staff.
Key Lessons Learned
The following lessons can be drawn from the experience of this project:
Good project preparation and design, as well as strong political support for the project objectives, are
essential for a successful outcome of the operations.
* There is a need for further and future wadi management studies for developing mid-term and long-term
wadi rehabilitation program to ensure sustainability of the project and identify factors and causes that
aggravate damages resulting from floods.
* Emphasis on the importance of carrying out regular maintenance works for the erected structures and
maintain at different flood seasons wadi training works to ensure adequate and close control of wadi
flows to minimize soil erosion and provide needed protection of villages and agricultural lands.
* Delegation of authorities to PMU has presented in efficient procurement of goods and enhanced the
level of implementation of project components.
* Active and responsible involvement of existing developing agencies of lined ministries should be
ensured during the different stages of the project.
- 16 -



(b) Cofinanciers:
UNDP
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
UNDP
10. Additional Information
Not applicable.
- 17 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Agriculture Infrastructure Component
Shabwa Governorate
Tech. Annex/SAR                   Actual Implementation
NCB      DCWFA     Community    NCB      DC/FA    Community
S/N     Item                             Nos.      Nos.     Nos. Nos.             Nos       NOS.
A- Civil Works                                                                           _
l       SHABWA
1.1     Wadi Ain                                         8          130        0                   136  Comol
1.2     Wadi Baihan                           I_           _        112       12  .                165  Cmpl
1.3     Wadi Marldia                                    I 1          92       13                   69   Coffipl
1.4     Wadi Abadan                             I        5           61       14                  137 C137   l
1.5     WadiHamnmam                                      1           36       10                    3   Compl
1.6     Wadi Durah                                      10           66        8                    77  Compl
1.7     Wadi Khorah                                      6           80       19                    58  Conml
1.8     Wadi Yeshbom                                     0          100       14                   108  Compl
1.9     Wadi Ataq                                        0            0        0                   50   Compl
Sub-ToSal (1.1 ,9)                    1        52          677      90         0         803
1.10    CONTRACT I
Two Room Houses (5/70)m2               I
180m2 Guest House & 30m3
Elevated Tank in Nissab
1.11    CONTRACT2
Two Room Houses (5n0)m2
180m2 Guest House & 30m3
Elevated Tank in Baihan              _
1.12    CONTRACT 3
Office (200)2 & 8 Room
Bachelor Dormitory in Nissab
1.13    CONTRACT 4
Office (200)m2 & 8 Room
Bachelor Dofmitory in Baihan
1.14    BUILDING FACILITES IN
ATAQ                                      ___
400 m2 Office Building          _o_ mp
270 m2 Guest House                                                                            .Cmp
=____    420 ml Boundary Wall                                               =                            Compl
270 m2 Bachelor Dormitory                                                                       Comnl
45 m2 Guard Roomn
172 m2 Equipment Shed                                                                             _
5 Three Room Buildings (550 m2)                                                               I Coml
48 m3 U.G Water Tank                                    _
30 m3 Elevated Water Tank              _
1.15    BUILDING FACILiXES IN
BAIHAN
____     270M2 Guest House                                                     I _        _Cmpl
900 ml Boundary Wall                              _            _
30 m3 Elevated Water Tank
1.16    Domarine Weir                                                          I                        Cospl
1.17    Ali Salem Weir                                                         I                        Conmpl
Sub-Total (1.19-1.26)                  4        0             0       6         0           0
G. TOTAL (SHABWA)                      5       52           677      96         0         803
-18-



Agriculture Infrastructure Component
Hadramaut Governorate
Tech. Annex/SAR                    Actual l  lementation
NCB       DC/FA     Community    NCB    DC/FA       Community
SIN,     Item                             Nos.      Nos.      Nos.         Nos.   Nos.        Nos.
2        HADRAMAUT
2.1      Wadi Rehab. At Gawada and Otfa          I                             1                           Compi
2.2      Recon. of Shibam Div. Weir and          1                             1                           Compi
Wadi Course Rehab.                                   _
2.3      Rehab. of Flood Damage in 10                    10                                           31   Compi
Retention Weirs on W. Masila and
Idem
2.4      Recon. of Damaged Diversion
Weir and brrig. Canals
2.5      Rehab. of W. Neir at Hus Bin                     1 I                                              Compl
Duban                                                                                            _____
2.6      Recon. of Damaged Ainat Weir on         1                             I                           Comp;
Masila                                                               _
2.7      Other W. Protection Works                                      3                             76   Compl
2.8      Rehab. of 20 Km Agri. Service                   10                         25.3 Km                Compl
Roads
Al-Jarf & Assi                                                        21
Sub-Total (2.1-2.8)                     4        21            3      6    25.3 Km          107
-19-



Agriculture Infrastructure Component
Marib Governorate
Tech. Annex/SAR                   Actual Implementation
NCB       DC/FA    Community    NC    DC/FA       Community
S/N     Item                              Nos.     Nos.      Nos.         B     Nos.       Nos.
Nos
3      1MARIB                                                                  ___
3.1     Flood Protec. for Canal "B"                      I
3.2     Flood Protec. for South Canal "BS"      I       10                 _
3.3     Rehab. of Secondary Canals Sec.
"4" "5" "1 1" and "12"
3.4      Secondary Canals "6" "7" "8" "9"       1
and "10"
3.5      Rehab. of Other Wadis in Marib                 10           230              769               Compl
Gov.__                                                                      _  ___                   _
Sub-Total (3.1-3.5)                    2        21          230     0        769            0
3.6      100 Meters Canals                               .                   I                          CompI
3.7     Rehab. of Canals 4, 5                                                1                          60%
_________ COMPI
3.8     Earth Works                                                         7                           Compi
Sub-Total (3.6-3.8)                    0         0            0     9           0           0
Add 9 Bridges Over Canals                                                       7
4        HODEIDAH
4.1      Wakir Weir (Wadi Siham)                                                        I               Compl
TOTAL                                  2        21          230     9        770            0
-20-



Roads and Bridges Component
Span     New Irish  Rehab.     Protec.    Road       Gabion   Box
Bridges  Crossings   of Irish  Works      Rehab.     Protec.  Culvert
S/N    Governor   Location          ImpL                       Crossing_                        Works
ate                          Proce      LM         LM         LM         M3         LM        M3       No.
NCB    Contracts
1 __  Shabwa     Wadi Hammam        NCB                1,011.01     68.0     1,822.0    1.879.0               2.0
2.     Shabwa     Wadi Baihan       NCB       200.0                           250.0      315.0   1,527.4
3      Shabwa     Wadi Amakin       NCB      285.0                            100.0      530.0   2,249.8
4      Manb       Wadi Ablah        NCB       100.0                          1.890.0     454.0     852A       2.0
5      Marib      Wadi Hanb-Ain     NCB      200.0                            500.0      290.0   1,903.1
Force Account Packages  ---
I     Al-Jawf      Wadi Al-Khaleg   F/A                  96.0                 200.0
_     Al-Jawf      Wadi Assalamat   F/A                 180.0                 271.0
1     Shabwa       Wadi Amdeeqa    F/A                   30.0                 155.0
2      Al-Jawf     Wadi Assail      F/A                 216.0                 325.0
3     Marib        Wadi Al-Hajiiya  F/A                                      2,250.0
5      Shabwa      Wadi Maafir      F/A                  60.0                1,550.0
6 _    Shabwa      Wadi Markha      F/A                 268.0                 272.0     1,500.0
4      Shabwa      Wadi Gala'a      F/A       30.0                             50.0
7     Abyan        Shugra/Ahwar     F/A                            348.0     7,881.0    1,511.0               1.0
Road
8     Abyan        Shurgra/Ahwar    F/A                 264.0       110.0    2,328.0    3,538.0
Road
9     Hadramaut    Seiyun-Tarim     F/A                            400.0       70.0    37,000.0
Road
10    Hadramaut    Tarii-Ainat      F/A                 120.0                3,142.0   16,000.0              14.0
Road
Direct Contractin   _
I I   Hadramaut    Al-Ghuraf-AI    DC                                                 18,000.00
Rodud and Ainat
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ R oad_                                  _ _  _   _ _  _  _  _  _ _  _
TOTAL                        =       8150 n    2,245.0    1,726.0   23,056.0   81,017.0  6,532.6     19.0
Average road width =6 meters
NCB = National Competitive Bidding
F/A = Force Account
-21 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs by Component (in US$ million)
ai___ Apasa] Estimate         Actual/:Latest Estimate  Percentage
Component                     Loca   Foreign    Tota     Loca   Foreigi   Total of Appraisal
Agricultural_Infrastr.          2.82   10.18    13.0(      1.8(   13.2    15.09      116%/
Roads/Bridges                   3.89    9.11    13.0(     2.3'    13.5C   15.85      122%
Water Supply                    0.10    1.00     1.1               0.6f    0.65       59%
Flood Study and Tech            0.20    1.69     1.8                0.      0.         00/
Assistance
Total Baseline Cost         7.01    21.98    28.95 _
Physical Contingencies      0.7     2.20     2.9                          I
Price Contingencies         0.75    2.36     3.111
Total Project Cost        8.46   26.54     35.00     4.15   27.44   31.59
Procurement Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate)
Procurement Methods
Project Elements            ICB        NCB     SHP/FA/DC       Other      Total
Materials & Equipment                6.2                     1.55                  7.75
(6.2)                   (1.55)                (7.75)
Civil Works                                      13.90      11.10                  25.00
(11.67)     (9.33)                (21.00)
Technical Assistance                                                    2.25        2.25
__________  ~ ~  1(1.25)                    (1.25)
TOTAL                    6.2        13.90       12.65       2.25        35.0)
____________________________ (6.2)    (11.67)     (10.88)     (1.25)      (00
1/ SHP: Shopping Procedures for materials and equipment (vehicles and locally available equipment and
materials).
FA    Force Accounts for Civil Works (US$4.5 million for roads/bridges and US$2.0 million for agriculture).
DC    Direct Contracting for works (US$3.5 million for agriculture and US$1.0 million for roads and bridges).
2/ Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by IDA. Total costs include contingencies.
3/ Consultants recruited in accordance with IDA guidelines "Use of Consultants."
- 22 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procurement Method
ELxpenditure Category       ICB           NCB          Other'         N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                        0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (20.60)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (20.60)
2. Goods                        0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(5.10)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (5.10)
3. Services                     0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)       (0.40)        (0.00)        (0.40)
4. Mlscellaneous                0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (1.30)        (0.00)        (1.30)
Total                        0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(5.10)        (20.60)        (1.70)       (0.00)        (27.40)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govenmment units.
Project Financing by Component (In USS million equivalent)
Component d''    'Appra sa |Estlmate        ' Actual/Latest Estimte    P         o Apprisa
. i'' ' I-   l C:'. .' ',;Bank;;:  Govt,: CoF.q ' . . ' Bank  Go_k' oF. ' Bank  Gbov.  CoF.
Agriculture Infrastructure  13.26  2.34               13.29      1.80             100.2   76.9
Roads and Bridges       13.26      2.34               13.50     2.35              101.8  100.4
Water Supply             1.32      0.19               0.65      0.00              49.2    0.0
Flood Study & Technical            0.97      1.00     0.00      0.00      0.00            0.0    0.0
Assistance
Total                  27.84     5.85      1.00     27.44      4.15      0.00    98.6   70.9    0.0
-23 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable.
- 24 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performn ce Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identificatdon/Preparatdon
07/96                       2    Senior Irrigation Engineer,
Operations Officer
Appraisal/Negodation
10/96                       2   Economist, Senior Irrigation
Engineer
02/97                       3    Economist, Senior Irrigation
Engineer, Operations Officer
Supervision
07/07                        3   Economist, Senior Irrigation      S             S
Engineer, Operations Officer
02/98                       3    Economist, Senior Irrigation      S             S
Engineer, Operations Officer
10/98                       3   Principal Irrigation Engineer,     S             S
Senior Economist, Senior
Operations Officer
05/99                        3   Principal Irrigation Engineer,    S             S
Senior Economist, Senior
Operations Officer
12/99                       3   Principal Irrigation Engineer,     S             S
Senior Economist, Senior
Operations Officer
06/00                       2    Senior Operations Officer, Senior  S            S
Irrigation Engineer (Consultant)
01/01                        4   Principal Irrigation Engineer,    S             S
Senior Operations Officer, Senior
Social Scientist, Financial
Management Specialist
06/01                        3   Principal Irrigation Engineer,    S             S
Senior Operations Officer,
Procurement Specialist
11/01                       3   Principal Irrigation Engineer,     S             S
Senior Economist, Senior
Operations Officer
ICR
11/01                       3    Principal Irrigation              S             S
Engineer, Senior
Economist, Senior
Operations Officer
-25 -



(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ (000)
Identification/Preparation             8.00                      22.90
Appraisal/Negotiation                  14.74                    104.52
Supervision                           98.11                     290.35
ICR                                    8.00                      23.23
Total                                 128.85                    441.00
-26 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                      O H  OSUOM O N * NA
O-1 Sector Policies                   O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Physical                            * H  OSUOM O N O NA
O Financial                           O H  OSUOM O N O NA
OI Institutional Development          0 H O SU * M   0 N 0 NA
O Environmental                       O H  *SUOM O N O NA
Social
0 Poverty Reduction             O H  *SUOM     O N O NA
El Gender                       OH   OSUOM     ON    *NA
O Other (Please specify)        OH   OSUOM ON O NA
El Private sector development         0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
LI Public sector management           0 H O SU * M 0 N 0 NA
O Other (Please specify)              O H OSUOM O N O NA
-27 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rating
a Lending                                          *HSOS       OLU    OHU
O Supervision                                      OHS OS      O U    O HU
O Overall                                          OHS * S     O    U  0 HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
O Preparation                                      * HS OS     O U    O HU
Li Government implementation performance           O HS O S    0 U    0 HU
Li Implementation agency performance               OHS OS      O U    O HU
Li Overall                                         OHS OS      O U    O HU
- 28 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
The ICR is based on the documents in the project file.
-29 -






42~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  43~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                              - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 2831
I A411@   42-  43  44         450       1A 47-                48        49        5          5,         52- _ .   53         54-        55
REPUBLIC      OF   YEMEN                       S A U D I    A R A B I A
EMERGENCY FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT                                             --
|    MAIN AREAS WITH AGRICULTURA  -  MAIN ROADS                 _-                   /
H                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DAMAGE INCLUDED IN PROJECr
MAIN ROAD SEGMENTS INCLUDED  SECONDARY ROADS                                                            0 M A N
IN THE PROJECT        4  INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
DISTRICT CENTERS         SEA PORTS
8- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~*PROVINCE CENTERS                    WDSE RC
NATI<  *  ROlNAL CAPffAL  G-  -  GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
-  -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES  , A
t 9   K \   >>                   c9//     /   :    9    / t ) / |     ~~~~~~~AL MAHARA ) 
17'                 SA AADAH                                                    mi-ld 
~~MoTdi       H4H.       )AlAL*JAWF                              T
I, _ I,ah   _           A                       , '                     H    ADRAMOUT
13-  \\ Sp                                IBBE ':             \O
EJ HoTidah                                                        F.                                       Ku D        hoh  Dorssh      12
Al Bi .AJli -                                                          'AbcT Cl/ Kun     The BrohTe
41l-    412 ,/  DJIBO,UTI  \   1-         4W5        44 *        417        4R-         4W>        S           S-          2         53-         NOEMBR I
id-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OEBR1






IMAGING
Report No..         24121
Type:     {CR



