Report No. PIC4429
Project Name              Yemen-Emergency Flood Rehabilitation Project
Region                    Middle East and North Africa
Sector                    Irrigation and Drainage
Project ID                YEPA48522
Borrower                  Government of Yemen
Implementing Agency       Ministry of Agriculture
General Corporation for Roads and Bridges
Date of this PID          October 11, 1996
Appraisal Date            October 15, 1996
Projected Board Date      December 19, 1996
1.Background. Yemen's agriculture sector contributes about 19 percent
of 1994 GDP and employs 58 percent of the labor force. In June of this
year, the agriculture sector in particular, but also other sectors,
suffered heavy losses from floods. Heavy rainfall and widespread
flooding caused 324 deaths, 108 missing and resulted in damage to
livestock, crops, houses, flood control, irrigation and other rural
infrastructure. The floods have been the worst in the country's recent
history; the rainfall has been the heaviest in about seventy years and
has been totally out of season. It affected six governorates:
Hadramawt, Shabwa and Marib, which were severely hit, and to a lesser
extent Abyan, Al-Mahra and Al-Jawf Governorates. In addition, 3,770
persons were left homeless. The total direct damage was estimated by
Government to be very substantial, and estimates by Bank missions,
utilizing the list of damages provided by the General Secretariat for
Natural Disasters and Relief, put the damages to be at least US$200
million. About half of the estimated damages (US$95 million) affected
directly the agriculture sector (farms, irrigation and wadi structures,
and other related rural infrastructure) while the remaining damages
affected other rural infrastructure, including housing, health and
educational facilities. Damages affected a substantial number of dikes,
canals, roads, bridges, health centers, schools, houses, livestock and
crops. Following the extensive damages, emergency relief efforts began
aost immediately with assistance from the United Nations Disaster Relief
Organization(UNDRO) coordinated by the UNDP Resident Mission in Sana'a.
The UNDP mobilized available international and local donors through the
On-Site Operation Coordination Center (OSOCC) to carry out the relief
efforts. Many donors responded positively to the flood victims by
providing food, medicine, blankets, temporary shelter and emergency
medical relief. The full assessment of flood damages is still being
prepared through the management and coordination of OSOCC and a 'White
Paper' providing detailed assessments will be submitted to Government
for review and approval by November 1996. The proposed project is a
request from the Government for urgent assistance to respond to the
flood emergency. The Government has taken initiative to create, through
the General Secretariat for Natural Disasters, a Flood Relief High
Committee headed by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Planning,
to handle all flood disaster relief activities and coordinate with aid



donors on the reconstruction effort.
2.   Project Objectives.   The proposed project would help restore the
country's essential economic infrastructure damaged by the heavy rains
and flooding and reduce human deprivation and suffering through
restoration of social services and shelter. It would strengthen Yemen's
institutional capacity to manage disaster recovery programs and develop
future programs to mitigate the country's vulnerability to floods. The
project would also serve as a catalyst for donor financing and
coordination of the reconstruction effort.
3.   Project Description.   The proposed project would finance a self-
contained portion of the most urgent components of the Government's
Flood Reconstruction Program, and would consist of the provision of
materials, equipment and civil works for: (i) the rehabilitation of
agricultural and rural infrastructure, including rehabilitation of flood
protection and irrigation structures (canals, wells, flood bunds, weirs,
and wadi embankments; and (ii) the rehabilitation of damaged roads and
associated structures. The project would also finance technical
assistance for a flood preparedness and mitigation study and
consultants' services in engineering, construction contract management
and construction supervision to assist in project implementation.
4.   Project Cost and Financing.   The total estimated cost of the
project is US$35 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component
of US$26.5 million, which amounts to 75 percent of total costs. IDA
would finance US$30 million; UNDP US$1 million, and the Government the
remaining US$4 million.
5.   Implementation.   For a project of this nature, which involves two
sector ministries and several government agencies and requires
speediness of response, project organization requires concentrated focus
and flexibility in design. The existing Project Management Unit under
the closing Emergency Recovery Project, which has broad familiarity in
implementing IDA projects, would be strengthened in capacity and placed
under the general supervision of an Emergency Flood Rehabilitation Unit
(EFRU). It would report to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of
Planning and Development who is the Chairman of the Secretariat General
for Natural Disasters and Relief. The PMU will be headed by a National
Reconstruction Coordinator and will consist of a Sector Coordinator in
the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources and in the General
Corporation for Roads and Bridges. The Ministry of Agriculture and
Water Resources will be responsible for rehabilitation of agricultural
and rural infrastructure, irrigation works and flood protection schemes,
and for the carrying out of the flood preparedness and mitigation study
under the general guidance of the Ministry of Planning. The General
Corporation for Roads and Bridges will be responsible for bridges and
rehabilitation to the highways network.
6.   Sustainability.   Aside from rehabilitating existing damages, the
project would strengthen institutional capacity to manage disaster
recovery programs and develop future programs to mitigate the country's
vulnerability to floods.
7.   Lessons Learned.   The main lesson learned is that Yemen is prone to
- 2 -



periodic floods, and it is important to ensure that adequate
institutional arrangements and logistical capabilities are in place to
provide rapid response to mitigating effects of floods. This has been
taken into account in the design of the proposed project.
8.   Poverty Category.   N/A.
9.   Environmental Aspects.   The project is expected to have a
beneficial overall impact on the environment through engineering
measures which will re-instate existing infrastructure and reduce the
country's vulnerability to similar disasters and reduce the impact of
future floods through establishing permanent institutional arrangements
and logistical capabilities and an early warning system.
10. Program Objective Category
Contact Point:       Tijan Sallah, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)473-2977
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by The Public Information Center week ending
November 15, 1996.
-3-



