Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2932 YEM
                       Development Credit Agreement
                 (Emergency Flood Rehabilitation Project)
                                 between
                            REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                                   and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         Dated December 30, 1996
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2932 YEM
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated December 30, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association):
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of
the Project;
     WHEREAS (B) the Borrower intends to contract from the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) a grant (hereinafter the UNDP Grant) in an
aggregate amount equivalent to about $1,000,000 to assist in financing
part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(the UNDP Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
UNDP; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                        General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Page  2
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (b)  The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
          "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
          agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) onaccount of
          expenditures in the territories of any country which is not
          a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
          supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of
          any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
          goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
          Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United
          Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the
          Charter of the United Nations."
     (c)  Section 6.03 is modified to read:
          "Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the
          right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
          Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
          of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b)
          at any time, the Association determines, after consultation
          with the Borrower, that an amount of the Credit will not be
          required to finance the Project's costs to be financed out
          of the proceeds of the Credit, or (c) at any time, the
          Association determines, with respect to any contract to be
          financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or
          fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of
          the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the
          procurement or the execution of such contract, without the
          Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satis-
          factory to the Association to remedy the situation, and
          establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such
          contract which would otherwise have been eligible for
          financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any
          time, the Association determines that the procurement of
          any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
          Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or
          referred to in the Development Credit Agreement and
          establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such
          contract which would otherwise have been eligible for
          financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (e) after
          the Closing Date, an amount of the Credit shall remain
          unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Association may,
          by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of the
          Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.
          Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the Credit
          shall be canceled."
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "MAWR" means the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
of the Borrower;
     (b)  "MOCHUP" means the Borrower's Ministry of Construction,
Housing and Urban Planning;
     (c)  "GCRB" means the General Corporation for Roads and Bridges
of the Borrower, a semi-autonomous governmental authority under the
Minister of the MOCHUP established and operating under the Borrower's
Decree No. 16 of 1972, and any successor thereto;
     (d)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an
exchange of letters dated November 20, 1996 and December 3, 1996
Page  3
between the Borrower and the Association; and
     (e)  "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                 The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty
million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR20,800,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in Dollars three separate special deposit accounts (the
Agriculture Special Account for Part A of the Project, the Roads
Special Account for Part B of the Project, and the Water Supply Special
Account for Part C of the Project) in its Central Bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and
payments out of, each respective Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to
pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn balance of the
authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be
canceled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 2000 or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June
30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to para-
graph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of
this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant
to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
Page  4
payable semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing
May 1, 2007 and ending November 1, 2036.  Each installment to and
including the installment payable on November 1, 2016 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product
(GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three
consecutive years the level established annually by the Association for
determining eligibility to access the Association's resources; and (ii)
the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by
them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment
of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower
to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring
the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit
as of the first semi-annual payment date referred to in paragraph (a)
above falling six (6) months or more after the date on which the
Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
     (c)  If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-
mentioned repayment modification.
     (d)  If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may,
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment
to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of The United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project through MAWR,
Part B of the Project through GCRB under the Minister of the MOCHUP,
and Part C of the Project through the Project Management Unit of the
Public Works Project, all with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering,
environmental, and agricultural practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works, and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
Page  5
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for
this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the
future operation of the Project; and
     (b)  afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of the Project of the departments, agencies or authorities
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section including those for the Special
               Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
               Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available, but
               in any case not later than six (6) months after the end
               of each year: (A) certified copies of its financial
               statements for such year as so audited; and (B) the
               report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
               and in such detail as the Association shall have
               reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
               concerning said records and accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association
               has received the audit report for the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was
               made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
               receipts and other documents) evidencing such expen-
               ditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
               the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
               year, together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
Page  6
               upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                  ARTICLE V
                         Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that:
(a) the UNDP Grant Agreement shall have failed to become effective by
January 1, 1998 or such later date as the Association may agree;
provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Associa-
tion that adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from its own or other sources on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
     (b)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph the right
               of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the UNDP
               Grant shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated
               in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the UNDP
               Grant Agreement.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if
               the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
               Association that: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
               or termination is not caused by the failure of the
               Borrower to perform any of its obligations under such
               agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are
               available to the Borrower from its own or other sources
               on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations
               of the Borrower under this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) (ii)
of that Section.
                                ARTICLE VI
                               Termination
     Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VII
                   Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning and Development of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Planning and Development
          P.O. Box 175
          Sana'a
          Republic of Yemen
          Cable address:           Telex:
               CENPLAN Sana'a      2266 CENPLAN YE
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
Page  7
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INDEVAS             248423 (MCI) or
               Washington, D.C.     64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                    THE REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                    By /s/ Mohsin Alaini
                                              Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Salah Darghouth
                                         Acting Regional Vice President
                                           Middle East and North Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated             % of
                         (Expressed in SDR        Expenditures
Category                    Equivalent)          to be Financed
(1) (a) Civil Works
        Under Part A
        of the Project       5,400,000           85%
    (b) Civil Works
        Under Part B
        of the Project       8,400,000           85%
(2) (a) Goods and
        Equipment Under
        Part A of the
        Project              4,200,000           100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures,
    (b) Goods and                                100% of local
        Equipment Under                          expenditures (ex-
        Part B of the                            factory cost)
        Project                100,000           and 85% of local
                                                 expenditures for
    (c) Goods and                                other items pro-
        Equipment Under                          cured locally
        Part C of the
        Project                500,000
(3) (a) Technical
        Assistance
        Under Part
        A of the
Page  8
        Project                400,000           100%
    (b) Technical
        Assistance
        Under Part B
        of the Project         200,000           100%
(4) (a) Incremental
        Operating Costs
        Under Part A
        of the Project         100,000           100%
    (b) Incremental
        Operating Costs
        Under Part B
        of the Project         100,000           100%
(5) Refunding of Project
    Preparation Advance        700,000           Amount due pur-
                                                 suant to Section
                                                 2.02(c) of this
                                                 Agreement
(6) Unallocated                700,000
                            __________
    TOTAL                   20,800,000
                            ==========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower;
    (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
    (c)  the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means the cost of
office equipment, supplies, telephone, utility charges and staff
salaries of personnel in the Project Management Office, field Project
Implementation Units and GCRB Branch Offices for the respective
components of the Project.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.   The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
for: (a) goods and works under contracts not exceeding $200,000
equivalent; (b) works under contracts carried out by force account;
(c) Incremental Operating Costs; (d) consulting firms under contracts
not exceeding $100,000; and (e) individual consultants under contracts
not exceeding $50,000; under such terms and conditions as the Associa-
tion shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                          Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are: (a) to assist the Borrower in
restoring essential economic infrastructure and domestic food production
capability destroyed or damaged by heavy rains and flooding; (b) to
reduce human deprivation and suffering by facilitating access to pro-
duction centers, markets, and social services; and (c) to strengthen
the Borrower's institutional capacity to manage disaster recovery
programs and develop future programs to mitigate the Borrower's
vulnerability to floods.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
Page  9
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:    Agriculture
     Rehabilitation of embankments, service roads, existing irrigation
systems and canals, and installation of secondary canals, wells, bunds,
weirs and other flood protection works in the Governorates most
affected by the floods, including Shabwa, Marib and Hadramawt.
Part B:    Roads and Bridges
     Rehabilitation of damaged roads, bridges, and associated structures
in locations most affected by the floods, including the Governorates of
Shabwa, Marib, Hadramawt, Abyan and Al Jawf.
Part C:    Water Supply
     Rehabilitation of urban and rural water supply facilities through
the supply of chlorinators, pumps, generators, pipes and other equipment.
Part D:    Flood Mitigation
     Carrying out of a flood prevention and mitigation study to prepare
the basis for the development and application of appropriate building
codes and practices and flood risk assessment and reduction policies,
and the dissemination of information relating thereto through public
education and training activities.
                                  * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 2000.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                    Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   General
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January
and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this
Section, as applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix
1 thereto.
2.   The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
     (a)  Grouping of contracts
     To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in
bid packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.
     (b)  Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic
          contractors
     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
Page  10
1.   Limited International Bidding
     Goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, and goods,
which the Association agrees can only be purchased from a limited number
of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of
the Guidelines.
2.   National Competitive Bidding
     Goods and works estimated to cost less than $3,500,000 equivalent
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $14,000,000
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
3.   International Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
of the Guidelines.
4.   National Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
of the Guidelines.
5.   Force Account
     Works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines,
and costing $6,500,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the
Association's prior agreement, be carried out by force account in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines.
6.   Direct Contracting
     Goods which must be purchased from the original supplier to be
compatible with existing equipment and works which are required to
respond to natural disasters and costing $4,500,000 equivalent or
less in the aggregate, may, with the Association's prior agreement,
be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of
the Guidelines.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the pro-
visions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such pro-
curement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost
the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
Page  11
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on
the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association
shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts,
shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b)
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to
cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to
prior Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference
for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms,
(c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Association, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of con-
sulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or
above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                 SCHEDULE 4
                            Implementation Program
1.   (a)  For the purpose of ensuring proper coordination in the carrying
out of the Project, the Borrower shall establish not later than one month
after effectiveness of this Agreement and thereafter maintain an Inter-
Ministerial Committee, chaired by the Minister of Planning and
Development, with organization to be agreed with the Association.
     (b)  For the purpose of ensuring the proper supervision of the
execution of the Project, the Borrower shall establish not later than
one month after effectiveness of this Agreement and thereafter maintain
a Project Management Unit under supervision of the Inter-Ministerial
Committee, headed by a National Coordinator and Deputy National
Coordinator and consisting of Sector Coordinators of the field Project
Implementation Units of the MAWR and Branch Offices of GCRB.
     (c)  The Project Implementation Units of the Land and Water
Conservation Project in Shabwa, the Third Wadi Hadramawt Project, and
the Eastern Region Project shall implement Part A of the Project in
the respective Governorates of Shabwa, Wadi Hadramawt, and Marib.
     (d)  GCRB's Branch Offices in Shabwa, Marib, Hadramawt, Abyan and
Al Jawf shall implement Part B of the Project in the respective
Governorates.
2.   The Borrower shall cause: (i) the Project Management Unit, (ii)
respective Project Implementation Units, and (iii) GCRB to employ in
the respective Branch Offices, consultants not later than one month
after effectiveness of this Agreement with qualifications, experience
and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association to assist in
carrying out the Project.
3.   In order to carry out Part D of the Project the Borrower shall:
     (a)  not later than September 1, 1997, employ consultants with
qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to
the Association and to the cofinancier, to assist the Borrower in:
(i) preparation of a flood prevention and mitigation study; (ii) the
development of appropriate codes and practices and flood risk assess-
ment and reduction policies; (iii) the design of a public information
system and program for their application; (iv) the identification of
appropriate institutions for disaster prevention and mitigation; and
Page  12
(v) proposals for a follow-on medium and long term project for flood
prevention and mitigation;
     (b)  not later than September 1, 1998, furnish said study together
with time schedules for implementation of its recommendations to the
Association for review and comments; and
     (c)  on the basis of the recommendations contained in said study,
and taking the Association's comments into consideration, implement
said programs in accordance with a schedule satisfactory to the
Association.
4.   The Borrower shall:
     (a)  maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators
satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof;
     (b)  prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, and furnish to the Association, semi-annual reports
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement
of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
     (c)  review with the Association, by June 30, 1998 or such later
date as the Association shall request, a mid-term report and, there-
after, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based
on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the
Association views on the matter.
                                 SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means, in the case of the
Agriculture Special Account Categories 1(a), 2(a), 3(a) and 4(a) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
in the case of the Roads Special Account Categories 1(b), 2(b), 3(b)
and 4(b) set forth in the said table; and in the case of the Water
Supply Special Account Category 2(c).
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means with respect to the
Agriculture Special Account, an amount equivalent to $500,000; with
respect to the Roads Special Account, an amount equivalent to
$500,000; and with respect to the Water Supply Special Account, an
amount equivalent to $250,000; to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph
3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions
of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the respective Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
Page  13
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit
into the respective Special Account of an amount or amounts which do
not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower
shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the respective Special Account,
               the Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
               for deposits into the respective Special Account at
               such intervals as the Association shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents
               and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
               of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
               each such request, the Association shall, on behalf
               of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
               deposit into the respective Special Account such
               amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as
               shall have been shown by said documents and other
               evidence to have been paid out of the respective
               Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such
               deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
               the Credit Account under the respective eligible
               Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts,
               as shall have been justified by said documents and
               other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents
and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into
any Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant
to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories for the respective Special Account, minus
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Parts of the Project related to that Special
Account, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation for that Special Account. Thereafter, withdrawal
from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the
Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for that Special Account
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by
notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
Page  14
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expendi-
ture or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Asso-
ciation: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may
request; or (B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if
the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into any Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in any Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the
Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Accounts.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
