                                                                                                       92743
                                                                                                       April 8, 2007


                                                                 Links:
                                                                 - What is IDA?
                                                                 - Our Work in Yemen


                                                                 More on Yemen:
                                                                 - Borrowing History
                                                                 - Data & Statistics
                                                                 - Research
                                                                 - Contact Us




Yemen is vulnerable to periodic flooding. In the spring of 1989, heavy rainfall and widespread
flooding caused devastating damage to houses, public infrastructure, flood control and irrigation
structures, crops, and livestock, with total losses estimated at US$161 million representing 13
percent of GDP. Wreaked housing left 30,000 people homeless and 6 percent of total annual
agricultural production was destroyed. In 1996 floods again caused substantial loss of human
lives and extensive damage. Losses affected mostly the Marib and Shabwa governorates and
amounted to 12 percent of GDP.




In response to the 1989 floods, the government requested IDA's assistance in developing and
securing additional funding for a Flood Reconstruction Program (FRP). The project financed the
most urgent components of the FRP and consisted of provision of materials, equipment, and civil
works for constructing houses to replace damaged units, rehabilitation of schools, flood
protection and irrigation structures, and health centers and hospitals. Building on IDA's expertise,
institutional capacity to manage disaster recovery was strengthened and programs developed to
mitigate vulnerability to floods. The second Emergency Flood Reconstruction Project focused on
four rural governorates that were most affected by floods. Its objectives were to support
economic recovery and help affected communities receive food, water supply and sanitation
services.




Restored and rehabilitated the country's essential economic and social infrastructure, and
reduced the deprivation and suffering of flood victims.


Highlights:
- New schools, equipped with furniture, serving 11,000 students and spread over three southern
governorates were rehabilitated to replace 10 schools destroyed due to floods.
- Destroyed flood control mechanisms were rehabilitated to standards that reflected greater flood
resistance. Achievements included the construction of earthworks embankments and gabion
protection to train flows within the Wadi bed, and prevent erosion of valuable agricultural land;
and the reconstruction and other measures to improve conditions at canal heads.
- A total of 13 health facilities which formed the primary network that provided vital access to
basic health care for the residents of four southern governorates, were rehabilitated and also
equipped with medical equipment.
- An Emergency Reconstruction Unit (ERU) was established, which main tasks were to
coordinate and manage current and future flood relief programs.
- Ten major crossing/roads and four major bridges damaged by the floods on major road arteries
were constructed.
- The project introduced an early warning system that aims at reducing the impact of future
floods.
- Rehabilitation of all 31 flood damaged retention weirs to new standards, as well as 20 km of
flood damaged agricultural services road was completed under the project.
- More than 5,000 people benefited from the employment opportunities generated by the
construction works financed by IDA.




- About US$10 million out of US$15.4 million project costs for the first project.
- US$30 million in grant financing for the second project.




Under the first Emergency Flood Reconstruction Project, partners included the Islamic
Development Bank, UNDP and Saudi Arabia. Under the second project, the Abu Dhabi Fund
joined IDA.




A technical assistance component which funded a study for flood emergency preparedness and
mitigation program was delayed due to civil war in 1994. Both projects' sustainability would be
further bolstered once the proper national framework for flood emergency response is in place.
Though government preparedness for emergencies benefited from both projects, a long process
of capacity building and institution development is needed to bring about a multi-sectoral
response in these emergency situations.




Emergency Flood Reconstruction (1989-94) and Emergency Flood Rehabilitation (1996-2001)
Project documents I  |  Project Documents II
