Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18705
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOURTH HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3446-TH)
November 30, 1998
Transport Sector Unit
Country Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Thai Baht (B)
(annual average values except 1997)
1992  US$ 1.00  =  B25.39
1993  US$1.00  =  B25.29
1994  US$ 1.00  =  B25.12
1995  US$1.00  =  B24.89
1996  US$ 1.00  =  B25.31
1997  US$1.00  =  B25.68 (Jun.)
1997  US$1.00  =  B46.82 (Dec.)
UNITS OF MEASUREMENTS
International System
FISCAL YEAR
October I to September 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APCU                Action Plans Coordination Unit
BMA                 Bangkok Metropolitan Authority
CAD                 Computer Assisted Design
DOH                 Department of Highways
DCR                 Department of Commercial Registration
ETA                 Expressway and Rapid Transit Authority of Thailand
FOD                 Fuel Oils Division
HPD                 Highway Police Division
HSP                 Highway Sector Project
ICR                 Implementation Completion Report
LTD                 Land Transport Department
MIS                 Management Information System
MOC                 Ministry of Commerce
MOH                 Ministry of Health
MOI                 Ministry of Industry
MOSTE               Ministry of Science, Technology and Environment
MOTC                Ministry of Transport and Communications
NEPO                National Energy Policy Office
NEQA                National Environmental Quality Act
NESDB               National Economic and Social Development Board
NSC                 National Safety Council
ONEB                Office of the National Environmental Board
PCD                 Pollution Control Department
PCR                 Project Completion Report
Vice-President:                                  Jean-Michel Severino, EAPVP
Country Director:                                J. Shivakumar, EACTF
Sector Manager:                                  Jeffrey S. Gutman, EASTR
Task Team Leader:                                Alain Labeau, EASTR



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOURTH HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3446-TH)
CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE.
EVALUATION SUMMARY.ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ..............................................1
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives                     .I
B. Achievement of Objectives                          .4
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project                    .7
D. Project Sustainabiity                           .9
E. Bank Performance                               .9
F. Borrower Performance.10
G. Assessment of Overall Outcome .10
H. Future Operations .10
[. Key Lessons Leased .12
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .14
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans .................................................  15
Table 3: Project Timetable .16
Table 4:  Cumulative Disbursements: Planned v. Actual .16
Table 5: Contracts Completed .17
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .18
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project .19
Table 8: Project Cost & Financing .20
Table 9:  Economic Re-evaluation of Rehabilitation & Upgrading Subprojects .  21
Table 10: The Seventh Highway Plan (1992-96) .22
Table 11: Traffic Volumes at Interchanges ..............................      23
Table 12: Status of Legal Covenants ..............................            27
Table 13: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..............................         28
Table 14: Bank Resources: Missions .............................. 29
APPENDICES
A.  ICR Mission's Aide Memoire ...................................            30
B.  Borrower's Contribution ...................................               34
C. Map (IBRD No. 22122RI)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in tde
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Implementation Completion Report           - i -                     Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand                                                                    Preface
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOURTH HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3446-TH)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Fourth Highway Sector Project in
Thailand, for which Loan 3446-TH in the amount of US$177.5 million equivalent was approved on
March 19, 1992, and made effective on July 31, 1992.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1998, compared with the original closing date of December 31,
1997. The final transaction took place on September 30, 1998. There was one cancellation of US$13.034
million equivalent on December 31, 1997 and the remaining balance of about US$5.9 million equivalent
will be canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Messrs. Alain Labeau, Task Manager, (EASTR); Peter Long,
Consultant Highway Engineer; Philip Sayeg, Consultant Transport Industry Specialist; Chinnakorn
Chantra, Procurement Specialist (EACTF) and Ms. Manida Unkulvasapaul, Environmental Specialist
(EACTF), and was reviewed by Mr. Jeffrey Gutman, Sector Manager, Transport Sector Unit, East Asia
and Pacific Region.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/ICR mission, which took
place between November 19 and December 9, 1997. It is based on material in the project file, field visits
and discussions with concerned individuals during the mission, and the Project Completion Reports
provided by the implementing agencies: (a) Ministry of Transport and Communications: Department of
Highways (DOH); Transport Policy and Planning Bureau (MOTC/APCU); and Land Transport
Department (LTD); (b) Ministry of the Interior: Highway Police Division (HPD), Traffic Police Division
(TPD), and Bangkok Metropolitan Authority (BMA); (c) Ministry of Science Technology and
Environment (MOSTE): Pollution Control Department (PCD), and Office of Environmental Policy and
Planning (OEPP); (d) Ministry of Education (MOE); (e) Ministry of Commerce (MOC); and (f) under the
Office of the Prime Minister: the National Energy and Policy Office (NEPO). The final draft of this ICR
was provided to the Borrower for comment.



Implementation Completion Report           - ii -                    Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand                                                          Evaluation Summary
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOURTH HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3446-TH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
i.    The Bank has been involved in thirteen road projects in Thailand beginning in 1963. The first
eight were conventional infrastructure investment projects consisting of improvements and rehabilitation
of National Highways and Provincial Roads together with institutional development components for the
Department of Highways (DOH). By the end of the 1980s, the institutional development of DOH had
shown significant progress and, considering the maturity of the department, the Bank made a loan for the
first Highway Sector Project (HSPI) in 1988. The Fourth Highway Sector Project (the Project) which is
the subject of the present report is the fourth in a series of sector projects and has since been followed by
the ongoing Fifth Highway Sector Project (HSP5). The main activities of the Project were implemented
during 1992-97.
ii.    Rapid increases in the number of vehicles and in the levels of air pollution, especially lead, in
Bangkok in early 1990's raised serious concerns and the government sought Bank assistance. As a result,
priority activities were formulated into three Action Plans to be executed as part of a future Fourth
Highway Sector Project by concerned agencies (see para. 8) in consultation with the Bank. The plans
aimed to reduce air pollution from vehicles, to improve road safety, and to increase the efficiency of the
road transport industry.
Project Objectives
iii.   The objectives of the Project were to assist the Government to improve the efficiency and safety
of the country's road subsector and mitigate adverse environmental impacts by: (a) supporting the
preparation and implementation of an economically justified program of investments for the national and
provincial road network; (b) assisting the implementation and coordination of actions to substantially
reduce environmental degradation and vehicular accidents due to the country's rapidly growing
motorization; and (c) promoting improved policies to enhance the operational efficiency of road transport
and road use.
Project Components
iv.    The components were: (a) civil works subprojects for the rehabilitation, upgrading to paved
standard, and safety and capacity improvements of national and provincial roads and bridges included in
the investment program of DOH's Seventh Highway Plan (1992-96), and completion of some subprojects
started under the Sixth Plan; (b) technical assistance to DOH for the design of a long-term investment and
financing strategy and associated institutional development; and (c) equipment, technical assistance,
studies and training to assist MOTC and other concerned agencies in coordinating and implementing key
components of three Action Plans to improve road traffic safety, reduce vehicle-related air and noise
pollution, and improve the efficiency of the road transport industry. DOH was the lead implementing
agency for components (a) and (b) while MOTC/APCU was the overall coordinating agency for (c).



Implementation Completion Report           - iii -                     Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand                                                            Evaluation Summary
Covenants
v.     Two main covenants required the Borrower, by March 31 each year, to: (a) review with the Bank
the progress of the Seventh Highway Plan and the implementation of the Action Plans; and (b) consult
with the Bank on the scope and nature of activities to be carried out under the Action Plans in the
following fiscal year. Other covenants required the Borrower to give priority to maintenance and
rehabilitation over new construction, and to select subprojects using criteria satisfactory to the Bank.
There were also standard covenants regarding providing resources for the project and accounting and
financial management..
Evaluation of Objectives
vi.    The development objectives to improve efficiency and safety of the roads and mitigate adverse
impacts were appropriate and important for Thailand and the road sector and were in line with the Bank
Country Assistance Strategy to promote sustainable development, protect the environment, and
strengthen institutional capacity. The specific objective to support road works was clear and realistic.
The specific objectives to assist the implementation and coordination of actions to reduce environmental
degradation and vehicular accidents and to improve efficiency of road transport industry, were relatively
unclear and over optimistic, given the complexities of the issues, a large number of activities, and the
number of agencies involved of which most of them were new to Bank operations. The issues selected,
however, were important and in line with the Government priority. The focus of Bank support on
coordination and institutional building (training, equipment, and technical assistance), especially in the
areas that required international experience, was appropriate. Given the situation prevailing at the time of
appraisal and the fact that the key agencies (DOH, LTD) were under MOTC, assigning the responsibility
for the overall coordination of the many agencies that would be involved to the Planning Division under
the Office of the Permanent Secretary of MOTC, appeared to be the most logical choice. Focusing the
coordination effort on the activities to control vehicular pollution was appropriate and timely due to an
urgent need to reduce lead and air pollution levels in BMA and the promulgation of the National
Environmental Quality Act in 1992 justified the priority given to build technical capacity of PCD.
Implementation Experience and Results
vii.   Road Works.  DOH successfully implemented the design, procurement, and construction
supervision for the civil works component of the project. Eleven rehabilitation contracts for rehabilitation
and betterment of deteriorated pavements, totaling about US$61 million, and ten contracts for upgrading
of earth and gravel roads, totaling about US$28 million, were completed well within the project time-
frame and budget. Three interchanges, originally planned for construction under HSP2, were included in
the project together with financing of relatively small amounts to complete contracts originally let under
HSPI, HSP2 and HSP3. The economic re-evaluation of the rehabilitation and upgrading subprojects
indicates that these were well justified. The sector approach of the project afforded flexibility to adjust its
program in the light of economic and traffic developments. The long term strategy study was successfully
completed and served as a reference to elaborate DOH's Strategic Plan to Improve and Develop the Inter-
city Motorway System and National Highway. This Plan, however, needs to be revisited soon to
incorporate the impact of the financial crisis that struck the country in July 1997.
viii.   Policy and Institutional Aspects. Each of the three Action Plans consisted of an integrated set
of actions and targets. Although attention under the project focused on the Action Plan to Reduce
Vehicle Emissions and Noise Pollution, the Government through a combination of planned sector
initiatives and other relevant reforms ensured that the achievement of all Action Plans was substantial
both in extent and impact. Implementation of the Action Plans promoted interagency coordination.



Implementation Completion Report           - iv -                     Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand                                                            Evaluation Summary
Focusing on the implementation of the Action Plan to Reduce Vehicle Emissions and Noise Pollution
strengthened the role of the newly created PCD.
ix.    Most of the targets set forth in the Action Plans to reduce Air and Noise Pollution from vehicles
were actually met. However, for certain areas, development occurred later than originally planned. The
impacts on regulations and monitoring capacities were significant, especially in the areas of fuel
improvement quality, establishment of standards for new and in-use vehicles, upgrading of emissions and
ambient air quality standards, and road-side monitoring and enforcement. Leaded gasoline was phased
out. Fuel and lubricant quality were improved to reduce the levels of aromatic contents and sulfur. The
engine standards for new vehicles and the requirement for annual inspection and maintenance for in-use
vehicles were established. The emission standards were upgraded and periodic road-side monitoring and
enforcement have been undertaken in jointed efforts from PCD, LTD, BMA, and the traffic police. On
the Road Safety Action Plan, a Road Safety Master Plan was prepared and its recommendations are being
implemented in two pilot areas in Nakhon Pathom and Phuket. For the Road Transport Industry Action
Plan, LTD implemented the decentralization of inspection stations for used vehicles with some delay.
Actions aiming at strengthening the regulation of the trucking and busing industries were not
implemented'/
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
x.     Findings.  The design, procurement, construction and construction supervision for the road
works were successfully implemented and the quality of the road works was high. Maintenance in
Thailand has been to an adequate standard so far, so the sustainability of this component is likely.
However, a recent sharp cut in the maintenance budget, provoked by the financial crisis and ensuing
budget stringency, raises serious concerns as to whether the good performance will continue. Periodic
maintenance will be under-funded and deferred, thereby raising the cost of the next intervention. These
concerns are currently examined and may be addressed under the ongoing Highway Sector V through the
substitution of some widening works by periodic maintenance works.
xi.    A major factor that may affect the sustainability of the Project is primarily the unprecedented
financial crisis that hit Thailand in mid 1997. As of today, it is still difficult to predict the duration of that
crisis and evaluate the scope and magnitude of its impact. Whereas traffic levels have visibly gone down
in the Metropolitan Bangkok area, no clear indication of severe traffic drop has been witnessed so far in
the countryside. The number of traffic counts available is not yet representative either. Given the robust
ERR of most widening subprojects financed by the Project, it would take a sharp drop in traffic level
before the benefits of the investments become questionable. However, a persistence of maintenance
under-funding generated by the budget stringency would be more damaging to the delivery of the
project's future benefits. Other major factors affecting the sustainability of the Project, especially the
Action Plans, are in decreasing order of impact the ownership and commitment of key staff, the
ineffective legal and institutional frameworks, and the inadequate number of qualified staff and budget
allocation. This being said, the outputs of the Project remain significant relative to the modest levels of
technical and financial inputs. Most of these outputs, specially those related to the introduction of
regulations are unlikely to be reversed and their benefits will therefore very likely be sustained.
Performances of Bank and Borrower and the overall outcome were rated as satisfactory.
xii.   Future Operations. Future operation of the road works is a matter of continued maintenance,
and provision of timely additional improvements to accommodate the fast growing motorized traffic.
While maintenance under-funding may jeopardize previous investments, difficulties in financing
-1  In the subsequent Project, HSP5, this Action Plan was dropped.



Implementation Completion Report            - V -                     Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand                                                            Evaluation Summary
widening congested arterial roadways may also create severe constraints to economic growth in the
future. Therefore financial support to the Government will still be needed to ensure that road
infrastructure keeps pace with development while efforts to reduce air/noise pollution and road safety
should be continued and if possible increased. Strengthening capacity of DOH on other aspects like
environment, economic analysis, road safety, and user's services should also be supported as soon as
possible.
Lessons Learned
xiii.   Ownership and Commitment. The primary lesson that emerges from this project is that the
outcome of the project is a continuing testimony to the importance of borrower ownership and
commitment of key officials in project design and implementation. It was noted that with clear mandate,
appropriate institutional capacity, and timely technical and financial supports, effective performance of
the agencies can be expected.
xiv.   Cross-sectoral issues and conflict of interests. Addressing air/noise pollution from vehicles,
road safety, and road efficiency requires effective cooperation and coordination among key agencies,
active participation of the public and the industry, and strong political support. Whereas such a program
is already arduous in an industrialized country, in Thailand, where lack of communication between
agencies is notorious, it became a close to impossible challenge. Implementation of the action plans,
therefore proved much more complicated than anticipated, and gave rise to conflict of interests among
some agencies. As a result, regulatory and institutional frameworks should be carefully assessed in light
of the country policy objectives and in close consultation with key agencies before embarking in similar
project to minimize the overlap of responsibilities and conflict of interests.
xv.   Action plan concept and budget allocation. Despite the delay and difficulty, the action plan
concept is considered useful and, to a limited extent in this case, demonstrates the benefit of using
integrated approach. In practice, however, government's procedures to allocate counterpart budget and
national procurement regulations constitute a downside of the action plan concept and therefore should be
carefully addressed. Adequate number of qualified staff assigned to the project is also a critical factor
affecting the performance of the agencies in the project as is their technical capability to ensure quality of
work. Therefore, more budget should be allocated to an appropriate training program for staff.
xvi.   Actions in the field. For new agencies with limited experience with Bank project, consultation
and dissemination of knowledge regarding Bank's procedures and requirements should be strengthened.
Recent Bank decentralization can play significant role in improving performance of implementing
agencies, especially in the area of procurement.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOURTH HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3446-TH)
PART 1: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
Background
1.    The Bank has been involved in thirteen road projects in Thailand beginning in 1963. The first
eight were conventional infrastructure investment projects consisting of improvements and rehabilitation
of National Highways and Provincial Roads together with institutional development components for the
Department Of Highways (DOH). By the end of the 1980s, the institutional development of DOH had
shown significant progress and, considering the maturity of the department, the Bank made a loan for the
first Highway Sector Project (HSPI) in 1988. The Fourth Highway Sector Project (the Project) which is
the subject of the present report is the fourth in a series and has since been followed by the ongoing Fifth
Highway Sector Project (HSP5). The main activities of the Project were implemented during 1992-97.
2.     Rapid increases in the number of vehicles and in the levels of air pollution, especially lead, in
Bangkok in early 1990's raised serious concerns and the government sought Bank assistance. As a result,
priority activities were formulated into three Action Plans to be executed as part of a future Fourth
Highway Sector Project by concerned agencies (see para. 8) in consultation with the Bank. The plans
aimed to reduce air pollution from vehicles, to improve road safety, and to increase the efficiency of the
road transport industry.
Statement of Objectives
3.    The specific objectives of the Project were to assist the Government to improve the efficiency
and safety of the country's road subsector and mitigate adverse environmental impacts by: (a) supporting
the preparation and implementation of an economically justified program of investments for the national
and provincial road network?/; (b) assisting the implementation and coordination of actions to
substantially reduce environmental degradation and vehicular accidents due to the country's rapidly
growing motorization; and (c) promoting improved policies to enhance the operational efficiency of road
transport and road use.
4.    The components were: (a) civil works subprojects for the rehabilitation, upgrading to paved
standard, and safety and capacity improvements of national and provincial roads and bridges included in
the investment program of DOH's Seventh Highway Plan (1992-96), and completion of some subprojects
started under the Sixth Plan; (b) technical assistance to DOH for the design of a long-term investment and
financing strategy and associated institutional development; and (c) equipment, technical assistance,
studies and training to assist MOTC and other concerned agencies in coordinating and implementing key
components of Three Action Plans to improve road traffic safety, reduce vehicle-related air and noise
The Provincial Roads were absorbed into the National Highway network under the Highways Act, 1992, and
are now administered by DOH.



Implementation Completion Report            - 2 -                     Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand                                                       Implementation Assessment
pollution, and improve the efficiency of the road transport industry. DOH was the lead implementing
agency for components (a) and (b) while MOTC/APCU was the overall coordinating agency for (c).
5.     During negotiations, agreement was reached inter alia on: (a) an annual review of the scope and
implementation of the Seventh Highway Plan, and of the Action Plans; (b) the priority of maintenance
and rehabilitation over new construction during periods of resource constraints; (c) completion of the
roads strategy study and consultation with the Bank about results and implementation.
Evaluation of Objectives
6.     Road Works. The development objectives to improve efficiency and safety of the roads and
mitigate adverse impacts were appropriate and important for Thailand and the road sector and were in
line with the Bank Country Assistance Strategy to promote sustainable development, protect the
environment, and strengthen institutional capacity. The specific objective to support road works was
clear and realistic. Over the period of the Bank's involvement with the Thai road network the focus was
initially on extensions of the network. This then evolved into emphasis on the protection of past
investments through increased and improved highway maintenance and rehabilitation. More recently,
with the rapid growth of traffic, the focus has shifted back to capacity increases and upgrading of roads to
accommodate the increased flows on the arterial network, which is essentially the national and provincial
roads. The major civil works of road upgrading under the project were therefore specifically focused on
the National Highway and Provincial Road networks, which are the responsibility of a single agency,
DOH. It was decided not to address under the project networks which are the responsibility of other
agencies such as Expressways (under ETA), Urban roads (under various municipalities) and Rural roads
(the responsibility of a multiplicity of local and at least two national agencies).
7.     The limitation of the major civil works to roads under the responsibility of DOH was a deliberate
and reasonable decision. To have included roads of other networks in the project would have multiplied
the agencies involved. Even so, Bank financing was only a small portion of the total DOH budget, with
consequent limited leverage. Spreading the available Bank resources more thinly over more agencies
would not have increased the Bank's effectiveness and would have much increased the supervision load.
8.    Action Plans. The objectives of "assisting the implementation and coordination of actions to
substantially reduce environmental degradation and vehicular accidents" and of "promoting improved
policies to enhance the operational efficiency of road transport and road use" were relatively unclear and
overoptimistic given the complexities of the issues, the limited allocation of financial resources, and a
large number of activities and agencies involved. The issues selected, i.e. air and noise pollution from
vehicles, road safety, and transport efficiency of buses and trucks, were important and in line with the
Government's priorities. These issues however are highly complex, and politically and socially sensitive.
Achieving substantive reduction of air and noise pollution and improving safety of road use would
require reliable data, large investment, and more extensive and concerted efforts and strong commitments
of the key agencies, the people, and the private sector than the project would ever mobilize.
9.     This component comprised the implementation of three Action Plans aiming to reduce air and
noise emissions from vehicles, and improve safety of road use and efficiency of road transport by truck
and bus. It was estimated that over a three-year period US$25.4 million, US$19.5 million, and US$10.5
million would be respectively required for the vehicular emissions, road safety, and transport efficiency
sub-components. Funding sources were to include the Government budget, Bank loans, and grants from
other agencies. Of the total amount (US$55.4 million), the Project loan was to provide US$14.6 million
of which US$5.5 million would be allocated to reduction of vehicular emissions, US$5.8 million to road
safety, US$2.5 million to road transport, and US$0.8 million to the overall coordination. Of this amount,



Implementation Completion Report            - 3 -                     Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand                                                       Implementation Assessment
US$3.4 million were earmarked for equipment and US$11.2 million for consulting services. During
implementation US$0.8 million from a Japanese PHRD grant was used to fund technical assistance. At
completion, a total allocation of US$12.2 million had been used from the Project loan. Neither
Government nor Bank funding were allocated to the road transport efficiency component.
10.    The Action Plan component intended to improve the effectiveness of the relevant regulatory
frameworks and to assist the agencies involved in building monitoring and enforcement capacity. Most
of the activities listed in the Action Plans were of policy, regulatory, and institutional nature and
therefore, monitoring progress towards target dates was an appropriate indicator. These activities were
considered both priority and cost-effective and appropriate to facilitate follow up development. The
design, however, was quite complicated since it sought to include all relevant activities in an attempt to
maximize both comprehensiveness and effectiveness. Although the wording used in the Statement of
Objectives was not technically correct, the Project intention was still important. This was one of the
Bank's early effort to actually mitigate the negative consequences of motorized traffic development. This
concept was still new to the Bank at the time the Project was prepared.
11.   Implementation of three Action Plans featuring some 120 activities and involving more than 14
implementing agencies under different ministries and offices was a daunting task. The Action Plan on
reduction of vehicular emissions involved some 40 activities aiming to (a) improve the quality of fuels,
(b) upgrade and establish standards, (c) strengthen monitoring and enforcement capacity, and (d) promote
traffic management. Key agencies included National Energy Policy Office (NEPO), Ministry of Industry,
Ministry of Commerce, Office of the National Environment Board (ONEB), Land Transport Department
(LTD), Bangkok Metropolitan Authority (BMA), and Traffic Police. The road safety Action Plan aimed
to (a) establish objectives and organization of road safety, (b) improve reliability of road safety data, (c)
upgrade safety standards and effective inspections, especially for public vehicles, (d) undertake actions to
promote behavioral changes through training and education, and (e) strengthen law enforcement and
traffic surveillance. It comprised some 50 activities and involved at least 8 agencies: LTD, DOH,
Highway Police, Ministry of Education (MOE), Ministry of Public Health, and National Safety Council.
There were 25 activities in the transport efficiency Action Plan, most of them to be implemented by LTD.
The Plan aimed to address truck overloading through a comprehensive set of measures related to
regulations (classification, fees and charges, design standards, import duties), investment (development of
freight terminals outside BMA), institutions (efficiency of the Express Transport Organization's
performance), and driver behaviors.
12.    Relying upon the catalytic role of the Bank and an adequate input of international experience
through training, equipment, and technical assistance to foster coordination and build institutional
capacity, was appropriate. In recognition of the limited role of the national environmental agency
(ONEB) and the fact that two key implementing agencies (DOH, LTD) were precisely under MOTC,
assigning the overall coordination responsibility to the planning division of MOTC (MOTC/APCU) was a
logical choice.  However, the efforts deployed and resources allocated turned out insufficient to
overcome the institutional weaknesses and the complexities of the issues. Despite most of the agencies
involved, except DOH, had been involved in the formulation of the Action Plans, they lacked experience
with Bank's operations, especially on the procurement side. Moreover, for many of these agencies,
dealing with pollution control was not a top priority and most of them experienced staff constraints and
limited equipment and technical experience. The activities run by MOTC/APCU, LTD, and Traffic
Police suffered significant delays due to appointment of consultants and procurement of laboratory
equipment; later on, technical inputs from Bank staff in the Bangkok office made significant
contributions to the agencies' efforts to comply with Bank requirement. The problems above had been
anticipated in the SAR which stated that "full implementation of these Action Plans is an ambitious goal
and probably at the upper limit of what could be expected to be achieved under the Project, but
considered attainable with Bank's catalytic role and technical input, especially in areas which required



Implementation Completion Report          - 4 -                     Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand                                                    Implementation Assessment
international experience" and that "implementation of the Action Plans was expected to be delayed due to
the complexities involved, the need to emphasize enforcement, and the relative inexperience of LTD and
MOTC in dealing with pollution control matter".
13.   During implementation, modifications to the Action Plans became necessary to stay aligned with
evolving Government policy and priority. Giving a higher priority to the implementation of the Action
Plan on vehicular emissions was appropriate and timely. Results of several studies related to air and
noise pollution in urban areas, especially Bangkok, suggested that traffic congestion, lead, and particulate
matters were the most important factors affecting the economy and the quality of life of the people. High
concentrations of lead and dust were considered critical. The Government committed to reduce lead
concentration and other pollutants in BMA and took various initiatives and actions to achieve this goal.
In 1992, the National Environmental Quality Act was revised and ONEB was upgraded to three
department/office i.e. Pollution Control Department (PCD), Office of Environmental Policy and Planning
(OEPP), and Department of Environmental Quality Promotion, under Ministry of Science, Technology,
and Environment. PCD has become the lead agency in charge of pollution control, while OEPP regulates
all environmental impact assessment (EIA) processes.  Significant amount of time and financial
resources, both from the Government and the Bank, were reallocated towards the implementation of the
Action Plan to reduce emissions from vehicles. Giving their limited experience with vehicle emission
standards, PCD and LTD benefited substantially from the technical assistance which was provided under
a grant.
B. Achievement of Objectives
14.   Road Works. Achievement of the support to road works was outstanding. DOH successfully
implemented the design, procurement, and construction supervision for the civil works component of the
Project. Eleven rehabilitation contracts for rehabilitation and betterment of deteriorated pavements,
totaling about US$61 million, and ten contracts for upgrading of earth and gravel roads, totaling about
US$28 million, were successfully completed well within the Project time frame. Three interchanges,
originally planned for construction under HSP3, were included in the project together with financing of
relatively small amounts to complete contracts originally let under HSPI, HSP2 and HSP3. During the
course of the Project, two road sections were dropped from the Project for construction with government
funds and a fourth interchange substituted. The interchanges were the subject of lengthy detailed design
reviews, but even so the three interchanges in the original program were completed well before the
Project completion and the final interchange was completed coincident with the original Project closing
date. The quality of the road works is very good, much above than normally encountered in most
developing countries. This will contribute to the sustainability of the works [see Table 5]. Under the
Project, 606 km of roads were widened from two to four lanes.
15.   Economic Re-evaluation. The economic re-evaluation of the rehabilitation and upgrading
subprojects indicates that these were well justified. Of the 19 subprojects (out of the 21) for which an
ERR had been calculated at appraisal, 11 had a higher ERR at completion. The remaining eight that had
an ERR at appraisal and the two subproject that were substituted, all had an ERR above the minimum
threshold of 12% established under the Project. The lowest ERR was 14%. Large differences between
the ERR estimated at appraisal and at completion account from different outcomes in traffic or costs, or a
combination of both. The overall ERR of the 21 rehabilitation and upgrading subprojects is estimated at
30.5% (Table 9).
16.   Of the four interchanges financed under the Project, three had initially been proposed under
HSP3 as part of a combined road/interchange investment. While the road sections were built, the
interchanges were not financed under HSP3 and were transferred to the Project. The benefits of the
interchanges and road sections had been assessed as a whole. The Bang Pa-In interchange, which was the



Implementation Completion Report            - 5 -                     Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand                                                      Implementation Assessment
most complex and the highest cost investment was the subject of an independent review by consultants
engaged by the World Bank before the no objection to proceed with award of contract was given. This
review confirmed the need and justification for the interchange and considered the design to be
technically sound and economical and consistent with modem highway design practice. The review,
however, noted weaknesses in transportation planning, exemplified by a lack of documentation on the
various steps in the planning process and on comprehensive traffic data relating to the regional road
transport system.
17.    The fourth interchange at Don Chan (Chiang Mai) which was added after appraisal was evaluated
separately by DOH. The evaluation considered benefits resulting from reductions in vehicle operating
costs and in passenger time costs. The ERR was estimated at 19.5% with a first year rate of return of
11.6%. An ex-post ERR has not been calculated for either of the four interchanges. However, in
1996/97 traffic at the counting stations nearest to the interchanges was in line with predictions at the
study stage. In the case of Don Chan interchange, traffic is well in excess of projections at the study
stage (Table 11).
18.   Highway Expenditure Plan and Long Term Strategy. The Project supported DOH's Seventh
Highway Plan covering the period 1992-96. The Plan aimed at achieving a balance within and between
investments and recurrent expenditures to address already identified issues and requirements. The plan
outcome--total expenditures of Baht 225,004 million (Table 10)-- indicates that total outlays for the
highway sector were generally in line with the plan (Baht 200,505 million). The increase in the actual
expenditures of some Baht 25,000 million is essentially on account of higher administration and
maintenance expenditures. Total investment expenditures were in accordance with the plan albeit with
major shifts within works categories. Widening, rehabilitation and new links were much below plan,
whereas expenditures for interchanges and new motorways were much above plan. The sector approach
of the Project afforded DOH the flexibility to adjust its program in the light of economic and traffic
developments. The long term strategy study was successfully completed given due consideration to Bank
comment and the results were integrated into the DOH development program. DOH was to have
procured a Computer Assisted Design (CAD) system under the project. However, for reasons of
compatibility of equipment, the CAD system was procured under DOH funding.
19.    Action Plans. Because the specific objectives of the Action Plans were not properly stated and
modifications had to be made to adjust them to Government priorities, this Section will assess the
achievement of the Action Plans component against the initial intention of improving the regulatory
framework and building institutional capacity through provision of technical assistance and use of the
Bank as a catalyst. The overall achievement in terms of implementation performance of the vehicular
emissions and road safety sub-components was substantial with regard to the modest levels of technical
and financial inputs. The complexity of the issues, the high priority assigned to combat air pollution, and
the difficulties met by many when working under Bank's guidelines prompted significant revision of the
activities in the Action Plans and, as a result, some activities were implemented either in close
consultation with or in isolation from the Project. Such situation makes it difficult to clearly assess what
achievement are attributable to the Project directly. Quantitative assessment in terms of improving air
quality or road safety is impossible at present due to the lack of reliable data. In Bangkok, traffic
congestion is still serious and the volume of construction works remains high, therefore, much more
efforts than those developed under the Action Plans would be necessary to achieve a higher degree of
improvement in air quality in relation to the pollution sources. On the contrary, achievement of improved
operational efficiency of road transport and road use was unsatisfactory due to the lack of interest from
the concerned agencies. Outcomes and impacts of the Action Plans are discussed in more detail below.
20.    Reduce vehicle emission and noise pollution. Overall achievement of this Action Plan was
highly satisfactory and the success was recognized by the Bank and served as a good practice for other



Implementation Completion Report            - 6 -                     Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand                                                       Implementation Assessment
countries. The Plan called for (a) improving quality of fuels (gasoline, diesel, combustible lubricants, and
LPG/CNG); (b) effective control of vehicle emissions, (c) strengthening the monitoring and enforcement
capacities of key agencies, and (d) continued supporting of traffic management. Although the activities
related to improving fuels quality were not directly accomplished through the Project, their
accomplishment through other channels was significantly influenced by the coordination, monitoring, and
information dissemination that were carried out under the Project. Several lessons useful for the Bank's
future operation emerged from the activities carried out as part of the Action Plans. The traffic
management component of the Action Plan was not undertaken. Activities related to gasoline included
the shift towards unleaded gasoline and the consecutive impact on refineries, vehicles specifications and
control, fuel pricing and distribution. Activities related to diesel fuels, included shifting towards light
diesel fuels with low sulfur content, and "smokeless" and low sulfur grade lubricant oils (Singapore
standard) for 2-stroke engines. Most of these activities were undertaken by NEPO in cooperation with
other agencies. Specifications for LPG/CNG based on emission testing were studied by PCD and a pilot
project to operate CNG fuel buses was implemented by the Bangkok Metropolitan Transport Authority.
The impacts of these activities are highly substantial. Lead concentration in gasoline was completely
eliminated on January 1,1996. Monitoring data indicate that other emission types have been maintained
at previous level which is a creditable effort given the impact of higher motor vehicle use.
21.    The Project activities focussed on upgrading ambient air quality standards, ensuring effective
control of vehicle emissions, and strengthening monitoring and enforcement capacity. Achievement of
the activities funded directly by the Project was considered highly satisfactory both in terms of
implementation performrance, outputs, and impacts. The activities were modified in line with the needs of
key agencies (especially PCD, LTD, BMR, and Traffic Police) and most of them were completed by the
target dates, except some of those experiencing difficulties with procurement processes. On upgrading
the air quality standards, the recommended standards were adopted by the Government and have been
effective. On vehicle emission control, all new vehicles were required to be equipped with catalytic
converters while another regulation introduced inspections of in-use vehicles before renewal of licensing.
Specific emission standards and testing procedures were established both for new and in-use vehicles.
Construction of an Emission Testing Laboratory (Elab) and a Demonstration Inspection Center (DIC)
were completed and equipment installed. Significant delay impeded these activities mainly due to a
budget understimation. LTD expanded its inspection and maintenance (I/M) program to in-use vehicles,
but their approach deviated from Bank's recommendations. LTD's preference went to grant private
inspectors a license to perform both inspection and maintenance functions and start the program with
minimum requirements. Bank's opinion was that inspection and maintenance functions should be
operated separately and that licenses should be granted after significant training had been provided to the
private inspectors, which required that Elab and DIC be operational. As of early 1998, LTD had issued
licenses to 151 private garages in Bangkok and 59 garages in surrounding provinces. Evaluation of this
program will be addressed under the HSP5. The impact of the Elab and the DIC, which were completed
by the end of Project implementation, have just materialized, but they are expected to have a significant
long-term effect.
22.    On the monitoring and enforcement side, monitoring equipment and/or mobile laboratories
together with training on their use were provided to several key agencies (PCD, OEPP, Traffic Police,
Highway Police, and BMA). The monitoring capacity of PCD increased significantly and in recognition,
the Action plan was updated in late 1996. Road-side monitoring and inspection were actively performed
as joint efforts among PCD, LTD, BMA, and Traffic Police. To offset the limited number of police force
on duty, a reward scheme was established as an incentive for frequent monitoring and enforcement, and
in some cases, led to corruption and misuse. Overall, achievement of this objective is considered highly
satisfactory. Conversely, the effort to promote effective traffic management was not satisfactory, and the
activities were implemented independently from the Project.



Implementation Completion Report            - 7 -                     Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand                                                       Implementation Assessment
23.   Improve road safety. On road safety, the Action Plan called mainly for (i) development of
organization and information systems at national level, (ii) improving safety of buses and trucks through
effective inspection and maintenance, (iii) introducing behavior changes through training and education,
and (iv) strengthening law enforcement and traffic surveillance. It was rapidly recognized that the lack of
clear policy, regulations, and institutional frameworks, would impede the implementation of the action
plan as it was identified in the SAR. Therefore, a comprehensive road safety Master Plan and its
companion Action Plan was prepared instead, and a key recommendation was to start implementing the
road safety action plan in a few selected pilot provinces. Four pilot provinces were identified by the
Government, Phuket, Nakhon Pathom, Nakhon Ratchasima, and Chiangmai, and the full scale
implementation of the pilot will be undertaken in the first two under the following Fifth Highway
Project. Equipment (including an ambulance) was also provided to the highway police to increase their
capacity to monitor drunk driving and better respond to road accidents. MOE carried out various
activities and information campaigns to build-up knowledge and raise awareness of children in schools.
The effective and quality public education materials that were created as part of this activity can be used
in other countries after translation. New regulations were introduced like contracting a mandatory Third
Party Insurance, wearing crash helmet on motorcycle, using safety belts in private cars. Enforcement of
these measures was phased in to mitigate the financial impacts on motorists mainly those with lower
income. Achievement of this objective was satisfactory.
24.    The achievement of the objective of ensuring an effective coordination of the implementation of
the numerous activities was satisfactory. Cooperation among key agencies have improved and the
communication with the public regarding compliance with emission standards, traffic regulations, and
safety driving have become customary. Many specific measures have been assigned strict monitoring
and enforcement. For example, BMA, Traffic Police, and PCD in cooperation with technical institutions,
and LTD, are operating a comprehensive road-side inspection program while PCD provides mostly free
inspection and maintenance services periodically.
25.   Improve road transport efficiency. This Action Plan aimed to improve operational efficiency
of the inter-city buses and trucks, but its achievement was not satisfactory due to political and
institutional interference, the lack of counterpart resources, and disagreement on the priorities. Some
activities were successfully completed though, but without direct input from the Project: the development
of freight terminals, increasing competitive pressure on the Express Transport Organization, deregulation
of the Bangkok taxi industry and reduction of import duties which discriminate against modem
technology vehicles and components. MOTC/APCU later considered that LTD and other concerned
agencies could proceed with other activities on their own as deemed feasible. This action Plan was
developed under the Third Highway Sector Project, in the wake of previous studies i.e. the Bank-financed
Trucking Industry Study (1988), the Seventh Plan Urban and Regional Transport Project (SPURT, 1991),
and the Inter-City and Rural Bus Transport Study and therefore focused on the national trucking and bus
transport industries. As of today, some key activities still need to be addressed like the development of a
truck classification system, of vehicle design regulations for buses and trucks, further improvement to
driver licensing of commercial vehicle
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
26.    Road Works. Procurement and construction of the road works proceeded smoothly for the most
part. Delays were encountered in two of the interchange subprojects because of slow acquisition of two
industrial sites required for the right of way, but this did not delay project completion.
27.    Action Plans. Regarding the Action Plan components, the factors affecting the achievement of
Project objectives were as follows:



Implementation Completion Report            - 8 -                      Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand                                                       Implementation Assessment
Factors not Generally Subject to Government Control
(a)    The rapid increase in the number of private vehicles (cars and motorcycles) and rapid
development of the private sector in Bangkok had significant negative impacts on the
level of traffic congestion, air, and noise pollution from vehicles. Solving the problems
required effective rules and regulations, including monitoring and enforcement, as well
as cooperation of the private sector, the public, and vehicles owners and the latter is still
a major problem. External pressures, especially those related to vehicles manufacturers,
and availability of appropriate technology were also significant.
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
(a)    The government's policies, its determination to make the changes and translate these into
being through a group of active officials was positive. This was reinforced by the good
performance in the difficult area of pollution control by a few outstanding officials in
PCD, NEPO and MOC. However, inadequate investment on training of staff, especially
to upgrade their knowledge on new technology turned out as a main constraint since
technical qualification of staff is critical to ensure effective control of pollution.
(b)    Ineffective legal and institutional frameworks related to pollution control from vehicles
are implemented through different agencies under different mandates and procedures.
This makes implementation difficult and often encounters conflict of interest among
agencies requiring negotiation and compromise.
(c)    The achievement of the Action Plans particularly in respect of matters such as improved
fuel quality (refining, distribution and pricing) benefited from the deregulation of the
petroleum industry and the resulting expansion of the role of the private sector. On-
going reductions in tariffs under GATT and AFTA agreements reduced the costs of
importing new technology which aided transport industry efficiency as did the increased
activity of international firms able to operate in Thailand because of market
liberalization.
(d)    Throughout the Project, the Government also had staff ceilings which limited the filling
of available line positions in all agencies. These limitations had some effects on the
implementation of the Action Plans, especially for a new agency (PCD) and an old
agency (LTD) that needed extension of their duties. In some agencies such as LTD, the
staff involved in the action plan implementation were not senior enough to make key
decisions with out reference to their superiors who may have been ambivalent about the
Action Plans. This same problem also existed at MOTC's Action Plans Coordinating
Unit (APCU) even when the expatriate adviser was there as the APCU staff were only
able to advise agencies, not instruct them.
Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control
(a)    Inadequate number of qualified staff and ineffective coordination between agencies were
generally the two key factors. Most agencies have limited number of qualified staff and
none can assign even one full-time staff to be responsible for implementation of the
action plan. Staff attitude and understanding on the issues was also critical and can create
significant delay and complication to the project. Most agencies tended to attend to their
own work and practices given inadequate attention to the need to integrate and coordinate



Implementation Completion Report             - 9 -                      Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand                                                         Implementation Assessment
their work. On top of these, the agencies inexperienced with the Bank's procedures
encountered delays with procurement and other matters.
(b)    Given the institutional constraints of the implementing agencies (especially the limited
number of qualified staff), adequate inputs must be provided to facilitate effective
implementation of activities and also to build long-term capacity of the agencies. In
order to function as an advisor to the action plan coordinator, in addition to one's own
technical expertise, local knowledge of the government's rules and regulations are
necessary.
28.    As a result of lower bid prices than estimated, deletion of computer equipment and some
consulting services, US$13 million of loan proceeds remained unliquidated at the initial close of the
project and were canceled. An extension of six month was granted to allow for the installation of
equipment in the DIC. Such installation was finally completed on June 22, 1998.
D. Project Sustainability
29.    The road works are not revenue-generating. Their sustainability therefore rests on the quality of
construction and maintenance of the works produced. The quality of the works was high, and except if
the sudden maintenance under-funding persists, the sustainability of this component is likely.
30.    Regarding the Action Plans, the actions taken under the Project are unlikely to be reversed and
their benefits will therefore likely be sustained. The actions implemented were largely the introduction of
new and more stringent standards (e.g. on ambient air quality, emissions for new and in-use vehicles, and
fuel quality); new regulations (e.g. mandatory wearing of crash helmets by motorcyclists, use of seat belts
in cars, and compulsory third party insurance); followed by their implementation and the necessary
supporting actions.
31.    However, despite substantial progress with the implementation of the Action Plans, the partial
success in key areas of vehicle inspection and on-road enforcement and the wider problem of Bangkok's
pervasive traffic congestion, means that air pollution problems will increase although at a lesser rate than
would have otherwise been the case, while airborne lead particles will be negligible.
E. Bank Performance
32.    Bank performance during identification, preparation, appraisal and negotiations was satisfactory.
Appraisal took place ten months after the Identification Mission, followed by negotiations four months
later. The Project design, developed closely with the Government, was sound and met needs. Regarding
supervision, support to the Government for the implementation of the Action Plans was an important
element, and the many institutions involved indicated that particularly intense supervision of these
components would be required. This was explicitly recognized in the SAR which stated: "This input is
higher than the average but is dictated by the complex action plans for improved traffic safety, reduction
of pollution from vehicle emissions and improvements in road transport efficiency that require
considerable input from specialists." The SAR Supervision Plan basically called for two supervision
missions a year, one staffed by a transport economist, highway engineer, environmental specialist, and
road safety expert and a second smaller mission consisting of a transport economist and highway
engineer. This frequency was substantially met (see Table 14). One problem of Bank performance was
staff continuity; three task managers were appointed to handle the Project during the last two years



Implementation Completion Report            - 10 -                      Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand                                                        Implementation Assessment
33.    The identification of the Project had its background in HSP2, HSP3 and previous Provincial
Roads Projects. By 1990, Thailand had developed into a mature borrower with a significant local road
engineering and financing capability. Thus, the main rationale for the Bank's continued involvement in
the sector was to support the urgently needed institutional components: environment in terms of reduced
vehicular emissions; road safety; and road transport industry efficiency which accorded with the
country's priorities as stated above. The identification is rated as highly satisfactory.
34.    The Bank assisted the borrower to prepare the Project by initially building on on-going initiatives
of the Government agencies and then through assistance provided by Bank missions assisted the
government to prepare the action plan set out in the SAR. During the implementation of the project,
Bank missions, TA provided under the project by loan and Japan Grant Funds and sector work 3/ further
detailed the actions and/or provided back-up research to aid the development of a more comprehensive
integrated action plan. Due the complex nature of the project the APCU was created at MOTC to aid
coordination and lighten the Bank's supervision task. Assistance provided for preparation is regarded as
highly satisfactory.
35.    The Project was inherently complex and to some extent this complexity was managed throughout
the period of implementation by the Government and Bank focusing the main attention on the action plan
to reduce vehicular emissions. At appraisal, a number of concerned agencies may not have fully
understood what was being proposed and the concept of the Action Plans where, irrespective of the
funding sources, the actions were binding on the government and the individual agencies. As the-concept
of the Action Plans was new, the agencies involved (apart from DOH) tended to have little previous
experience with the procedures of the Bank which led to some delays during implementation. Overall,
the Bank's appraisal is regarded as satisfactory.
36.    Supervision missions were frequent and staffed by experts in the technical areas of relevance to
the Action Plans. In addition, various research activities were initiated to better define issues and needed
actions where relevant (e.g. TA to LTD and "Development of Ambient Air Quality Standards" both
funded by the Japan Grant). The missions worked closely with the Government agencies on
implementation but there were some key areas of difference, the main one being the approach to
implementing a periodic inspection system. The Bank supported the development of a centralized system
using a limited number of high volume inspection centers which do not do repairs while LTD favored the
use of a decentralized system of garages licensed to inspect and repair. LTD continued to pursue and
then implement a decentralized system which they had planned since the mid 1980s.
37.   Overall, the Bank's performance is rated as Satisfactory.
Two pieces of sector work were undertaken: Thailand Fuel Option Study, World Bank (1993) and Thailand:
Mitigating Pollution and Congestion Impacts in a High-Growth Economy, World Bank (1994). In addition,
over 1989 to 1991 the Bank assisted the Thai Government using UNDP finance to provide TA to develop the
urban transport component of Thailand's Seventh National Plan. This study known as the Seventh Plan Urban
and Regional Transport Project (SPURT) also developed an action plan to reduce emissions from motor
vehicles and to reduce the negative impacts of transport. The concepts developed in this action plan were
endorsed by the Government and reflected in the relevant action plan prepared under HSP4.



Implementation Completion Report            - II -                      Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand                                                         Implementation Assessment
F. Borrower Performance
38.    Preparation. Borrower performance during preparation was highly satisfactory. In DOH the
Detailed Design and Bidding process was well advanced, to the extent that during negotiation the Bank
agreed to a DOH request to substantially increase the amount of the loan from US$87 million to
US$177.5 million, and to include US$10 million retroactive financing for civil works. Most of the
subprojects were completed on time and within budget and it is rated highly satisfactory. The missions,
however, noted that DOH capacity to deal with non-civil works issues i.e. environment, road safety, and
economic analysis and mapping needed to be strengthened as soon as possible. Some of these activities
are being undertaken under HSP5.
39.    Regarding the Action Plans, Borrower's performance during Project preparation was active and,
aided by the extensive involvement of experts provided by Bank missions and on-going technical
assistance. It is rated as highly satisfactory.
40.    During execution, the Borrower's performance varied by agency. Performance of LTD and
MOTC/APCU appeared to be less satisfactory compared to other agencies, but their efforts are
considered acceptable given the conflict of interests and the institutional constraints. Overall
performance of the Borrower is considered satisfactory.
G. Assessment of Overall Outcome
41.    The implementation progress of the Project was satisfactory overall. The execution of the road
civil works, the strategic investment study, and the Action Plans for traffic safety and for air quality
improvement would have been separately rated at highly satisfactory. The progress of the Transport
Efficiency action plan with LTD was less satisfactory4 and the overall rating for implementation progress
is satisfactory.
42.    Regarding development objectives, the program of road investments was implemented efficiently
by DOH, all road sections met the socio-economic criteria, and design procurement and construction
were carried out swiftly and to good quality standards. The air pollution control and noise reduction
component resulted in significant reductions in emissions from motor vehicles and with progressive
implementation of stricter standards further reductions are being achieved. The road safety component
successfully produced a Master Plan and the first two pilot projects for the implementation of this plan
are in progress. Other regulations related to road safety were also established. On road transport industry
efficiency, some actions were taken by LTD as they saw appropriate. The development objectives for the
road civil works, and for the Action Plans on pollution and road safety are rated highly satisfactory, but
for Transport Industry the rating is unsatisfactory. The overall Project outcome is rated satisfactory.
H. Future Operations
43.    Future operation of the road works is a matter of continued maintenance, and provision of timely
additional improvements to accommodate the fast growing motorized traffic. While maintenance is on
going and satisfactory, difficulties in attracting financing to widen congested arterial roadways may
create severe constraints to economic growth development in the future. Other capacities (para 41),
however, need to be strengthened as soon as possible. Support to the efforts to reduce air/noise pollution
from vehicles, increase road safety, and increase road transport efficiency should also be continued, but
4/ This Action Plan was dropped under HSP5.



Implementation Completion Report           - 12 -                     Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand                                                       Implementation Assessment
with appropriate modifications to facilitate effective implementation of the activities. Lesson learned
from the Project should be seriously considered during the preparation of future Bank Projects.
44.    Continuation of implementation of the Action Plans is taking place under HSP5 which was
prepared in mid 1994, the second year of implementation of the HSP4. Overall lesson leamed were not
available at that time and HSP5 was designed to provide continuous support to the action plans,
especially on road safety, with respect to the increasing role of PCD in air/noise pollution. Of the
US$150 million of HSP5 Bank loan, US$2 million were allocated to the implementation of theDOH's
EA strengthening program (total US$5.0 million) and US$2.19 million were allocated to the support to
the action plans (total US$17.9 million). A PHRD grant (US$1 million) was provided to PCD to
undertake a study on sources of small-size particles and their health impact. HSP5 became effective in
August 1996 and is scheduled to close by end of June 2000.
1. Key Lessons Learned
45.    Ownership and commitment. The outcome of the Project is a continuing testimony to the
importance of borrower ownership and commitment of key officials in project design and
implementation. The Project demonstrated that with clear mandate, appropriate institutional capacity,
and timely technical and financial supports, effective performance of the implementing agencies can be
expected while the opposite proposition is true as well.
46.    Cross-sectoral issues and conflict of interests. Despite the prior recognition that air/noise
pollution, road safety, and road transport industry efficiency are complex cross-sectoral issues and
addressing them would require effective cooperation and coordination among key agencies,
implementation of the action plans, proved more complicated than anticipated and conflict of interests
among some agencies out-ranged earlier assessments. Active participation of the public and industries
and strong political support are also critical factors to ensure well-being of the people and improve
efficiency of road use. Therefore, the adequacy of regulatory and institutional frameworks should be
carefully assessed and clear roles and responsibilities should be established and accepted by key agencies
before embarking in large investment.. In addition to the interest and ownership of the agencies, efforts
should also be deployed to facilitate/ensure public and political supports. Public information, education
and training also played a key role and the growing of public demand for environmental improvement has
contributed significantly to the success of the implementation of the Action Plans.
47.    The Project showed  that relatively small, and new, agencies with a clear mandate such as
NEPO, PCD, and TITS, when receiving appropriate and timely support, could achieve very satisfactory
and in some cases outstanding results. Larger and older agencies with numerous responsibilities and
deeply anchored traditions are subject to conflict of interests at both policy and technical levels. In the
latter case, closer dialogue and extensive institutional building effort are required. Ownership and conflict
of interests within LTD during Project implementation illustrated those problems. Overlapping roles and
competing responsibilities of key agencies (LTD, PCD, local government, Traffic Police) and the triple
coordination mechanism of vehicles inspection and maintenance program, on-road inspection, and
periodic surveillance program should be better defined. It should be noted however, that in 1992, at the
time of preparation of the Project, PCD was not yet a functioning agency.
48.   Action plan concept and budget allocation. Despite delays and difficulties, the action plan
concept is considered useful and, to a limited extent in this case, demonstrates the benefit of using an
integrated approach. The plan records all the various initiatives, responsible agencies, and available
budgets in one place, which is useful in an environment where institutional coordination may be difficult.
Periodic review of the plan can show progress and problems encountered during implementation and if
used properly can trigger mitigation in time. In practice, however, the government procedures to allocate



Implementation Completion Report               - 13 -                       Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand                                                            Implementation Assessment
counterpart budget and the national procurement regulations must be factored in. In Thailand, especially
under the Project, difficulties arose from the lack of clear and specific legal provision allowing Bank's
procurement guidelines to override government regulations when conflicting. The number of qualified
staff assigned to the project is another critical factor affecting the performance of the agencies in the
Project. Technical capability of staff is necessary to ensure quality of work, therefore high priority
should be given to use budget for training.
49.    Actions in the field. For new agencies with limited exposure to Bank's operations , consultation
and dissemination of information regarding Bank's procedures should be multiplied. Recent Bank
decentralization can play significant role in improving performance of implementing agencies, especially
in the area of procurement



Implementation Completion Report             - 14 -                      Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand                                                          Implementation Assessment
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOURTH HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3446-TH)
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives   Substantial     Partial     Negligible      Not applicable
Macro policies             Li            L            Li                 E
Sector Policies            0i             El          [                   ]
Financial objectives       L             L                               El
Institutional development   Li            El           0                 L
Physical objectives        IXJ           FlI          0li
Poverty reduction          Li            L]           Li                 IX
Gender issues              Li            Li            0                 [E
Other social objectives    Li             :1           0i                E
Environmental objectives   [E             0I           0                 Li
Public sector management   0i            [El           0i                0i
Private sector development   Li           0i          El                 0
Other (specify)            0             Li            0i                Ix
B. Project sustainabilityLikely                             Unlikely      Uncertain
1                   Li             Oi
C. Bank performance                Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory    Deficient
Identification                     El                  L              L
Preparation assistance             0                     i            L
Appraisal                                              IF] L3i
Supervision                                            [El            L
D. Borrower performance            Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory    Deficient
Preparation                       IX]                  Li             Li
Implementation                     Li                  I]             L
Covenant compliance                El                  El]            L
Operation (if applicable)          Li                  Li             E
Highly                                         Highly
E. Assessment of outcome    Satisfactory    Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory
Li             0               iL



Implementation Completion Report                         - 15 -                             Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand                                                                             Implementation Assessment
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan/Credit      |                       Purpose                        1  Project  |    FY           Status
Number                                                                     Name       Approved    PCRIPAR
Preceding Operations
LN 341-TH          Construct and improve three major links (628 km) in the Thai  National  1963    None
trunk road network. provide road maintenance and office  Highway
equipment, engineering studies.                       Project
LN 455-TH          Construct and improve four National Primary highways (70    Second     1966     PAR 362
km), carry out feasibility and engineering studies    Highway                   (3/19/74)
Project
LN 535-TH          Construct and improve two National Primary highways (478    Third      1968     PAR 758
km). engineering and feasibility studies of national and feeder  Highway        (5/27/75)
roads, training for DOH staff.                        Project
LN 626-TH          Construct and improve major links in trunk road network (294  Fourth   1969     PAR 1634
km). Provide road maintenance equipment, detailed     Highway                   (6/15/77)
engineering.                                          Project
LN 870-TH          Construct and improve National Highways (3 sections. 285  Fifth        1973     PCR 4476
km) and Provincial Roads (4 sections. 387 km). Carry out  Highway               (5/9/83)
feasibility studies, detailed engineering, highway maintenance  Project
study. provide maintenance equipment. TA to DOH and
MOC.
LN 1519-TH         Construct and improve Provincial Roads (671 km). Carry out  Sixth      1978      PCR 6205
maintenance study of National Highways and provide    Highway                   (5/20/86)
equipment. carry out studies of Provincial Roads and Inland    Project
Waterways, TA and training for DOH and MOC.
LN 1638-TH         Increase travel speeds, increase the capacity of the urban road  Bangkok  1979   PCR 7068
network. improve public transport.                    Traffic
Managemen
t Project
LN 2035-TH         Construct and improve Provincial Roads (600 km). provide    Provincial  1982     PAR 8447
laboratory equipment and traffic counters for DOH, carry out   Road             (3/16/90)
engineering studies. provide TA to DOH and MOC and    Project
fellowships.
LN 2311 -TH        Construct and improve Provincial Roads (1000 km).      Second          1983      PCR 9542
strengthen and rehabilitate National and Provincial roads  Provincial           (4/30/91)
(1000 km), carry out sector studies. provide TA to MOC.  Road
Project
LN 2849-TH         Protect past investments by rehabilitating and strengthening    Highway  1988    PCR 13768
paved highways. improve road maintenance, reduce transport  Sector              (12/9/94)
costs. improve road safety, begin to address vehicular air and   Project
noise pollution with LTD.
LN 3008-TH         As for HSP                                             Second          1989      PCR 13768
Highway                   (12/9/94)
Sector
Project
LN 3220-TH         Improve the quality of interurban roads. relieve congestion.    Third  1990      ICR 14672
improve traffic safety. reduce environmental pollution from  Highway            (6/26/95)
vehicle emissions and traffic noise. improve policies on road   Sector
transport.                                            Project
Following Operafions
LN 3968-TH         Reduce environmental degradation and vehicle accidents,  Fifth         1996      Ongoing
improve the quality of service of the inter-urban road  Highway
network, provide a systematic basis for environmental  Sector
assessment and management.                            Project



Implementation Completion Report          - 16 -                     Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand                                                     Implementation Assessment
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle         Date Planned                Date Actual
Identification (IEPS)                                            01/91
Preparation                                                      02/91
Preappraisal                         02/91                       05/91
FEPS                                 08/91                       08/91
Appraisal                         05/91, 09/91                   09/91
Negotiations                      07/91, 01/92                   01/92
Board Presentation                09/91, 04/92                   03/92
Loan Signature                                                   03/92
Effectiveness                        07/92                       07/92
Project Completion                   06/97                       03/98
Loan Closing                         12/97                       06/98
Table 4: Cumulative Disbursements (Planned v. Actual)
(US$ Million Equivalent)
FY92   FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97  FY98  FY99
Appraisal estimate        5       45.0  75.0  105.0  135.0  165.0  177.5  177.5
Formally revised estimate    0    60.6  109.6  129.9  141.9  151.4  163.3  164.5
Actual                    0       60.6  109.6  129.9  141.9  151.4  157.4  158.6
Actual as % of appraisal  0       135   146   124   105       92    89    89
estimate
Actual as % of formally  -100    100   100   100    100    96    96
revised
Date of final disbursement    9/30/98
First cancellation was US$13.034 million
Final balance of about US$5.902 million will be cancelled.



Implementation Completion Report                                                              - 17 -                                                              Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand                                                                                                                                                   Implementation Assessment
Table 5: Contracts Completed
Route                   Contract                   Contract No.     Contract         Final       Length       Start       Contract       Date of     Completion        End          Month
No.                      Title                      IBRD/Ln.       Amount        Construction    Kms          Of          Period      Substantial    Certificate    Mainten.     Certificate
3446-TH         Baht            Cost                  Contract      (Months)    Completion        Issued        Period         Issued
2   Interchange       - at Sikhiu                    I          254,821,481     260,558,023     -        04May92          18         20Jun94       31 Aug94       19Jun95      10Apr96
32   Interchange       - at Ayutthaya                 2          724,765,000     689,281,198     -        17 Feb92         30         16 Dec96      10 Jan 97      15 Dec97     17Feb98
4038   A. Khlong Thom    - K.A. Lam Thap                3           95,436,180      98,611,460    27,069    04May92          22         21Oct93       03Nov93        20Oct94      27Feb95
3452   Prachinburi       - A. Prachantakham             4          104,712,880     105,521,638    15,857    01 May 92        20         09 Mar94      04 Apr 94      08 Mar 95    07 Dec 95
I   A. Khok Samrong   - A Tak Fa                     5          178,456,570       186,310,   40,880      15 Apr92        24          15 Sep93     05Oct93         14 Sep94     12 Oct94
745
1293   B. Khok Mai Daeng - A Noen Maprang               6          133,691,010    136,780,035    36,069     19May92         24          29Sep93      20Dec93        28Sep94       01 Feb95
41   SuratThani        - A. Thung Song Sect!          7          237,253,000     235,257,099    36,819    20Jun92          30         31 Jan95      06Mar95        30Jan96      28May96
J R. 401-B. Nam Kliang
I   A. Tak Fa         - A. Takhli                    8          70,620,800      76,257,337    22,830     01 Mar93         18         31 May94      10Jun94       30May95       16 Jun 95
32   Interchange       - at Bang Pa In                9        1,439,296,800    1,436,107,768    -        03Aug92          30         05Oct94       17Oct94        04Oct95      03Apr96
2280   B. Sanam Chai     - B. Tha Si Khai              10          113,410,290     120,653,170    37,772    15Oct92          20         18 Jan94      15 Feb94       17Jan95      25 Apr96
202   Chaiyaphum        - A. BuaYai                   I1          169,377,300     176,307,000    51,160    20Apr93          27         30Dec94       22Mar95        29Dec95      25Jan96
1015   Lamphun           - A. Sanl'aTong               12          86,494,200      86,490,840    13,763     01 Feb93         18         17Jun94      06Jul94         16Jun95      06Nov95
221   Srisaket          - J toA. Kantharalak          13           91,417,920      97,463,682    32,052    01 Mar93         18         17Jul94       17Aug94        16Jul95      15 Sep95
(Sect 2)
2227   A. Phanom Phrai   - A MahaChanaChai             14           61,188,630     62,746,955    24,770     08Mar93          16         24Dec93       15 Feb 94     23Dec94       08Feb95
103   A Rong Kwang    - A. Ngao                       15          51,701,920      52,444,410    16,271     01 Feb93         15         17 Dec93      18 Feb94      16 Dec 94     27 Jan 95
2270   B. MeeChai        - B. NamThaeng                16           38,840,580      40,845,028    19,537    01Apr93          15         05 Sep 94     13Oct94       04Sep95       27Nov95
2157   A. Khukhan        - B Khok Tan                  17           42,116,448      46,209,534    16,304    08 Mar93         16         07 Apr94      21 Apr94      06Apr95       06 Jun 95
3361   B. Dan MakhamTia - B. Pak Dong                  18           47,042,490     44,356,414    11,796     24Mar93          15         20Apr94       18May94        19Apr95      12Jun95
4   A. Khura Buri     - J. to Surat Thani           19          188,721,100     185,776,710    47,904    18 Oct93         30         07 Apr96      29 Apr96       06 Apr97     11 Aug 97
2199   A. Chomnabon      - B. Donhan                   20           46,648,220      50,148,426    23,600    01 Dec93         15         25 Aug 94     20 Sep94      24Aug95       12 Jan 96
2243   B. Bua Chum       - A. Pak Chong (Sect. I)      21           62,771,600     62,045,135    36,000     15 Feb 94       21          31 Oct95      18 Dec 95     30 Oct 96     27 May 97
2243   B. BuaChum        - A PakChong(Sect 2)          22           69,200,000      68,076,077    36,139    10Mar94          21         27Nov95       18Dec95       26Nov96       30 Jan 97
4037   A. Khao Phanom    - B. Khum Mahachai            23          157,669,710     152,580,984    33,783    01Jul94          24         14Mar96       22Mar96        13Mar97      22May97
4009   B. Song           - A. Phrasaeng                24          192,278,900     183,808,943    25,652    01Jul94          22         26Apr97       07May97       25 Apr 98
II   Interchange       - at Don Chan                 25         478,784,500     485,715,712      -        01 Feb96        24          21 Dec97     07Jan98        20Dec98



Implementation Completion Report                      -18                              Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand,                                                                           Action Plan Component
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
No indicators for project operation were defined.



Implementation Completion Report           - 19 -                    Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand                                                         Action Plan Component
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Study Name        Purpose as defined at         Status            Impact of Study
appraisaVredefined
Long Term Strategy    Long term study of     Satisfactorily         Study formed basis for
highway planning and   completed             recommendations by
investment                                   DOH to cabinet for
future investment
strategy
Design package I      Topographic surveys,   Satisfactorily         Bid packages ready for
Design package 2      detailed engineering   completed              bids to be invited,
design, bid documents                        under financing by
Design package 3                                                    various agencies
Design package 4
Design package 5
Interchange review    Review criteria and    Satisfactorily         Designs generally
methodology for       completed              confirmed, modified
design and economic                          where warranted, and
analysis as applied to                       cleared for
four interchanges                            construction.
Construction          Provide project        Construction           High quality attained
Supervision           manager and regional   completed to a high   will contribute to
supervisors for       standard of quality    sustainability
construction
supervision teams
Action Plan Studies
Action Plan                                  Assignment completed
Coordinator                                  after initial delay in
appointment
Road Safety Master                           Study satisfactorily   Pilot implementation
Plan                                         completed              begun in two provinces



Implementation Completion Report               - 20 -                       Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand                                                                Action Plan Component
Table 8: Project Costs and Financing
Table 8A: Project Costs
(US$ millions)
Component                      Appraisal Estimate                Actual Estimates
Local    Foreign      Total     Local    Foreign      Total
Road and Bridge Subprojects
Civil Works                           116.2      116.2      232.4      102.7      102.7     205.5
Design                                 4.2        2.8        7.0        2.0        2.0       3.9
Construction Supervision               1.0        1.0        2.0        0.6        0.6        1.3
Subtotal                              121.4      120.0      241.4      105.3      105.3     210.6
DOH Investment /Financing strategy.     0.6         1.4       2.0        0.6        1.3        1.9
Priority Action Plan Components
Pollution Control
Equipment                             -         1.9        1.9         -          -          -
Technical Assistance/Training        1.1        2.5        3.6         -          -          -
Traffic Safety
Equipment                             -         1.5        1.5         -          -          -
Technical Assistance/Training        1.3        3.0        4.3         -          -          -
Road Transport Industry Efficiency
Technical Assistance/Training        0.7        1.8        2.5         -          -          -
Action Plan Coordinating Unit          0.2        0.6        0.8         -          -          -
Subtotal                               3.3       11.3       14.6         -          -
Total                           125.3      132.7      258.0     105.9      106.3      212.5
Table 8B: Project Financing
(US$ Millions)
Component                                      Appraisal Estimate
Local               Foreign                Total
IBRD                                         45.6                 131.9                 177.5
Japan Grant Fund                                                    0.8                   0.8
Government                                   79.7                                        79.7
Total                                125.3                132.7                 258.0



Implementation Completion Report             - 21 -                      Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand                                                             Action Plan Component
Table 9: Economic Re-evaluation of Rehabilitation and Upgrading Subprojects
Construction            ERR
Route No.                   Road Section                       Cost          At          At
Baht (million)   Appraisal    At ICR
4038      A. Khlong Thom      -   K. A. Lam Thap             98.6          17.70       19.35
3452      Prachinburi         -   A. Prachantakham          105.6          34.00      75.28
1      A. Khok Samrong    -   A. Tak Fa                  186.3          58.40      29.18
1295      B. Khok Mai Daeng  -   A. Noen Maprang            136.8          14.70      23.52
41      Surat Thani         -   A. Thung Song                                        16.94
(Sect./J. R. 401 - B. Nam Kliang)                253.3           17.20
1      A. Tak Fa          -   A. Ta Khli                  76.3          96.40      62.45
2280      B. Sanam Chai       -   B. Tha Si Khai            120.7          24.40      34.94
202      Chaiyaphum          -   A. Bua Yai                176.3          26.80      29.01
1015      Lamphun            -   A. San Pa Tong              86.5          17.60      21.19
221      Srisaket            -   J. to A. Kantharalak       97.5          40.00       16.47
(Sect. 2)
2227      A. Phanom Phrai    -   A. Maha Chana Chai          62.7          12.70      36.37
103      A. Rong Kwang      -   A. Ngao                     52.4          44.70      46.53
2270      B. Mae Chai         -   B. Nam Thaeng              40.8          12.60      24.40
2157      A. Khukhan          -   B. Khok Tan                46.2          25.80      51.72
3361      B. Dan Makham Tia  -   B. Pak Dong                 44.4          36.10       13.92
4      A. Khura Buri       -   J. to Surat Thani         185.8          22.60      20.93
2199      A. Chonnabot        -   B. Donhan                  50.1          22.20      56.13
2243      B. Bua Chum         -   A. Pak Chong (Sect. 1)     62.0           N.A.      26.25
2243      B. Bua Chum         -   A. Pak Chong (Sect.2)      68.1           N.A.      43.51
4037      A. Khao Phanom      -   B. Khuan Mahachai         152.6          43.90      16.94
4009      B. Song             -   A. Phrasaeng              183.8          66.80      37.61
Overall ERR                                                30.5



Implementation Completion Report               - 22 -                       Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand                                                                Action Plan Component
Table 10: The Seventh Highway Plan (1992-96)
Planned and Actual Expenditures
(In Current Baht Million)
1992     1993     1994     1995      1996    Total    %
Investment Expenditure
Widening                     Plan      8,329    11,628   13,920    8,342    7,070    49,289   25
Actual   5,762     6,076    6,986    7,336    12,810    38,970    17
Rehabilitation               Plan      3,762    5,617    7,767     6,708    5,557    29,411    15
Actual   2,934     5,612    5,310    4,445     3,411   21,712    10
Upgrading to Paved Standard   Plan     2,753    4,102    4,938     3,670    4,235    19,698     8
Actual   3,294     3,943    4,683    3,873     2,225    18,018    8
New Links                    Plan      2,614    4,982    5,624     5,314     1,583    20,117    10
Actual     885     1,422    1,022      753     1,367     5,449    2
lnterchanges                 Plan       169       882    1,371     1,703    1,613     5,738    3
Actual   1,012     3,086    3,147    2,447     2,334    12,026    5
Traffic Safety               Plan       400       400     460       599       630     2,489     1
Actual     114       454     626       830     1,191    3,215     1
New Motorways                Plan                          700     2,800    5,700     9,200    5
Actual     775     1,427    3,696    9,151     9,198    24,247    1 1
Subtotal                 Plan     18,027    27,611   34,780    29,136    26,388   135,942   67
Actual  14,775    22,020   25,471    28,836    32,535   123,637   55
Road Maintenance                Plan     5,170     5,945    6,837    7,863     9,042    34,857    18
Actual   5,252     6,208    7,125    9,397    12,638    40,620    18
Administration                 Plan      3,067     3,128    3,191    3,225     3,320    15,931    8
Actual   3,609     6,282    8,362    14,085    16,886    49,224   22
National Security Roads and    Plan      2,495     2,620    2,750    2,880     3,030    13,775    7
Non-programmed Projects
Actual   2,027     2,131   2,116    2,401    2,850    11,525    5
Total                    Plan    28,759    39,304   47,558    43,104    41,780   200,505   100
Actual  25,663    36,641   43,074  54,718.8   64,909   225,004  100
Source: Department of Highways, May 1998.



Implementation Completion Report            - 23 -                    Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand.                                                         Action Plan Component
Table 11: Traffic Volumes at Interchanges
A. Don Chan Interchange:
Average Daily Traffic Volume on Route 11
Lampang-Chiangmai Sta. 89+000
Year    PC       LB      HB       LT      MT      HT      TOTAL       MC       TOTAL
(ex. MC)            (inc. MC)
1989    2,501    928    587    4,328    1,296   1,045     10,685     3,598     14,283
1990    1,776    433    676    5,981    1,244   1,292     11,402     2,274     13,676
1991    3,750   1,619    521    5,553    1,829   1,433    14,705     3,387     18,092
1992    4,729    580    655    9,324    3,209   3,291     21,788     3,517     25,305
1993    9,547    479    663   10,812    2,265   2,319    26,085      4,480     30,565
1994  10,720    527     762   12,126   2,548   2,606    29,289       5,030     34,319
1995   12,997    861    1,178    5,209    3,336   4,161   27,742     5,253     32,995
1996   22,383    499   1,010   9,571    3,895   3.779    41,137      3,270     44,407
1997   17,927    219    433    11,191    2,223   2,475    34,468     2,665     37,133
Average Daily Traffic Volume on Route 1141
Chiangmai Airport-Donchan   Sta. 0+500
Year  PC    LB   HB    LT   MT   HT   TOTAL   MC    TOTAL
(ex. MC)            (inc. MC)
1989    6,057    839    264      5,027    166    472      12,825     18,768    31,593
1990    6,021    799    308      6,564    412     134     14,238      4,270    18,508
1991    6,621    512    248      6,037    539    235      14,192      3,488    17,680
1992   10,273    915    185    11,747    640    257       24,017      9,835    33,852
1993   16,061   1,524    367    12,065    709    236      30,962     14,207    45,169
1994   17,126   1,620    398    12,894    760    265      33,063     15,171    48,234
1995   21,765   1,284    228    14,957    384     171     38,789     16,494    55,283
1996   21,926    915    220    16,992    263       85     40,401     15,362    55,763
1997   29,065    962    183    15,170    284      121     45,785     15,536    61,321
Average Daily Traffic Volume on Route 1006
Chiangmai-A. San Khamphaeng Sta. 10+000
Year  PC    LB   HB    LT   MT   HT   TOTAL   MC    TOTAL
(ex. MC)            (inc. MC)
1989    3,970   1,438   236      4,050     158    726    10,578    1,2350      22,928
1990    1,861   1,575   259      5,012   2,214    456    11,377      3,795     15,172
1991    3,740   1,703   270      5,620   4,317    380    16,030      2,725     18,755
1992    8,825   1,738   203      6,978    1,544   2,077    21,365    3,087     24,452
1993    7,491   1,527   376      5,910    1,128    235    16,667     5,174     21,841
1994    9,812   2,010   502      7,736    1,486    307    21,853     6,784     28,637
1995    6,241   1,569   128      7,404     494    152    15,988       5,062    21,050
1996   10,647   1,207   598      9,819     478      87    22,836     7,846     30,682
1997   15,481    961   190    10,491       281     84    27,488      9,204     36,692



Implementation Completion Report             - 24 -                     Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand                                                            Action Plan Component
B. Bang Pa In Interchange:
Average Daily Traffic Volume on Route 1
Interchange At Bang Pa In Intersection  Sta. 48+100
Year  PC    LB    HB    LT    MT    HT   TOTAL   MC   TOTAL
(ex. MC)           (inc. MC)
1993    17300     6522     5107    14684    4447      9055      57115    3368       60483
1994    31161     8614     8686    13328    8924    20640       91353    5150       96503
1995    29240     5215     6467    10155    6266    14240       71583    2173       73756
1996    80056     8673    12590    10674   16884    19486      148363    7130      155493
1997    44368    14099    16644    13648   16268    13345      118372    7107      125479
Average Daily Traffic Volume on Route 1
Interchange At Bang Pa In Intersection Sta. 60+800
Year  PC    LB   HB    LT    MT    HT   TOTAL   MC   TOTAL
(ex. MC)           (inc. MC)
1993    8,005   1,837   1,980     2,546    1,714    8,233    24,315     1,060    25,375
1994    12,592  2,653   2,382     6,976    4,609   13,277    42,489    2,060      44,549
1995    10,652  2,456   2,922    13,384    4,962   15,584    49,960    2,315      52,275
1996   25,131   5,892   1,048    11,316    9,511   20,094    72,992    2,001      74,993
1997   30,428  5,340   5,131    15,436   14,929   20,500    91,764    2,135       93,899
Average Daily Traffic Volume on Route 32
Interchange At Bang Pa In Intersection Sta. 53+850
Year  PC    LB   HB    LT    MT   HT   TOTAL   MC    TOTAL
(ex. MC)             (inc. MC)
1993    14,646     930  2,464    4,849   2,052   2,399    27,340       1,503     28,843
1994   20,156      739  2,566    1,362   2,063   3,688    30,574       1,201     31,775
1995   24,690    1,762  4,260    2,178   3,704   7,025    43,619       1,498     45,117
1996   34,297    1,572  2,789    1,976   3,079   3,963    50,676       1,101     51,777
1997   29,918    1,233  4,135    2,427   3,589   3,689    44,991       1,030     46,021



Implementation Completion Report            - 25 -                    Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand                                                          Action Plan Component
C. Ayudhaya Interchange:
Average Daily Traffic Volume on Route 32
Interchange At Ayutthaya Intersection Sta. 53+850
Year  PC   LB   HB    LT   MT   HT   TOTAL   MC   TOTAL
(ex. MC)            (inc. MC)
1993   14,646     930  2,464    4,849   2,052   2,399    27,340      1,503     28,843
1994   20,156     739  2,566    1,362   2,063   3,688    30,574      1,201     31,775
1995   24,690    1,762  4,260    2,178   3,704   7,025    43,619     1,498     45,117
1996   34,297    1,572  2,789    1,976   3,079   3,963    50,676     1,101     51,777
1997   29,918    1,233  4,135    2,427   3,589   3,689    44,991     1,030     46,021
Average Daily Traffic Volume on Route 32
Interchange At Ayutthaya Intersection Sta. 94+500
Year  PC    LB   HB    LT   MT   HT   TOTAL   MC   TOTAL
(ex. MC)            (inc. MC)
1993    5,135   1,316  1,382    5,565    1,274   2,824    17,496      854       18,350
1994    7,131     620   1,284    8,120    1,659   2,651   21,465      970      22,435
1995    8,592    456   1,659    8,079   2,312   4,498    25,596      1,127     26,723
1996    10,045   1,395  2,322    5,943   5,943   3,300    28,948     1,783     30,731
1997    11,291    440   1,576   7,033   2,250   4,939    27,529      1,054     28,583
Average Daily Traffic Volume on Route 309
Interchange At Ayutthaya Intersection Sta. 10+337
Year  PC    LB   HB    LT   MT   HT   TOTAL   MC   TOTAL
(ex. MC)            (inc. MC)
1993   2,849      664    543   1,082       639   1,118     6,895     1,125      8,020
1994   2,132      446    318   2,512       316   1,588     7,312     1,285      8,597
1995   3,142    1,296    619   3,942       734   1,219    10,952     1,642     12,594
1996   5,579    1,129   1,058   4,554    1,501   1,893    15,714     1,973     17,687
1997   5,089    1,831   1,652   1,161      853    458    11,044      2,105     13,149
Average Daily Traffic Volume on Route 309
Interchange At Ayutthaya Intersection Sta. 18+000
Year  PC    LB   HB    LT   MT   HT   TOTAL   MC   TOTAL
(ex. MC)            (inc. MC)
1993   20,053   1,820   2,300   4,393    1,315   1,276    31,157     9,190     40,347
1994    18,608  1,335   2,321    1,055    1,370   1,271    25,960    1,636     27,596
1995   20,306   1,689   2,574    1,588    1,520   1,313    28,990    7,772     36,762
1996    6,344  2,547   2,212    2,176    1,742   1,060    16,081     3,114     19,195
1997    3,149   1,305   1,166    1,540    1,420   1,137   12,717     2,562     15,279



Implementation Completion Report             - 26 -                     Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand                                                            Action Plan Component
D. Sikhiu Interchange:
Average Daily Traffic Volume on Route 2
Interchange At Sikhiu Intersection Sta. 185+500
Year  PC   LB   HB    LT   MT   HT   TOTAL   MC   TOTAL
(ex. MC)             (inc. MC)
1995   6,229    2,626  1,948    3,846    5,213   5,421     25,283      1,194     26,477
1996   9,572      772   1,608    2,160    3,994   6,009    24,115       849      24,964
1997   9,202    1,533   1,669    9,491    2,693   6,283    30,871      1,132     32,003
Average Daily Traffic Volume on Route 2
Interchange At Sikhiu Intersection Sta. 216+000
Year  PC   LB   HB   LT   MT   HT   TOTAL   MC   TOTAL
(ex. MC)             (inc. MC)
1995   5,628      514   1,437   8,595    1,723   3,681     21,578      1,242     22,820
1996   6,656      370     952   5,727    1,349   4,114      19,168     1,009     20,177
1997   8,080    1,526   1,872   7,191    2,860   4,883     26,412      1,557     27,969
Average Daily Traffic Volume on Route 24
Interchange At Sikhiu Intersection Sta. 10+000
Year  PC    LB   HB    LT   MT   HT   TOTAL   MC   TOTAL
(ex. MC)             (inc. MC)
1995    1,181    12       82     1,611    408       911     4,205       280       4,485
1996    1,410     6       59     1,822    502       916     4,715      266        4,981
1997    1,664     8       64     2,209    690    1,230      5,865      318        6,183
Average Daily Traffic Volume on Route 24
Interchange At Sikhiu Intersection Sta. 1+500
Year  PC    LB   HB    LT   MT   HT   TOTAL   MC   TOTAL
(ex. MC)             (inc. MC)
1995    1,496     32     161     1,171    440    1,028      4,328      586        4,914
1996   2,329    158      161    1,523    646    1,245       6,062      624        6,686
1997   2,515      34     110    1,023    665        977     5,324      700        6,024



Implementation Completion Report               - 27 -                       Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand                                                                Action Plan Component
Table 12: Status of Legal Covenants
Section     Class      Status3'     Original       Revised             Covenant Description
fulfillment    fulfillment
date          date
3.01        4           C       None                         Provide promptly as needed the resources
required for implementation of the project
3.03(i)      9           C       03/31/92       Annual        By March 31 each year, review with the
Bank the progress of the Seventh Highway
Plan and the Action Plan's implementation
3.03(ii)     9           C       03/31/93       Annual         By March 31 each year, consult with the
Bank on scope and nature of activities to
be carried out under the Action Plans in
the following fiscal year
3.04(i)      11          C       None                         Give priority to maintenance and
rehabilitation of existing roads over
construction of new ones
3.04(ii)     11          C       None                          Select subprojects using criteria
satisfactory to the Bank
4.01        1           C       06/30/93       Annual        Have the project accounts for each FY
audited and furnish to the Bank, not later
than nine months after the end of each FY,
the report of such audit
Covenant types:
1. = Accounts/audits                           8. =  Indigenous people
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation  9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
from beneficiaries                       10. = Project implementation not covered by
3. = Present Status (C, CD, CP, NC)                   categories 1-9
4. = Counterpart funding                       11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or
5. = Management aspects of the project or             other resource allocation
executing agency                         12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6. = Environmental covenants                         regulatory/institutional action
7. = Involuntary resettlement                  13. = Other
3. Present Status:
C   =  covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP  =  complied with partially
NC  =  not complied with



Implementation Completion Report               - 28 -                      Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand                                                               Action Plan Component
Table 13: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Project Stage                Staffweeks                   US$'000
Preparation                       39.7                        127.9
Appraisal                         28.8                         94.2
Negotiation/Board                 14.6                         47.9
Supervision                      119.0                        394.9
ICR                                8.7                         31.4
Total                       210.8                         696.3
Source: Staff Use and Schedule (Product View) Report COSR20-Cost Accounting
System



Implementation Completion Report                    - 29 -                         Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand                                                                        Action Plan Component
Table 14: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of   Mission   No. of      Staff           Specialized staff skills represented    IP   DO
date    persons   weeks in
field I
Preparation   02/91      3          6       Transport economist (TM I). highway engineer,              Procurement documents
procurement spec.                                         and procedures
Pre-        09/91        5          9       Transport economist (TM I). highway engineer.              Procurement
appraisal                                   environmental spec.. road safety spec.. road              documents. agreement
transport industrv specialist                             on Action Plans
Appraisal    10/92       6          6       Transport economist (TM I). highway engineer.              Procurement
urban environmental spec.. road safety spec.. road        procedures, overdue
transport spec.. vehicle emissions spec.                  audits
Post        03/92        2          2       TIransport economist. vehicle emission expert  I          Administrative
Appraisal                                                                                              arrangements and
location of emissions
laboratory
SPN I       10/92        2          5       *I'ransport economist (TM I) highway engineer  I           Delay in appointment of
APCU advisor
SPN 11      01/93        4          9       transport economist (TM I) highway engineer.               Delay in Action Plans
toll road spec.. computer applications spec.              component,
procurement procedures
and documents
SPN III     06/93        6          14      Transport economist (TM I). highway engineer,  I    -     Review required of
environmental spec.. road safety spec., air quality       interchange designs
standards spec.. air pollution spec.
SPN IV       11/93       3          8       Transport economist (TM I). highway engineer,       -     Additional TA required
environmental spec.                                       for Action Plans
implementation, role of
Action Plans
coordinator
SPN V        11/94       3          4       Transport economist (TM I), two environmental             Delay in Action Plan
spec.                                                     implementation and
procurement of
emissions lab.
equipment
SPN VI      01/95        1          2       Highway engineer                              HS   HS    Action Plans
implementation slow
SPN VII    03/95         1         0.5      Environmental spec.                                       Action Plans
implementation and
equipment procurement
delayed
SPN VIII    11/95        4          6       Transport economist (TM I) highway engineer,  HS   HS    Implementation of some
two environmental spec.                                   Action Plans
components delayed
SPN IX      06/96        2          2       Highway Engineer (TM2). highway engineer      HS   HS    -
SPN X       10/96        2          2       Highway Engineer (TM2), procurement spec.                 Implementation of some
Action Plans
components delayed
SPN XI      07/97        4          4       Highway Engineer (TM3), transport spec.,      S    HS    Delay in procurement
environmental spec., procurement spec.                    of Action Plan vehicle
emissions equipment
SPN         11/97        5          3       Highway Engineer (TM3), highway engineer,     S    S
XII/ICR                                     environmental spec., transport spec., procurement
spec.
SPN XIII    03/98        2          2       Highway Engineer (TM3), vehicle emission      I
I expert                                            _
1/ Missions usually combined with supervision of other projects.



Implementation Completion Report            - 30 -                    Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand                                                          Action Plan Component
APPENDIX A
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOURTH HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT (Ln 3446-TH)
FIFTH HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT (Ln 3968-TH)
SUPERVISION AND IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT MISSION
AIDE-MEMOIRE
(November-December 1997)
Introduction
1.    A mission consisting of Messrs. Alain Labeau (Task Manager), Peter Long (Consultant Highway
Engineer), Philip Sayeg (Consultant Transport and Environmental Specialist), Chinnakorn Chantra
(Operations Officer - Procurement) and Ms. Manida Unkulvasapaul (Environmental Specialist) visited
Thailand between November 12 and December II, 1997 to supervise these two projects. The supervision
of the Fourth Highway Sector Project was the last one before Loan closing on December 31, 1997. For
that reason, the mission launched the preparation process of the Implementation Completion Report. The
mission met officials of DOH, LTD, MOTC, other agencies involved in the project to some extent, as
well as consultants and contractors, and visited several sites of works completed under the Fourth
Highway Sector Project (HSP4) and proposed for construction under the Fifth Highway Sector Project
(HSP5) as well as the Road Safety Pilot operation in Nakhon Pathom Province. The mission would like
to express its appreciation to DOH Director General Srisook and his staff, and to the staff of LTD,
MOTC, DPC, OEPP, and Royal Forestry Department, for their efficient cooperation, kind assistance and
hospitality extended to the mission.
2.     This aide-memoire, which is subject to endorsement by Bank management, summarizes the main
findings of the mission and records the understandings and agreements reached with the government.
This mission carried out the last supervision of HSP4 whose supporting Loan will close by December 31,
1997.
FOURTH HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Disbursements
3.     As of September 30, 1997, total disbursements were $153,302,843, equivalent to 86% of the
loan, with $24,197,157 undisbursed. Additional disbursements are expected for the completion of the
remaining civil works project, the Don Chan Interchange, and for the equipment for the LTD
Demonstration Inspection Center (DIC).  It now  appears that procurement of the Management
Information System for DOH cannot be completed under this project (para. 9). The Loan will close on
December 31, 1997 except for a specific amount in the range of $400,000 to finance the purchase of DIC
equipment (Par. 13). The final unused balance is estimated around $14 millions or 8% of the Loan. The
main reason is that actual costs of civil works were lower than estimated.



Implementation Completion Report           - 31 -                    Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand                                                        Action Plan Component
DEPARTMENT OF HIGHWAYS COMPONENTS
Civil Works
4.     The civil works program on national roads, consists of 10 sub-projects for upgrading gravel roads
to paved standard, 11 sub-projects for rehabilitation and strengthening of paved roads, and the
construction of 4 interchanges. Progress has been very good; all 21 of the road sections and 3 of the
interchanges have been completed. The contractor is ahead of schedule on the final interchange at Don
Chan, for which the Taking Over Certificate is scheduled to be issued on December 16, 1997 before the
closing date of the Loan.
5.     The mission carried out site visits to all four interchanges and a sample of five road sections. The
construction appeared to be of good quality. Double Bituminous Surface Treatment (DBST) technique is
used on the more lightly trafficked roads and is successfully applied by local contractors. This technique
could appropriately be used in other countries in the region, where it is not used because of poor quality
workmanship. Road shoulders were upgraded to paved standard with variation orders under the project,
and are now used by slow moving traffic with significant additional benefits to road capacity and safety.
The mission noted that several of the DBST surfaced roads had already had a slurry seal applied which
appeared to be early for this type of maintenance activity. Areas which required patching had all been
treated and no potholes were seen.
Construction Supervision
6.     Consultants were appointed to manage construction supervision, with the Resident Engineer and
his site staff being supplied by DOH. The system appears to function well and will be extended under
HSP5.
Detailed Engineering
7.     Five packages of detailed engineering for future DOH construction programs were included in
the project. Progress was reviewed with Location and Design Division (LDD) as follows:
Package      Improvement            Consultant                Status
I         Motorways             TEC/Upham,       85% complete (Aug. 97)
11         Widening             TEC/Upham         100% complete (Dec. 96)
III        Paving                NECC/COT         Draft final report submitted
IV         Paving                TDCI/STS          Final Report submitted
V          Paving                TEC              Final Report submitted
8.     DOH supplied the mission with copies of the latest Progress/Final reports of all packages.
Package I was supposed to have been completed by June 30, 1996, but has been delayed by several
factors including changes to the alignment, changes to interchange locations etc. Most items have been
completed, but as of the end of August the Roadwork Detailed Design was 88% complete, Interchange
Detailed Design 74% complete and the Environmental Impact Assessment 91% complete. When these
items are completed the draft final report can be submitted. LDD expected final completion by December
31, 1997. The mission informed LDD that work could only be funded under the project until the Loan



Implementation Completion Report          - 32 -                    Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand                                                        Action Plan Component
Closing date of December 31, 1997. However, invoices for work up to that date could be submitted to
the Bank for payment within a four month grace period up to April 30, 1998.
Computerized MIS
9.    The bidding procedure for the MIS system is still being held by the Budget Bureau, pending
definition of the "backbone" system to be installed in DOH. The study for this is presently proceeding
under ADB funding, and is at the Prequalification stage. The tentative timetable for procurement of the
MIS, which had been defined during the July 1997 mission, cannot be met, and it is therefore no longer
possible to complete delivery of the equipment, not even finalize the contract, before loan closing. Many
efforts have been invested in the preparation of this component which is key to modernize and sustain the
overall good performance of DOH. The mission wishes these efforts will not be wasted and DOH will
find another financing to achieve this objective.
Implementation Completion Report
10.   DOH was informed of the requirements relative to the preparation of the ICR. In particular the
Bank is expecting to receive DOH's segment by the end of February 1998. In the meantime, DOH will
transmit to the Bank the latest traffic counts on the sections completed under the project and a
recalculation of the ERRs.
Road Safety Program
lI.   The project included financing for traffic counters and vehicles for the DOH Traffic Division.
These were successfully procured. Because of the small size of contracts for the Blackspot Reduction
Program, none of the civil works were financed under the project, and all works were financed from the
government budget.  Other specialist equipment procured by DOH  under the project including
reflectometers for surveys of pavement markings, curvature speed analyzers, lux meters, and speed
survey equipment, together with a public information program are covered under the Road Safety Action
Plan below.
LTD AND MOTC COMPONENTS - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE ACTION PLANS
12.   A comprehensive review of the implementation of the three Action Plans was carried out in July
1997 by Mr. Philip Sayeg, the detailed report was attached to the aide memoire. At that time all the
actions less two were completed. The situation is unchanged. An assessment of the benefits of these
Action Plans was conducted during this mission to prepare the ICR. This ICR will require the input of
the various agencies which contributed to the implementation of the Action Plans. These inputs will be
collected by APCU in mid February 1998 and added to the segment prepared by DOH for the same
deadline to form the Borrower's section of the ICR. DOH will send this section to the Bank by the end of
February 1998.
13.   LTD requested, and the mission accepted, to extend a portion of the Loan in orderto finance the
purchase of equipment for the DIC. Before December 22, 1997, LTD will transmit to the Bank, through
FPO, a copy of the signed contract and a formal request to extend a portion of the Loan supported by a
tentative disbursement schedule.



Implementation Completion Report          - 33 -                   Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand                                                       Action Plan Component
ACTION                                Who        Deadline
mm/dd/yy
Highways IV
I) submit a request for extension of the Loan portion to finance the   FPO/DOH  12/22/97
purchase of DIC equipment;
2) transmit the Borrower's segment of the ICR, including DOH  DOH/APCU   02/28/98
contribution and these from the various agencies involved in the
implementation of the Action Plans;
3) submit the final report of the package I of Detailed Engineering    LDD/DOH  12/31/97
for Motorways;
4) transmit recent traffic counts and revised ERRs on the sections    DOH  12/31/97
built under the project Loan;
Highways V
5) review the difference between the Bank and DOH on the     WB            12/22/97
Prequalification criteria;
6) review the difference between the Bank and DOH on the release   WB      12/22/97
of the retention money on issue of the TOC;
7) review the difference between the Bank and DOH on the bid  WB           12/22/97
validity period;
8) submit the RFP relative to the appointment of consultant to carry  DOH  12/31/97
out DDE;
9) inform the Bank on the decision relative to the disbursement rate  DOH/FPO  12/31/97
and possibly submit a request to raise the Bank's share from 50 to
70%;
10) submit draft provision to be included in technical specifications of DOH  12/31/97
works to mitigate adverse impact on environment during works;
11) submit final RFP for TA for Improvement of the Land     BRW            12/31/97
Acquisition and Compensation System;
12) submit final RFP for TA to improve DOH environmental    DOH            12/31/97
management capability;
13) submit final RFP for TA to APCU;                        APCU           12/31/97
14) transmit progress update and justification for financing for the  each agency   12/31/97
various actions listed in the Action Plans.              involved/
APCU



Implementation Completion Report           - 34 -                    Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand                                                        Action Plan Component
APPENDIX B
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION
A. Department of Highways Component
Achievement of Project Objectives
1.    The overall objective of the Fourth Highway Sector Project was to assist the Government in
improving the efficiency and safety of the country's road subsector. The loan was made to support the
start-up of the country's Seventh Development Plan in the road subsector. The bulk of the loan proceeds
were allocated to finance civil works for roads. The Project components were
(i)    civil works comprising; (a) I I subprojects for rehabilitation of paved roads (337 km),
(b) 10 subprojects for upgrading of unpaved roads to bitumen standard (269 km), (c) four
subprojects for grade-separated interchanges on major infrastructure links, and (d)
capacity increases i.e., road widening to dual carriageway standard;
(ii)   consulting services for five packages of detailed engineering-designed of roads including
interchanges; and
(iii)   consulting services for the preparation of a long-term highway investment plan.
2.     The studies carried out under (iii) above comprised (a) the preparation of a long-term strategic
highway development plan, (b) a review of DOH management practices with recommendations for
change, and (c) an assessment of financing opportunities, including a major review of road user charges.
3.     Despite the size and diversity of the Project, DOH was able to complete the civil works program
within the original loan closing date of December 31, 1997.
4.    Many criteria can be used to access the project's achievements including those of
engineering, cost, program, economics and traffic safety. However, in terms of the fundamental
aims of relieving the constraints in the existing road transport system, so as to a improve traffic
speed, road safety and capacity, and rehabilitating existing roads which were either unimproved
or nearing the end of their design life, to protect past investments and reduce maintenance costs,
DOH considers the Project to have achieved its objectives.
5.    Following the successful implementation of the three previous highway sector projects, starting
in 1989, the sector lending approach was continued and refined under file Project. DOH was thus able to
apply the valuable lessons learned during execution of the previous loans.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
6.    During the course of the Project, DOH introduced new policies to provide hard shoulders
and wider road surfacing on civil works subprojects. The improved standards were necessary to
aid road safety, especially for pedestrians and cyclists, accommodate slow moving vehicles,
reduce overall maintenance costs and eliminate the boxed method of construction which leads to
poor drainage of the pavement during the construction phase and the collection of excessive



Implementation Completion Report           - 35 -                    Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand                                                         Action Plan Component
moisture in the pavement during its service life. Due to the extra cost involved variations were
agreed on most contracts.
7.     The construction cost of three toll roads which were financed by Bank under a previous sector
loan (Second Highway Sector Project) greatly exceeded the appraisal estimates owing to difficult soil
conditions, traffic volumes that are much higher than initially projected and require wider roads, and
more elaborate and bigger structures for interchanges than initially planned as well as rapid price
increases. The funds earmarked for capacity increases under the Project (subpara. (i)(d) previous page)
were therefore allocated to finance the completion of these roads.
8.     There were delays arising out of land acquisition problems on some civil works subprojects and
time extensions were awarded in these cases.
9.     On rehabilitation and upgrading subprojects, right-of-way was usually needed only for minor
intersection improvements so that in most cases these contracts were completed on time. Where delays
did occur, time extensions in the range 90 to 120 days were sufficient. The exception was one subproject
where right-of-way acquisition at several places in the urban are held up completion for months. This
subproject had previously received a 120 day time extension under the 'cabinet decree' for the unusually
heavy rains which occurred during 1996. A further request for time extension due to the right-of-way
problems was received. At the time of writing DOH has not made a decision on the length of time
extension to be awarded. Time extensions were also awarded for two of the interchange subprojects. The
worst case was when the site was shut-down for over 18 months because construction of the loop ramps
in the north-west and southeast quadrants of the interchange were blocked due to protracted negotiations
being carried out between DOH and local landowners to secure two large parcels of land through which
access could not be obtained. A time extension of more than two years was eventually awarded on this
contract (the original contract period was only 2-1/2 years).
10.    One of the detailed engineering design packages was delayed by policy changes to the alignment
and interchange locations, etc.
Project Sustainability
11.    The DOH recognizes that for the Project to be judged a success, not only must it fulfill
objectives, but also these objectives should be sustained in the long term.
12.   A number of factors affect the Project's sustainability; the process starts during planning and
design and continues through construction.
13.   The recalculation of economic rates of return for each subproject after construction has generally
yielded higher figures than were determined at feasibility stage. This reflects the sustained high growth of
traffic, as a result of the steady growth of the Thai economy. The extra flexibility allowed by the sector
design approach gave DOH greater scope to manage the subprojects. The priority, size and content of
subprojects were adapted to reflect changes in policy, domestic demand and to meet budgetary restraints
during the life time of the Project. DOH believes that its strategy of combining good road maintenance
practices with conservatively designed pavements and good quality of construction will enable the roads
financed under the Project to sustain acceptable levels of benefits throughout their economic life.
14.   For the road pavements constructed on the Project, DOH employed its own methodology for
flexible pavement design based mainly on the U.S. Asphalt Institute recommendations -- one of the most
conservative design methods in common use. The design thickness charts published by the Asphalt



Implementation Completion Report           - 36 -                     Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand                                                         Action Plan Component
Institute are for 20 year design periods. But for DOH the design period used was restricted to seven years
for provincial roads (roads having four digit numbers which were reclassified as national roads in 1992),
and not more than 15 years for other roads, with provision for an asphaltic overlay after the 7th year. This
approach has produced a cost-effective and robust, if conservative, design to protect the value of DOH's
investment in a road until rehabilitation of the pavement becomes necessary either to restore the shape,
repair other forms of distress, or to provide additional pavement strength. The overdesign of the
pavements compensate for the damaging effects of truck overloading which occurs throughout the road
network.
15.    During the construction stage DOH employed its own staff to carry out all acceptance testing on
civil works undertaken by contractors and also engaged consultants to ensure that the Project was
executed in accordance with plans, design standards, specifications, work schedules and acceptable
construction methods; and to take overall responsibility for the supervision and management of the
project. DOH believes this approach contributed much to the successful implementation of the civil
works and has resulted in high quality of construction so as to ensure a long life and low maintenance
requirements.
Bank Performance
16.   DOH rates the Bank's overall performance as very satisfactory. Through the Fourth Highway
Sector Project, the Bank provided a flexible package of support to assist the DOH in meeting its urgent
investment requirements in the road subsector. The use of agreed upon criteria for subproject selection
and the prior approval required for subprojects of value exceeding US$4 million proved to be an
important device for facilitating implementation and for ensuring that Bank financing was concentrated
on subprojects of acceptable quality and type. DOH feels that Bank staff have contributed much to the
success of the Project by recognizing DOH's capabilities and experience in road construction and
encouraging DOH to play its full role under the sector project design approach. For future loans, DOH
would like to make more use of Bank's resident mission based in Bangkok to expedite and coordinate
project matters rather than relying almost exclusively on direct contact with Bank headquarters in
Washington. DOH believes that this administrative change would be advantageous to both parties.
Borrower Performance
17.   One of the main concerns of DOH was to satisfy the internal requirement that funds allocated for
the Project were used in a productive and cost effective manner. Therefore, DOH considers the successful
and timely implementation of all the 25 civil works subprojects under the Project to be an important
achievement which favorably reflects on (i) DOH's system of project management, supervision and
control, (ii) the well-established working relationships between DOH and its contractors and consultants,
and (iii) the growing maturity of contractors in the country.
18.   Despite the extra cost of variations, the lower than expected costs of civil works were sufficient
to prevent any cost overrun on the Project. This financial stringency reflected (i) the competitive bidding
prices obtained by DOH, (ii) the conservative cost estimates adopted by DOH when proposing
subprojects for Bank approval, and (iii) careful supervision of contractor performance and strict control
over cost escalation.
19.   Implementation of the project should be judged a success because most civil work contracts
were let within one year of loan effectiveness. Benefits accruing to the project were therefore maximized.
DOH has demonstrated that it has the planning and institutional capacity to successfully implement
sector-based support and to benefit from the extra flexibility that this affords.



Implementation Completion Report           - 37 -                     Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand                                                         Action Plan Component
20.    The standards of construction on the project were generally good. Once contractors mobilized,
they usually performed on schedule and in many instances were significantly ahead of schedule. Cost
overruns of individual subprojects were minimal.
21.    The findings of the long term highway investment plan, prepared by consultants, and financed
under the Project, were successfully incorporated by DOH in its own 5 year Highway Planning and
Investment Study which has been submitted to the Ministry of Transport and Communications.
22.    Deficiencies which DOH recognizes that it should address in future loans are (i) the cancellation
of too much loan funds, (ii) the need for more rigorous reporting especially of non-construction related
issues, and (iii) a prior review of subprojects showing excessively high economic rates of return at
appraisal.
Assessment of Outcome
23.    The bulk of the loan was expended on the construction of 4 grade-separated interchanges at busy
traffic junction, the rehabilitation and reconstruction of 11 separate road subprojects and the upgrading of
10 other separate road subprojects located in various regions of the country. Most of the civil works
subprojects were implemented without significant cost overruns or delays, and once a subproject started,
implementation was usually ahead of schedule. Where subprojects were delayed, this was caused by land
acquisition problems. The entire Project was completed within the original loan closure date of
December 1997. The major quantifiable benefits of the Project consisted of savings in vehicle operating
costs expected to arise from (I) reduced operating costs at all speeds because of improved condition, and
(ii) increases in vehicle speeds to more efficient levels as a result of improved road condition and greater
road capacity, and (iii) savings in road maintenance costs. Economic rates of return on the civil works
subprojects ranged from 14 to 75 percent with an average rate of 33 percent. The rate of return for each
of the subprojects was greater than the threshold level of 12 percent which represented the opportunity
cost of capital in the country. The main factors that determined such favorable rates of return were (i)
sustained high growth of traffic, (ii) traffic reaching or exceeding the original traffic carrying capacity
even before improvement on many roads throughout the country, and (iii) DOH's capacity to implement
road improvement subprojects without significant cost overruns or delays.
24.    DOH reviewed the investment plan recommended in the long term highway investment study
carried out under the Project, along with recommendations of the JICA study, expressway development
plan from ETA and its own five year development plan and submitted its proposal to the Ministry of
Transport and Communication for a long term motorway and multi-lane highway program. The Ministry
has subsequently released the National Transport Plan to cover the next ten year period, a copy of which
has been sent to Bank.
25.    Five packages of detailed engineering design were carried out under the Project, one for design
of motorways, one for design of capacity increases of major roads and three for design of rehabilitation
and upgrading.
26.    The Project has resulted in greater efficiency of road transportation in the country, relief of traffic
constraints at key locations, protection of past investment and improvements in the road infrastructure
serving the rural population.



Implementation Completion Report           - 38 -                    Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand                                                         Action Plan Component
Lessons Learned
27.   Following the successful implementation of the three previous highway sector projects, starting
in 1989, the sector lending approach was continued and refined under file Project. DOH was thus able to
apply the valuable lessons learned during execution of the previous loans.
28.   The Project has again demonstrated the advantages of the sector approach, as opposed to the
specific project approach, in terms of the flexibility speed and efficiency of implementation. An
important feature of the Project was that final selection of subprojects was left to the decision of DOH.
The sector loan approach provided an important way of ensuring that urgent road investments could be
implemented without delay. In the highways subsector in Thailand, this approach has now been
successfully developed and offers good potential in the future.
29.    The maintenance policy adopted by DOH - maintenance expenditures have been increasing
significantly over the last few years and are now considered adequate, the conservatively designed
pavements and the high standard of construction achieved had facilitated economic growth in spite of
traffic growth which was higher than anticipated. This strategy has help keep the road network and
transport systems from rapidly deteriorating due to surging traffic volumes.
30.   The delays on some subprojects associated with acquisition of land needed for right-of-way
particularly in the case of interchanges, has indicated the weakness of the current land acquisition process
in Thailand. Where required under the Project, land acquisition proved to be a source of considerable
delay, particularly because of (i) the lengthy statutory legal procedures required, (ii) difficulties
associated with determining the right landowners, and (iii) the tough negotiations tactics landowners have
often adopted under conditions where the market price of land escalated beyond the official price. More
capacity is needed by DOH to effectively plan and implement the land acquisition process.
31.   With regard to the long term investment study, the current financial crisis does indicate that
longer term planning study with a horizon of say 20 years is now needed.
B. Action Plan Component
Summary of Comments From the Implementing Agencies
Introduction
32.   There are eleven key agencies under six ministries/offices involved in the implementation of this
component. They are (i) under the Ministry of Transport and Communication (MOTC): the Transport
Policy and Planning Bureau (called MOTC/APCU), the Land Transport Department (LTD), and the
Department of Highways (DOH); (ii) under Ministry of Science Technology and Environment (MOSTE):
the Pollution Control Department (PCD) and the Office of Environmental Policy and Planning (OEPP);
(iii) under Ministry of Interior: Traffic Police Department, Highways Police Department, Bangkok
Metropolitan Authority (BMA); (iv) Ministry of Education (MOE); (v) Ministry of Commerce (MOC);
and (vi) under the Office of Prime Minister: the National Energy and Policy Office (NEPO). Inputs and
comments of these agencies to the project ICR are summarized in Table 1. Summary of views and
comments from implementing agencies of the Action Plan Component--Thailand: Fourth Highway Sector
Project.



Implementation Completion Report                      - 39 -                           Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand                                                                            Action Plan Component
Agency -roles    Activities/inputs (budget in million        Lesson Learned                   Suggestions
(M) Baht or M USS or as indicated -
rounded numbers)
MOTC/APCU -   *  Hired technical advisor/consultant   *  Funding for APCU              *  Bank should provide
coordinator for    to APCU administration and training of  administrative and training should   periodic training and
the action plan    staff (budget - 16.60 M Baht);     be separated;                    supervision on procurement
*  Studied Road Safety Master Plan --  *  Lack of knowledge on Bank  *  Supervision should be
completed in March 1997, by SweRoad.  procurement process;           done more often not only twice
(SDK4,665.694 and 11.88 M Baht).    *  Difficulty with English,      a year
*  Limited staff and other       *  Need close coordination
responsibility;                  among WB, APCU. and other
*  Staff tumover cause problems    agencies
during transition;               *  WB should provide more
*  Due to the economic crisis, the   opportunity for overseas
government budget would be very   training to staff of relevant
limited.                         agencies
LTD--issues      *  Procured 12 units of tachometer   *  Underpricing of the equipment   *  Investigate realistic price
licenses of      (WB 0.09M Baht, RIG 0.02M Baht);   recommended by WB's consultant   for equipment before
vehicles (public   20 units of noise meter (WB 0.43M  led to delay of project          recommending to agencies
and private)     Baht, RTG 0.14M Baht); 20 units of   *  DIC equipment - location      *  Establish additional DICs
smoke tester (WB 1.39M Baht, RTG    available (land acquisition) for  in other regional areas
0.37M Baht);                        establishing project led to project
*  Constructed emission Lab to      delay
accommodating 3 types of vehicle    *  problem in ground floor
testing (heavy duty diesel engine, light  settlement
duty diesel engine, and motorcycle)
(RTG 2.20M Baht).
HPD--control     *  Procured equipment for emission
highway traffic   lab (WB 1.08 M Baht, RTG 0.27 M
Baht); DIC equipment (WB 0.79M DM,
0.65M Baht, and RTG 1.03M Baht).
DOH--design,     *  Procured reflecto meter (WB 0.73    No comments.                   No suggestions.
construct and    M Baht, RTG 0.29M Baht); fully-
maintain national  equipped computers: 25 units of speed
roads and        checker (WB 0.1OM Baht, RTG 0.32M
highways         Baht); Lux Meter (WB 0.15M Baht,
RTG 0.22M Baht); Traffic Counters
(RTG 17M Baht);
* Staff training (RTG 12.32M Baht);
* Undertook education program (RTG
7.26M Baht).
PCD--control of   *  Procured I unit of fully-equipped    No comments                 No suggestions
pollution        emission lab (RTG 0.09M Baht);
remote sensing units to test reliability of
this equipment in monitoring emission
(RTG 6.5 M Baht);
* Established a data-networking to
monitor and enforce the government's
roadside inspection program (5.OM
Baht in 1995);
* training workshop for PCD staff for
1.5 month in California Air Research
Board (WB 2M Baht).



Implementation Completion Report                      - 40 -                           Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand                                                                            Action Plan Component
Agency -roles    Activities/inputs (budget in million        Lesson Learned                   Suggestions
(M) Baht or M US$ or as indicated -
rounded numbers)
OEPP --review    *  Procured a van and 9 items of air    *  Staff lacking knowledge of WB   *  WB should provide
and monitor EIA   monitoring equipment/to strengthening  procurement procedures: through    procurement document in Thai
monitoring capacity on EIA compliance  consultation with APCU. the   which consistent with Thai
(WB S0.09M; RTG 1.91 M Baht).       problem was overcome.            law.
*  Consider implemented proj.    *  Continuation of project to
considering real problems.       support envt. monitoring for
*  Overlapped and useless budget   Thailand.
allocation, coincide with govt.  *  Sustainability of project
budget in lessening noise and air    can be done by setting priority
pollution.                       with respect to the limited
*  WB not emphasized on          budget.
evaluation of proj. success.     *  WB to appoint Thai staff
with procurement knowledge
to assist in the project.
* Allocate budget to
agencies involved in
monitoring where govt. budget
is hardly available.
TPD --control    *  Procured 5 units of microbus with    No comments                   No suggestions
traffic in       monitoring equipment ($ I M of which
Bangkok          0.16M from WB); 5 units of pick-up
truck ($0.08M); units of microcomputer
(S0.OIM); 6 units of motorcycles
(S0.0 TM); I unit of fully-equipped
ambulance car (WB $0.02M and RTG
$0.01M);
* Undertook 3 campaigns (WB
$6,054 and RTG $36,716).
BMA--local       *  Procured I unit of air quality   No comments                       No suggestions
government       monitoring; I unit of minibus/for
administration   transport and monitoring of air quality
for Bangkok      for BMA; I set of microcomputer for
collection and evaluation of data;
installation of reflection indicators in
many black spots in BMA/ to control
speed and reduce accident;
training of 150 BMA staff (at Kasetsart
University);
* (Total budget is 21.38 million
Baht).



Implementation Completion Report                      - 41 -                           Fourth Highway Sector Project
Country: Thailand                                                                            Action Plan Component
Agency --roles    Activities/lnputs (budget in million       Lesson Learned                   Suggestions
(M) Baht or M US$ or as indicated --
rounded numbers)
MOE --promote   *  Established traffic safety discipline   *  Different types of media should  *  More efforts to increase
awareness to     in school curriculum (RTG 9.12 M     be used                          traffic discipline
children         Baht); Campaigned on behavioral      *  contents and presentation     *  road safety program should
change for traffic safety discipline  require careful consideration --  be included in school
(RTG 15.36 M Baht);                 contents should match with nature   curriculum
*  Published 1,000 sets of booklets  and needs of target group       *  traffic police continuously
containing 6 vol. of info. on road safety; *  media should be distributed to   promotes knowledge among
50,000 posters on traffic education  target schools as widely as possible  school children
program; 9,000 pieces of promotional   in order to enhance impact of  *  media used to promote
stickers and 3,000 copies of comic  campaign                         campaign should be useful for
books on Traffic Discipline; 4 TV spots  *  suitable traffic knowledge  children of different age and
to publicize campaign; 1 0,000 copies of  should be geared toward children of  level of education
road safety song in cassette tapes; 2,000  every age group           *  school teachers should also
copies of road safety activity manual for *  special program should be  be trained for traffic discipline
teaching in prim. school            organized for parents, school    *  OIC of promoting traffic
*  Conducted enforcement seminar on  teachers, school-bus drivers, etc.    knowledge should be available
traffic safety discipline leader (RTG  *  continuation of the program to   in urban areas for safety traffic
8.02 M Baht)                        promote traffic discipline among  *  more traffic police
*  Training of teachers and policemen  children
of 76 provinces to be Traffic Safety
Leader Model but only 26 provinces can
cooperate in the training (not enough
budget)
Conducted other traffic safety discipline
activities (RTG 10.43M Baht)
MOC --control    *  No budget was required from the
sale of gasoline    project
NEPO--issue      *  No budget was required from the
policy related to   project
energy
development



,- CHINA,
r YA  N  M                       A R                                                                    \ SChion9 Rsi    AO ,. VIETNAM
r*.:- tt?                      i,,';AMYANMAR
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ b ,PS . <tR K,
\                                              '                     C A M B O D I A~~~~~~~~~LA C
MYANMAR                                                 l                                                                                           P.D.R.
-.                    /            RayoDg        ChalMoEta          >T THAI                                     LAND
M.. Ho,N.                                                                       LAOk  PEOPLE'S                                               CAMBC
r                               ~~~~~~~~~~Phayoo                            DEMOCRATIC                                AAAN    PC
REPUBLIC                             TH H            A          S
CHINA
12              /                                                                                                                     S
.Lorophumhn                                                                                                  RIVERS          25
18         L                                                                             N-oglO~o,d             -   INTk
Sgo  dt-            )      J3                                      1    S         N
4             4-1                       '            102K  4T
Phon~  ~ ~~ 9>  52                                                                    7                45i mo  7 4     UATAN      HNSN
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c.yp, Kaphe
/   T -  Z    _S~~Ut.i Th-                                                                                      SEI/   0      A   LN
Phuk L  X   *  t      X                                                                9      1~C   & 32 r ,      1sMG AI
7   \    '  |                                                           11      202      CHAIYA HUM A WA- YAI,1 R
N- 
N                                1n                                                           0 2 22    HNMR        AAHNCA
I~~~ ~ ~ A- R                                     _tosh                                                                 0          OG   AG-ANA
M~~~~~~~ YA > @n  3DN MAKA TA R PAK. DONG
104
E4' P1 4            22    KUARIJTSATTHN
, ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ SLn   '.   3                                                                                                               0-Iu    3  0 29    HNNBTBDNA
-7..                                 .     0/S                                                              PRO    JECT
0   50           IW             150M~~~~~~~IE5 ono                                                                    10^ !  2 243    UCU-   ULMAPKHN
m   sIw _n , mo do ol mX one=PdYbe  :1Juk *|                                                                     2  P--  KI KI. PROERC HN T RO    HANGDS   I
-2~~~~~~~~~~ .R=d s                                                                     S g  I         ',                          THILN
SEA                                               OMAn                                  FOURTH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AEDDVIE HIGHWAYS
-PAVED DAIVIDED HIGHWAYS
I                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SELECTED OTHER ROADS
*1                                                                          A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ PROVINCE CAPITALS
  NATIONAL CAPITAL
p    dHOhuoophon                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
V                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
IT'  O~~~~~~~~~~~~~O~~~~T                                                     18 ~~~~~~~~~REGION BOUNDARIES
-.- INTERNATIONAL ROUNDARIES
NU2OINOTIROH            AT SIKHIJ
44'                                                   ~ ~~~~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 32  INTERCHANGE AT AYACTHAYA
ho                                                      ~~      ~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 4038  A, RHLONGT-ICM  R.A L4AMTHAOP
A      3452     PBACHINBURI A PRACHANTAKHAM'
5       1       A KHOKRSAMRONG  A TAKRPA
N                                                ~~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6 I1295  B. KOK MAI TAENG A. NOEN pAPANGEOC
E2nN              I               bN,k. Si                                                         7       41      SURAT THANI1 A THUNG SONG
5  Thoonoo.nol                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SECT! BJ 401 B, NAM KlAND
I'.  ,                                                     8        1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A TARK   A.TAKHA
9  J N2      INTERCHANGE AT BANG0 PA IN
Phuket .                                                                        TO~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SORT8    B. SAN-AM CHAI K.A. CHAROEN SlILP
ph.                                                                                         B ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~THA5 SHI 1
I1'     20       CHIYAPSHVUV   A B04 YAI
1 2     1051    LAM4PHVN -A BUAHYAI
Smog                                                   12~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 221  SRISAKET J.TO A. RANTHALAK 10E0T 2I
14     2227      A. PHANGM PRAN  A. MAHA CHANES LHVI
SoogkhIa                                             I5      102      A RONGKWAP,G-A NGAO
I 6     2270     8 MEECHAI B.NLAMTHAENGI
17      21 57    A KHUKHAN B KHOK TAN
NEoiM                                iB       3361     B, DORAN  AKHA-LTIA H. PARSDONS
19       A       A KHRHALURI 1 TO SURAT THA80I
Sogjn*  ~~~~~~~~~~~~.  ala ~~~~~~~~20                        SI9      A CHONNHABO  B. 20NOV44
S        ST0       OR       ITS KILOMETERS                  22,BBACHMBHJ   M     A  HN
0  510  1~~~~~~~~0    I 0 MILES       ~           ~         ~         N~Mioot22                           2242     B RHA CHUM  B8H1A1JAM  A YAK CHONG
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tISECT ON 2)
Ah,,,..nonb, 0oTL~1oI~1nHLMALAYSIA                                             -/23                                               A037      A, KVAOPHANOM  B. KHUAN MAYACHAI   4
C   A&'.dnm ,ku4oo,n4,' ,,,poo,AE,m~,                                     0                                          24      40V9     H SONG A HHRASAEN,G 
Aoo,yooooodaho,I4oA,olooplonooo9.                  ,j'y'8                                  ~~~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~25  1   INTERCHANGE AT CH ANG MAI
-o  AmooanonoPHaeoooH,aHLoo4o.,           ISo,V



