38320

Comments: The KRR Project will support rehabilitation and reconstruction of settlement (both rural and
urban) on Nias affected by the December 2004 tsunami and March 2005 earthquake, through a block grant
program for housing and in-situ infrastructure. The project is built upon the foundations laid by the
Kecamatan Development Projects. The KDP 111Project Appraisal Document makes note that these
investments are very small, and that they are below the minimum size required for a formal Indonesia
Environmental Assessment. The KRRP will make use of the large body of technical and operational
manuals developed by the KDP and Rekompak Aceh. A range of environmental and engineering
specialists have reviewed these manuals, and they meet all WB standards.
Homeowners will be directly involved with the house constructions and neighboring villagers with school
rebuilding sub-projects, poor environmental practices will generally be avoided. KRRP field and M&E
personnel will be regularly attending sites, and will offer villager implementation committees guidance
with respect to proper techniques for drainage, waste handling, sanitation and construction management.

The acquisition and use of timber and wood during these reconstructions is considered to be one of the
most significant issues facing this project. Nias has a very limited supply of timber available and a logging
ban is currently in force. During the early stage of the reconstruction process on Nias, timber availability
became a major constraint for all organizations active on the island. UNHCR has successfully delivered
shipments of free (legal) timber to the island, but this program will be finished at the end of September.
BRR has proposed to assume responsibility for the purchase and delivery of timber and wood products to
Nias.

In terms of direct impacts Indonesia's environmental screening and review procedures will form the basis
of KRRP's approach to environmental management with additional support and monitoring provided by the
Project. For example, in addition to standard Go1environmental procedures the Bank requires a 'negative
list' to disqualifying inappropriate projects from the outset. Indirect impacts will require an additional
study during the early stage of project implementation on the basis of which additional safeguards measures
may need to be put in place, particularly with respect to the issue of use of legal timber resources

C. Safeguard Policies Triggered

                                                                      Yes                      No      .-
Environmental Assessment (OPIBPIGP 4.01)                              [XI                      [1
Natural Habitats (OPRBP 4.04)                                          [ 1                     [x1
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                              [ 1                     [XI
Cultural Property (draft OP 4.11 - OPN 11.03-)                        [XI                       [I
Involuntary Resettlement (OPIBP 4.12)                                 [XI                      11
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                          [XI                       [I
Forests (OPIBP 4.36)                                                   [I                      [XI
Safetv of Dams (OPBP 4.37)                                             [1                      [XI
Proiects in Disputed Areas (OPRBPIGP 7.60)*                            [1                      1x1
Proiects on International Waterways (OPBP/GP 7.50)                     [ 1                     [XI               1




* By supporting theproposedproject, the Bank does not intend toprejudice the$nal determination of theparties'
claims on the disputed areas

 Section I1-Key SafeguardIssues and Their Management
 D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues.
 D.1. Safeguards policies under the project will be addressed in the following manner:
      The acquisition and use of timber and wood during construction is considered to be one of the most
      significant issues facing the KRRP. Timber requirements for reconstruction will be procured, as far as
      possible, from legal sources, The KRRP will not lead to land conversion, the destruction of
      environmentally sensitive areas or historically significant sites and/or other cultural resources.
      Subprojects are not expected to require involuntary resettlement or acquisition of significant amounts
      of land. If there is a requirement of land then the procedure of land acquisition must follow the manual
      to ensure application of the appropriate safeguard policies as described in Annex 8.
      The KRRP in Nias has recognized there is indigenous people group. Participation of vulnerable group
      including indigenous people group like women, the poor, ethnic minority in decision making process is
      mandatory. They should get benefit equal to the non-indigenous people.
      The highly participatory nature of the project will ensure that communities would be able to identify if
      any proposed sub-project will have an impact on cultural property and to ensure that these activities do
      not adversely affect cultural property. Sub-project proposals will require the identification of any such
      activities and require the group proposing the sub-project to specify adequate mitigation measures. The
      KRRP works closely with the Nias ethnographic museum through its education component, and these
      activities will help to ensure proper identification and mitigation of any cultural risk.
 D.2 Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the
 project area.
 Sourcing of sand, gravel and timber for reconstruction may place significant pressure on an already stressed
 local environment leading to further impacts associated with erosion, siltation and flash-flooding across the
 region.

 D.3. Describe the treatment of alternatives (if relevant)
 Communities and TPKIKP will choose how they want to use the funds under the kecamatan grants based
 on the community mapping that they will develop. Forum desa1Forum kecamatan1TPW KP will evaluate
 proposals for sub-project from each village based on the community mapping. It is not possible to
 determine a priori when the safeguards policies will be triggered
 D.4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard issues. Provide an assessment of
 borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described.
 To ensure full compliance with the World Bank's environmental and social safeguard requirements, the
 project manuals will be published and be made available to the community organizations (kecamatan and
 village level). Facilitators and other project staff will be trained in the application of the safeguards
 manuals. Monitoring financed under the KRRP and the responsibility of KRRP personnel and external
 auditors. Complaints handling should be handled and solved at the village level, if not it can be further
 Submitted for a decision by the Bupati. Complaint Handling Unit of KRRP at the regional level will
 analyze and investigate the complaints.

 D.5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
 safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
 The key stakeholders are the TPWKP and the community. The PMC/DMCs will be trained about the
 safeguards and will carry out similar training for the TPKIKP. The environmental and social guidelines and
 frameworks will be made available to the public through the Bank's Project Information Centers in Jakarta
 and Washington, and also will be published in the project manuals and be made available, by the
 PMCDMCs, to the community organizations/dinases preparing proposals


tF. Disclosure Re uirements                                                                                        l

Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other:
Date of receipt by the Bank                              09/4/2006
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors

Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process:
Date of receipt by the Bank                              09/4//2006
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:
Date of receipt by the Bank                              09/4/2006
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:
Date of receipt by the Bank                              Not Applicable
Date of "in-coun.try" disclosure                         Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                           Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:
Date of receipt by the Bank                              Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                          Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                           Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Since 1999the safeguards frameworks KDP have been applied and socialized in nearly 1500 kecamatan
and 30,000 villages. In various processes of these projects, the national NGO as well as local NGOs have
been involved, including in the supervision of these projects. KDP safeguards frameworks have been
submitted to ISDS and InfoShop.

Section 111- Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level
(To be filled in when the ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting)
OPBP 4.01 -Environment Assessment:                                                         - -
                                                                                           Yes       No
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report?                                    X
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit review and approve the EA report?
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the creditlloan?
OPBP 4.04 - Natural Habitats:                                                             - No
                                                                                           Yes
Would the project result in any significant conversion or degradation of critical
                                                                                                     X
natural habitats?
If the project would result in significant conversion or degradation of other (non-
critical) natural habitats, does the project include mitigation measures acceptable to
the Bank?
OP 4.09 - Pest Management:                                                                Yes        No
Does the EA adequately address the pest management issues? NA                                        X
Is a separate PMP required?                                                                          X
If yes, are PMP requirements included in project design?
Draft OP 4.11 (OPN 11.03) Cultural Property:
                               -                                                           Yes       No
Does the EA include adequate measures? The project will identify sites having
impact on cultural property and to ensure that the activity does not adversely affect
                                                                                            X
cultural property. Properly identification and mitigation of any cultural risks will
work closely with the Nias ethnographic.
Does the credit/loan incorporate mechanisms to mitigate the potential adverse
impacts on physical cultural resources? The project will identify sites having
archeological, paleontological, historical, religious, or unique natural values as
defined under the OPN and determine if project activities will have adverse affects
on them. Subprojects adversely affecting the cultural property will not be eligible for
financing under the project.

OD 4.20 Indigenous Peoples:
          -                                                                               - No
                                                                                            Yes
Has a separate indigenous people development plan been prepared in consultation
                                                                                            X
with the Indigenous People?
If yes, then did the Regional Social Development Unit review and approve the plan?          X
If the whole project is designed to benefit IP, has the design been reviewed and
                                                                                            X
approved by the Regional Social Development Unit?
OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement:                                                      Yes  No
Has a resettlement action plan, policy framework or policy process been prepared?           X
If yes, then did the Regional Social Development Unit review and approve the plan /
                                                                                            X
policy framework / policy process?
OPBP 4.36 - Forests:                                                                      - No
                                                                                            Yes
Has the sector-wide analysis of policy and institutional issues and constraints been
carried out? The project will not finance activities that would involve significant
conversion or degradation of critical forest areas or related critical natural habitats as
                                                                                                  X
defined under the policy. The project will facilitate shelter reconstruction, and
therefore timber purchase, the impact of which is to be studied by consultants in the
first 4 months of project implementation.
Does the project design include satisfactory measures to overcome these
constraints?
Does the project finance commercial harvesting, and if so, does it include provisions
for certification system?
OP/BP 4.37 Safety of Dams:
              -                                                                             Yes  No
Have dam safety plans been prepared? The project will not finance construction or
rehabilitation of any large dams as defined under this policy. No action is required              X
under this policy.
Have the TORSas well as composition for the independent Panel of Experts (POE)
been reviewed and approved by the Bank?
Has an Emergency Preparedness Plan (EPP) been prepared and arrangements been
made for public awareness and training?
OP 7.50- Projects on International Waterways:                                             - No
                                                                                            Yes
Have the other riparians been notified of the project? There are no known project
components involving imternational waterways as defined under the policy. No                      X
action is required under this policy.
If the project falls under one of the exceptions to the notification requirement, then
has this been cleared with the Legal Department, and the memo to the RVP prepared
and sent?
What are the reasons for the exception?
     Please explain:
Has the RVP approved such an exception?
OP 7.60- Projects in Disputed Areas:                                                             No
Has the memo conveying all pertinent information on the international aspects of the
project, including the procedures to be followed, and the recommendations for
dealing with the issue, been prepared, cleared with the Legal Department and sent to
the RVP?
Does the PADiMOP include the standard disclaimer referred to in the OP? The
project is not located in any known disputed areas as defined under the policy. No
action is required under this policy.
BP I7.50 - Public Disclosure:                                                             - No
                                                                                            Yes
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's
Infoshop? Project safeguards are essentially the same as both KDP Aceh and KDP 3            X
safeguard documents, which have both been submitted to Infoshop.
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a form and
language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected groups and local        X
NGOs? Project Manual is currently being disseminated in the project area.
                                                                                          - No
                                                                                            Yes     I

All Safeguard Policies:
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities been
                                                                                    X
prepared for the implementation of the safeguard measures?
Have safeguard measures costs been included in project cost?                        X
Will the safeguard measures costs be funded as part of project implementation?      X
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the monitoring of
                                                                                    X
safeguard impacts and measures?
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the borrower and

Signed and submitted by:                                    Name
Task Team Leader:                    Scott Guggenheim
Project Safeguards Specialist 1:     Sulistiowati Nainggolan
Project Safeguards Specialist 2:     Vivianti Rambe
Project Safeguards Specialist 3:
Approved by:                                                Name                     Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:     Glenn S. Morgan
Comments:
Sector Manager:                      Maria Teresa Serra
Comments:




wb21451
N:\NonaKDP N~as\NiasISDS doc
            -
12/05/20063:1400 PM

