                          65508


     THE REHABILITATION
and RECONSTRUCTION OF
            NIAS ISLAND




      PNPM - KRRP
    THE REHABILITATION
and RECONSTRUCTION OF
           NIAS ISLAND




                     1
REHABILITATION AND RECONSTRUCTION IN NIAS ISLAND


Advisors: Jan Weetjens, Natasha Hayward, Sentot Surya Satria


Coordinator: Festina Lavida


Editors:
- Suhadi Hadiwinoto
- Catrini Pratihari Kubontubuh
- Dennie Mamonto
-	 Eka	Hasfi	Adha
- Wawan Munawar


Field Resource Persons:
- Marihot Sigalingging
- Asafati Gea
- Nagasakti Peranginangin
- Maurista Manik


ISBN: 978-979-16876-4-5


Published	by	The	World	Bank	Office	Jakarta
for the Multi-Donor Fund and
National Program for Community Empowerment


Copyright 2011 World Bank
All right reserved


Copyright is protected by laws
No part of this book may be copied or reproduced without written permission from the Publisher.


World	Bank	Office	Jakarta
Jalan Jenderal Sudirman 52
Jakarta, Indonesia
www.worldbank.org


2
CONTENTS


Foreword                          6


NIAS POST DISASTER                9


HOUSING                          23


SCHOOL BUILDINGS                 37


VILLAGE HALLS                    55


VILLAGE PUBLIC INFRASTRUCTURE    67


ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS          83


CULTURAL HERITAGE EDUCATION      93


PARTICIPATORY DEVELOPMENT       107


Epilogue                        117


Acknowledgements                120


Photograph contributors         121




                                  3
                        FOREWORD


The Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami of December 2004
and subsequent earthquake in March 2005 caused devastating
loss and damage in Aceh and the Nias islands. The outpouring
of solidarity and compassion at the time was unprecedented.
Pledges to contribute to the overall recovery efforts of these two
regions totaled about US$7 billion.


The Multi-Donor Fund for Aceh and Nias (MDF) was
established to support the Government of Indonesia (GOI)’s
efforts in the reconstruction. With a total of US$678 million
pooled	 from	 fifteen	 donors,	 the	 MDF	 has	 contributed	close	 to	
10% of the overall reconstruction funds. The MDF donors are
the European Union, Netherlands, United Kingdom, World
Bank, Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Canada, Asia Development
Bank, United States of America, Germany, Belgium, Finland,
New Zealand and Ireland. Through its 23 projects, the MDF
is delivering quality results in line with GoI priorities in the
areas of community recovery, infrastructure and transport,
governance and capacity building, enhancing the overall
recovery process, sustaining the environment and supporting
economic development and livelihoods.


The MDF contribution to the rehabilitation and reconstruction
of the Nias islands is equal to about 30% of the total estimated
loss and damage sustained. More than US$115 million has been
committed by the MDF for 14 projects with reconstruction
activities in the Nias islands.


The Kecamatan-based Rehabilitation and Reconstruction
Planning in Nias Project (KRRP) has been the MDF’s key
vehicle for supporting the recovery of communities through the
construction of housing and village infrastructure in Nias. Using
a community-based approach, this project has successfully

4
contributed to the recovery of Nias through the rehabilitation
and reconstruction of over 4,400 houses and hundreds of
village-level buildings and other infrastructure including
schools, village halls, and community roads and bridges. The
project’s schools rehabilitation program includes a cultural
heritage education component designed to increase awareness
and appreciation of the rich culture unique to the Nias islands.


KRRP has achieved remarkable results despite the sometimes
challenging conditions due to the remote location of Nias far
from mainland North Sumatra. This book celebrates these
achievements and is a tribute to the people of Nias who have
played the key role in the recovery of their communities. We
are proud of the collaboration, dedication and hard work of so
many who have helped build back a better future for Nias. We
also thank our friends in the international community for their
continued support.




Shamima Khan
Manager
Multi Donor Fund for Aceh and Nias




                                                               5
6
NIAS POST-DISASTER




                 7
NIAS




       Nias, located among the western most chain of islands of Indonesia




       8
Nias is located among the western most chain of islands of
Indonesia, 120 kilometers west of the Sibolga Coast in North
Sumatra Province. In addition to the main island of Nias, there
are also some nearby chains of small islands, such as Batu
and Hinako. Nias Island covers an area of 5.121 km2, slightly
smaller than Bali Island which covers an area of 5.632 km2.
The population of Nias in 2010 was 756,762.


A massive earthquake measuring 8.9 on the Richter scale on
December 26, 2004, the epicenter of which was near Simelue,
triggered a tsunami that hit Aceh, Nias and the neighboring
countries, including Thailand, Bangladesh and India. The
tsunami killed 170,000 people in Aceh and Nias, and caused
unprecedented damage to houses, public infrastructure and
facilities. The tsunami has been recorded in history as one of
the worst natural disasters in the world.


Soon after, on March 25, 2005, a tectonic earthquake measuring
8.7 on the Richter scale occurred, with its epicenter in the north
of Nias. This earthquake added to the suffering caused by the
earthquake and tsunami in 2004. The earthquake in 2005 killed
more than 700 people in Nias and devastated 10,000 to 12,000
houses, as well as changed the ground levels in Nias Island,
some of which were elevated and others lowered.




                                                                9
The two massive disasters terribly impacted the lives of Nias
residents. In addition to the enormous number of casualties and
damage to houses as well as incalculable loss of the people’s
properties, various economic activities had been paralyzed due
to the damage to public infrastructure and facilities.


Massive reconstruction and rehabilitation have been required
to help the community in rebuilding thousands of houses and
public service infrastructure and facilities, while also taking care
of the victims who require treatment, restoring the educational
system, etc.


Many countries in the world shared their grief over the suffering
of the Aceh and Nias people. They wanted to assist in the efforts
to restore the lives of the people affected by the disaster. As a
result, the MDF was established in April 2005 and supported
by 15 donors, namely the European Union, the Netherlands,
England, the World Bank, Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Germany,
Canada, the Asian Development Bank, the United States of
America, Belgium, Finland, New Zealand and Ireland. The MDF
applies a gradual approach to reconstruction starting with the
addressing the most urgent needs of the community, followed
by the development of large infrastructure, environmental
conservation, capacity building, as well as the recovery of
livelihoods. KRRP (Kecamatan_based Rehabilitation and
Reconstruction Planning Project in Nias Island) or PNPM-
R2PN, here in after referred to as KRRP, is a key MDF project
in Aceh and Nias with funding amounting to US$51.5 million,
50% provided by the MDF and the other 50% provided by the
Government.


Initially, the number of project allocations comprised 2 districts;
however, following the division of regions, the current number




10
of allocations includes 4 districts and 1 city. In the beginning
of the project, 66 villages participated and then during its
implementation phase, this number increased to 232. 63
facilitators were involved in this activity. This project has built
4.491 houses, 100 schools, 110 village halls and 149 village
public infrastructures. In addition to the construction of school
buildings, efforts have also been made to improve the quality
of education through a focus on natural conservation and local
culture so that students as the future generation have better
knowledge about their environment and social traditions.


Various activities for the rehabilitation and reconstruction of
public infrastructure and facilities have contributed to regaining
the social and economic life for people in Nias. They are also
expected to heal physical, social and economic wounds with the
hope that people will progress and do better in the future.




                                                                11
BRR coordinated the locations of various donor agencies’
projects in order to ensure that their aid would not overlap. 9
sub-districts in 2 districts were allocated for the R2PN project.
Many	 locations	 were	 relatively	 difficult	 for	 implementing	
projects. Not all of the damaged buildings and infrastructure
were situated in one concise location. They were scattered in
several villages. Most of them were located in very remote
areas,	 which	 were	 very	 difficult	 to	 reach	 due	 to	 the	 lack	 of	
transportation infrastructure. Sometimes, building materials had
to be transported across rivers where no bridge was available
and those materials had to be carried on foot for a distance of 3
to 4 kilometers.


There were many delays in the implementation of the
construction	due	to	the	slow	selection	process	of	beneficiaries,	
difficult	 access	 and	 the	 lack	 of	 experienced	 workmen	 at	 that	
moment due to the rapid increase of construction projects
throughout the island. Various ongoing projects also had to
struggle	 to	 find	 experienced	 technical	 staff	 and,	 accordingly,	
there was a relatively high level of personnel turnover within
the projects. The price of building materials rose sharply so
that various calculations had to be readjusted. The local climate
also	 presented	 difficulties	 --	 a	 relatively	 long	 rainy	 season	
significantly	delayed	the	project	implementation.	Due	to	these	
aforementioned reasons, the completion of the project was
delayed from December 30, 2009 to June 30, 2011.


Even though it encountered many obstacles, the KRRP project
has now been successfully completed. There are many lessons
learned from the project that could be applied to disaster
mitigation programs in other regions of Indonesia.




12
                              Constructions completed by KRRP spread in 9 sub-districts




*458 houses were built by BRR by using the KRRP fund in Nias Districts
                                                                                          13
Sub-District Profile Legend
                                                        Sub-District Legend
  House (Unit)                                          NIAS
  School (Unit)                                                1. TUHEMBERUA
  Village hall (Unit)                                          2. NAMOHALU ESIWA
                                                               3. LOLOFITU MOI
Village Public Infrastructure
                                                               4. GIDO
    Road (M’)
                                                               5. IDANOGAWO
    Bridge (Unit)
    Culvert (Unit)
                                                        SOUTH NIAS
    Water Canal (M’)
                                                            6. LOLOWA’U
    Irrigation Canal (M’)
                                                            7. AMANDRAYA
            14
    Retaining wall and gabion baskets (bronjong) (M’)
                                                            8. LAHUSA
    Dug well (Unit)
                                                            9. TELUK DALAM
                                                                                         16
    Clean water piping (M’)
    Bathing, washing and latrine facilities (Unit)
    Public hydrant (Unit)                                      District Boundaries
    Village health post (Unit)                                 Sub-District Boundaries
    Village market (Unit)
    School (Room)
    School improvement (Package)
Damaged houses, village halls, schools, hospitals, roads,
bridges and canals could be found everywhere, both in the cities
and villages. The loss of family members and relatives in the
disaster caused tremendous trauma. Consequently, regaining a
normal life has not been a simple matter.




                                                             15
                                                              17
People tried to restart their economic activities immediately by
opening small shops, bicycle repair shops, etc.




16
                                                              18
17
 19
Walking on a brittle bridge and over steep cliffs to reach a project
location in the very remote area




18
                                                                20
Carrying building materials by walking along the river or
climbing hills was not an obstacle




                                                      19
                                                       21
20
HOUSING




      21
          When the earthquake destroyed
          thousands of houses in Nias,
          many people lost their shelters,
          their places of residence for
          resting after work, the places
          that protected them during
          stormy weather, and the stable
          places     that    offered     better
          future. Without a home, family
          life	 –	 and	 all	 the	 benefits	 that	
          come with it - was disturbed.
          With      this    in   mind,      the
          construction of houses became
          a priority in the rehabilitation
          and reconstruction of Nias
          Island.




22
     24
The construction of houses was an urgent need which had to
be addressed immediately. Initially, 5,000 houses were planned,
with a standard size of 36 square meters and average cost of
US$6,000 per unit. Due to the intensive level of construction
activities throughout Nias, building materials became scarce
and prices soared. This project completed the construction of
4,492 houses that came in several versions, which could be
selected	 by	 the	 beneficiaries.	 The	 walls	 were	 made	 of	 large	
bricks and plaster while the roof was made of corrugated iron
sheets supported by lightweight steel roof truss.




                                                  WASHING
                                                   ROOM
                                                   —170




                                                               DINING ROOM
                                             BEDROOM               ±0000
                                               ±0000




                                                              LIVING ROOM
                                                                  ±0000



                                                               TERRACE
                                                                 —20




                                                                 23
This project was based on the principles of transparency and
participation, whereby all people were involved in planning,
making decisions and openly taking part in the construction
activities together. Efforts were made to incorporate the views
of all members of the community and to prevent domination
by any particular group or leader. Efforts were also made to
encourage women to take an active role in this process. In
fact the decision-making process in the project was performed
through special village meetings for women so that they could
freely express their opinions. In previous times, women were not
involved in meetings and decision-making in the community.
Therefore, additional time was required to socialize women
participation.


Women participation in the house construction process was
important since they would be the persons spending the most
time in the homes and they were responsible for caring for and
maintaining the houses. Therefore, in this project women played
an active role in the decision-making process in their village.




24
The construction of houses began with the selection of residents
entitled to the new houses through meetings to ensure that the
recipients	would	be	those	who	qualified	and	met	the	stipulated	
requirements. Sometimes, there were disputes among potential
recipients. The dispute settlement process had to go through
a time-consuming process involving up to two months, which
eventually slowed down the project completion.




Pictures of every assistance recipient were taken and recorded

In order to prevent manipulation and duplication in the selection
of target groups, pictures of each recipient were taken in front
of their houses or locations. Recipients were selected through
open meetings attended by village residents and announced
on a notice board in front of the Village Hall. There was one-
month grace period for the residents to lodge objections so that
it took extra time to clarify and settle the objections, which also
contributed to slowing down the project completion.




                                                                 25
In the construction of houses, efforts were made to use materials
available or easily obtainable in the nearby area. Wall was
typically built using bricks made by the communities themselves.
Cement, glass, corrugated iron sheets, hinges, as well as
electrical and water installations were brought from outside
Nias. If wooden roof trusses were used, there was a concern
that the extensive requirements for timber for constructing
thousands of houses would be harmful to forest conservation
in Nias. Therefore, it was decided that lightweight steel roof
trusses would be used, even though this caused some additional
problems since they were brought from Sumatera.




In using timber for various needs, it had to be ensured that
the timber was wood obtained from villages and not obtained
by cutting down trees in forests in conservation areas. Thus,
the basic attitude of forest preservation was promoted and
developed from the earliest stage.




26
Some local residents were also accustomed to defecating in
rivers. They did not want to have a toilet inside their houses
because they considered it dirty. For this group, it was necessary
to	 approach	 them	 first	 and	 discuss	 the	 issue,	 and	 they	 were	
persuaded to use toilets constructed in their backyards. Those
toilets were completed with septic tanks. Water tanks were also
provided to catch rainwater from the eaves.




                                                                  27
One of the recipients of house assistance was Mrs. Kasih
Riang Gulo’s family in Lasara Idanoi village. They have two
grown-up children. In addition to her husband’s salary as a
civil servant, they have a plant nursery in the front yard which
generates additional income. Similar to the renewed focus on
agricultural commodities, as well as the growth of re-greening
and reforestation activities, the plant nursery business has also
been growing increasingly.




28
 Another recipient was Alvizatulo Zelava’s family that
 comprises12 children. Some of the children are already married,
 but the others were still live in his house. Moreover, an aunt
 also lived in that house. This family expanded their house to the
 backyard. The rooms are tidy and they enjoyed painting their
 house green.




Mr. Alvizaluto and his youngest child in front of his “green? house




                                                                      31
                                                                      29
Mr. Emanueli Zelava has a half-hectare farm planted with cacao
trees and vegetables. He and his family have been working
diligently on his farm and have adequate income. They are
grateful that their house, which was damaged by the earthquake,
has been replaced. Although there are still serious problems to
be addressed, they look to the future optimistically.




Basically, a 36-square meter house is adequate for a family with
two children, but there are also many families with more than
two children. In fact, there are also extended families living
in the same house, such as grandparents, aunts, etc. There are
families who have no other option but to live in a 2-room house
and there are also families who make additional rooms on the
sides or the back of their houses.


Some well-off families have renovated the interior of their
houses, laid ceramic tiles, added a terrace, and so on, but most
of the houses are still in their original condition. Generally, the
KRRP	 house	 beneficiaries	 are	 satisfied	 with	 their	 houses.	The	
only complaints were generally from those who had bigger
houses prior to the earthquake.



30
31
 33
Based on a standard design, various types of houses have been constructed




The houses are adapted to local conditions, needs and personal taste




32
                                                             34
Bathroom and toilet



                      A house that is also a small shop




Water Tank

Septic Tank




                                                      33
                                                           35
kamar mandi dan wc
   tangki air


                         A house at the edge of a forest
34
SCHOOL BUILDINGS




               35
Tuhemberua Elementary School




36
                               38
KRRP project has successfully built 100 school buildings in
9 sub-districts, including 6 multi-story buildings, which were
constructed due to limited land available in the locations. 12
units of school buildings have been constructed in Gido, 9 units
in	Idanogawo,	9	units	in	Lolofitu	Moi,	10	units	in	Namohalu,	16	
units in Tuhemberua, 9 units in Amandraya, 12 units in Lahusa,
13 units in Lolowau and 10 units in Teluk Dalam.


Generally, the school buildings have been constructed in the
former location of the damaged schools so that additional
land acquisition would not be necessary. However, in some
cases requiring the acquisition of land, such acquisition can
be conducted by using donations from local community or
compensation for damages. In this case, compensation for
damages cannot be funded by the project so that most of the land
acquisition in this case was using donations from the community.
There were also claims lodged by the heirs believing that they
had not been involved when their land was granted for school
buildings. It took a quite long time to conduct the resolution
process of such land dispute.




                                                            39
                                                             37
Access road to school                                              Playground




                   Turumbaho Elementary School in Botolakha village, Tuhemberua
                   sub-district is lucky since a local philanthropist donated his land
                   for the Elementary School (SD) and a vocational high school
                   nearby. Further behind Turumbaho Elementary School, there
                   are two vocational high schools. The location of the land is
                   excellent because it is by a road and next to a church.


                   This school has 6 classrooms, a teachers’ room and a headmaster
                   room as well as a library. The construction of the school has
                   been completed and has also been used. The library has also
                   been completed with books and teaching aids. The teachers
                   suggested that there should be a librarian specially hired for
                   managing the library.


                   The teachers also suggested that training should be provided
                   more often in order to improve the teachers’ quality. This school
                   has not used any computer since it has not been connected to
                   electricity supply grid. There is a generator but it is only used
                   in emergency condition. It is not good to be used for electronic
                   equipment	due	to	its	fluctuating	voltage.




                   38
                                                                                   40



Children are playing in the school yard                          Terrace in front of classrooms   Mr. Zai donated land for a school
Lolofitu	Moi	Elementary	School	is	located	on	the	sides	of	small	
road on hillside. There is a small suspension bridge heading
toward the school. The students come from villages around the
school within a distance of 1-2 kilometers. When it is raining,
the	journey	to	the	school	is	quite	difficult.


There	 is	 sufficient	 number	 of	 teachers	 but	 most	 of	 them	 are	
contract employees. Those contract employees are expected to
become civil servants soon. The classrooms and the yard are
well maintained.




One	of	elementary	schools	built	in	Lolofitu	Moi	District




                                                                  39
The students are enthusiastic and study cheerfully




40
                                                     42
They really enjoy the school’s atmosphere




                                            41
                                            43
42
                                                                    44



Suspension bridge leading to the school, which is relatively dangerous for children
 45
43
This is one of the elementary school buildings constructed as a multi-
story	structure	due	to	insufficient	land.	At	this	school,	three	classrooms	
are	located	on	the	ground	floor	and	three	others	on	the	second	floor.	
The teacher’s room and library have been constructed higher up.




44

                                                                        46
The students really like traditional games and singing in addition
to mathematics and social sciences. In this picture, a student asks his
classmates to cheer and sing along. Some schools are lucky to have a
large and green yard for the students to play and do physical exercises.




                                                                      45
                                                                       47
Various situations and colors of schools




46
                                           48
                                                               Hiliweto Elementary School

                         Even though a multi-store school building is relatively new,
                         children in the village have adapted well to them and do not
                         find	any	difficulties.	Indeed,	the	challenges	faced	in	acquiring	
                                       additional land have motivated the construction
                                      of	these	buildings.	Such	difficulties	are	frequently	
                                      faced in densely populated areas.




                                                                 Saewe Elementary School




Sihare’o Elementary School



                                                                                       47
                                                                                              49
When schools were damaged
by the earthquake, many
students had to study in
emergency buildings so that
their studies would not stop.


With       limited    facilities,
students      and      teachers
continued     their   activities
enthusiastically. They expected
that the emergency situation
would be handled quickly.




48
                                    50
A school environment with many friends and interesting
activities is a pleasant place for children. Teachers are critical
in improving the environment and realizing the potential of
children and preparing them for the future.




                                                               49
                                                                 51
Perspective drawing of school building
                                              Village mapping by community




50
                                         52
                   School furniture




                           Library




Sports equipment                      Musical instruments




                                                            51
                                                             53
52
VILLAGE HALLS




            53
Village Hall in Hilindrasoniha, Sub-District of Teluk Dalam, District of South Nias


Village Hall is an important facility for developing social
interaction among residents so that they can be more intimate
and active in developing their village. Mutual assistance among
residents must be promoted and stimulated so that it will not
decrease and disappear. In several villages, mutual assistance
has diminished and needs to be re-strengthened so that it can
become a strong fundamental for the future.


Considering that KRRP project is a community-based project, the
role of Village Hall is absolutely vital since residents’ meetings
in order to achieve consensus is a major part of the whole
process.	 The	 understanding	 of	 shared	 problems,	 identification	
of potentials, review of alternative options and decision making
should be performed through deliberations among residents.
Likewise,	agreements	on	the	beneficiaries	of	assistance,	persons	
who	will	receive	such	assistance	first	and	who	will	receive	such	
assistance later, are made through village meetings.



54
Village Hall is a training center for voicing residents’ aspirations
while respecting the rights and opinions of others. Here,
organizational skills, ability to identify problems and ability
to	 jointly	 find	 solutions	 are	 developed.	 Village	 Hall	 is	 also	 a	
training center for learning new approaches and technologies
as well as for developing creative local innovations. At the
Village Hall, the real dynamic and democratization processes
are developed.


Initially, the budget was allocated for constructing government
offices	 i.e.	 sub-district	 office.	 Then,	 PMD	 confirmed	 a	
government	policy	that	Sub-District	office	could	not	be	funded	
by the project budget because it is covered by the Central
Government’s budget. Therefore, it was agreed to build a
village hall completed with a room for community meetings and
other various activities of the citizens in Nias and Nias Selatan
District. Since the Head of Nias District did not agree for this
provision, the construction of Village Hall allocation for Nias
District was moved to South Nias, namely for constructing 110
village halls.


The Village Halls are constructed with high roof adopting
Nias traditions for buildings. The roof is made of corrugated
iron sheets with wooden roof trusses. The Village Halls are
constructed with reinforced concrete structure and low walls.
The upper parts of the walls are open. There are some villages
that want to display the characteristics of Nias buildings by
adding some ornaments and statues such as those found in many
Nias traditional buildings. In the back of the buildings, there is
an	enclosed	space	which	can	be	used	as	an	office,	warehouse	and	
toilet. The Village Halls are constructed on community lands or
donated lands preferably those which are close to village center
so that they can be easily reached by residents from various
directions.




                                                                      55
A Village Hall incorporating Nias traditional architecture with 2 lasara
in the front yard and ornaments at the end of its pillars




56
                                                                      58
Some variations of village halls, developed based on one same
standard design




People use plenty of colors and architectural details




                                                          57
                                                            59
A Village Hall is a place where people hold meetings to achieve
consensus	and	to	agree	upon	specific	development	activities	in	
their future. Women play an active role in the decision-making.




58
                                                              60
A Village Hall can also become a place for
learning and the arts. Besides elders and
adults, youths also need a space for their
activities.


Basically,	 a	 village	 hall	 must	 offer	 benefits	
to the entire community, old and young,
rich and poor, men and women, merchants,
farmers and any other resident of the village.




                                                59
                                                  61
     Gambar perspektif rancangan Balai Desa




        A Village Hall by the sea.




60
                                        62




                                              A Village Hall in a coconut plantation.
The Rehabilitation and Reconstruction of Nias Island is the
result of a partnership between the Directorate General of
Village Community Development of the Ministry of Home
Affairs, the Multi Donor Fund, PNPM Mandiri, BRR and District
Governments, supported by various community organizations
and local communities. This partnership has ensured that the
commitment to reconstruct Nias after the tsunami in 2004 and
earthquake	in	2005	has	been	successfully	fulfilled	with	a	spirit	
of unity and cooperation that has successfully overcome many
complexities and obstacles.




                                                             61
The construction of foundation, columns and
walls has been completed




Internal concrete structure




The roof truss being installed




                                              64
Front view and ground plan of a Village Hall




                                                    65
                                               63
64
 VILLAGE PUBLIC
INFRASTRUCTURE




              65
                                                                            Example of road infrastructure project
The construction of infrastructure may include extensive work,
such as roads, bridges, culverts, water canals, irrigation canals,
retaining walls, dug wells, clean water pipes, bathing, washing
and latrine facilities, public hydrants, village health centers,
village markets, etc. In this case, village-scale local infrastructure
is being prioritized.                                                    An access road which has not been constructed




66
                                      67




Extra caution has to be exercised while crossing this bridge
Together we can



Working in a very remote areas with workers and simple
equipment became the main challenge faced. They worked with
enthusiasm and great energy, realizing that their duty was very
important for the community’s improvement and welfare.


                                                                  Hard work on the part of everyone




68
                             70
     Men and women working hard together




                    69
71



                     Spirit and dedication
70
     72


          The work had to be precise and carefully executed
71



Technical supervision
                  Village roads and inter-village roads are
                  extremely important in the daily life for
                  the people’s social and economic activities.
                  Efforts were made to ensure effective and
                  efficient	location	planning	and	design	so	as	
                  to be in line with local needs and available
                  budget. There were three types of roads
                  constructed: (a) paths which could be used
                  by bikes, (b) double-lane roads for bikes
                  which could be used by cars, (c) roads for
                  cars of a minimum size.




                                      For pedestrians or bikes

A road for cars                                                   Double-lane road for bikes




                                               74
                  72
Inter-villages roads are getting better and connected to one another




                                                                   73
                                  75
Residents in several villages built covered bridges to make them
last longer. Gabion baskets were also built to retain the river bank
from erosion. Such efforts have been useful for the maintenance
of infrastructure and the surrounding environment.




74
                               76
                                         Water	canal	through	a	field




Saluran air melintasi kebun dan sawah.                          75
                             77



                                                    Irrigation canal
Water reservoirs are built to collect clean water and distribute it
to residents through pipe.


The pipes are connected to hydrants installed near a group of
residents’ houses. The residents who need water can get the
clean water from hydrants.




76
                                 78
Village health centers provide health services to village residents
so that they can easily and quickly address health problems
without having to go to a city. Village health centers are served
by doctors and paramedics who provide basic services, including
the supply of generic drugs for simple health problems. More
complex health problems are referred to service centers at the
Sub-District or Regency/Municipality level. This facility has
been very useful to rural communities.




                                                                77
Village markets are greatly needed to facilitate the buying and
selling of various products offered by farmers, craftsmen and
small industry entrepreneurs. Consumers can buy foodstuffs,
clothes, tools and other necessary items. Village markets
stimulate village economic life and ensure the supply of goods
needed by the community.


Most of old markets were located next to roads and often
disrupted	inter-city	traffic.	The	construction	of	village	markets	

at appropriate locations is required
to	overcome	such	traffic	problems.




78
                                     A market which has been
                                     recently constructed is
                                     being actively used. In
                                     a short time such market
                                     has   come     alive      and
                                     developed.




Sellers   and   buyers    are
comfortable at a market




                                     The    new     market      is
                                     cleaner, more spacious,
                                     orderly, and does not
                                     interfere	with	traffic.

                                                               79
                                81
Increasingly better and smoother roads enable community
activities in small-scale industry, trade, tourism and many other
sectors. Development can be accelerated and become more
beneficial	for	the	people’s	welfare	if	it	is	supported	in	different	
ways.


Smooth roads also tempt drivers to drive at high speed.
Awareness	 of	 traffic	 rules	 and	 driving	 safety	 needs	 to	 be	
increased to prevent accidents.




80
                             82
Since access is now open, opportunities are also established for creativity and innovation in business development




                                                                                                         81
                                                                        83
82
ENVIRONMENTAL
   AWARENESS




            83
                                                                        Nias’s endangered forests

With so many buildings being rebuilt after the earthquake, the
need for building materials made of wood soared drastically and
it was feared that this tremendous demand would destroy forests
in Nias Island. There was also a concern that the efforts to bring
timber from the surrounding small islands would threaten forest
preservation	in	those	islands.		It	was	also	difficult	and	costly	to	
bring timber from the mainland of Sumatera due to the great
distance.


Therefore, efforts were made to reduce the needs and the
use of timber by incorporating approaches such as: (i) using
lightweight steel for the roof trusses of houses and schools; (ii)
reusing existing timber; (iii) using scaffolding made of bamboo
or branches; and (iv) exercising routine supervision on the use
of timber.


Moreover, efforts were also made to create timber legislation
for ensuring that timber used came from public forests through
a	verification	process	by	a	field	consultant.	The	KRRP	project	
held	 trainings	 on	 the	 identification	 and	 measurement	 of	 the	
types of timber for 60 Village Heads, as well as encouraged
Regional Governments to issue the Head of District Decree for
the	 appointment	 of	 those	 Village	 Heads	 as	 “Officials	 issuing	
Certificates	of	Timber	Origin?	(SKAU).




84
Reforestation and tree planting in front yards and along village
roads	 were	 promoted.	 Each	 beneficiary	 of	 KRRP	 project	 was	
required to plant at least 12 trees and 60 trees were required
to be planted for the construction of every school and village
hall. As of June 2010, 117,000 mahogany trees were planted by
the	beneficiaries.	This	number	is	twofold	the	number	originally	
planned.


Moreover, training on Community-Based Forest Management
was	 held	 for	 the	 beneficiaries	 of	 the	 houses,	 village	 halls,	
schools, as well as village infrastructure and facilities. There
were several problems, including a lack of public understanding
and	 knowledge,	 the	 limited	 number	 of	 field	 consultants,	 and	
non-optimal	supervision	and	response	to	emerging	difficulties.	


In order to ensure the successful implementation of this program,
it was suggested to increase the number of seedlings, encourage
the participation of local governments, improve the capacity
of the consultants thorough training, maximize supervision at
the district and sub-district levels, and increase the community
awareness through media.




                                                                  85
                                 87
     Nursery         Seedling distribution




     Planting




86
                88
Students learning to identify, plant and nourish trees




                                                         87
                                   89
                          Timber	Identification




Timber measurement




                          Children enjoying their environment




88
                     90
                                                                                89
                                                                           91



A teacher plants a tree in the front yard of a school under construction
90
CULTURAL HERITAGE
       EDUCATION




                91
In	addition	to	physically	fulfilling	basic	needs,	the	KRRP	project	
was intended to support the strengthening of understanding of
local culture and its preservation through the Cultural Heritage
Education Program as a part of the school improvement
initiative.


The term “heritage? in Bahasa Indonesia is translated into
various words. Literally, it is often paired with the term ‘Warisan
Budaya’ which is usually used in countries of similar origin,
such as Malaysia. However, after a series of long discussions
in Yogya, Jakarta, Kaliurang and Ciloto with the Indonesian
Heritage Conservation Network as well as conservation
organizations from various regions in Indonesia, universities
and relevant governmental institutions, the term ‘Pusaka’ was
agreed upon as the translation of the word heritage (JPPI, 2003).


Pusaka Indonesia is the legacy of nature, culture, and saujana,
the fusion of the two. Natural heritage is the construct of nature.
Man-made heritage is the legacy of thought, emotion, intentions,
and works that spring from over 500 ethnic groups in Tanah
Air Indonesia, singularly, and together as one nation, and from
the interactions with other cultures throughout its long history.
Saujana heritage is the inextricable unity between nature and
man-made heritage in space and time. (Charter of Indonesian
Heritage Preservation, 2003).


The school is believed to be one of the formal education
facilities for building young generations who will take over
development in the future. In addition to basic studies, it is the
appropriate role for schools to become a place for learning and
understanding the heritage of a region. The direct main target of
the program is students and teachers, and the indirect targets are
the people in general of Nias Island, especially students’ parents
or guardians. Heritage education is one of the strategies for
improving the understanding and appreciation of local culture,


92
which is believed in many places in the world as being central
to a school environment. (UNESCO Review, 2007).


The strengthening and enhancement of cultural education of
Nias island are intended to complement the activities which
have been carried out by the communities themselves in a simple
way and improve activities which have been started by various
local cultural organizations
in a broader scope, as well as
various innovations of cultural
education in the framework of
cultural heritage programs.


The	 first	 part	 of	 this	 program	
was the “Development of
a Museum for Nias?. This
activity was intended to
strengthen the understanding of Nias Island cultural preservation
through the optimal improvement of museum activities.


The development of museum in Nias Island included: (i) student
visits to the museum; (ii) cultural training for teachers; (iii)
Nias Island cultural inventory programs; (iv) encyclopedia of
Nias Island cultures for students; (v) Re-publishing of a book
about Nias cultures consisting of a collection of articles from
the Nias Heritage Media newsletter and cultural book written
by Pastor Johannes Hammerle, a well-respected missionary and
anthropologist who has been living in Nias for more than 30
years; (vi) optimization of the museum as a cultural education
facility consisting of relevant collections, the production of a
museum catalog, re-designing showrooms and their layout, and
improving printed and electronic promotional media, brochures
and website; (v) capacity building for museum employees.




                                                              93
The activities were carried out by Yayasan Pusaka Nias which
manages the Nias Heritage Museum in Gunung Sitoli. In its
development, efforts were made for improving the presentation
of the museum’s collections so that they can motivate people
especially teachers and students to preserve Nias culture.


The Nias Heritage Museum is one of the best museums
presenting Nias history and culture. This museum is often visited
by students, researchers and the general public. Students invited
to visit the museum are happy and interested in the historical
relics which are often overlooked by them. Various artifacts are
presented neatly and systematically. Guides are available who
can provide detailed explanations of the museum’s collections.


The museum has a library with large collection of books about
Nias’s history and culture. Researchers can sit in the reading
room to examine various types of information. In addition to
artifacts and books, this museum also offers a collection of
typical	flora	and	fauna	of	Nias.	A	small	zoo	in	this	museum	is	
also	very	useful	for	introducing	various	endemic	flora	and	fauna	
to students. These attractions are very interesting for young and
old visitors alike.   Finally, visitors can also enjoy beautiful
beaches and stalls selling traditional food behind the museum.




94
                               96
     95
97
                                                                 Reviving traditional games

The Second Part of the Cultural Heritage Education Program
is heritage education at schools. Heritage education at schools
is an activity for preparing cultural education materials as a
complement to the existing curriculum, as well as facilitating
art training at schools.


Activities include, among other things: (i) survey and inventory
of heritage properties of Nias island by each pilot school;
(ii) preparation of heritage modules for teachers conducted
by a module preparation team consisting of relevant experts,
teachers’ representatives and school committee members; (iii)
workshop and Training of Trainers (TOT) on heritage module
implementation for teachers; (iv) preparation of heritage
modules for students by teachers at pilot schools; (v) test of
heritage module application for students at pilot schools
including art facilitation activities at those schools.


The activity was organized by Bamper Madani Foundation
based in Teluk Dalam, South Nias District. Through the support
of heritage education, various activities have been developed at
schools leading to the improvement of awareness of heritage, as
well as encouraging its actualization in daily activities, both in
the school and community.

96
     97
99
Children    were   invited    to
become familiar with and
wear traditional clothes, learn
to play traditional games, and
enjoy traditional music.


Through such an introduction
and     understanding,        an
appreciation for local culture
will   be    developed       and   100
nurtured.
In order for the students to recognize the rich and varied cultural
heritage in their region, heritage educational modules were
provided for children in the form of comic books or children’s
text books. These books are written in a way that was interesting
and easy to read for children. The sentences are short and simple,
decorated with many interesting visual illustrations for children.
These books will help children to enjoy reading and develops
the kind of curiosity that is very useful for subsequent children
development.


By knowing and understanding cultural richness and diversity,
children will appreciate a multi-culturalism and learn to respect
the culture and views of others. As the next generation, children
are expected to be the main supporters of cultural preservation
activities in the future.




                                                                99
Going	on	a	field	study	trip	for	to	enjoy	the	cultural	richness	of	a	traditional	village	and	to	try	to	understand	its	history

The third part of the Cultural Heritage Education Program is the
Field Study Program to a traditional village. The Field Study
Program to a traditional village is an effort to strengthen the
understanding of the heritage of Nias Island through student and
teacher visits to a traditional village in Nias Island in order to
introduce the culture and environment directly. The activities
consist of: (i) visits to a traditional village with students as the
participants	from	the	model	schools	(the	beneficiaries’	school	of	
KRRP are prioritized); (ii) an essay writing competition about
a traditional village visited by students after their visit; and
(iii) preparation of comic books with illustrations that are easy
to understand by children based on the summary of the essay
writing contest winner.

100
This activity was carried out by the Foundation for Empowerment
Board and Cultural Heritage of Nias Islands / Badan Pemberdayaan
Warisan Nias (BPWN) located at Gunung Sitoli. In this study
of heritage exploration, various activities aimed at improving
heritage awareness, as well as encouraging its actualization in
daily activities of the community, were conducted through direct
observation outside of schools. Students’ direct experience
visiting traditional villages in their area was one of the methods
believed to be effective in gaining such understanding.




                                                             101
                           Learning	how	people	made	fire	in	the	past


Nowadays, many children and people in general do not respect
their traditions and culture because their knowledge is limited and
no one has explained to them the background of its development.
Therefore, it is very important to introduce children and even
adults to history and culture.




       It turned out that learning to play traditional musical instruments was interesting and fun




102
                                 104
                                Learning the basic movements of a traditional dance


                                Children love to try. When they are introduced to a traditional game,
                                dance or music, they will be interested to try, learn and practice
                                them. Therefore, it is essential to introduce traditional music and
                                dance, local cuisine and culture, and local wisdom to students
                                through the kinds of interesting and interactive learning methods
                                that are more suitable for children.


                                Similarly, studios, clubs and traditional art groups need to be
                                developed, especially for children and teenagers. The measures
                                initiated by KRRP need to be continued and developed further.




Delicious traditional cuisine                            Preparing betel leaves for a traditional ceremony




                                                                                                 103
                                                                  105
104
PARTICIPATORY
DEVELOPMENT




           105
The basic principle developed in KRRP project is participatory
and transparent development. The community is invited to be
active in various processes, from
the	 identification	 of	 problems	 and	 potentials,	 selection	 of	
planning alternatives, setting priorities, preparing budgets,
managing and supervising the implementation, to the evaluation
of the development deliverables.


Actually there is a tradition of customary meetings in Nias,
but	 in	 such	 meetings	 in	 the	 past,	 opinions	 of	 senior	 figures	
and elders were dominating. Through R2PN, all residents of
all levels of society had active participation, including youths
and the poor. Likewise, women which in old tradition were less
involved, were encouraged to actively participate in decision-
making process.


This change was not always easy and smooth. Facilitators
or advisors had to work hard, be patient and be careful in
introducing the community to this new scheme. Workshop and
training for facilitators were held to strengthen the technical
understanding of project implementation and management
as well as communication approaches and development of
consensus. Workshops were also held to jointly evaluate the
achievements.


Community training for village spatial planning and development
was very interesting because this process was rarely carried out,
and there was even a village which never experienced such
training. The villages which have participated in KDP or PNPM
program, were familiar with this process, but for those which
never participated in those programs, initial understanding had
to	be	developed	first.	The	relatively	complicated	issues	in	this	
matter were the inclusion of youths, the poor and women who
were previously excluded.




106
Training	for	facilitators	was	held	first	in	districts	and	sub-districts	
for the organization and management of development so that
everything can run in a synchronous and uninterrupted manner.
At the village level, the training was held for local cadres.




                                                                  107
In various village meetings, women played an active role




108
                               110
Meeting    were     carried   out
at various levels, namely at
district, sub-district and village
levels, using a method which
was appropriate for the target
groups.



                              109
Experience in Indonesia and around the world indicates that
using a community-based post-disaster recovery approach is
more likely to generate sustainable solutions compared to a top-
down strategy.


Community-based approaches are also usually more capable
of	generating	local	solutions	for	social	conflicts	that	may	arise.	
Conflicts	 often	 occur	 in	 reconstruction	 activities	 in	 which	 the	
differences of damage levels are translated into differences in
the amount of assistance. The experience in Nias and globally
indicates that local negotiations can solve such problem.
Community-based reconstruction approaches are actually
appropriate for a community where the social structure is still
strong but the technical capacity is weak and access to market
is	still	difficult.	People	are	able	to	rebuild	their	houses	through	
a mutual assistance culture and togetherness, but what is
still	 required	 are	 specific	 interventions	 such	 as	 assistance	 for	
technical facilitation and earthquake-resistant construction.


The main target groups of this project have been: (i) house
beneficiaries;	 (ii)	 students	 and	 teachers	 whose	 schools	 were	
reconstructed; (iii) communities that obtained village halls
and various infrastructure projects. It is also expected that the
communities and people involved in this process will obtain
experience and knowledge.


There	was	a	delay	in	the	first	year	because	the	community	and	
project manager were not fully prepared. There were many
empty facilitator positions so that community facilitation was
not carried out as planned. It is very important to note the
importance of early preparation in various projects in the future.
The readiness of local communities and organizations will also
determine the smooth and timely implementation of projects.




110
Community	deliberations	were	also	held	in	the	field	and	at	project	sites




                                                                   111
                                  113
       Public discussion in cooperation with radio and printed media      Hand-over of management for KRRP from National
                                                                          Government to Provincial and District Governments
                    In addition to the internal supervision
                    by the project, various implementation
                    activities were also monitored by donor
                    agencies to ensure that everything went
                    smoothly according to the plan and
                    applicable regulations. Observations made
                    by the community and various community
                    organizations     also    strengthened       the
                    supervisory system.


                    Public support greatly affected the success
                    implementation of the project. Participation
                    in the form of energy, ideas, time, fund
                    and land came from various parties.
                    Teachers,    guardians,    and   communities
                    donated their land and in the photo below
                    project management staff at Sub-District
                    Turumbaho,      Botolakha      village   posed
                    together in front of the school which had
                    been constructed.


Periodic visits were conducted to harmonize the implementation         Communication	with	school	building	beneficiaries




                    112
                                                     114
In addition to the direct activities in the KRRP project, there were also a lot of social and economic activities initiated by community members
utilizing various facilities resulting from the project implementation




Innovation and creativity at the community and individual level also determined the extent to which the project investment produced actual results
for	the	improvement	of	people’s	welfare.	This	motivation	has	to	be	encouraged	and	nurtured	so	that	the	benefits	of	this	project	will	grow	further.	




                                                                                                                      113
                                                                                    115
114
EPILOGUE




       115
116
The rehabilitation and reconstruction of Nias Island have been
implemented for six years since the last earthquake on March
2005. Meanwhile KRRP had started since February 22, 2007
and completed June 30, 2011. There were many activities that
had	been	implemented	and	many	basic	needs	have	been	fulfilled,	
although there are still many things that have to be completed
further by the government and the community of Nias. Several
important activities must be taken into consideration, including
the maintenance of the large number of infrastructure projects
and facilities that were constructed.


The completion of the main infrastructure and facilities has
opened up opportunities for the development of socio-economic
and	cultural	life.	Currently,	such	benefits	have	not	been	achieved	
optimally. Various creativities and innovations are expected
to continue growing in order to realize existing potential for
improving the community’s welfare. Such creativity and
innovation require a continuous level of motivation and spirit.


There are numerous lessons learned from the work of the past six
years. Coordination and synchronization are the key concepts
that	are	often	uttered	but	very	difficult	to	realize.	It	is	crucial	to	
develop coordination which is based on equality and does not
rely too much on top-down instruction. Horizontal coordination
is very suitable to the egalitarian spirit which is being developed
in the current reform era in Indonesia.


Available opportunities must be seized through the development
of human resources and a reliable management framework for
nurturing them. Nias is not a barren area that has no future;
instead,	 Nias	 has	 significant	 potential	 in	 many	 areas.	 Older	
and younger generations need to be connected by shared
ideals of development which will create one solid and forceful
community.




                                                                  117
118
              ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS


We would like to express our gratitude to all stakeholders of
KRRP or PNPM-R2PN project, namely the Directorate General
of Community and Village Empowerment (PMD) Ministry of
Home Affairs, Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Agency (BRR)
Aceh-Nias, and Local Governments in Provincial, District and
Sub-District level that have assisted the publication of this book.
We would like to thank all communities on Nias Island and those
community organizations that were involved for their generous
support and cooperation.
We also express our gratitude to Scott Guggenheim and John
Victor Bottini who provided inputs and guidance, and thanks to
all team members for the book’s preparation, implementation
and supervisory of this project who have provided data, inputs
and shared the notes of their experiences.


Hopefully, the publication of this book will be useful for
drawing lessons and valuable insights that can be applied to
similar situations in the future, as well as offer ideas and inputs
for the ongoing development in Nias Island.




                                                              119
Photograph contributors

Catrini Pratihari K.     page 37, 48 a-b-c-d-e, 50 b, 54, 67, 87 a-b-c,
                         88 e, 99 a-b-c, 112 d.




Dennie Mamonto           page 24 a-b, 36 b, 45 b, 49 b, 57 a-b-c-d-e,
                         68 b, 69a, 73 a 74 a-b-c, 75 b, 86 d-e, 87 e-f,
                         88 a-b-c-d, 112 e-f.


Melkhior Duha            page 59 a-b-c, 100, 101, 102 a-b-c, 103 a-c.


Suhadi Hadiwinoto        page 9, 17, 27 b, 28 a-b-c-d, 29 a-b-c-d, 39,
                         40 a-b, 41 a-b, 42, 44 a-b, 45 a, 56 a-b, 60 b,
                         66 a-b, 78 b, 80 a-b-c-d, 81 a-b, 84, 85 b, 92,
                         93 a-b-c, 95, 96, 97 a-b-c, 98 a-b-c-d-e, 103 b,
                         113 a-b-c-d-e-f.


Other	 photos	 contributed	 from	 Festina	 Lavida,	 Eka	 Hasfiadha,	
Nagasakti Peranginangin, Maurista Manik, Marihot Sigalingging, Gea
Asavati,	and	World	Bank	archives	and	KRRP	field	team.


Book’s cover: processed from BRR documentation




120
