Document of
The World Bank
Report No: ICR1866
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
(TF-57307)
ON A
GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$25.75 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
NIAS: KECAMATAN-BASED RECONSTRUCTION AND REHABILITATION
PLANNING PROJECT
December 30, 2011
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region


﻿CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 2011)
Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
Rp. 1,000 = US$0.1126
US$1.00 = Rp. 8,995
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACAP          Anti Corruption Action Plan
ADB           Asian Development Bank
AusAID        The Australian Agency for International Development (AusAID)
BRR           Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Agency for NAD and Nias
Bupati        District Head
Camat         Sub-District Head
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CDD           Community Driven Development
CPAR          Country Procurement Assessment Review
CPS           Country Partnership Strategy
CQS           Consultant Qualification Selection
DAU           General Block Grant to Districts
DPRD          Provincial and District Parliaments
FM            Financial Management
FMS           Financial Management Specialist
FAD           Inter-village forums
FY            Fiscal Year
Gol           Government of Indonesia
ICR           Implementation Completion and Results Report
Kabupaten     District
KDP           Kecamatan Development Project
Kecamatan     Sub-District
KP            Housing Team
KPPN          Provincial Office of the National Treasury
KRRP          Kecamatan-based Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project in Nias Island
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
MDTFANS       Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Aceh and North Sumatra
MDF           often used for MDTFANS
MIS           Management Information System
MoF           Ministry of Finance
MOHA          Ministry of Home Affairs
NGO           Non-Government Organization
NMC           National Management Consultants
O&M           Operation and Maintenance
PDO           Project Development Objective
PjOK          Local Project Manager
PMU           Project Management Unit
11


﻿PMD           Community Development Agency in the Ministry of Home Affairs
PNPM          National Community Empowerment Program (successor of KDP)
REKOMPAK      Rehabilitasi dan Rekonstruksi Masyarakat dan Permukiman Berbasis Komunitas
TKP           Implementation Coordination Team (at community level)
UNICEF        United Nations Children's Fund
UPK           Sub-district Financial Management Unit
Vice President: James W. Adams
Country Director: Stefan Koeberle
Sector Manager: Franz Drees-Gross
Project Team Leader: Sentot Satria
ICR Team Leader: Festina Lavida
iii


﻿INDONESIA
NIAS: KECAMATAN-BASED RECONSTRUCTION AND REHABILITATION
PLANNING PROJECT
CONTENTS
Data Sheet
A. Basic Information............................................v
B. Key Dates....................                           .................iv
C. Ratings Summary............................................v
D. Sector and Theme Codes................             ......................vi
E. Bank Staff.................................................vi
F. Results Framework Analysis....................................vi
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs............................ix
H. Restructuring..............................................ix
I. Disbursement Graph...........................................x
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design.....................1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes......................6
3. Assessment of Outcomes.........................................13
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.........................117
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.........................17
6. Lessons Learned...............................................20
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners....... 21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing..................................22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component           ............................... .....23
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis     .................................. 29
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .......... 0
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results       .........................  ........ 32
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results    ........................... 33
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR......... 36
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders    .   .......... 45
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents                       ............................... 47
MAP
iv


﻿A. Basic Information
Country:            Indonesia            Project Name:
Project ID:         P100766              L/C/TF Number(s):    TF-57307
ICR Date:            11/13/2011          ICRType:             CoreICR
REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:  ERL                 Grantee:             NDONESIA
Original Total       US$25.75M           Disbursed Amount:    USD 25.75M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:      US$25.75M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Home Affairs
Coinanciers and Other External Partners:.
B. Key Dates
C reIse Ata
Process           Date           Process       Original Date s:e      s)
Date(s)
Concept Review:    03/23/2006   Effectiveness:      02/22/2007       02/22/2007
Appraisal:         06/13/2006   Restructuring(s):
Approval:          10/26/2006   Mid-term Review:    11/30/2008       11/30/2008
Closing:            12/31/2009      06/30/2011
C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:             Moderate
Bank Performance:                        Satisfactory
Grantee Performance:                     Moderately Satisfactory
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
Bank               Ratings             Borrower             Ratings
Quality at Entry:    Satisfactory        Government:          Moderately Satisfactory
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory     Implementing         Satisfactory
Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                             Overall Borrower
PerorBan:         Satisfactory        Perorn   e       Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                             Performance:
V


﻿C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
Implementation         Indicators      QAG Assessments           Rating
Performance                               (if any)
Potential Problem Project                Quality at Entry   None
Yes                                   Nn
at any time (Yes/No):                    (QEA):
Problem Project at any  Yes              Quality of
YesNone
time (Yes/No):                            Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before      Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Satisfactory
D. Sector and Theme Codes
Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other social services                                  100               100
Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other social development                                 33              33
Social analysis and monitoring                           67              67
E. Bank Staff
Positions                  At ICR                      At Approval
Vice President:       James W. Adams                Jeffrey S. Gutman
Country Director:     Stefan G. Koeberle            Andrew D. Steer
Sector Manager:       Franz R. Drees-Gross          Maria Teresa Serra
Project Team Leader:  Sentot Surya Satria           Scott E. Guggenheim
ICR Team Leader:      Festina Lavida
ICR Primary Author:   Heinrich K. Unger
F. Results Framework Analysis
Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Project Development Objective is to support BRR's (Badan Rehabilitasi dan
Rekonstruksi) strategy for district and provincial reconstruction and rehabilitation by
providing housing, schools, local government offices and infrastructure for resettlement
in Nias Island.
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO were not revised.
Vi


﻿(a) PDO Indicator(s)
.    Original Target Values   Formally    Actual Value Achieved
Indicator    Value        (from approval    Revised Target at Completion or Target
documents)          Values             Years
Indicator 1 :Percentage (number) of houses project-built houses occupied by target families
Value
quantitative 0         >80% (4,000 units)    -              100% (4,491 units)
or
Qualitative)
Date
aeve      10/26/2006  06/30/2011                          06/30/2011
achieved
Comments    4,491 houses only were built but the percentage of houses occupied exceeded the
(ic. %      target.
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Number of children enrolled in project-built schools
Value
quantitative 0         >5,000 students       -              20,000 students
or
Qualitative)
Date        10/26/2006  06/30/2011                          06/30/2011
achieved    1   /      0
Comments    Number of children enrolled in project-built schools is far more than the target
(incl. %    because the original target was low. With average of 5 classes per school and 40
achievement) students per class for 100 schools the number of benefitting students 20,000.
Indicator 3 : Percentage (number) of Local Government offices (Village Halls) in use
Value
quantitative 0         >80% (80 units)       -              100% (110 units)
or
Qualitative)
Date        10/26/2006  06/30/2011                          06/30/2011
achieved
Comments    More village halls were built than the target and the rate of use is higher than the
(ic. %    target.
achievement)
Indicator 4 Percentage of project communities satisfied with planning process and services
provided by the project.
Value
quantitative 0         >70%                                 93%
or
Qualitative)
Date
ae        10/26/2006  06/30/2011                          06/30/2011
achieved
Comments IA sample of 147 beneficiaries was surveyed in all sub-districts covered by the
(inc. %I
(ic. %    Project.
achievement)
vii


﻿(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
.    Original Target Values  Formally    Actual Value Achieved
Indicator    Value       (from approval    Revised Target at Completion or Target
documents)          Values             Years
Indicator 1: Number of houses built
Value
(quantitative 0        5,000 units          -              4,491 units
or Qualitative)l
[Date achieved 10/26/2006 06/30/2011         _06/30/2011
Comments     he number of houses to be built was revised downward to 4,491 units mainly due
(inc. %
ac.        to implementation delays.
achievement)  ub
Indicator 2 : Number of school built
Value
(quantitative 0        100 units              -            100 units
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/26/2006 06/30/2011                        06/30/2011
Comments    100 units were but one school was not completed and can barely be used. It is
(inc. %
ac.      t expected that the relevant local government will complete it.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Number of Local Government Offices (Village Halls)
Value
(quantitative 0        100 units              -            110 units
or Qualitative)
[Date achieved 10/26/2006 06/30/2011                       06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %    More village halls were built than the target.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :  Kilometers of road built, meters of drainage and number of water systems
Value                                                      131 km road, 4,366 m
(quantitative 0        No target set.         -            drains, 10 bridges and
or Qualitative)                                            11.8 km water supply
[Date achieved 110/26/2006 06/30/2011                      06/30/2011
Comments            f
(incl. %    No specific quantitative targets had been set, but there was a target of 100
achievement) infrastructure projects; 149 projects have been implemented.
Percentage of infrastructure classified as "fair" to "excellent" quality based on
I     t  5   echnical expert review.
Value
(quantitative 0        70%                    -            84.55%
or Qualitative)
[Date achieved 10/26/2006 06/30/2011                       06/30/2011
Comments    A sample 137 sub-projects in Nias and 79 sub-projects in Nias Selatan was
(incl. %    reviewed by the project staff and 84.55% were found to be of good or excellent
achievement) quality.
Indicator 6 : Number of persons (especially women and poor) participating in various steps of
t  heproject processes
viii


﻿Value
(quantitative 0         No target set          -             112, 965 women
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/26/2006 06/30/2011                         06/30/2011
Comments     91,032 women participated in different steps of the project processes, including 12
ac. %    tmeetings, and 21,933 women participated as laborers.
achievement)
Indicator 7 : Number of project kecamatan that completed the full project planning and
implementation cycles
Value
(quantitative 0        7 of 9 kecamatan        -            9 of 9 kecamatan
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/26/2006 06/30/2011                         06/30/2011
Comments     All nine project kecamatan participated fully in all aspects and processes of the
ac. %e     project throughout the implementation period.
achievement)
Indicator 8 : IComplaints system is operational and percentage of complaints resolved
Value
(quantitative 0        >70%                    -            75%
or Qualitative)
[Date achieved 10/26/2006 06/30/2011                         06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %    The complaints handling system was fully operational and exceeded the set target.
achievement)
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
Actual
No.     Ate                 DO                     IP             Disbursements
Archived  M(USD millions)
1    06/10/2008   Moderately Satisfactory  Moderately Satisfactory       10.15
2    10/08/2008   Moderately Satisfactory  Moderately Satisfactory        10.15
3                Moderately             Moderately
3    06/30/2009                               Moeaey10.15
Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory
4    02/17/2010   Moderately Satisfactory  Moderately Satisfactory       25.75
5    05/16/2011   Moderately Satisfactory  Moderately Satisfactory       25.75
H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable
ix


﻿I. Disbursement Profile
Original ---- Formally Revised -- Actual
30-
25-
20-
.! 15-
10-------------------------J
r-.  rq  -.                  a*   a1 r4  rw  c4 cq cq c4  I x


﻿1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal
Damage in Nias. The earthquakes and tsunamis that had struck Indonesia and several
other countries in the Indian Ocean region on December 26, 2004, resulted in one of the
worst natural disasters - in terms of lives lost - in recorded human history. In Indonesia,
the province of Aceh and the island of Nias (off the northwest coast of Sumatra) in the
Province of North Sumatra bore the major brunt of the disaster and suffered the worst
damage. To make matters worse, another earthquake struck Nias three months later on
March 28, 2005, killed more than 700 people, leveled or badly damaged some 10,000 to
12,000 houses, and significantly changed the very physical layout of the island.
Damage in Nias was erratic and not as obvious as it was in Aceh. Earthquake damage
affected a large number of villages, but only a fraction of buildings collapsed in each
village. More houses were swept away on the west coast of Nias - the same area that had
also been most affected by the tsunami - but even there significant numbers of buildings
remained standing. Hence, while issues such as clarifying land titles were much less of a
problem in Nias than in Aceh, the challenge of covering large numbers of partially
affected villages in very remote and isolated areas was much greater.
Many village and kecamatan government offices had been damaged or collapsed during
the earthquake. Rebuilding damaged village halls and offices, or building new ones
where none had previously existed, were a high priority for rebuilding community fabric
and cohesion in Nias. Also, in many villages, critical public infrastructure, i.e. mainly
access roads and / or drains, was either damaged or inadequate; many of these
infrastructure gaps were linked to housing and schools.
Government and Donor Response. Originally during 2005, sufficient commitments had
been made for housing reconstruction in Nias by governments and non-governmental
donors to meet the needs as assessed. However, in 2006, BRR's assessment of damage
and reconstruction support for Nias concluded that the island was suffering from a gap
between reconstruction needs and the availability of support. Many donor organizations
had started to realize that they would not be able to provide the level of assistance that
they had originally committed to. This problem was further exacerbated by the relatively
small number of donor agencies and NGOs working on Nias, the difficulty of
communications, and the much poorer, less developed and under-serviced rural economy.
At the time, the Badan Rehabilitasi dan Rekonstruksi (BRR) 1 was coordinating an
effective housing working group in Nias, and they re-negotiated more realistic
commitments by donors. Eventually BRR, together with the housing group, came up with
1 BRR was the entity established by the Government of Indonesia (GOI) and charged with coordinating and
implementing rehabilitation and reconstruction activities in Aceh and Nias. Its head office was in Banda
Aceh, and it had an important branch office in Nias.
1


﻿a final housing plan that allowed the Bank to prepare and design a project to meet the gap
in housing units and other essential community facilities.
Similarly for schools, in 2005 United Nations Children's Education Fund (UNICEF) had
already targeted the reconstruction of 120 priority schools that had been affected by the
tsunami. As there were still more damaged school buildings, the Bank worked with
UNICEF and BRR to identify the next 100 priority primary and middle schools, using the
same needs criteria that UNICEF had employed in the first phase.
Community-based recovery planning had been at the core of the reconstruction planning
process in Aceh and Nias virtually since the disaster struck on December 26, 2004.
Global as well as Indonesian experience showed that community-based approaches to
recovery will, under most circumstances, produce results more quickly, involve more
affected people in their own recovery, and are more likely to lead to sustainable solutions
than top-down strategies can ever hope to achieve.
Because of the high dispersion of the damages, a community-based approach to
reconstruction was thought to be particularly appropriate for Nias. Community social
structure has been strong, and while communities lacked technical skills and market
access, they would be able to rebuild large numbers of houses simultaneously rather than
waiting for contractors to mobilize in sequence. For these reasons, the MDF-funded
Aceh-Nias Kecamatan Development Project (KDP)2 had been approved in 2005 and was
being implemented starting in 2006.
Community-based approaches were also thought to be more likely to promote local
solutions to problems of social conflict. Such conflicts would be common in
reconstruction situations where differential damages should translate into different
entitlements. Studies elsewhere in Indonesia had documented that community-level
negotiations could overcome the most common sources of conflict, and conflict-sensitive
reconstruction planning could help ensure that in most cases, other, incipient sources of
conflicts were monitored and mitigated.
Rationale for Bank Involvement The Bank was well aware of the high risks of working
in Nias due to the inflated costs, the difficult terrain and the social challenges in Nias. .
There were a number of difficulties with the implementation of KDP- 1 and KDP-2 on the
island, and in 2006, there were 61 problems reported in these projects. However, when
other donors scaled back their commitments or failed to deliver on them altogether, the
2 The KDP program used a highly transparent and participatory facilitated planning process that let
communities identify their own priority needs in infrastructure and education or health facilities. The
selected investments were then built by a village implementation team and funded through block grants
transferred directly to a bank account accessed by the villages within the kecamatan. KDP-1 and KDP-2
had been active in Nias prior to the tsunami and earthquake; by 2006, with MDTFANS support, it covered
the entire island.
2


﻿Bank made the difficult decision to get engaged in Nias by working together with the
BRR to prepare a housing reconstruction project in Nias.
Based on the joint preparation work with the Bank, BRR applied to the Multi-Donor
Trust Fund for Aceh and North Sumatra (MDTFANS, or MDF) for grant fund support for
an emergency reconstruction project focused solely on Nias that would be implemented
with Bank supervision. Nine sub-districts in both Nias districts would be targeted based
on BRR's assessment of their unmet needs. Since using an existing project with a similar
scope would allow the project to get off to a fast start it was proposed to use the platform
of the MDF-funded Aceh-Nias Kecamatan Development Project (KDP) that was
supervised by the Bank, acting as partner agency under the MDTFANS. The Bank has
been a strong supporter of BRR's strategy for community-based and participatory
development, with several Bank projects already supporting the BRR's programs for
housing, land management, and tertiary infrastructure. The Bank also has maintained a
regional office in Banda Aceh; its technical expertise to support the proposed project
included specialists in financial management community development, civil engineering,
and procurement.
Therefore, the Bank was well positioned to appraise, and subsequently supervise, the
US$51.5 million Nias: Kecamatan-based Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project
(KRRP). In late 2006 the MDTFANS agreed to provide US$25.75 million in grant
funding of 50 percent, with the other 50 percent to come through BRR, using GOI funds
from the national budget.
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
The Project Development Objective was to support BRR's strategy for district and
provincial reconstruction and rehabilitation by providing housing, schools, local
government offices and infrastructure for resettlement in Nias Island. Related to the
output-oriented PDO, the Grant Agreement listed the following performance indicators:
Original     Actual
Participating districts               2           2
Participating sub-districts           9            9
Villages receiving grants             66           232
Facilitators deployed                 25           63
Houses completed                      5,000       4,491
Schools rebuilt or repaired           100          100
Government offices completed          100          110
Public infrastructure completed       100          149
Cultural heritage program completed   1            1
Studies completed                     1            1
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification
The PDO were not revised but due to (i) difficulties and delays with beneficiary
identification, and (ii) the long process of the physical implementation, only 4,491 houses
3


﻿could be built. Also, due to the failure to agree with one of the district heads on project
locations for village halls, the project shifted part of this allocation to Kabupaten Nias
Selatan with a total of 110 village halls, i.e. 10 units more than the original target.
1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The primary target groups of the Project were: (i) the families that received new houses,
(ii) the students and teachers that were provided with new and repaired schools, (iii) the
communities that received funding and built (a) new village halls with small offices, and
(b) priority infrastructure in their villages. It was expected that individuals participating
in the project implementation would also acquire valuable experience in management,
finance and construction. In addition to these main beneficiaries, Kabupaten and
Kecamatan staff were also expected to benefit from the capacity-building and training
provided by the Project. There was no revision of the primary target groups.
1.5 Original Components
The total proposed project costs were US$51.5 million. Fifty percent of the funding came
from an MDTFANS (MDF) grant, and the other 50% were provided through the
Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Agency (BRR) by GOI from the national budget. The
Project consisted of the following components and activities:
A.     Kecamatan Grants (US$46.0 million)
1. Housing grants (US$30.0 million)
These grants were for housing reconstruction, providing a standard model of
about 36 square meters size. Based on an estimated cost of US$6,000 per house,
the funding under this sub-component was expected to finance about 5,000
single-family housing units. However, it was expected that the unit costs would
fluctuate in the post-disaster situation, and that they would be subject to review
and adjustment.
2. School grants (US$7.0 million)
These grants covered school reconstruction, or repairs and other school
improvements. Implementation was closely coordinated with the Ministry of
education and its local branches. The cost per school was originally estimated at
about US$50,000. The grant was also used to equip schools, provide training, and
finance other school-based activities to improve the quality of local education,
such as a cultural heritage awareness program that was carried out in close
cooperation with the Nias Museum.
3. Local Government Office grants (US$5.0 million)
These grants were used for rebuilding and equipping Local Government offices.
Both sub-district and village offices were eligible.
4. Public infrastructure grants (US$4.0 million)
These consisted of un-earmarked block grants that were transferred directly to
communities for investing in village infrastructure linked to reconstruction
activities. Project menus were open, with the exception of a short negative list
4


﻿that banned civil servant salaries, weapons, and environmentally destructive
activities. Villagers could decide invest in a wide range of local priorities, but it
was expected that most of the funds would be used to build drainage and access
infrastructure.
B.     Kecamatan Planning Grants (US$2.0 million)
1. Operational grants (called DOK in Indonesia) for participatory planning at the
Kecamatan and village (desa) levels
2. Training of consultants (facilitators) and village communities
3. Socialization of the project at the Kabupaten level
These block grants supported a participatory planning process that included special
measures to involve women and the poor. They funded village-level training,
facilitation, and capacity development to carry out inclusive planning. They also
funded village-based oversight through cross-audits, complaints handling, and quality
control.
C.     Consultant Services (US$3.1 million)
1. Project Implementation Support.
To expedite the settlement reconstruction and rehabilitation program,
implementation support was seen as critical for mobilizing teams, preparing
training programs, and hiring consultants. This component financed immediate
and medium-term technical assistance activities for: (i) establishment and
implementation of the housing, school, and local government office grants, and
for priority infrastructure block grants, as well as financial management systems
acceptable to the Bank; (ii) overall project implementation, including the hiring of
about 100 field facilitators (consultants) and safeguards specialists; and, (iii)
strengthening the capacity of PMU and PIUs, including additional operational
costs to purchase office equipment.
2. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
M&E included quantitative and qualitative impact evaluations, participatory
monitoring methods, corruption assessments, and independent monitoring by
NGOs. The project's M&E framework was built on the overall M&E system for
the Aceh-Nias KDP that was being implemented in parallel. Additional
evaluations were to deal with the quality of housing, social conflict, and cultural
sensitivities.
D.     Incremental Operating Costs (US$0.4 million)
Incremental costs were intended for costs required under the Project for local
contractual support and their salaries, travel and other travel-related expenses,
equipment rental and maintenance, vehicle operation, maintenance and repair,
office rental and maintenance, material and supplies, and utilities and
communications expenses. It does not cover government salaries.
1.6 Revised Components
There were no formal revisions of the project components.
5


﻿1.7 Other significant changes
As referred to under section 1.3, the number of houses to be constructed was reduced by
about 10 percent to 4,491 because of (i) the difficulty on beneficiary identification, and
(ii) the slow progress of implementation. However, there was no formal revision of this
target.
The original plan was to build "kecamatan/local government offices". However, once
implementation had started, PMD made a ruling that only village head offices with
community halls (called village hall) could be financed and built, because kecamatan
offices are financed by local government budget whereas there is no budget for village
head offices.
BRR had been established by GOI as a temporary organization and when their mandate
expired they ceased operations in April 2009. The GOI counterpart funding that had been
channeled though BRR was subsequently channeled through the Ministry of Home
Affairs' (MOHA) Community Development Agency (PMD); this transition went
smoothly and did not cause any problems or delays.
In view of the difficulties to implement the project within the original timeframe, and
further to an application by GOI, the Bank, in December 2009, agreed to a 18-month
extension of the closing date of the grant. June 30, 2011 was established as the new
closing date.
The closing date amendment letter from the Bank also agreed to a reallocation of the
grant proceeds that increased the funds allocated to housing (by 15 percent) and to
schools (by 41 percent) 3 , and reduced the funds for village offices and public
infrastructure by an equal amount. The other allocations remained unchanged.
Due to the time constraints, the project did not disburse the full grant amount, and
US$5.5 million was returned to MDTFANS after the closing date. GOI's contribution
was US$0.7 million more than the agreed counterpart funds.
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
General. Despite some flaws in the Bank appraisal, the quality of the project at entry was
high; this factor contributed significantly to its successful outcome.
Preparation. Initial discussions with local governments on the project design were
conducted by BRR and the Bank during several visits to Nias in 2005 and early 2006.
District heads from both Nias kabupaten, several sub-district and village heads, and a
large number of local stakeholders participated in these discussions. The project design
' The increased allocation for the construction of schools was due to the substantial cost increases of
building materials and their scarcity because of high demand.
6


﻿was further discussed during a January 2006 "Nias consultation" organized by BRR.
More detailed meetings with project stakeholders were held after the project was
approved.
The project was prepared by the Bank in close consultation and cooperation with BRR
and several international donors that were involved in reconstruction activities in Nias.
Coordination was initiated with the Ministry of Education and Culture to ensure that
teachers and materials would be assigned in a timely manner to the new schools. And
there was close coordination with UNICEF for the school construction component; this
included support by UNICEF and NGOs for the training of additional teachers.
Lessons and Risks. As described briefly in Section 1.1, the Bank's preparation team was
able to use lessons and experience from the two ongoing KDP projects in Nias, i.e. KDP-
2 and the MDF-funded Aceh-Nias KDP. Nias was one of the most challenging
environments for the post-tsunami reconstruction program in Indonesia. Many
communities were remote and distances were large; communications, and especially
transport logistics, were poor; the availability of relevant skills was very limited; and
management capacities were very low. A large-scale reconstruction program that must
reach isolated, traditional communities faced additional challenges, both social and
technical. The suddenly increased demand for materials and the influx of significant
amounts of money was expected to place an unprecedented demand on overall project
management skills. General inflation was likely to rise as the project picked up pace, and
localized shortages of materials were likely to happen.
The project design (see below) included a number of measures to mitigate these risks,
such as periodic reviews where all stakeholders, including the MDTFANS, re-assessed
progress and agreed on any necessary adjustments and corrective actions. There was also
an enhanced supervision framework by the Bank (and MDTFANS), and a heightened
support role for the BRR office in Nias. To mitigate the financial management (FM) risks,
additional financial management specialists (FMS) were proposed to be employed, and
extra training in FM was programmed.
Experience with implementing an emergency housing reconstruction project was gained
from the MDF-funded REKOMPAK Bank project that had started implementation in
Aceh. Different standard house designs, community preferences, unit costs, earthquake-
resistant structural features, approaches to address scarcity of building materials and the
resulting cost increases, and other lessons relevant to community housing development
were learned from REKOMPAK, and applied as needed, for KRRP.
Project Design and Implementation Arrangements. Project objectives and design were
simple and straightforward, appropriate for an emergency reconstruction project. PMD of
MOHA was designated as the executing agency, responsible for overall project
management and monitoring, whereas BRR was the coordinating agency for the
reconstruction activities in Nias. The funds for reconstruction in Nias were channeled
through BRR's budget, and after BRR's mandate had expired, this role moved to PMD.
7


﻿The project targeted nine sub-districts in the two districts in Nias, namely Nias and South
Nias4; the selection of sub-districts was based on the earlier needs assessment by BRR.
The budget for project implementation support was managed by PMD as it was part of
the overall central budget for the KDP program. The two participating districts were
responsible for supervision and assistance to the community infrastructure investments,
while sub-districts established will be a project manager (PJOK) for the sub-grant
implementation. PMD was responsible for the project accounts at the central level, the
PJOK was responsible for accounts at the sub-district level, and the sub-district financial
management unit (UPK) for the accounts at the community level.
The participatory community planning process was used as the most efficient way to
work at the village level. Other MDTFANS-supported Bank projects active in Nias, such
as the Support for Poor and Disadvantage Areas Project (SPADA), and the KDP projects,
also worked with, and built on, the platform of community facilitators and project
implementation teams. Field facilitators assisted the community to set up the community
groups and implementation teams to manage and implement the individual construction
projects. The facilitators also assisted the community groups to keep good records and
prepare the financial reports for the project implementation.
Each type of facility had its own project cycle: for infrastructure, the project cycle was
the same as for the regular KDP which already included provisions for engineering
assistance and oversight. An adjustment to the standard KDP project cycle was made for
housing, schools, and local government offices, and these changes were included in the
operational manual. Since the main components of the project involved additional
construction, KRRP facilitators helped to reinforce KDP's technical oversight and
support teams. In fact, at the field level, the KRRP was often regarded as a special KDP
(later PNPM) program, and facilities, such as for the financial management unit (UPK),
were usually shared at the sub-district level.
Two small but important sub-components were included in the project design: (i)
associated with the school construction component, there was a cultural heritage program
to promote Nias' unique cultural heritage; it focused on the Nias Museum and some
selected schools and included the enrichment of the local curriculum; and (ii) under the
kecamatan planning grant component, a timber management plan was implemented to
deal with the potential safeguard issue of the use of illegal timber.
Despite their experience in Nias, the Government and the Bank had failed to fully
anticipate a major problem, namely that - due to the tough conditions in Nias - the
Government would have great difficulties to attract and retain sufficient and competent
consultant staff to work as facilitators, coordinators, and Consultants/Specialists in Nias.
4 In 2009 Nias district was subdivided into three new districts: Nias North, Nias West and Nias East but the
new administrative boundaries did not affect project design and implementation arrangements because sub-
district boundaries had remained the same.
8


﻿The number of facilitators needed had also been underestimated at Appraisal. There was
high staff turnover, some field positions remained vacant, especially in the early years of
implementation, and the lack of sufficient staff contributed in a major way to the initial
delays and problems.
The implementation schedule was too ambitious - understandably because it was an
emergency reconstruction project - although transport logistics, and scarcity and price
inflation of construction materials had been identified as potential risks. There was no
adequate mitigation for these problems because they were beyond the control of GOI and
the Bank but they caused serious delays and cost increases, requiring a closing date
extension and the latter causing a reduction of the housing targets.
2.2 Implementation
Mainly due to very effective supervision by the Bank the quality of implementation was
very and was an important factor for achieving the successful outcomes of the project.
Following the grant approval in December 2006, implementation got off to a slow start.
Although some consultants (facilitators) were mobilized by February 2007, by the time of
the first full Bank supervision in December 2007, there were still many vacancies, and
facilitators had yet to be trained. Serious implementation delays had resulted from the
inadequate staff complement, high staff turnover, and the unsatisfactory performance of
some field staff. Logistics, especially difficulty with communications and lack of
equipment added to the early problems. The scarcity of construction materials and their
rising costs caused more difficulties. The process of identifying, verifying and agreeing
on the beneficiaries using a community-based consensus approach also was much longer
than anticipated. On top of these problems, the central government budget releases in
2007 and 2008 were seriously delayed for procedural reasons. In consequence, the first
tranche of about 600 houses started construction in early 2008 only.
Due to the slow mobilization of sufficient facilitators and the late release of the central
government budgets in 2007 and 2008 (caused by procedural issues) the interim targets
for 2007 and 2008 were not met. The Bank did not perform a formal mid-term review
(MTR), but the MDTFANS carried out an MTR in November / December 2008 with
some Bank staff participation. They found poor quality control of house construction due
to the remote locations and many still vacant facilitator and FMS positions. The MDF
recommended that the still vacant consultant and facilitator positions should be filled.
The head of Nias district was unwilling to accept PMD's ruling on village halls, and
PMD decided that, using the funds allocated for local government offices, 56 additional
village halls would be constructed in South Nias district. Also, since the construction of
houses progressed very slowly and the BRR had funds still available as it approached the
expiry of its mandate in April 2009, it was agreed that about 500 houses would be built
by BRR. Eventually, BRR built 458 houses (approximately 10 percent of the total
number of houses) between October 2008 and April 2009; they were dispersed over 16
other sub-districts selected by BRR in Nias district. Housing costs were the same
although BRR achieved some additional economies by using bulk purchases of building
9


﻿materials; project sites were along main the main roads and there were no additional
transport costs. Beneficiary selection and implementation procedures were also
community-based. Even though these houses were built outside the original project sub-
districts, they were based on identified needs, and BRR's initiative helped to achieve the
total housing target of the KRRP.
By early 2009 the project was rated "moderately unsatisfactory", and it became clear that
the original targets could not be achieved by the impending December 31, 2009 closing
date. Between December 2008 and March 2009, the Bank had provided special support to
the implementing agencies by mounting a series of six small, intensive supervision
missions staffed by different specialists, in particular FM and technical disciplines; they
identified problems and made recommendations for remedial actions. Then, in June
2009 a Bank mission discussed and agreed with GOI on a set of conditions for the
extension of the closing date: (i) fill all vacancies, in particular facilitator positions, (ii)
PMD to reclassify Nias as a "very difficult" location so that travel allowances (and
incentives) for facilitators would be increased, and (iii) fully disburse the community
planning/training funds for 2009. These actions were deemed as essential to get the
project back on track and move it out of the problem project status. The government (and
the Bank) faced a serious reputational risk of not delivering on their commitments to
rebuild houses and community facility.
Spurred on by the threat of closure, at the end of 2009, project performance had improved
on all fronts, and the 18-month closing date extension was approved. The necessary
complement of facilitators was fully deployed, supervision activity had increased, and the
number of completed houses, schools, village halls, and infrastructure had grown
significantly. The Bank continued its small, intensive supervision efforts between
December 2009 and July 20106 to assist the implementing agencies to meet the agreed
targets; special attention was being paid to technical issues, the timber management plan
and the cultural heritage program. Implementation during 2010 and right until grant
closing proceeded well and without major problems.
There were no significant changes to the project, other than the minor changes described
above, and there was no restructuring.
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
Design. The M&E framework for this project was built on the overall M&E system for
the MDTFANS-supported Aceh-Nias KDP that had started implementation in Nias a year
earlier. Both qualitative and quantitative evaluations were to be done, including
monitoring of the complaints handling process, and the quality of housing.
For example, cement became very scarce and increased in price significantly when, following the October
2008 earthquake in the Padang area, reconstruction activities commenced there.
6 Four different Bank specialists made some 20 separate trips to Nias during this period
10


﻿Implementation of the M&E suffered right from the start due to the lack of qualified staff
for entering data into the Management Information System (MIS); the MIS and also the
M&E position(s) were frequently vacant because suitable candidates could not be found
for Nias. There were also many problems with gathering data from the field because of
communications problems (no phone coverage) and lack or breakdown of computer
equipment; staff attempted to overcome these problems with regular meetings at the
district level.
Utilization. Despite its flaws the M&E system provided reasonably adequate data on the
progress of implementation, and allowed PMD as well as the Bank to take action as
needed to deal with problems and delays. The M&E system also monitored the
performance and resolution rate of the complaints handling system.
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Environment. The project was Environmental Assessment Category B, and an
environmental and social safeguards framework had been prepared. It proposed to
mitigate against environmental impacts by using the standard KDP approach and manuals,
and also provide extra training to the facilitators. Generally, the small investments of
CDD projects in building and infrastructure have minor impacts, if any, but there was no
specific environmental monitoring or reporting during implementation. In addition to OP
4.01 on Environmental Assessment, OP 4.11 on Indigenous People and OP 4.36 on
Forests were triggered. No significant environmental problems arose but there concerns
with the availability of an adequate supply of legal timber. The project's response to this
issue was a timber management plan; it was prepared in close cooperation with the
Bank's environmental specialist, and it prescribed and achieved the following actions: (i)
minimize timber use in construction, (ii) training of village heads in certification of legal
local timber, (iii) implement a large program of tree replanting, and (iv) train village
people in community forest management. The tree planting in particular was very popular,
in and around schools village halls and many people planted the seedlings on their own
land7; there were requests for a second phase. However, as local tree seedling was not
easily available, mostly non-native mahogany tree seedlings were planted; they are
popular as construction timber. A minor environmental issue during operation is the lack
of maintenance of the community facilities, especially schools; it affects cleanliness and
health, in particular since solid waste collection is not always conducted properly. This
deficiency may reduce the usefulness and lifetime of these buildings.
Social Issues and Land Acquisition. The social framework was mainly concerned with
potential land acquisition problems and how to resolve them. Although there was no
specific monitoring and reporting framework for land issues - most buildings were built
on the owners' land or on community land - supervision reports indicate that there was a
number of cases of voluntary land donations (that were fully documented). There were
also cases where landowners successfully refused to donate their land and other
7 The popularity of the tree planting program may be due to the Nias traditional custom of the father
providing for his sons future by planting seedling.
11


﻿arrangements had to be made, such as for locating new schools; this caused delays in the
implementation. Although an indigenous peoples framework was also prepared due to
concerns of elite capture and the use of customary land, no unresolved land issues were
reported.
Fiduciary. The project's financial management performance was affected a number of
factors: (a) the individual consultants' poor performance resulting in weaknesses in
bookkeeping and financial reporting by the community groups, (b) delays in submission
of the project financial reports; and (c) slow response in resolving issues noted during
supervision missions. One of the major contributors of these problems was lack of an
adequate evaluation system to monitor the consultants' performance and provide proper
feedbacks. Similar to other projects, the project also experienced budget delays. This was
resolved from 2009 onwards when the budget documents were issued on time. The
submission of financial reports improved during the last year, and they were submitted
with only slight delays. The project audit reports were always submitted to the Bank on
time. The external audits - by GOI's audit agency - for 2008 and 2009 had clean,
unqualified opinions but the findings pointed to weak internal control systems,
bookkeeping not being up-to-date, slow construction progress and funds accumulating in
the UPK bank accounts.
Procurement. A detailed procurement plan had been prepared and procurement in this
project presented minor problems only initially when the new facilitators were not
sufficiently competent to assist the communities with using the procedures outlined in
"Community Participation in Procurement". Once the appropriate training had been
delivered, the facilitators were enabled to guide the participating communities in
following the right procedures: most works were done by the communities, and for larger
supply or contracts, the community invited three price quotations and publicized the
results of this process. Consultant selection procedures were mostly single-source to use
the national management consultants (NMC) that had been selected earlier for the
ongoing KDP projects; this approach allowed the quick deployment of facilitators to the
field. For other small consultants contracts the selections were made based on the
consultants' qualifications (CQS).
Anti-Corruption Measures. The project used a KDP-type complaints handling system
that also dealt with instances of corruption; the main problem was misuse of funds. In
June 2011, a total of 205 complaints had been received of which 191 (93 percent) had
been resolved. The number of cases of misuse of funds was 40 (about 20 percent of the
total) of which 27, i.e. 62% had been resolved; about US$80,000 of misused funds had
been recovered.
Some of the anti-corruption action plan (ACAP) measures, such as community
empowerment and participation and disclosure of information, were inherently embedded
in the project and helped to reduce fraud and corruption. The role of facilitators in
supporting community groups was critical, thus recruiting and retaining good facilitators
was important but not always possible. At the completion of the project, some issues
documented in the project's complaints handling database remain unresolved, and there
12


﻿should have been a final recalculation of numbers, categories, and status of issues, and
key lessons learned from the major cases.
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
On July 20, 2011 there was a handover of assets documentation to the local governments
(North Sumatra Province and both districts in Nias); it was witnessed by representatives
of MDTFANS. The challenge will be the allocation of an adequate maintenance budget
for the completed assets. Representatives from the sub-districts requested support from
the central and provincial governments for operation and management of the new
infrastructure8. In general, beneficiary families and communities have taken ownership of
completed buildings and are using them well, especially the houses and schools. Not
surprisingly, the families who were assigned new houses had often individualized the
finish, added extra d6cor and features, and they maintain the houses well. As there was
close coordination with the local education department, the completed schools are in full
use by students and staffed by teachers; the maintenance of school buildings usually is
taken on by Dana BOS (Government Project) and the parents. Village halls will be used
for public meetings and functions, and village heads will likely take on responsibility for
organizing their maintenance by the community. Under the public infrastructure
component mostly roads were built, and the experience from KDP suggests that
continued maintenance could be a problem, although the project had provided community
training in the maintenance of public facilities. Lastly, the tree seedlings planted under
the timber management plan are showing survival rates of 60 to 70 percent because
beneficiaries have received training in community forest management, and within their
culture, they understand the importance of providing resources for the future.
Most importantly, as evidenced by the feedback from the stakeholder workshop
participants, the institutional capacity and the confidence of local government leaders and
staff has been increased substantially. They will be better able to mobilize and empower
their communities to manage and maintain the completed investments and to help them to
undertake new ones.
3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The project's objectives were highly relevant to Indonesia' priorities which - at the time
of approval - were reconstruction and rehabilitation of housing and infrastructure in post-
disaster areas. By using a community-based and participatory approach modeled on the
KDP programs, the project's design and implementation has remained highly relevant to
the Bank's Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Indonesia for FY 2009 - 2012. In the
section on Core Engagement 3 - Community Development and Protection, the CPS states
that it is built around the PNPM-Mandiri program in which the Bank has had a long-
standing engagement. The CPS further says that the KDP/PNPM programs have
8 The local governments feel that the central government is not sufficiently responsive to local needs,
especially for large infrastructure items, such as roads and schools
13


﻿developed many features to enhance institutional effectiveness through accountability
mechanisms and capacity-enhancing strategies that are now being adopted by other
projects, not only across Indonesia, but also abroad. The Bank's PNPM-3 project is now
being implemented in support of the GOI's national rural community empowerment
program.
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
The simple and straightforward project development objectives for reconstruction support
were almost fully achieved. Some 4,491 families whose homes were lost or damaged
have benefited but there was a 10 percent shortfall in the number of houses that were
built; but more than the targeted number of village halls were built. More importantly in
terms of outcomes, the completed houses are being occupied (and often improved and
expanded), and the public facilities, in particular the schools, are in full use, the latter by
some 20,000 students and teachers. By improving access of about 150 poor communities
with high priority needs to housing and essential infrastructure through a participatory
community planning process, the project has contributed an in important way to
improving the social and economic welfare of people living in Nias.
3.3 Efficiency
The approach used in this project to achieve cost effectiveness for the community-based
implementation was to set unit costs for each type of building. The data for the unit costs
were derived from the extensive experience in Nias (by BRR) and Aceh (by the Bank and
BRR); house designs and costing had been refined in the Aceh REKOMPAK Housing
project, and sufficient price information was available. These costs were real and
competitive and based on the closely monitored costs of large numbers of houses that had
been built during 2006. Once implementation started in Nias though, the unit cost was
adjusted because of local price increases due to inflation (because of scarcity of building
materials) and the remote locations with very difficult access. In any case, the fixed unit
costs were treated like budget ceilings although in some cases, especially for schools, the
designs had to be adjusted due to varying site conditions or needs. But the total costs per
unit always remained within the fixed unit costs for the respective type of building.
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
Although it was conceived as an emergency reconstruction project, due its community-
based and participatory approach, the project has remained highly relevant to the Bank's
current CPS. The PDO have been achieved with only minor shortcomings in terms of
reaching the full target in housing. The implied objectives of institutional capacity
building at the community and local government level have also been achieved through
the project's use of the KDP model that employs community-based participatory
approaches. Local government officials highlighted the benefits to local institutions
during the stakeholders' workshops in Nias in February 2011. And lastly, efficiency was
achieved through standardized buildings designs that drew from the extensive
reconstruction experience in the region to minimize construction costs. For the public
infrastructure investments, competitive procurement in line with "Community
Participation in Procurement" guidelines was used to ensure efficiency.
14


﻿3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Poverty impacts are impossible to quantify because there was no baseline study, and
statistical data are not useful since the project interventions were widely dispersed. The
project clearly had a major impact on 4,500 families whose homes had been damaged or
completely destroyed, and they would have been living in temporary structures or with
other family members.
Women's involvement in development activities in Nias is generally low because of
traditional social constraints. The project attempted to address this by giving women the
control in the village women's meetings that decided the housing beneficiaries. 112,965
women played active roles on implementation teams, and the overall participation rate of
women was good at 34%. During the stakeholders' workshop, project actors suggested
that there should have been more empowerment programs focused specifically on women.
The impacts on social development were not quantified but are thought to have been
considerable: the project was implemented in conflict-prone communities without any
major problems. Especially the identification and final selection of beneficiaries in a
post-disaster situation could have been a major source for conflicts, but the transparent,
participatory and consensus-building approach had introduced a better way to deal with
potential conflicts; this may have lasting positive impacts on social development in the
project local governments.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The impacts on local government institutions, especially at the sub-district and village
level, were significant. This was clearly demonstrated by the high level of support and the
very active involvement of local government officials and staff during project
implementation. They fully embraced the transparent, participatory and consensus-
building approach of the project (although they did complain about lengthy and
cumbersome procedures). And at the stakeholders' workshop before grant closing local
government staff affirmed that they could use the experience and skills, such as
consensus-building, problem-solving, accounting, record-keeping, procurement, acquired
through this project in other projects and situations.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
The success of the small cultural heritage program was unintended. It was a minor
technical assistance package, included as part of the school construction component, but
highly qualified and motivated consultants and continued expert guidance from the Bank
turned it into a model program to promote Nias history, tradition and culture. The
involvement of the privately funded Nias Museum was another success factor, and the
museum staff themselves benefitted from advice and assistance. Students and teachers
were enthusiastic about the visits to the museum and to a traditional village, and booklets
were developed using the students' own contributions. The program has a good chance of
being sustained since relevant curriculum modules were developed, and their use is
supported by the local education department.
15


﻿The great success of tree replanting program was another unintended outcome. It had
started out with the need for preparing and adopting a timber management plan to address
the safeguard issue of potential use of illegal timber. Seedlings of common local trees,
and also of mahogany trees, were distributed for planting in compensation for trees cut
for timber used for the project. Over 100,000 seedlings have been planted with a survival
rate between 60 and 70 percent. Planting was to be done near the new houses and schools
but many people planted the seedling on their bare or deforested land. There was great
demand for still more seedlings, and long-term sustainability is likely. The tree-planting
program may have tapped successfully into a Nias tradition of the father having to
provide for the future of his sons.
The construction of 110 village halls was also unintended because the original plan in the
project design was to build "kecamatan/village offices". However, PMD policy did not
allow project funds, channeled through the central government, to be used for Kecamatan
offices because local governments have their own budget for this purpose. The
compromise solution was to build village office with halls to be used for community
meetings and other events; they were called village halls. These halls were built at near
the village center; they are very attractive with open sides and a roof reminiscent of
traditional Nias roofs. Although it is still too early to tell, the village halls may become
important facilities for building community spirit and cohesion.
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Towards the end of the project implementation period, in February 2011, the Bank
organized two stakeholder workshops, one in each participating district, to obtain
feedback from the project actors on their experience with the project. These events were
well attended, and there were more than 30 participants at each workshop. A wide cross-
section of project actors was represented, such as sub-district heads, sub-district project
managers, district staff (community empowerment section), and staff from the National
Management Consultant (NMC), the Nias Island coordinator, sub-district facilitators,
technical facilitators, and leaders and treasurers of community implementation teams.
The discussions were lively and generated many valuable insights and contributions.
Most observations were positive and praised the transparent and participatory approach
taken by the project; communities were indeed empowered and given opportunities to
improve their conditions and their cohesion. A particular focus of the discussion were the
many indirect benefits of the project, such as the experience and skills that project actors
had acquired through their involvement in the project. However, there were also more
critical comments, especially regarding the high workload and low pay of the facilitators.
Insufficient consideration of increasing prices and high cost remote locations were cited
as problems too.
The workshop participants also made a number of useful suggestions on how to improve
a project like KRRP, especially with regard to the quality and performance of the
facilitators and the local government staff: facilitators must be assigned more manageable
workloads. More attention to women's empowerment, and more and better training of the
various project actors were strongly recommended. Culturally appropriate design of
16


﻿buildings and more flexibility for high-cost remote locations were also suggested. Giving
full attention to proper certification of the new (public) buildings and their maintenance
was another useful recommendation.
Interestingly, none of the observations and suggestions dealt with the roles of the MDF
and the Bank in the project. More details of the workshop findings and recommendations
are in Annex 6.
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate
The threats to the continued use and maintenance of the individual houses are moderate
because families in Indonesia have a tradition of maintaining and often improving/
expanding their residences. Early evidence from Nias shows that the benefitting families
have assumed full ownership by often individualizing their houses in a variety of ways;
extensions were already being added shortly after the completion of construction. The
only aspect with a higher sustainability risk is proper sanitation because many village
people have not had much, if any, experience with water toilets and septic tank disposal
systems. Moreover, the project did not conduct a sanitation awareness and education
program, and many people may continue with traditional defecation practices.
The project schools all already fully in use and definitely will continue to be used.
However, public buildings and infrastructure are at some sustainability risk because,
based on experience with the KDP programs, the levels of post-project maintenance of
public facilities is tend to be modest. Training in O&M is routinely provided before
handover but communities sometimes fail to organize, assign and assume responsibilities;
there is also a lack of resources to do good maintenance, especially for road and drainage
investments. Early evidence from some completed projects shows, for example, that
waste management at schools is lacking, toilets are already without water, and defects are
not being fixed.
In summary, there is strong ownership of the houses and the institutional support for the
schools also seems to be strong. In view of some concerns over proper sanitation, and
more generally, the sustained maintenance of public facilities, the risk to development
outcome has been rated as moderate.
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
The Bank's performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated as Satisfactory because most
performance criteria were met, and there were only some minor shortcomings in
identification, preparation and appraisal as listed further below:
* The project was a highly relevant response to the post-disaster situation in Nias,
especially after donors and NGOs failed to deliver on their initial reconstruction
17


﻿commitments. Moreover, the project's community-based approach has remained fully
relevant to GOI's priorities and to the Indonesia CPS.
*  There was a definite focus on the poor, women and vulnerable groups, and an
indigenous peoples framework had been prepared.
*  Environmental issues, in particular the potential use of illegal timber, were identified.
*  Institutional aspects and implementation arrangements were fully appropriate, i.e. the
proven KDP platform and system was used; this also allowed employing existing
structure and facilitators.
*  Financial management provisions did not fully allow for the low capacities in Nias;
subsequently, some FM problems arose during implementation. Similarly, the M&E
design was lacking since considerable problems with the MIS arose later.
*  Although the Bank's risk assessment had identified the serious risks of this operation
(based on KDP experience in Nias), the implementation schedule was too ambitious
and risk mitigation actions were inadequate.
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
The quality of the supervision by the Bank is rated as Satisfactory because throughout
project implementation, the Bank was proactive in identifying opportunities and
resolving threats with only minor shortcomings:
*  The focus throughout project supervision was on the full achievement of the PDO by
ensuring that the reconstruction targets for buildings and infrastructure would be met
while at the same time using the implementation activities to build capacity at the
community and local government levels.
*  There was close attention and support to the timber management plan, to address the
important safeguard issue of illegal timber. Land issues, such as donations, were
closely supervised to ensure there were no conflicts or coercion. Although there was
frequent and intensive supervision of FM aspects, the quality of FM was still low.
*  The Bank was able to adapt its supervision strategy to the very challenging
implementation conditions and conducted regular supervision missions to Nias in 6 to
9 months intervals. These missions were supplemented by frequent small and
intensive supervision visits by specialists from Jakarta. Resident Bank staff in Nias
provided additional supervision support as needed throughout the regular project
implementation period.
*  Supervision reporting was fully adequate, the implementation shortfalls and delays
were properly documented, and the problem status was flagged in time. The Bank
also dealt very effectively with setting clear and realistic conditions for a closing date
extension; this brought the project back on track.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Based on the ratings above the overall Bank performance is rated Satisfactory.
5.2 Grantee Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
18


﻿Government performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory because overall,
Government met most performance criteria but there some moderate shortcomings in
government performance as listed further below:
*  Ownership was strong, and the appointment of BRR to coordinate and implement the
project was aimed at achieving the PDO.
*  BRR was instrumental in holding stakeholder consultations in Nias; the results of
these consultations helped to shape project scope and design.
*  The relationship with the MDTFANS was very good, and the transition from BRR -
whose mandate expired in 2009 - to PMD was smooth and without problems.
*  The implementation arrangements were clear (based on the ongoing KDP projects),
but due to serious capacity constraints, Nias was not ready for implementation. As a
result, there was very little progress during the first year because facilitators were late
in being appointed and their number was inadequate.
*  Government was slow in resolving issues and delays during the first part of
implementation, but later in 2009 took the necessary actions to earn an extension of
the closing date.
*  Counterpart funding from BRR was available on time, but central government
budgets for technical assistance and facilitation were released very late during the
first two years of implementation.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The performance of the implementing agencies is rated as Satisfactory because there
were only minor shortcomings in their performance as mentioned further below:
*  BRR was fully committed to achieving the PDO, and when implementation was
delayed, they built 458 houses in Nias, i.e. about 10 percent of the target number.
*  The process of identification, verification and selection of beneficiaries was
transparent, participatory and based on community consensus. Communities were
also fully involved in the implementation through community groups and teams.
*  The local governments concerned were fully and actively involved in the community
meetings; they appointed project managers and assisted with the resolution of delays.
*  Training in community O&M    was conducted, the completed schools have been
staffed by teachers, and there was a formal hand-over of assets documentation to the
local governments on July 20, 2011.
*  FM at the local and community level was a bit weak, but after relevant training the
record-keeping improved. Complaints handling was good, and about 75 percent of all
complaints have been resolved so far.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Grantee Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Based on the ratings above, overall Grantee performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory.
19


﻿6. Lessons Learned
*  An overly ambitious implementation schedule - even when dealing with an
emergency reconstruction project - is not achievable. A more realistic schedule
would have been advisable, especially since there were considerable, and properly
identified, risks; it may have avoided the need for an 18-month closing date
extension.
*  An impending project closing date can bring about the necessary actions to get a
problem project back on track. The clearly stated and achievable conditions set by the
Bank for agreeing to an 18-month extension were effective in focusing the
Government agencies on essential actions to improve the quality and pace of project
implementation.
*  Frequent and intensive supervision by small specialist teams can help greatly to
resolve problems and bottlenecks at the field level. There also were two World Bank
consultants based in Nias since the beginning of the project until June 30, 2009.
When the project experienced serious problems and implementation delays during
2008, a series of six targeted supervision missions between December 2008 and
March 2009 - made possible only because of the availability of grant fund sources for
supervision - laid the foundation for obtaining an extension of the December 2009
closing date.
*  It is important for the Bank to be supportive when a project is delayed and may be
closed before its completion so that any commitments made by Government to the
communities can be met, and the Government's credibility is not affected. The Bank
was cooperative and assisted the Grantee to meet the agreed conditions for the
extension of the closing date, especially through the intensive supervision efforts
described                                                         above.
*  Attracting and retaining competent consultant staff as facilitators in a remote and
difficult location (such as Nias) requires extra incentives and rewards. For example,
after the Bank pushed PMD to declare Nias to be a "very difficult" location,
additional travel allowances were paid and staff performance showed some
improvements.
*  A problem identified early at appraisal can lead to a constructive solution in the
course of project implementation. The availability of legal and reasonably priced
timber was identified as a major problem and a potential supply bottleneck, but
Government and Bank staff cooperated to produce a sensible "timber management
plan" which helped to minimize timber use, trained local officials in certification of
local timber, ensured a supply of legal local timber, and included a tree replanting
program, all with associated training programs.
* A small sub-component can be used as leverage for developing a valuable program
with potentially large impacts. The school reconstruction component included a small
20


﻿sub-component for cultural awareness and education. The successful implementation
of this program has contributed in an important way to increase awareness of, and
education in, Nias' unique cultural heritage. Teachers and students alike have
benefited from the program.
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors
(a) Grantee/Implementing agencies
No comments were received MOHA nor from any other GOI agencies, and on November
28, 2011, the MOHA project manager and a representatives from the NMC confirmed to
Bank staff in person that MOHA had no comments on the Bank's draft ICR.
(b) Cofinanciers/DonorsN/A
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
N/A
21


﻿Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
Appraisal Estimate  Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Components                    IEstimate
(US$ millions)     EStiate         Appraisal
_______________________   ______________ (US$_millions) _________
Component A
Kecamatan Grant
(i) Housing                        30.00          29.36             97
(ii) Schools                        7.00           7.67             109
(iil) Village Government Offices    5.00           2.67             53
(iv) Public Infrastructure          4.00           3.26             81
Component B2.00                                    0.50              25
Kecamatan Planning Grant
Component C                          3.10          3.11             100
Consultant Services
Component D                         0.40           0.11              27
Incremental Operating Costs
Total Baseline Cost       51.50           46.67            90
Physical Contingencies               0.00             0.00          0.00
Price Contingencies                  0.00             0.00          0.00
Total Project Costs      51.50            46.67           90
[Project Preparation Costs           0.00             0.00          .00
0.00             0.00           .00
Total Financing Required       51.50            46.67           90
(b) Financing
Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Source of Funds     Type          Estimate       Estimate
(US$ millions)  (US$ millions)
Government (through             25.75          26.47           102%
BRR)
Special Financing by   Grant    25.75          20.20           78%
MDTFANS
Total Funds                     51.50          46.67           90%
Note: US$20.17 million is the actually disbursed grant but the Data Sheet incorrectly
shows US$25.8 million as the disbursed amount because GOI has not yet returned the
unused amount of US$5.6 million.
22


﻿Annex 2. Outputs by Component
Implementation started in all nine project sub-districts with a transparent and
participatory process of needs identification and verification at the village level guided by
the kecamatan facilitators. Village proposals were discussed at inter-village consensus
meetings where the most deserving proposals, based on priority needs, were selected.
Similar processes were used for housing and for the public facilities.
All houses were built by community groups who took on the construction of an average
of 10 houses as one project. Schools, village halls and infrastructure projects were
constructed by community-based implementation teams that used the standard KDP
procedures. Below is a summary for the component A for Houses, Schools and Village
Halls.
District            Number of Houses    Number of Schools   Number of Village Halls
Sub-district        Target    Built/    Target Built/       Target    Built/
Occupied          Used                  Used
NIAS
Tuhemberua          560       361        16     16          11        0
Namohalu Esiwa      560       297        10     10          5         0
Lolofitu Moi        560       479        9      9           13        0
Idanogawo           560       485        9      9           13        0
Gido                560       404       12      12          14        0
BRR houses in 16    0         548       0       0           0         0
other sub-districts in
Nias
SUB-TOTAL NIAS      2,800     2,484     56      56          56        0
SOUTH NIAS
Amandraya           550       744        9      9           7         31
Teluk Dalam         550       415       10      10          16        31
Lolowau             550       425       13      13          14        41
Lahusa              505       423       12      12          7         7
SUB-TOTAL           2,200     2,007     44      44          44        110
S. NIAS
TOTALS              5,000     4,491     100     100         100       110
Component A: Kecamatan Block Grants
1. Construction of Houses
Based on BRR's, the Bank's and other donors' reconstruction experience in Aceh and in
Nias, a standard design for a basic 36 square meter house had been adopted; it did not
include any traditional elements but had a small front porch. The budget ceiling, adjusted
in 2007 for price increases of materials, was US$7,000 equivalent per house. The
structure was earthquake-resistant and consisted of a concrete slab, and steel-reinforced
columns and beams. The walls were built of concrete bricks (manufactured on site) and
the roof trusses were of light-weight steel to save timber; the roof was made of
23


﻿corrugated galvanized steel sheets. The house also included a 1,000 liter rainwater
collection tank (to store roof drainage) and a septic tank.
All houses were built on the beneficiaries' own land, and the beneficiaries usually
occupied immediately upon completion. Depending on the location and the additional
transport costs, some houses used lower cost windows or other cost saving features, but
no changes to the basic structure were permitted. Many beneficiaries had individualized
the d6cor and finish of their houses, painting the walls in different colors, and using tiles
or other enhancements. Also, many beneficiaries have added on additional structures,
such as a kitchen and storage space.
2. Construction of Schools
A standard design for school buildings had been prepared by BRR but experience in the
field showed very quickly that the layout and design of school buildings had to be
adapted to actual specific needs, in terms of classrooms, and also take into account the
site constraints; some schools were constructed as two-story building to fit on the
available site. Schools were built on the existing community school sites but in some
cases additional land was donated to accommodate a larger building. Similar to
individual houses, the school buildings were designed to be earthquake-resistant and
consisted of a concrete slab, and steel-reinforced columns and beams. The walls were
built of concrete bricks (manufactured on site) and the roof trusses were of light-weight
steel to save timber; the roof was made of corrugated galvanized steel sheets. Wooden
desk and benches (manufactured locally) for the classrooms were included with the
buildings. Toilets for the students were part of the buildings, together with septic tanks
and rainwater storage tanks.
Cultural heritage program. A small support program was included with the school
construction component to promote Nias' unique culture and heritage. It consisted of
three parts:
*  Promotion and development of the Nias Museum in Gunung Sitoli. Support activities
for the museum (which has no official government support) included website,
brochure and catalogue development, staff training, especially for the curator, and
printing of heritage books. In addition, museum visits for about 1,500 students,
accompanied by 375 teachers from 66 schools, were sponsored by the program.
*  Heritage education. In an effort to increase the cultural awareness among young
people, about 360 students from 5 primary schools benefited from the teaching
cultural heritage pilot modules developed and published to enrich the school
curriculum. This initiative was supported by the district-level education offices.
*  Heritage field studies. About 325 students and 26 teachers from   21 schools
participated in field visits to traditional villages. Following these visits, there was an
essay competition, and students contributed to the production of simple (comic)
books on Nias' cultural heritage. 6,000 books were printed for distribution to schools.
3. Construction of village halls
Originally this component was intended for local government (kecamatan) and / or
village offices. However, at the start of implementation PMD referred to their policy that
no kecamatan offices could be financed with project funds (which are in fact channeled
24


﻿as central government funds). Therefore, it was agreed to build village offices with halls
that could be used for community meetings and other local events. A standard design was
prepared and it included a high metal sheet roof (on timber trusses) that attempted to
imitate traditional Nias roofs. The structure itself was a concrete slab and steel-reinforced
columns and beams. There was only a low wall around the sides, and otherwise the
structure was open. At the back of the hall was a small walled-in area that can be used for
office space (for the village head) and also for storage. The village halls were built on
existing community land, and in some cases a land donation was made so the hall could
be close to the center of the village.
The total target for this component had been 100 local government offices in both
districts. However, the head of Nias District was unwilling to accept PMD's ruling that
only village halls could be built with project funds; he wanted to build local government
offices. Therefore, it was agreed with PMD that the existing allocation would be used to
build additional village halls in South Nias District.
4. Construction of public infrastructure
The type of public infrastructure could be chosen from a broad menu of categories,
identical to the menu used for regular KDP projects. The majority of the proposals for
infrastructure were linked directly to housing, schools and village halls, such as access
roads or drainage, but other high priority needs could also be addressed. As shown below,
the majority of the proposals selected were indeed roads and drainage infrastructure.
Detailed quantities of infrastructure built
M                                          E
E
Unit                                     HH
Roads             m        18,380  13,577  17,088  16,106  10,401  10,700  14,450  18,178  12,257  131,137
Bridges           Unit     -       -      2       3        3       1      1       -       -       10
Culverts          Unit     -              -       -        -      46      7       51      22      126
Drains            m'       -                               462    -       800     -       3,104  4,366
Irrigation Canal  m               -               -        -      -       650     -       -      650
Retaining walls and  m         -          -       100      -      990     163     1,485   649    3,387
gabions
Dug wells         Unit     -       -      3       -        -      3       -       14      -      20
Water supply pipes  m      1,227  1,501           -        1,728  5,938   -       1,400   -       11,803
Sanitation facilities  Unit       2               2        1      8       -       8       -      21
Public hydrants   Unit     -      -1                              -                       -       1
Health posts      Unit    -       1       -       -       --                                     1
Village markets   Unit     -      -       -       2                                       -      2
School classroom  Room     -      -       7       -        3      4                       -      14
Education         Package  -              -                -       1      -       -       -       1
supporting facility        I_I_I_I_I_I_1_1
25


﻿Component B: Kecamatan Planning Grants
1.    Community training. A variety of relevant and supporting training programs were
implemented in all nine sub-districts. In addition, there were some additional training
programs supporting the timber management plan (see further below). The main outputs
of the training program were as follows:
*  Capacity building for sub-district financial management unit (UPK)
*  Capacity building for PT/PP (Pendamping Teknik dan Pendamping Pembukuan)
*  Training of community housing group in project management
*  Training of community project implementation teams for schools, village halls and
infrastructure investments in project management
*  Training of construction workers in building skills and techniques
*  Computer operator training
*  Capacity building for KPMD (Kader Pemberdayaan Masyarakat)
*  Orientation training for village heads and village councils
*  Orientation training for BPUPK (Badan Pengawas UPK)
*  Orientation training for BKAD (Badan Kerjasama antar Desa)
*  Training of community maintenance groups
*  Training of communities in disaster-preparedness. This training provided knowledge
and understanding of disaster preparedness and how to plan their disaster risk
reduction activities. The village communities were taught to produce their map of
hazards, vulnerability and capacity village map.
*  Capacity building (outward-bound training) for UPK staff and leaders and members
of community project implementation teams. This training provided knowledge for
KRRP actor about character building, teamwork and leadership through different
methods (outdoor method); it had a positive impact on the pace of project
implementation.
2.    Timber Management Plan. An important part of this component was dealing with
the potential environmental safeguard issue of illegal timber use. Nias had a very limited
supply of timber, and logging was banned. Imported timber was costly and in short
supply, and timber availability had become a major constraint for this and other
reconstruction projects. In response to this situation, firstly, the building designs were
adjusted to minimize the use of wood; secondly, certification of legally produced timber
was considered to be essential to ensure the sustainability of timber resources in Nias.
Thirdly, there were education and training programs for the participating villages in
community forest management. Lastly, a program of tree planting was implemented, with
at least 12 seedlings to be planted per house, and 30 seedlings per school and village hall;
this was to compensate for the trees cut to produce the timber needed for construction
activities. Seedlings of popular native and also mahogany trees were distributed for
planting in the vicinity of new houses and schools; many seedlings were planted on
people's deforested land. After two to three years, a survival rate in the range of 60 to 70
percent has been reported. Below is a summary of the physical outputs of the timber
management plan.
26


﻿District           Number of Seedlings Planted  Totals
Sub-district       Phase 1       Phase 2
NIAS
Tohemberua         6,320         10,545        16,865
Namohalu Esiwa     8,000         0             8,000
Lolofitu Moi       6,029         7,599         13,628
Idanogawo          7,590         18,850        26,440
Gido               5,300         19,300        24,600
SOUTH NIAS
Amandraya          7,224         0             7,224
Teluk Dalam        5,700         0             5,700
Lolowau            2,652         2,400         5,052
Lahusa             5,562         0             5,562
TOTALS             54,377        58,695        113,071
Training activities that supported the implementation of the Timber Management Plan:
*  Training of village heads in legal certification of community timber origin. This
training provided the knowledge and capacity to village head for timber measurement
and issuance of certificates. The participants of this training came from Nias and
South Nias District; 60 village heads, 30 from each district, participated.
*  Training of trainers in community based-forest management. This training produced
capable trainers with solid knowledge and understanding of community forest
management. These trainers subsequently trained the community at the sub-district
level for the implementation of community forest management.   The training
participants were facilitators and UPK staff from all participating sub-districts.
* Training in community-based forest management. The objectives of this training were
to: (i) introduce the model of community-based forest management to community
members in Nias; (ii) improve the community's understanding and awareness of the
importance of the environment, and specifically the forest ecosystem; and develop
communities' and local governments' capability to design, develop and implement
their village forest management plan.
Component C: Consultant Services
There were problems with the recruitment of the targeted number of facilitators in the
field. Among those facilitators that had been mobilized there was a high turnover rate
because of the remote location and difficult working conditions in Nias. Moreover, the
high workload of facilitators resulted in implementation delays and quality problems, and
eventually the number of facilitators assigned to each sub-district was increased. It was
difficult, though, to recruit the required number of facilitators, even after Nias had been
classified by PMD as a "very difficult" location, and an additional travel allowance was
paid. Below is a summary of the various categories of consultant staff that were deployed
on this project.
27


﻿The only indicator that could be measured for this component was the performance of the
complaints system that exceeded the target of 70% of complaints resolved: by project
closing 93% of all complaints received had been resolved.
Consultants by Position                Number of Consultants Mobilized
Target            Initial         Maximum
Nias Island Coordinator (KORPUN)       1                  1               1
MIS Specialist                         2                  1              2
Handling Complaint Specialist          1                  1               1
FM Specialist                          5                  4               5
Infrastructure Specialist              1                  1               1
Logistic & Labor Staff                 1                  1               1
Training Specialist                    1                  1               1
Architect                              1                  1               1
Deputy Administration Coordinator      0                  0               1
Kabupaten Facilitator                  2                  2              2
Kabupaten Facilitator - Technical      2                  2              2
Assistant to Kabupaten Facilitator -   0                  0               6
Technical
Kecamatan Facilitator                  9                  9              29
Kecamatan Facilitator - Technical      27                 18              54
Component D: Incremental Operating Costs
The indicator / target for this component, i.e. 80% of project kecamatan providing
operational support in a timely manner, was not monitored but this did not affect project
performance because PMD funds covered this item.
28


﻿Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
No economic nor financial analysis was done for this emergency reconstruction project.
29


﻿Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
(a) Task Team members
Responsibility/
Names                       Title               Unit      spenilty
Specialty
[Lending/Grant Preparation
[Scott Guggenheim        Task Team Leader               EASID Team Leader
Unggul Suprayitno        Senior FMS                     EAPFM FM
Rizal Rivai              Senior Procurement Specialist  EAPPR Procurement
Anju Sachdeva            Senior Executive Assistant      SDV   General Support
Raj Soopramanien         Legal                          LEGES Legal
Yogana Prasta            Operations Adviser             EACIF Disbursement
Supervision/ICR
Sentot Surya Satria      Task Team Leader               EASID Team Leader
Natasha Hayward          Task Team Leader               EASID Team Leader
John Victor Bottini      Task Team Leader               EASID Team Leader
Scott Guggenheim        Task Team Leader                EASID Team Leader
Eka Hasfi Adha           Operations Analyst             EASID Engineer/Architect
Achmad Ali               Consultant                     EASID FM
Christina I. Donna       Financial Management Specialist  EAPFM FM
[Jeremy Barrett Foster   E T Consultant                 EASID
Catrini Pratihari Kubontubuh Consultant                 EASIS Cultural Heritage
Festina Lavida           Operations Officer             EASID Co-Team Leader
Dennie Stenly Mamonto   IConsultant                     EASIS [Env. Safeguards
Wawan Munawar            Consultant                     EASIS Engineer
Franciscus Prahastanto   Operations Assistant           EACIF Operations Support
Ishak Rangkuti           Consultant                     EASIS Disbursement
Anju Sachdeva            Senior Executive Assistant      SDV   General Support
Andrew Daniel Sembel     Environmental Spec.            EASIS Env. Safeguards
Wawan Setiono            Operations Analyst             EASID Engineer
Mohammad Faisal Siddik  Portfolio Officer              EACIF MDTF
Threesia Mariana Siregar  Operations Analyst            EASID FM
Mohammad Saleh Siregar   Operations Analyst             EASID Architect
Anton Tarigan            Consultant                     EASIS
Peter Douglas Wrathall   Consultant                     EASIS FM
[Bisma Husen             Senior Procurement Specialist  EAPPR Procurement
Melinda Good             Senior Counsel                 LEGES Legal
Heinz K. Unger           Consultant                     EASIS ICR Preparation
30


﻿(b) Staff Time and Cost (MDTFANS only)9
Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                  US$ Thousands (including
F  No.of saff eeks travel and consultant costs)
ILending
Total:           44.4 sw                 156.5
Supervision/ICR               I
Total:          141.7 sw                 532.4
9 Lending/Grant Preparation and Supervision resources did not come from the Bank Budget but were
funded by MDTFANS.
31


﻿Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
No formal beneficiary survey was done.
32


﻿Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Stakeholder workshops were held on February 23 & 24, 2011 in each of the two
participating districts in Nias. Attendance was very good, and the 33 participants at each
event, represented a broad cross-section of project actors as follows:
*  Sub-district heads (from 5 out of 9 participating sub-districts)
*  Nias Island project coordinator
*  District project managers
*  District staff from community empowerment section
*  District facilitators, including the technical facilitator
*  Sub-district facilitators, also including technical facilitators
*  Head and staff of sub-district management unit (UPK)
*  Heads of housing (implementation) group
*  Heads of works implementation team (for schools, village halls and infrastructure)
*  Staff of National Management Consultant (NMC)
The discussions were lively and generated many valuable insights and contributions.
Most observations were positive and praised the transparent and participatory approach
taken by the project: communities were indeed empowered and given opportunities to
improve their conditions and their cohesion. A particular focus of the discussion were the
many indirect benefits of the project, such as the experience and skills that project actors
had acquired through their involvement in the project. There were also more critical
comments, especially regarding the high workload and low pay of the facilitators.
Insufficient consideration of increasing prices and high cost remote locations was cited as
another problem. The main detailed observations and findings were:
*  Many project actors acquired useful experience, knowledge and skills in various
areas, such as finance, administration and construction, that they can use elsewhere
*  New work and employment opportunities were opened up for communities
*  Communities learned how to cooperate with others and how to solve problems
*  The program had clear aims and built a strong sense of ownership in many
communities
*  The project brings large benefits to communities because of its transparent procedures
*  Village people had opportunities to meet and deal with senior local government
officials
*  Remote and isolated communities were connected and improved
*  Local government staff got out into the field much more, worked with village
communities, and built good relationships with them
*  Intensive socialization was very important to make sure that the communities become
fully involved
*  The KRRP/KDP approach is preferable because it involves the communities directly
and does not employ outside contractors
*  People learned about earthquake-resistant design and construction
33


﻿*  The workload of the facilitators was too high because they had too many projects to
design and supervise
*  The capacities of different communities vary greatly, and internal social problems in
some villages negatively affected the outcomes
*  At times, facilitators had language problems in more remote villages
*  Some local government staff (sub-district and village heads) did not attend all the
meetings they should have, probably because the process requires a lot of meetings
*  Women's participation in decision-making was still low   because of cultural
constraints, but some women took on active roles in the implementation as treasurer
or secretary of implementation teams
*  The lengthy processes sometimes caused costs of materials to increase while
preparation proceeded slowly
*  Remote locations with difficult access and higher transport costs experienced serious
problems to stay within the fixed budget (unit cost) for houses and public buildings
*  Scarcity and late delivery of building materials caused many implementation delays
*  There were instances of misuse of funds but the complaints handling system was
helpful to deal with such cases and to recover funds. Mediation procedures were
useful, but proactive follow-up by the sub-district head is essential for the process to
be fully effective
*  Communities can change their behavior, such as in villages where improved
sanitation was introduced successfully.
Workshop participants also made many useful suggestions on how to improve a project
such as the KRRP:
*  Facilitators should get higher salaries and more incentive pay because of the difficult
work conditions and the high workload; it was noted that other agencies and NGOs
pay up to twice as much
*  Facilitators should be well qualified and competent people
*  Facilitators should be assigned a manageable number of tasks
*  Training of facilitators should be more frequent, and also more varied, relevant to
their tasks and up-to-date
*  Facilitators should receive a certificate and / or letter of reference when they complete
their contract successfully
*  Sub-district heads and staff also should get more training; they also may need
incentives to make sure they attend all the meetings they should be involved in
*  Training in contract management is needed
*  There should be special empowerment programs for women to increase their active
participation, especially in decision-making
*  Differentiated budget ceilings should be used, depending on the remoteness and
access conditions of different villages
*  Design and appearance of buildings should be in accordance with local culture
*  New public buildings should be (checked and) certified to make sure that there are no
problems and litigation later
34


﻿* Maintenance responsibilities for public buildings should be assigned: schools to be
maintained by the parents and the village head, village halls to be maintained by the
community
* The complaints handling systems should be better organized, such as by setting up a
joint secretariat for the entire program.
35


﻿Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
On November 10, 2011 the Bank received the Grantee's completion report in the
Indonesian language. The table of contents and the executive summary, including
sub-section 1.3.8 "Lessons Learned and Recommendations" were translated into
English and are included below. It is noted that most of the content of this completion
report are fully covered in the Bank's ICR.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
- Remarks of the Director General for Community and Village Empowerment, MOHA
- Preface from the Director for Community Institutions and Training, MOHA
GLOSSARY
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1.1 INTRODUCTIONS
1.2 OBJECTIVES
1.3 ACHIEVEMENT OF R2PN (=KRRP)
1.3.1 R2PN Project Areas
1.3.2 Consultants and Facilitators
1.3.3 R2PN Infrastructure Development
1.3.4 Community Participation and Empowerment
1.3.5 R2PN and Local Governments
1.3.6 Implementation Issues
1.3.7 Strategies for Activity Implementation
1.3.8 Lesson Learned and recommendations for PNPM-R2PN
Table: Lesson Learned from PNPM-R2PN implementation
Table: PNPM-R2PN Performance Indicators
Table: PNPM-R2PN Outcomes
2. ACHIEVEMENTS AND OUTCOMES OF R2PN (2007 - 2011)
2.1 Housing Development Activities
2.2 School Development Activities
2.3 Village Hall (Balai Desa) Development Activities
2.4 Rural Support Infrastructure Activities
2.5 Disbursement and Distribution
2.6 Capacity Building
2.7 Community Participation
2.8 Transparency and Information Disclosure
2.9 Financial Management Supervision
2.10 Complaints Handling and Issues
3. CHALLENGES AND FUTURE PLANS
3.1 Challenges of PNPM-R2PN Implementation
3.2 Future Plans
ANNEXES
1. Summary of Activity per District
2. PPK-R2PN Activity Cycle
Kecamatan-Level PNPM-R2PN Organizational Structure
36


﻿Introductions
The earthquakes and tsunami in 2005 / 2006 were calamities causing the people of Nias
to lose their homes, and also social and other public facilities. Central Government aid
through the Ministry of Home Affairs (MOHA) had been provided through an
empowerment program called National Program for Community Empowerment -
Reconstruction and Rehabilitation of Nias Island (PNPM-R2PN). The program was
initiated in November 2006 and launched in January 2007 but its physical activity
implementation commenced in December 2007 and ended in May 2011.
PNPM-R2PN paid attention to and played a significant role in the empowerment of the
people of Nias. Activities under PNPM-R2PN provide lessons for the community in
undertaking a development process to restore and recover their spirit of cooperation
through development of physical infrastructure and public and / or social facilities. The
major activities were to reconstruct people's houses, schools, village halls and rural
infrastructure.
The PNPM-R2PN covered two districts (kabupaten), i.e. Kabupaten Nias consisting of 5
sub-districts (kecamatan), i.e. Idanagawo, Gido, Lolofitumoi, Tuhemberua and Namohalu
Esiwa, and Kabupaten Nias Selatan consisting of four sub-districts, namely Teluk Dalam,
Lahusa Lolowau dan Amandraya.
Assistance was provided by the PNPM Management Consultant, the Nias Island
Coordinator and facilitator teams at district and sub-district levels composed of an
Empowerment Facilitator and a Technical Facilitator.
Implementation Issues
1. Limited human resources i.e. consultants and workers, because the project sites
were isolated and the salaries and compensation were less competitive than for
other projects.
2. Environmental issues, related to use of local timber: The solution was to minimize
the use of timber and, instead, increase the use of light steel trusses for roof
structures. The use of local timber was allowed on condition that mahogany seeds
were given to each R2PN building beneficiary for replanting to prevent soil
depletion; the same was done for schools. Also, locally cut timber had to be
certified by the relevant village head to prevent the use of illegal timber
3. It is extremely difficult to distribute building materials to the sites by 4-wheel
drive and regular vehicles, and consequently, at times, the materials had to be
carried people (porters). Additionally, fabricated materials had to be shipped from
Sumatra Island by ship which was highly affected by weather or season.
4. The inflexible Project Manual (PM) resulted in slow progress: until early 2010 it
was still far behind schedule, eventually leading to changes to the operating
technical manual, design and other rules in an Amendment of the PM.
37


﻿5. The firm of Management of Consultants was changed three times to before
locating good management expertise to accelerate the completion of KRRP
activities.
Lesson Learned and Recommendations for PNPM-R2PN
The approximately 5-year implementation period of PNPM-R2PN provided many
benefits and lessons and has built a momentum for improving and enhancing similar
future programs as shown below:
No. Policy/Rule/Topic   Field Facts                Negative Impacts  Lesson         Recommendations
Learned
1.   Adequate           - For areas near the city, the  - Late physical  - Identical  - Map and
financing amounts  financing amount was       completion.      financing       construction budget
for house         sufficient but for difficult-to-             amounts were   should be based on
construction      reach areas or far from the                  insufficient to  the actual locations.
throughout the    city or without access for 4-                meet the needs
region            wheel drive vehicles, the                    of all sites
amount was insufficient.
- Community contributions
were not really successful
because the people are poor.
- A revision was made to
reduce items of work.
2.   Adat (custom) or   - Pieces of land that were  - Implementation  - The         - Land donation
individually or   donated at first were often  came to a stop  ownership of    certificate should be
collectively      claimed back by related     - Relocation of  land to be      made in a formnat
owned land        parties,                    facilities was   granted for     specified by the
relinquishment    - Resolution of such cases by  necessary     program         Agrarian/ National
[for the purposes  the authorities was generally  - Project    should be        Land Agency Law
of construction of  slow                      activities were  cleared as      (BPN)
public facilities]                            delayed          proved by legal - The donated land
evidence        should include a
before project  sketch showing size,
execution      area and boundaries.
starts.
3.   Bid bond for       - Successful bidders often  - One bid was    - To control   - Bidders should
successful bidder  withdrew without fear of   cancelled and a  potential       submit bid bonds in
was not           sanctions,                  new bid call was  suppliers and  a minimum amount
standardized      - Supplies were not capable.  made           successful      of Rp 3 million that
- Implementation  suppliers, a bid  should be returned
was interrupted  bond is         after bidding
because goods    required for all  completion
could not be     bidders and     - Successful bidders
supplied on time,  also the      should provide a
selected        minimum deposit of
contractor      5% of the contract to
- Contract      TPK and the deposit
clauses should  should be kept in a
be revised,     special account in
UPK
- All warranties
38


﻿should follow
government rules
(for manufactured
goods) including
insurance.
- The deposited
funds may be
recovered after
completion of the
works. However, if
the supplier
withdraws, the
money should
belong to the
village.
4.    Capacity of        On average each kecamatan   - Facilitators       Facilitator's  Each FT should
facilitators       had:                        were overloaded   capacity was    ideally provide
- 448 houses                 with their       limited. Ifs/he  facilitation in each
- 27 village halls          responsibilities   was             kecamatan as
- 10 Schools                thus causing a    overloaded, no   follows:
-16 Infrastructures          lack of adequate  satisfactory    -30-40 houses
assistance to the  results could  -2-3 village halls
There are 6 FTs (=technical  communities      be produced     -2-3 schools
facilitator) and 1 FK        - There were                     -2-3 P3
(=Kecamatan facilitator) and  often technical                  Every 3 FTs should
thus each FT facilitated:    errors in                         be accompanied by
-74-75 houses               implementation                     1 FK.
-4-5 village halls          thus disrupting
-1- 2 Schools               the work.
-2-3 Infrastructures         -FTs resigned
due to their
heavy workload.
5.    FT (Technical      - No special pre-service    - Management      - After         - Assistants' task
Facilitator) were  training was available       capacity was not  promoting FT    and function
turned into                                    improved and      to FTKab        (TUPOKSI) should
District Assistant                             their             Assistants,      be clarified
Facilitators (FTK)                             performance was   they should      - Pre-service
not really        have been       training should be
changed           provided with   adjusted to needs in
operational     the field
management
training
6.    Technical Support  - PT and PP met the criteria  During the early  - PTs and PPs  -PTs and PPs are
Facilitators (PT)  only after a long assignment  part of their    have strategic  still needed because
and Accounting     - There was only perfunctory  assignment, PTs  positions. After  the empowerment of
Support            preparation for providing   were less capable  having been re-  local communities is
Facilitators (PP)  training (4 days)           than craftsmen    trained by FT-   considered to be
- Provided by Kecamatan,     and therefore     District, they  very useful.
the training was of rather low  found it difficult  were very  - Training time
quality                     to provide good    helpful in      under a study
- No appropriate TOT was     explanations.     supervising     system should be for
available for FTs and FKs.   - PPs were not     and controlling  weeks with
skilled in        activities in the  improved materials.
39


﻿accounting and   field.          - Training materials
provided less     - The trained  should be adjusted
than optimal      PTs and PPs    to the program and
facilitation.    become          the ratio of
"empowerment knowledge to
instruments"    practical skills
for local       should be 60:40
communities,    - Potential trainers
and can use the  (FKJFT) should
experience      receive proper
gained for      TOT in order to be
future work     effective trainers.
reference.      - There is a need for
training materials on
bow plank, masonry,
concrete mixture,
reinforcement
practices
- More practical
training is needed in
accounting, archival,
ledger examination,
financial audit,
stocktaking.
7.    Facilitation phase  -Announced to village head,  -Many such    - Due to        - At the beginning of
has 14 days period  but it was not transparent  issues have a   shortage of    the program, enough
for objection, 10  - Many people were not     snowball effect,  facilitators    facilitators should be
days for the actual  aware of these deadlines  - Facilitation   during early    available to meet the
announcement,      - Upon MDKP (Village       workload          planning        needs on the ground.
and 4 days for    Hand-Over Meeting) the      becomes even      phase, the      - Initial briefing
discussion. These  people found out who would  heavier,         facilitation was  should be sufficient
deadlines are     receive aid which led to                      not optimal     particularly prior to
posted at 4 (four)  objections over each other's                and not always  socialization and
places.            claims and compensation.                     provided        planning.
-Socialization  - Facilitators should
on mechanism    be trained fully to
for raising     plan activities with
objections        the community.
should be done
earlier.
8.   House damage       - The fact the house        Assessments      - The           - Assessment should
assessment system  assessment is based on     needed            community       be detailed and
in relation to    community assumption who    rechecking,       still needs     based on
actual levels of   does not have technical    eventually        good            classification of the
damage            knowledge..                 engaging FTs      facilitation to  levels of damage.
and FTKab.        assess levels of  -Competent
damage.         technical experts
should be available.
9.    Dissemination of  - Workers were not provided  - Explanation of  - Community   - In providing
knowledge of       with enough knowledge or   earthquake-proof  will start to  training for the
earthquake-proof  concepts of earthquake-proof  concept is still  copy          community, it is
concepts for       and simple buildings       inadequate,       reinforced      necessary to explain
construction.                                                   concrete        earthquake-proof
40


﻿buildings like  construction
built by R2PN   principles. This
- Craftsmen     means that FTs
want to follow  should be provided
good technical  with materials in
principles      their pre-service
training.
10.  Community          - Pelmas used PNPM-Rural     - Issues of       - Disaster areas  - There should be
Training           materials that did not fully  personal traumas  should receive  disaster-specific
(Pelmas)           match the actual needs.     or mitigation of  special         training materials
- No special training        disaster impacts  attention when  -Multi-year
materials were available for  were not        providing        programs require
KRRP Pelmas                  addressed by      community      improvement in
KRRP              training        training materials.
materials.
11.  Kabupaten          - There were not enough      - Volume of       - Volume of     - Faskab assistants
Facilitator Team   human resources in relation  work was large,   work should be  are needed but if
(Faskab)           to the responsibilities that  and therefore   proportional to  FMS assistants are
conditions         had to be met.               Faskab teams     the number of    posted to
were overloaded.  staff assigned  Kabupaten, Faskab
to the tasks,   assistants are not
and should be   needed
within the      -There should be
limits of their  specialist assistants
competency.     in Kabupaten, e.g.
FMS assistant and
MIS
12.  Tree planting and  - Experience on the ground   - Many seedlings  - For the       - Forest preservation
planting of        showed that local native     died because      conservation of  should be stressed
mahogany seeds     seeds are difficult to obtain.  they were not  local forests,  by program actors
-Mahogany trees are not      suitable for     replanting is    - The species
suitable for certain types of  certain types of  the way to    planted should be
soils in Nias               soils in Nias      achieve         local native trees.
environmental
sustainability.
- Legal supply
of local wood
is needed        __________
13.  Introduction to    - School children should     --Expectation                     - There should be
local culture      know their ancestral culture                  thatlocal      training materials on
properly                                       people are     the preservation of
most familiar   local culture and
with local      traditions.
culture is not
always correct.
14.  KP, TPK            - Financing amounts were     -KPs and TPKs     - There should  - There should be
(implementing      the same for "normal"       in difficult areas  be additional  adjustments to
committee)         villages and those in very   were short of     allowances for  allowances,
Operating Costs    difficult locations          funds for        KP               particularly to the
transportation    and TPK in      transportation needs
and               very difficult  (for normal, difficult
accommodations    areas           and very difficult
most familiar__ _ _ _ _I villages)
41


﻿Challenges of PNPM-R2PN Implementation
1. PPK-R2PN (KRRP) Program Implementation Period (renamed PNPM-R2PN due to
a change to program policy). The program started on November 10, 2006 and was
planned to end on December 31, 2009, but in practice there were many obstacles
causing delay in its completion. The implementation in the field was extended to
May 31, 2011 and the closing date was June 30, 2011.
2. R2PN targets: 5,000 houses; 100 schools; 100 village halls; and some rural
infrastructures with a total cost of Rp. 2 billion per kecamatan per fiscal year. These
targets were slightly modified, and the actuals were: 4,491 houses (including 458
houses built by BRR); 100 schools; 110 village halls and 149 rural infrastructures.
The outcomes of PNPM-R2PN implementation until May 31, 2011 in Kabupaten
Nias show that 21 additional activities were handed over to the community with a
note that the final status of physical and financial activities was not completed as set
out in an Official Report on Activity implementation due to a design revision. The
activities were 10 schools and 11 infrastructure projects. 6 of those activities were
not completed to 100% and had remaining funds but these funds could be used by
community. All the remaining funds were transferred back to the Special Account.
Meanwhile, all activities in Kabupaten Nias Selatan were reported to have been
handed over to the community without note.
3. During the PNPM-R2PN implementation from 2009 to 2011, some 205 complaints
were received, 14 of which have not been fully addressed yet. Some 40 issues were
categorized as misuse of funds, 27 of which were addressed, and the other 13 are
being addressed. The total amount categorized as misuse of funds was Rp
1,151,826,736 and the total recovered was Rp. 713,534,848 (62%). Of all the issues
that arose, 5 were brought to litigation, i.e. 3 issues were handled by the Police, one
issue was permanently decided by the Court, and one issue is at the cessation level to
the Supreme Court.
4. Procurement of materials and labor was as follows:
a. The process of inviting competitive bids by TPK and UPK from potential
suppliers was considered to have been less than fully transparent.
b. There were many cases when successful suppliers withdrew their bids.
c. Agreements (contracts) for the supply of materials did not contain clear sanctions
for suppliers who failed to meet their contractual obligations.
d. The availability of skilled labor was limited.
e. In cases that construction completion was much delayed, unit prices under the
Budget Plan (RAB) were not sufficient anymore in relation to the market unit
prices upon completion of activity (e.g. a building started in 2007 and completed
in 2010).
5. Designs and RAB, including designs of buildings (houses, schools and village halls),
in some cases had to be revised due to limited area of land, local traditions, and
42


﻿materials transport to difficult-to-access sites - all for easier construction
implementation.
6. Financial administration and management at Kecamatan (UPK) and at village (TPK)
levels was inadequate, and many documents were found to be incomplete. This was
caused by limited capacity of actors at kecamatan and villages (PP/PT & TPK) levels
although they had received training several times. The replacement of UPK
managers also contributed to losses of documents at the Kecamatan UPK. FKs/FTs'
activities were not optimally facilitated due to high turnover of FKs/FTs staff and a
shortage of FK personnel with only one staff per kecamatan. In general, there were
more than 20 accounts per kecamatan that had to be managed by UPK and facilitated
by FK.
7. Community Training was provided as follows:
a. There were 23 types of training given to the program-supported communities,
with 98 training courses in Kabupaten Nias and 82 in Kabupaten Nias Selatan.
b. There were 6,007 participants divided into 2,433 men in Kabupaten Nias and
2,691 men in Kabupaten Nias Selatan, and 306 women in Kabupaten Nias and
577 women in Kabupaten Nias Selatan.
8. Maintenance of constructed buildings by the communities and the TP3
(maintenance) teams is inadequate due to unavailable fund to do the maintenance.
9. Management of PNPM-R2PN Facilitators:
a. Because of the difficult working conditions it was difficult to find potential
facilitators interested in working in Nias Island. PNPM-R2PN facilitators often
resigned their position while on assignment thus adding more problems to
completing works on time.
b. The number of Kecamatan Facilitators (FK/FT) per Kecamatan in PNPM-R2PN
was not adjusted according to their allocation at the start of implementation. The
Kecamatan Facilitators originally allocated were one FK and two FTs with a
substantial workload (hundreds of houses, tens of schools, tens of village halls
and tens of rural infrastructure units). Gradually, the number of FTs was increased
to 6 per kecamatan.
c. Honoraria of PNPM-R2PN Kecamatan Facilitators (in 9 Kecamatans) was lower
than that of PNPM-MP Kecamatan Facilitators in the same kecamatan. The period
during which the different payments occurred was from November 2007 to
September 2009.
10. Intensive and sustainable involvement in terms of proactive action of the
Coordinating Team and District PNPM-R2PN Working Unit was crucial,
particularly for handling non-performing activities in relation to loss/abuse of
funds. Coordination and joint evaluation at Village, Kecamatan and District levels
were not conducted optimally by all PNPM-R2PN actors. Coordination problems
with the apparatus (civil service) were also found to occur in the Kecamatans
43


﻿integrated into a split district region such as PNPM-R2PN kecamatans/villages in
Kabupaten Nias Utara, Kabupaten Nias Barat and Gunungsitoli City.
FUTURE PLANS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
1. It is suggested that in respect of the remaining PNPM-R2PN activities handed over
with a note the PNPM-MPd Working Unit (Rural) in each Kabupaten should
immediately coordinate with Facilitators and PNPM-MPd UPK to clear the note.
This is consistent with DG for Community and Village Empowerment's letter No.
414.2/2712/PMD dated May 20, 2011 on Completion of PNPM-R2PN Activities.
Some activities that have not been handed over (MDST) were actually completed
100%. A handover village meeting that was not held until May 31, 2011 should be
held and can be facilitated by Kecamatan PNPM-MPd Facilitator in the location.
2. In respect of the remaining activity funds returned to BI special account No.
602.100411, alternative funds may be sought from the community itself or from
Local Government or other programs if they still need funds.
3. In respect of complaint handling, the Nias and Nias Utara Kabupaten PNPM-MPd
Working Units should facilitate the handling of unresolved PNPM-R2PN issues.
This is consistent with the DG for Community and Village Empowerment's letter No.
900/557/PMD dated February 1, 2011 concerning PNPM Mandiri-Rural BLM
Reimbursement. The Kabupaten PNPM-MPd Working Units' failure to address
issues and reimbursement may contribute to a recommendation for categorization as
Non-Performing Kecamatan (Sub-districts).
4. In respect of procurement of materials, more detailed clarification should be added to
the PNPM Mandiri-Rural Technical Operation Manual (PTO) as follows: additional
rules to ensure transparency when inviting bids from potential suppliers and
additional rules to prevent withdrawal of bids by contractors/suppliers from their
obligation to supply materials under the contract. These revised rules should seek to
attract more potential suppliers, get more competitive quotations and ensure a firm
commitment from Suppliers.
5. In respect of Design and Budget Plan (RAB), it is necessary to consider the time for
issuing Revision and Amendment to PTO to avoid late completion of activities. So, it
is important to do this in similar programs in other locations.
6. In respect of human resources (HR) mobilization and development, it is
recommended that pre-service training provided for Facilitators/FK/FT should be
improved. The training materials should be aligned with the type of facilitation to be
provided by Facilitators. Facilitation under a post-disaster reconstruction and
rehabilitation program should certainly be different from facilitation under a regular
PNPM-MPd program.
44


﻿Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
This Annex contains comments on the project prepared by the Secretariat of the Multi
Donor Fund for Aceh and Nias (MDF) and do not necessarily represent the views of the
MDF Steering Committee or donors. The MDF provided a grant of US$25.75 million for
KRRP, one of the MDF's 23 projects for post-disaster recovery in Aceh and Nias.
The Kecamatan-Based Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Planning Project (KRRP) is
part of the group of five CDD-based Community Recovery projects supported by the
MDF, which also included the Aceh housing project CSRRP (also known as Rekompak),
and the KDP, UPP, and RALAS. The Community Recovery projects were the first wave
of projects approved by the MDF. Designed to meet urgent recovery needs, this set of
projects drew on the successful existing models of two national programs, the KDP and
UPP. Overall, these CDD projects in the MDF portfolio have been viewed as highly
successful. They have demonstrated that (1) a CDD approach can be used successfully to
provide communities a role and voice in their own recovery and reconstruction in a post-
disaster context, and (2) using existing mechanisms (such as scaling up on-going
national-level projects) to deliver post-disaster recovery and reconstruction programs is
an effective strategy. The community-based housing approach used in both Aceh and
Nias has also delivered higher quality housing at lower cost than other projects that did
not use a community-based approach.
The KRRP project built upon the successful experience of both the Rekompak housing
project in Aceh and the KDP by focusing on planning processes and providing block
grants to support community infrastructure identified as priorities by village communities
in Nias. KRRP represented the MDF's largest investment in the island of Nias. The
project was designed specifically for the post-disaster reconstruction context in Nias,
taking into account the particularly challenging implementation environment there caused
by the island's remote location, difficult topography and lack of transportation
infrastructure, and high rates of poverty. MDF donors and the Government of Indonesia
took a strong interest in the successful implementation of this program to meet the post-
disaster recovery needs of communities in Nias.
KRRP is the last of the MDF's Community Recovery projects to close. It faced
significant delays throughout implementation, mostly due to the extremely challenging
conditions in Nias. Weak local government capacity and the sub-division of the island's
two districts into four during the project's lifetime added to the complex and challenging
operating conditions for the project. Nevertheless, the project was able to achieve
impressive results by closing. The project has taken a flexible approach in meeting
implementation challenges and adapting to the unique needs of Nias. Two particularly
important adaptations were the attention to the unique cultural heritage of Nias, which the
project incorporated into its work on schools, and the replanting program initiated in
response to the concerns about the impact of reconstruction on forest resources on the
island. The experiences from KRRP and the other CDD-based projects implemented in
Aceh and Nias are providing important lessons for post-disaster recovery in Indonesia
and other post-disaster contexts around the world. Lessons from KRRP for future projects
in similar difficult contexts reinforce the need to expect challenges and plan for
45


﻿contingencies when designing projects, and to be realistic about how such challenges can
impact implementation.
KRRP was not able to fully utilize the grant funds provided by the MDF, and as a result
US$5.6 million is being returned to the MDF. The project team maintained good
communications with the MDF on this issue, and the Government of Indonesia informed
the MDF of its intent to return these residual funds in sufficient time for the funds to be
reprogrammed to other active projects in the MDF portfolio. As a result, these grant
funds will continue to support the recovery of Aceh and Nias and help lay the foundation
for future development until the MDF's mandate ends in December 2012.
46


﻿Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
* Grant Agreement and amendment letter
*  BRR Concept Note
*  Project Appraisal Document
*  Aide Memoires and associated Management Letters
*  Back-to-Office Reports and Implementation Status Reports
*  Project Progress Reports and Financial Management Reports
*  MDTFANS MTR Report. MDTFANS. 2009
*  Notes and attendance list of stakeholder workshops in Nias. February 2011.
47


﻿MAP SECTION
48


﻿MAP
NDONESA
KECAMATAN-8ASED RECONSTRUCTION AND
REHABIUTATION PLANNING PROJECT
NIAS
-      Li mr :
1.72    72
4   1              2
1"2
1
Lu.~oSub-Cl~trt Prilk  LeSgend afNONEI
-~iJ I'g . ii
C DI.,h   Lib M-IýY
Iff Tp~ MM        ELLI:kA1 fø
I.d  bai~iu  I.-ri
499
$  ed itti     -  -Cm74EUbW
E~a  147I F,*  d 0
Q 411 &49


