38321

translate into different entitlements. Studies elsewhere in Indonesia document that community-
level negotiations can overcome the most common sources of conflict, and conflict-sensitive
reconstruction planning can help ensure that in most cases, other, incipient sources of conflicts
are monitored and mitigated.

The proposed USD 51.5 million project will be built on the existing Kecamatan Development
Project (KDP), which was already operating in Nias prior to the tsunami and earthquake and now
covers the entire island. KDP consists of a facilitated planning process that lets communities
identify their own priorities, which are then funded through a block grant transferred directly to a
bank account owned by all of the villages within the kecamatan. Fifty percent of the funding for
the proposed project will come through an MDTF grant, and the other 50% will be provided by
GO1from national (APBN) funding.

Building on an existing project allows the program to get off to a fast start. To keep the program
manageable, it is divided into 4 windows.

        The first window, the housing window, will be initially confined to the four or five
        affected kecamatans in each of Nias's two kabupaten, for a total of 9 kecamatans and
        approximately 84 villages, although some slight adjustment to these numbers is likely to
        happen during final design allocations. Project facilitators will work with communities to
        prepare full village maps that show damage, reconstruction programs, and uncovered
        needs. These will be the basis for each reconstruction plan. Funding covers 5,000 housing
        units in these 8-9 kecamatans.

        The second window is for schools, UNICEF has already targeted reconstruction for the
         120 priority schools that were affected by the tsunami. This project will work with
        UNICEF and BRR to define the next 100priority schools (primary and junior secondary)
        using the same needs criteria. It will include an associated school quality improvement
        program.

        The third window will help village and kecamatan governments rebuild and equip their
        offices, many of which have collapsed. It will include training in participatory planning
        with a special focus on achieving poverty reduction by providing a basic level of public
        service delivery. If the proposed Support for Poor and Disadvantaged Areas Project
        (SPADA) is expanded into Nias, this program would be linked to SPADA's district level
        capacity improvement programs.

        The fourth window is for public infrastructure that is linked to the settlement
        reconstruction program. Based on the village maps, the project will finance the public
        access and drainage infrastructure that is needed by community.

Each window will have its own project cycle. For infrastructure, the project cycle will be the
same as that of KDP, which already includes provisions for engineering assistance and oversight.
An adjustment to the standard KDP project cycle is needed for housing, school, and local
government office and these changes were introduced to the operational manual appraised by the
IDA and donor team.

All four windows are mainly about additional construction. The project will reinforce KDP's
technical oversight and support teams.

2. Proposed Objectives
The project objective is to support BRR's strategy for district and provincial reconstruction and
rehabilitation by providing housing, schools, local government offices and infrastructure for
resettlement. The four components will cover: (i) Kecamatan Grants for housing, school, local
government office and public infrastructure grants; (ii) Kecamatan Planning Grants for
Kecamatan participatory planning, training of consultant and community; and socialization
kabupaten; (iii) Consultant Services for project implementation support; and monitoring and
evaluation; and (iv) Incremental operating costs arising under the project on account of local
contractual support, and will not cover government salaries.

4. Project Description
The proposed US$25.75 million MDTFANS-financed project will be 100percent grant financing
to support BRR's strategy for district and provincial reconstruction and rehabilitation by
providing housing, schools, local government offices, and infrastructure for resettlement. The
proposed project includes the following components:
    (i) Kecamatan Grants (US$20,250,000);
     (ii) Reconstruction Planning Grants (US2,000,000);
     (iii)Consultant Services (US$3,100,000); and
     (iv)Incremental Operating Costs (US400,OOO)

The total proposed project costs for KDP Nias is USD51.5 million. Fifty percent of the funding
for the proposed project will come through an MDTF grant, and the other 50% will be provided
by Go1from national (APBN) funding. The Project will consist of the following components and
activities:

    A. Kecamatan Grants: US$46,000,000

          Housing grants-US$30,000,000
          This grant aims to cover housing reconstruction costs based on a structure of about 36 sq.
          meters. The housing reconstruction grants are estimated at US$6,000 per house.' The
          funding under this component is estimated to provide up to approximately 5,000 housing
          grants.

          School grants -US$7,000,OOO
          The grant will cover school reconstructionlrepair and a linked school improvement
          program. The proposed project would work closely with Diknas, UNICEF, sectoral
          NGOs and BRR. The school reconstruction grant is estimated at US$50,000 per school
          and the cost of the school improv'ement program grants is US$2,000,000. This budget
          will be used to equip the school, provide training, and finance other school-based
          activities that will improve the education quality (e.g, cultural awareness which can work
          with Nias Museum environmental education for school children, etc).

          Local Government Office grants- US$5,000,000




IThese unit prices are subject to fluctuations, and would need to be kept under constant review. The unit
prices for both housing, school and local government office, and infrastructure reconstruction and
rehabilitation would be adjusted periodically, as appropriate, based on a review to be undertaken by the
Executing Agency, and subject to endorsement by BRR and approval by IDA.

        This grant can be used to rebuild and equip the Local Government Offices. Both
        subdistrict and village offices are eligible. Decisions on specific allocations will be made
        in conjunction with a proposed AusAid program.

        Public infrastructuregrants-US$4,000,000
        These consist of unearmarked block grants that are transferred directly to communities
        for investing in village development linked to reconstruction. Project menus are open -
        with the exception of a short negative list that bans civil servant salary payments,
        weapons, and environmentally destructive activities, villagers can invest the money
        across the full gamut of local priorities. It is expected that most of this money will be
        used to support drainage and access infrastructure.

    B. Kecamatan Planning Grants:US$2,000,000

       The activities that will be funded are:
        a.  DOK ("operational") KecarnatanIDesa participatory planning
        b.  Training: Consultant & Community
        c.   Socialization Kabupaten

The block grants support a participatory planning process that includes special measures to
involve women and the poor. This component provides the village-level training, facilitation, and
capacity development to carry out inclusive planning and to provide village-based oversight
through cross-audits, complaints management, and quality control.

    C. Consultant Services:US$3,100,000

        a.      Project Implementation Support

        To expedite the settlement reconstruction and rehabilitation program, implementation
        support will be critical for mobilizing teams, preparing training programs, and hiring
        consultants.    This component will finance immediate and medium-term technical
        assistance activities for (a) establishment and implementation of the shelter support,
        school, local government office grants and priority infrastructure block grant schemes
        and financial management          systems acceptable to       IDA; (b) overall project
        implementation, including the hiring of field facilitators and the safeguards specialists;
        and (c) strengthening the capacity of PMU and PKJs including additional operational
        costs to purchase office equipment.

        b.      Monitoring and Evaluation

        M&E      includes both quantitative and qualitative impact evaluations, participatory
        monitoring methods, corruption assessments, and independent monitoring by NGOs.
        KRRP's M&E framework is built on the overall M&E system for KDP Acehmias.
        Additional evaluations will deal with the quality of housing; social conflict; and cultural
        sensitivities.

    D. IncrementalOperating Costs: US$400,000'

        Incremental cost means costs arising under the Project on account of local contractual
        support, staff salaries, travel and other travel related expenses, equipment rental and
       maintenance, vehicle operation, maintenance and repair, office rental and maintenance,

        material and supplies, and utilities and communications' expenses. It does not cover
        government salaries.

Environment and Social Safeguard Policies

Environmental Safeguards

KDP's standard operating procedures and engineering guidelines provide adequate mitigation for
the main site-specific environmental risks. Special training and enhanced oversight improve site
placement and, especially drainage. The primary - and for KDP, the new - environmental risk
concerns access to sustainable harvested timber for reconstruction. The project's full timber risk
management plan is described in Annex 7.

Social Safeguards

The main principle of KDP is that local stakeholders are the main actors who decide village
planning and manage its implementation. Using participatory planning for reconstruction has
already been demonstrated to be an effective way to mitigate risks of heightened social conflict in
Nias communities, though the risk nevertheless remains a cause for concern. KDP7ssafeguard
policies already applied to Aceh, which has been a KDP participant for the past 5 years. Field
reviews do not report any significant safeguard issues. For the current project, selected safeguard
issues require additional elaboration. In particular, environmental impact assessment and
management is more likely to be relevant because of pressures on timber resources and protected
areas during reconstruction. Land issues may also become relevant should any land acquisition or
community restructuring take place because of the physical impacts of the tsunami and its
aftermath.

The full, environmental and social safeguard framework and Timber Management Plan for the
Nias KDP can be seen in Annexes 8 and 9. In general, safeguard policies will be addressed in the
following manner:


    0   Land and Asset Acquisition. Subprojects are not expected to require acquisition of
        significant amounts of land. The community is expected to use existing spaces. Housing
        reconstruction will be only built on the existing land belongs the owner of land. School
        reconstructionlrepair will be only built in the existing land where the school buildings
        are. Public infrastructure development as much as possible will be developed by the
        village land or will be kept to a minimum and no person will be physically displaced by a
        sub-project financed under the project. Small amounts of land, crops, trees, houses or
        other assets might need to be acquired to allow the most effective, efficient and beneficial
        use of resources. For example, existing village paths are often upgraded to become all-
        weather roads with slightly wider running surfaces, plus shoulders and drainage ditches.

        Any project affected people have the right to receive compensation. The village must
        guarantee that one of the following methods is used in timely fashion to compensate the
        persons who are affected by the project/subproject (project funds absolutely cannot be
        used for compensation):
        a. Acquired land is replaced with other land of equal productivity, or with other
            productive assets of equal value.
        b. Materials and labor are given to replace permanent structures that are removed.
        c. Plants destroyed or missing or damaged because of construction are compensated in
            accordance with their value.

d. Other acceptable compensation is given.

Voluntary contribution of land and /or other assets is quite common in Indonesian
villages, assuming that no individual loses too significant a portion of their land. Land
donation is acceptable only if: a) the land donator gets direct benefit from the
project/subproject and they are not poor people; b) project affected peoples have been
informed clearly their right on compensation as stated in the guidelines at a public
meeting and they are still willing to donate without any pressure. Formal minutes of the
meeting shall be made and must include the main points of discussion as well as any
decision reached, including:

a. For voluntary contributions, the name of the donor and detailed donation
b. For compensated assets, the names of the persons receiving compensation, such as
    seen in the table- summary of compensation below.
c. In addition, the minutes will contain the signatures of the affected persons and the
    village chief. There will be notes about complaints made by the affected persons.
    And there will be a map showing the location of the affected assets.

The kecamatan facilitator will deliver a copy of the above notes to all those people who
are affected by the project, to determine directly their wishes in regards to compensation,
their perception of whatever agreements were reached, and their complaints (if any).

 a. The kecamatan facilitator must delay final approval until all project affected persons
    are satisfied with the compensation they are to receive, even if this causes a
    stalemate, the changing of design and interminable negotiations.
 b. The kecamatan facilitator must sure that all project affected people receive
    compensation before any construction implemented.

Right to Voice Complaints and Take Legal Action. All complaints should be handled
and solved at the village level. If the problem cannot be solved in the village, complaints
and legal action against these guidelines, the implementation of agreements found in the
minutes, or other grievances can be filed by the person affected or his or her
representative to the kecamatan. If still not solved, it can be further submitted for a
decision by the Bupati. Complaints also can be sent to the Complaints Handling Unit of
KDP at the regional or national level, where they will be analyzed and an investigation
organized.

Verification. At any time, all records regarding compensation, including minutes of the
meeting and proof of receiving compensation must be available for inspection by the
kecamatan facilitator, kabupaten management consultants, auditors, and persons assigned
to monitor aspects of the project by the project Secretariat or National Management
Consultants. The Village Minutes and evidence of compensation having been made shall
be provided to the kecamatan empowerment facilitator assisting the village, to
supervising engineers, auditors and socio-economic monitors when they undertake
reviews under the project.

Indigenous People. In Nias, KDP has recognized that there is a risk of the exclusion af
vulnerable groups, including indigenous people groups. The framework objectives will be
met through project design, which provide the means for participating communities to
receive culturally compatible benefits from the sub-projects through their informed

participation. In areas where indigenous people may be affected, an Indigenous People
framework has been developed in accordance OP 4.10 to ensure application of the
appropriate safeguard policies. In this project, the Indigenous People are project
beneficiaries. The project framework ensures that Indigenous People participate in
decision making throughout project planning, implementation and evaluation, and
ensures that Indigenous People get benefits equal to the non- Indigenous People.
Inclusion of vulnerable groups (women, the poor, ethnic minority and indigenous people)
has been a problematic issue in development projects.

In CDD projects such as this one, the tendency of elite groups to dominate throughout the
project cycle still remains a major challenge. The socialization of the project needs to be
extensive to achieve greater community participation by providing full access for
vulnerable groups to be involved in the decision making process in all project steps. The
community level processes for KDP have tools and mechanisms in-built to make
participation of marginal and vulnerable groups verifiable, which will guide funding
decisions. Previous KDP experience shows that a requirement for women to be
physically present in decision meetings has been effective in increasing women's
participation in meetings, although a special effort is usually needed to prepare them for
the meetings. Project budgets include finding for specialized training by qualified
specialists, gender and anthropological specialists, and evaluations of how effectively
women and indigenous people are participating in the reconstruction program. Project
monitoring includes reviews with a special focus on cultural issues in indigenous
communities, and IDA'S project supervision will include anthropological oversight.

Cultural Property. The highly participatory nature of the project will ensure that
communities would be able to identify if any proposed subproject will have an impact on
cultural property and to ensure that the activity does not adversely affect cultural
property. Subproject proposals will require the identification of any such activities and
require the group proposing the subproject to specify adequate mitigation measures. The
project will work closely with the Nias ethnographic museum through its education
component, and these activities will help to ensure proper identification and mitigation of
any cultural risks.

The above frameworks will be made available to the public through the Bank" Project
Information Center in Jakarta and Info Shop in Washington. The project manuals will be
published and be made available to the community organizations (kecamatan and village
level). FK and FD and other project staff will be trained in the application of the
safeguards manuals.



5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWElURECPIENT (25.75m)
Multi-Donor Fund for Aceh and Nias (25.75m)
Total Project Cost: US$51.5 million

11. Contact Point:

     Task Manager: Scott E. Guggenheim
     The World Bank
     1818 H Street, NW
    Washington D.C. 20433
     Telephone: 62-21-529-93000; 5781+9+391-190819 KDP Office
     Fax: 62-21-5299-3111

12. For informationon other project related documents contact:
       The Infoshop
       The World Bank
       I818 H Street, NW
       Washington, D.C. 20433
       Telephone: (202)458-5454
       Fax:     (202)522-1500
       Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop

