Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17533
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
SICHUAN PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2951-CHA/CREDIT 1917-CHA)
March 10, 1998
Transportation Sector Unit
East Asia and the Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
1988 (appraisal)     $1 = Y 3.72
1989                  $1 = Y 3.76
1990                  $1 = Y 4.78
1991                 $1 = Y 5.32
1992                  $1 = Y 5.53
1993                 $1 = Y 5.76
1994                 $1 = Y 8.60
1995                  $1 = Y 8.50
1996                  $1 = Y 8.31
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                     3.28 feet (ft)
I kilometer (km)                0.62 mile
I square meter (m2)       =      10.76 square feet (ft2)
I square kilometer (km2)    =   0.4 square miles (mi2)
I hectare (ha) = 0.01           2.47 acres (ac) = 15 mu
km2
1 mu                           2666.7 m  = 0.667 ha
1 kilogram (kg)                 2.2046 pounds (Ibs)
1 metric ton (t)                2,204 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AADT  - Annualized Average Daily Traffic        NTHS  - National Trunk Highway System
E&M    - Electrical, Electronic and Mechanical    PMS    - Pavement Management System
ERR    - Economic Rate of Return                RDB    - Road Data Bank
ICB     - International Competitive Bidding     SAR    - Staff Appraisal Report
ICR     - Implementation Completion Report      SDR    - Special Drawing Right
MOC    - Ministry of Communications             TOR    - Termns of Reference
MOF    - Ministry of Finance                    VOC    - Vehicle Operating Cost
NCB    - National Competitive Bidding           vpd      - Vehicles Per Day
Vice President            Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Country Director          Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Manager            Jeffrey Gutman, EASTR
Staff Member              Rita Pasi, Financial Analyst, EASPS



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
PREFACE                      ................................. iii
EVALUATION SUMMMARY.......                                                      v
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                          .1
A. Project Objectives and Description               .I
B. Achievement of Project Objectives                .3
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project .20
D. Project Sustainability .21
E. Bank Performance .21
F. Borrower Performance.24
G. Assessment of Outcome .25
H. Future Operation .26
I. Key Lessons Learned .27
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES ..........................                         30
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments ........................................... 30
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits ...........................................  31
Table 3:  Project Timetable ........................................... 32
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimate and Actual ............... 32
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation ........................................... 33
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operations ...........................................   35
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project ...........................................  35
Table 8A: Project Costs ...........................                      36
Table 8B: Project Costs .37
Table 8C: Project Financing .38
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .38
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .39
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .39
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .40
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .40
ANNEX 1: ECONOMIC EVALUATION .41
ANNEX 2: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR .61
ANNEX 3: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE .69
MAP 1:   Transport Network in Sichuan Province and Chongqing Municipality
(IBRD 28877)
MAP 2:   Sichuan Provincial Highway Project: Project Area (IBRD 28878)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






- Hii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
SICHUAN PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2951-CHA/CREDIT 1917-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Sichuan Provincial
Highway Project in China, for which Loan 2951-CHA in the amount of $75.0 million
equivalent and Credit 1917-CHA in the amount of SDR $36.1 million ($50.0 million
equivalent) were approved on June 9, 1988 and made effective on May 31, 1989. The
loan and credit were closed on December 31, 1996. The loan and credit are fully
disbursed; the last disbursement took place on July 1, 1997.
The ICR was prepared by Rita Pasi (Task Manager), Financial Analyst in the
Private Sector Development Unit, East Asia and the Pacific Region, and consultants
Bavani Krishnamurthi (Economist), and Subhash Seth (Highway Engineer, Infrastructure
Sector Unit - Transport 1, Africa Region). The ICR was reviewed by Jeffrey Gutman,
Manager, Transportation Sector Unit, East Asia and the Pacific Region. The borrower
provided comments that are included as an annex to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR began during a mission in January 1997, with follow-up
during field visits in May 1997. The ICR is based on documents in the project file,
information collected during missions, and material submitted by the borrower. The
borrower also helped prepare the ICR by contributing views reflected in the mission's
aide-memoire, preparing its own evaluation of the project's execution and initial
preparation, and commenting on the draft ICR.






CHINA
SICHUAN PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2951-CHA/CREDIT 1917-CHA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction and Project Objectives
1.    Expansion of transport capacity and the removal of infrastructure bottlenecks has
been a cornerstone of Chinese development policy since the 1980s. A series of Bank-
financed highway projects, approved beginning in 1985, have helped alleviate constraints
in the system by supporting expansion of overall road capacity (particularly high-speed
routes), institutional development of road agencies, management of major construction
projects, and key technical and policy issues in the highway sector.
2.    The Sichuan Provincial Highway Project, appraised in 1988, was one of the
Bank's first provincial highway projects, designed to expand road capacity through
construction of high-speed roads and upgrading of rural roads, and strengthen sector
management within provincial road agencies. At the time of project appraisal, Sichuan
Province was one of the most populous and least wealthy provinces in China; the
provincial road network was congested, in poor condition, and had limited coverage.
3.    The Bank-financed project aimed to: expand road capacity between Chengdu, the
provincial capital, and Chongqing, the largest commercial center in Sichuan; improve
road access in less wealthy areas of the province; carry out highway research; improve
road planning and management;  train highway personnel; modernize design,
construction, materials specifications and contract documentation; and improve road
safety. These objectives would be achieved through physical components, including
construction of the new 340-km Chengdu-Chongqing Highway and the upgrading of rural
roads in two relatively poor prefectures, from Ya'an to Hongya and from Fenggu to
Santai. The project also included institutional components for pavement strengthening
through the introduction of Road Data Bank and Pavement Management Systems, a staff
training program, and a road safety initiative to improve accident analysis and reporting
in several Sichuan prefectures.
4.    The project's objectives were consistent with the Government's then-prevailing
policies for the highway subsector, and supported the Bank's assistance strategy for
China. During the period of project implementation, the Bank's broader intervention in
the sector began to focus on lending for the development of China's National Trunk
Highway System (NTHS). The Sichuan Provincial Highway Project remained consistent



- vi -
with these objectives, and includes one of the longest and most critical highways in the
national highway network, providing a gateway to China's less-developed western and
southwestern regions.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    The project's main objective, to increase road capacity in the corridor between the
provincial capital of Chengdu and the major industrial center of Chongqinig, was achieved
and exceeded: the 340-km, four-lane limited-access, tolled Chengyu Expressway was
constructed instead of the predominantly two-lane highway envisaged during appraisal.'
The decision to expand capacity of the highway was initially justified as a step in
development of the National Trunk Highway System and on the assumpl:ion that corridor
traffic was growing more rapidly than estimated during appraisal. In retrospect, traffic
growth on the new road did not significantly outpace appraisal estimates, but the early
addition of capacity was justifiable based on construction difficulties and road safety
implications for the steep, mountainous sections of the route. The substantial physical
accomplishment represented by the expressway posed serious technical, financial, and
yorganizational challenges in the Sichuan context. Construction of the expressway was
completed three years later, and at three times the cost originally planned, mainly due to
the higher design standard. The re-evaluated economic rate of return for the expressway
is significantly lower than expected, at about 15 percent in the base case versus the
appraisal estimate of 27 percent.
6.    Additional road capacity will be provided through the upgrading of rural
highways from Ya'an to Hongya and from Fenggu to Santai, as appraised. Upgrading of
the Ya'an to Hongya highway was completed in 1995, to the appraised technical
standard, but three years later than expected and with a 41 percent cost increase and at a
slightly lower rate of return than appraised (16 percent versus the appraisal estimate of 17
percent). Upgrading of the Fenggu to Santai highway will not be comp3leted until 1998,
reflecting a seven year implementation delay; the highway is expected to be upgraded to
a Class I standard instead of the Class III standard appraised, at more than, seven times the
original cost estimate. The re-evaluated ERR for the Fenggu-Santai highway upgrading
is 18 percent versus the appraisal estimate of 21 percent. The prefectures targeted for
rural road upgrading have experienced rapid economic development since appraisal;
within five years, both of the rural roads upgraded will link to the high-grade network in
.,greater Chengdu.
7.    The actual implementation of the project shows that expectations developed
during appraisal, both on the part of Chinese authorities and the Bank, were ambitious
given the lack of experience and resource constraints in Sichuan. The length of time
needed to complete detailed design, estimated at one year, was insufficient, as were the
Throughout this report, the term "new Chengdu-Chongqing Highway" refers to the initial design for a
new high-speed route between Chengdu and Chongqing. The term "Chengyu Expressway" refers to
the higher capacity design which was ultimately implemented.



- vii -
contract periods for major civil works, estimated at 36 months. The implementation
delays were compounded by procurement difficulties and the limited resources and
capacity of contractors to execute the major civil works required for an expressway. The
estimates for implementation support and technical assistance required for a project of
this complexity were also seriously underestimated, with the result that consultant
services financed by the project increased by at least 400 percent in addition to locally-
procured or provided design and technical assistance services.
8.   In addition to the cost increases resulting from construction delays, quality
suffered; there was considerable local pressure to complete works according to the
original schedule, and contractors lacked the experience and resources to carry out the
major civil works in the project. In addition, certain technical aspects of the project
preparation had been inadequately prepared or overlooked altogether, including tunnel
design, geological surveys, tunnel ventilation, electrical, electronic, and mechanical
works, and cost of land.
9.    The implementation of institutional components was less successful than physical
components in the project, only partially meeting the objectives set out at appraisal. Of
these components, institutional strengthening through staff training and equipment
procurement both exceeded the scope as appraised and generally met project objectives:
local funds were utilized to procure a wider array and greater volume of goods and
services than anticipated.
10.   The establishment of road management systems in Sichuan was one of a number
of province-based initiatives designed to develop national pavement management
systems: the Sichuan activities received strong central and provincial government
support and road data bank as well as pavement management systems were effectively
initiated, achieving some of the objectives set out at appraisal. However, the amount of
work completed on the systems, and the utilization of systems for planning, upgrading,
and maintenance budgeting for the network as suggested by the appraisal terms of
reference has not yet been achieved. Actual implementation has placed great emphasis
on the development of Geographic Information Systems and a detailed road data bank,
which have proved hardware- and data-intensive. The pavement management systems
developed can only be used on flexible pavements, which comprise only a portion of the
road network in Sichuan and Chongqing. The types of technical and budget data
produced by the systems are new to the provincial road management agencies, and
indicate that the network is in poor condition and in need of financial and technical
support far beyond current resources. As such, utilization of the systems for decision-
making is proceeding slowly. Further development of the systems requires allocation of
human, financial and technical resources, but more important, agencies to house and
manage the provincial systems on a permanent basis must be identified and integration of
the systems in the planning, programming, and budgeting functions of the provincial and
municipal highway agencies is needed.



- viii -
11.   Major restructuring of road sector agencies occurred in the mid- to late 1980s, at
the central government level, and in the mid-1990s, at the provincial level. The changes
have impacted the management of technical and policy issues throughout the sector, with
repercussions for Bank project objectives.
(a)   The 1 980s restructuring separated responsibilities for road safety, resulting
in fragmentation of safety functions and making it difficult for the Bank to
find an audience for road safety initiatives. A major technical and policy
study of road safety in China was prepared as the basis for a road safety
component in the Sichuan project. However, the road safety program
formulated for the project was not implemented, despite thorough, detailed
preparation at both central and provincial government levels and specific
targeting on municipalities in Sichuan.  The absence of activity is
attributable to lack of coordination and ownership on the part of central
and provincial government agencies as well as the Bank.
(b)   Restructuring and realigning of road agencies in Sichuali and Chongqing
is occurring among road agencies in Sichuan and Chongqing. The current
trends involve reconfiguration of public sector agencies and establishment
of public-private agencies for development and management of various
classes of roads or portions of the network, refinancing existing
infrastructure and modifying funding arrangements for future
infrastructure programs, and greater devolution of authority to local road
agencies. Private sector development, while not identified as a project
objective during appraisal, has emerged as one of the most visible
outcomes of the project. The new expressway developed under the project
was refinanced and partially privatized in late 1997: it will be operated
and maintained by a public-private expressway development company
under a 30-year operating concession.
12.   From the early stages of preparation and implementation, the project was
managed in sections by road agencies in Sichuan Province and Chongqing Municipality;
little attention was paid to issues of coordination or the possibility of joint management.
Major political changes occurred in Sichuan Province and Chongqing Municipality in
mid-1997, resulting in the expansion of territory included in Chongqing and its
establishment as a municipality reporting directly to the Chinese central government.
While the two sections of the project were never fully-integrated, the political changes
ensured a lasting demarcation of project responsibility for each section of the project,
raising concerns for management of the national highway system and expressway and
traffic movements across provincial boundaries.  Also, as mentioned above, the
restructuring of Sichuan road agencies has resulted in refinancing and partial privatization
of the 226-km western section of the expressway.



-ix -
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
13.   Despite the implementation difficulties and delays encountered in the project, the
physical objectives were achieved or exceeded, albeit at a greater cost and a lower ERR
than originally expected. The re-evaluated ERR for construction of the Chengyu
Expressway is 15 percent; and the ERRs for upgrading of Ya'an-Hongya and Fenggu-
Santai rural roads are 16 and 18 percent, respectively. Sustainability of the physical
investments, which depends on an adequate program  of medium- and long-term
maintenance, is considered likely.
14.   Future operation of the physical infrastructure developed under this project will
involve various public and private sector agencies. The Chengyu Expressway is operated
as a restricted-access toll highway (limited to motor vehicle use), including 20
interchanges providing connection with the existing network and several rest and service
areas. The Sichuan section of the new Chengyu Expressway will be managed by a
public-private expressway development company, which was awarded a 30-year
operating concession in 1997. The Chongqing section will continue to be managed by an
expressway administration agency which is subordinate to the Chongqing Municipal
Highway Construction Directorate. The rural roads identified for upgrading during
appraisal will be managed by local municipal or county highway administration bureaus.
15.   The institutional strengthening and policy objectives achieved uneven results.
The staff training and equipment procurement activities exceeded appraisal expectations,
both in scope and institutional impact. The training has benefited a large number of road
sector staff, including many who have continued to work on expressway development in
Sichuan and Chongqing. The equipment procured exceeded expectations for two
reasons; first, the appraisal did not recognize the wide variety and volume of technical
equipment needed to develop and manage a major highway. Second, a sizable portion of
the funds intended for equipment was later earmarked for financing of an Electrical and
Mechanical (E&M) component: ultimately, however, the E&M component progressed
much more slowly than expected.
16.   Road management systems were successfully initiated and have had demonstrable
results as informational tools for the sector and for staff training. However, these systems
have not been utilized for network planning, maintenance, and budgeting to the extent
envisaged during appraisal. The shortcomings of the systems are due to inherent
deficiencies in the system design which permit their use only on a small portion of the
network, funding shortfalls, limited technical and human resources, and lack of a national
directive on development of pavement management and road data bank systems. It is
also recognized that future maintenance or extension of the system will depend on
dedication of adequate financial, technical, and human resources to relevant units in
Sichuan and Chongqing.
17.   Future operations in China's highway sector can benefit from the lessons learned
under this project. It is recommended that the Bank and the government jointly prepare



- x -
and sponsor seminars or other activities for dissemination of the institutional and project
management lessons of the project.
18.   The key lessons learned are as follows:
(a)   The major changes in scope, cost, and development impact in this project,
which began immediately after project approval, should have triggered a
serious intervention by the Bank and a change in its style and level of
supervision.
(i)   Project restructuring, a mid-term review, and/or more intensive
supervision was needed, supported by clear decisions to restructure
or cancel inactive components.
(ii)   The tools used for project management should have been more
realistic and explicit, reflecting changes and implementation
difficulties in the project.
(iii)  Supervision intensity, including the skills and level of staffing
needed for effective supervision and the frequency of field
supervision, were less than adequate in this project. The technical
aspects of expressway design, road management systems, and road
safety are all areas which may have benefited from greater
assistance by the Bank.
(iv)   When a project includes activities or entire components which are
not financed by the Bank, decisions and greater clarity are needed
on whether or how results are linked to project objectives, and the
implications for supervision.
(b)   The development of a major expressway network such as China's NTHS
warrants a specific set of technical and institutional arrangements,
covering technical and design standards, procurement, financing, and
operation. As a financier of the expressway system, the Bank should play
a role in developing the project preparation framework for the NTHS,
including helping to acquire and disseminate technical knowledge and
lessons from implementation. The experience of this project indicates a
need to strengthen planning and procurement, particularly for E&M and
other technically complex works, as well as design standards, including
those which affect safety on the NTHS. Second, while the institutional
components included in the original appraisal were not fully implemented,
other institutional strengthening relevant to expressway development and
management was accomplished.   Future projects should include
components relevant to development of the NTHS, targeted on expressway
agencies which are responsible for segments of the NTHS.
(c)   The institutional arrangements for implementation of Bank projects,
particularly for policy and reform-oriented components, need more careful



- xi -
appraisal and design.  The lessons from this project are:  first, that
institutional components require supervision by the Bank; second, that an
effective set of working relationships which need to be developed over
time, both among Chinese agencies and with the Bank, are fundamental to
the success of non-physical components; and third, that greater flexibility
is called for in design and implementation of these components,
particularly during periods of major sectoral change.
(d)   The Bank's 1995 review of road data bank and pavement management
systems in China has summarized the cumulative implementation
experience of Sichuan Province and various other provinces in developing
and using the systems under Bank-financed projects.  In order to
effectively utilize and disseminate the technologies, policy and managerial
decisions are now needed, which the Bank should follow up at the central
government level in China..
(e)    The rapid physical expansion of road infrastructure in China presents
major financial challenges; at the same time, transport agencies, like other
public sector agencies, are being restructured to respond to the current
development challenges. The financial constraints currently faced by
China's road agencies, particularly in the less wealthy provinces such as
Sichuan, are driving sectoral change. Several lessons have been learned
from this project:
(i)    Sector restructuring affects both central and provincial agencies,
with serious implications for Bank involvement in the sector. In
order to positively impact sectoral development, the Bank's
assistance strategy for the sector should reflect current realities,
and would benefit from up-front institutional analysis, clear
definition of roles and responsibilities, and ultimately, a regulatory
framework. The Bank's involvement in major sector restructuring
and private sector development in the Sichuan project was defined,
but also limited by, the range and depth of its relationships in the
sector and the specific legal agreements for the project. In the
future, project descriptions and legal agreements should take into
account the potential for privatization and the Bank's role in this
process.
(ii)   Phased construction and upgrading programs are a viable and
important form of development, particularly for resource-
constrained provinces. This reality should be recognized during
future project preparation and implementation, and the attendant
risks and implications for economic evaluation and sector
development recognized.   The Bank's project identification,
appraisal, and supervision would benefit from a better
understanding of the client's long-term objectives, review of



- xli -
financing plans, discussion of project management and operational
arrangements, and quantification of risks for project analysis.
(f)   The ex post facto review of environment and resettlement components in
this project led to recognition, both on the part of the Bank and the
borrower, of shortcomings in the planning and implementation of
remedies to mitigate externalities from highway development; however,
the project design and supervision arrangements did not facilitate analysis
of underlying problems or remedies. Future Bank operations can build
upon the experience in this project by ensuring:  first, that there is
agreement both on the part of the Bank and the borrower to address issues;
second, that mechanisms are built into project design to allow monitoring
and evaluation; and third, that detailed findings from reviews are specific
enough to be actionable.



CHINA
SICHUAN PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2951-CHA/CREDIT 1917-CHA)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
1.     The project was designed to provide urgently needed transport capacity in the
corridor between Chengdu, the capital of Sichuan Province, and Chongqing, a port city on the
Changjiang (Yangtze) River which is the largest economic and trade center in southwest
China. The project as appraised included a series of physical investments to significantly
increase road transport capacity in interurban and rural corridors, as well as technical and
institutional components to strengthen management of the growing road sector. Most of the
physical works were to be done under unit-priced civil works contracts, procured under
international, local, or limited competitive bidding. An independent construction supervision
organization was to be established, comprising foreign and local technical experts.
2.     The existing high-speed route in the corridor, the Chengdu-Chongqing Highway
(hereafter referred to as the old highway), was a mountainous two-lane, 438-km route of low
technical standard, with a pavement that had exceeded its design life. Geographic conditions
did not permit major upgrading of the route, and the adjacent areas were densely populated,
passing through many market and productive areas. Numerous sections of the route were
seriously congested, with speeds ranging from 25-35 km per hour.
3.     The provision of additional transport capacity between Chengdu and Chongqing was
to be achieved through construction of a major, 340-km highway on new alignment. The
sections of the route in Chengdu (59 km) and Chongqing (29 km) were planned as four-lane,
divided, grade-separated construction to Class 1 standard. The 252-km mid-section was to be
constructed with two-lanes to Class 2 standard. In addition to improved operating conditions
associated with the much higher standard of the new road, distance savings were to be
achieved through improved alignment and the construction of three major twin tube tunnels
and one major bridge. The original design also included 240 smaller bridges (44 large, 54
medium-sized, and 142 small) and 1,689 culverts and passageways.
4.     The project also included the upgrading of two unclassified rural highways from
Ya'an to Hongya and from Fenggu to Santai (104 km total length) in two "relatively poor"
areas of northern Sichuan. Improvement to Class III standard was proposed for both roads.
Upgrading of these roads was expected to generate significant benefits to road users, as the
existing roads were unpaved or very low standard, with sharp curves and steep grades which
contributed to high transport costs and congestion. The project areas included production of
iron ore, asbestos, minerals, and agricultural products.



-2 -
5.      The construction of a new Chengdu-Chongqing Highway and the rural road
upgrading program were expected to have a major impact on transport capacity, utilization
patterns, and management of road facilities. Both construction components were expected to
generate road safety benefits by segregating motorized and nonmotorized traffic, reducing
congestion, and providing improved road facilities. The four-lane sections of the new
highway were also contemplated as toll roads, which would have permitted a margin of cost
recovery, and effective management of the new highway would be assured through the
establishment of a high-speed road management agency. It was expected that the new
highway would carry a higher proportion of freight vehicles, includLing vehicles of
substantially higher capacity than those in the existing traffic flows.
6.      The specific policy and institutional objectives of the project were to: (a) introduce
improved road planning techniques by starting preparation of a road data bank; (b) introduce
technology to evaluate existing paved roads and to prepare a pavement strengthening
program; (c) conduct highway research; (d) carry out staff training; (e) continue assistance
in modernizing design, construction, and materials specifications and contract documentation;
and (f) improve road safety.
7.      The road data bank and pavement management systems to be developed under this
project, similar to initiatives under concurrent Bank-financed highway projects, received
strong endorsement from the Ministry of Communications (MOC) and several highway
technical institutes in China.2 The road data bank system was to meet provincial needs and be
compatible with national systems, as a major new area of technical work nandated by the
MOC. In Sichuan Province, a computerized road data bank covering an inventory of paved
road conditions (including length, type, and bearing capacity of pavements, traffic volumes,
material sources and qualities) would be established.
8.      The Road Safety Pilot Program was developed based on studies comrrpleted under the
Bank's first investment project in China's road sector, Highway Project (Loan 2539-CHA/
Credit 1954-CHA, approved fiscal year 1985). A component of the Highway Project involved
upgrading a portion of the Sichuan highway network. A road safety study was included
among the project's research activities, and was implemented by China's Beijing-based
Highway Science Research Institute3 in conjunction with international road safety consultants.
The road safety study covered: (a) a review of the prevailing system of reporting, recording,
and analyzing road accident statistics; (b) recommendations for improving data collection,
recording, and analysis on road traffic accidents; and (c) identification of a program for
reducing accidents. A prefecture in Sichuan Province provided the basis for much of the
research and development of the pilot program. The final report was issued in 1988, with
agreement that findings would be followed up by the Highway Science Research Institute.
2  An MOC-sponsored conference in Jinan during 1992 also identified Sichuan as one of several provinces
which would pilot the China Pavement Management System (CPMS). The implementation of CPMS, to
be carried out over a five-year period, included evaluation of the existing road pavements, their bearing
capacity, and residual life in relation to present and estimated future traffic.
3  Highway Science Research Institute, one of several major technical and research institutes in China's road
sector, is a subsidiary agency of the Ministry of Communications.



-3 -
9.     Implementation arrangements included several provincial transport agencies. The
expressway construction and all other components (including supervision, equipment, staff
training, road management systems, and road safety pilot study) were to be implemented by
Sichuan Provincial Transport Department and Chongqing Municipal Transport Bureau. The
new Chengdu-Chongqing Highway was to be operated and managed by a special agency, to
be established after consultation with the Bank Group. The upgrading of rural roads was to be
carried out by provincial and county construction teams under the control of Sichuan
Provincial Transport Department.
10.     The project was to implemented between 1989 and 1994, with the main
component, construction of a new Chengdu-Chongqing Highway, completed between 1989
and 1993. The upgrading of rural roads was to be completed between 1989 and 1992.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.     The project's physical objectives were achieved or exceeded; the institutional
strengthening objectives were only partially achieved. The implementation of various project
components is discussed below.
Chengdu-Chongqing Highway Component
2.     The scope and design standards of the Chengdu-Chongqing Highway component
evolved considerably during implementation, resulting in the construction of a 340-kilometer
limited access facility between Chengdu and Chongqing, the Chengyu Expressway. The
original design, for construction of a highway on new alignment, comprised 88 km of
highway built to Class 1, four-lane standard and the remaining 252 km built to Class 2, two-
lane standard. As constructed, the Chengyu Expressway represents China's longest single
expressway in mountainous terrain, and includes some of the largest tunnels constructed in
China to date. While a major developmental achievement, the many changes in project scope
and design call into question the effectiveness of communication between the Bank and client
during project development.
3.     The actual construction period for the main component, development of the
Chengyu Expressway, was from September 1990 through September 1995, reflecting a two-
year implementation delay. Ultimately, the entire 340-km length of the new highway was
built to Class 1, four-lane standard; the new highway has 20 interchanges, 21 toll stations, 7
service areas, 5 maintenance depots and 11 administration offices. The facility is operated as
a restricted access, motor vehicle only toll expressway with operating speed ranging from 60
to 100 kilometers per hour.4 Design capacity is 40,000 vehicles per day (vpd), but safe
operation mandates only 25,000 in certain mountainous sections.
4.     The Chengyu Expressway was opened to traffic in stages: in the east section, 5 km
of the route were opened by April 1994, 94 km were opened in October 1994, and the
remaining 15 km were opened in May 1995. In the west section, 59 km of the route and a
4  The lower operating speeds of 60-80 km are necessary due to the steep, curved mountainous sections of the
route and several major tunnels.



-4 -
major bridge were opened to traffic in May 1993; the remaining 167 knn were partially
opened in July 1995. The expressway was fully opened by September 1995.
5.     Project Planning, Feasibility Study, and Design.  At the time of project
preparation, Sichuan Province possessed no experience in constructing a highway of the scale
and complexity required for the Chengdu-Chongqing corridor, including little or no
experience in major tunnel design and construction. Accordingly, Chinese authorities planned
for eventual upgrading of the new Chengdu-Chongqing Highway to a higher design standard
and increased capacity, as warranted by traffic growth, availability of local funds, and
technical feasibility.
6.     Major changes to the appraised project scope began in the twelve months after loan
signing. In January 1992, Sichuan Province formally decided to widen the 252-km middle
section of the expressway to four lanes and to upgrade technical standards to achieve a Class
I design for the entire highway. The decision was approved by the Ministry of Finance and
the Ministry of Communications sometime between January 1992 and June 1993; however,
the widening of some sections commenced in 1991.
7.     The amount of work actually done on the original, two-lane contracts for the
highway was less than 10 percent at the time the changes were adopted. In all cases, widening
was accomplished by extending the scope of works of contractors already on site, but delays
resulted from the need to complete designs and to acquire land in certain sections of the route.
8.     In retrospect, several concerns justified the expansion and increase in standards for
the highway:
(a) In the early 1990s, the Chengdu-Chongqing Highway was identified as a
segment of China's National Trunk Highway System (NTHS), a network
of twelve major expressways totaling 30,000 km, all constructed to
expressway or Class I standard. Two lateral and two longitudinal routes of
the national network were assigned highest priority, for development
within the eighth and ninth five year plans. The Chengyu Expressway
forms a key link in the Shanghai-Chengdu route, one of the two highest
priority lateral routes, and also provides linkage with several key
expressways leading to Guiyang, Kunming, and other southwestern cities.
(b) The mountainous terrain between Chengdu and Chongqing makes existing
road capacity critical for movement of goods and passengers, and major
construction seriously reduces overall capacity. The actual construction of
the Chengyu Expressway, particularly the middle mountainous section,
proved a major challenge given the limited resources and capabilities of
domestic contractors. In retrospect, a widening and upgrading program
launched after the rest of the highway was open to traffic would have been
very complicated and costly.
(c) The widened middle section is partially justified in that it provides safer
operating conditions through the provision of additional lanes in a steep
and curved section of the route.



- 5 -
9.      The Bank was not consulted in the decision to modify design of the road, and
learned of the change around the time of its May 1992 supervision mission, when the
additional works were already underway. During this mission, the possibility of signing
separate contracts for the widening works was discussed, but could not be assured because
final designs and bills of quantities were not available. Finally, the widening works were
classified as outside the scope of the Bank-financed project. Measures were taken to ensure
that any additional work quantities associated with the widening of the highway be measured
separately and paid by the Province and the Municipality, without Bank financing.
10.      Between 1990 and 1992, an electrical, electronic, and mechanical (E&M)
component was prepared and added to the project, comprising lighting, communications,
traffic control, and tunnel ventilation systems. The additional works were procured under
separate supply and install contracts and expected to be completed in time for the expressway
opening in 1995. However, the implementation of these works has been delayed, primarily
due to procurement difficulties, and is being financed largely without Bank assistance (para.
34).
11.      After 1992, additional design changes were adopted to develop a fully modernized,
grade-separated expressway facility (paras. 25-27). Much of the additional works were
financed through major variation orders (para. 80).
12.      The detailed analysis for the expanded scope of the highway was provided in a
revised feasibility study prepared in 1992. The Bank did not review this study at the time or
recalculate the economic rate of return, but Bank missions visiting Sichuan noted that the
change in scope was likely to lower the economic rate of return.5 More fundamentally, the
process of obtaining information on the changed scope was difficult for the Bank, including
fundamental information such as revised project cost, which was made available in 1994 as a
condition to extension of the closing date for the Bank loan and credit.
13.      Engineering Design.  Engineering design was completed for the Chengdu-
Chongqing Highway component and additionally, for tunnel designs, tunnel ventilation
systems, and an E&M component. In all cases, engineering design was initiated by Chinese
agencies, with international agencies later engaged for design review and specialized design
assistance. The Highway Survey and Design Institute of the Sichuan Provincial Transport
Department began preparatory work on economic and technical data for the new highway in
late 1983; a revised feasibility report was submitted to the Bank in October 1986. Detailed
design was done by the Sichuan Provincial Survey and Design Institute and the Second
Institute of Design of the Ministry of Railways, both located in Chengdu.
14.      The design process was not complete as of the time of project appraisal (1988), and
continued for about the first eighteen months of project implementation. Engineering designs
and bid documents for the main highway construction were reviewed by a major US
5 The ICR mission reviewed the revised feasibility study, which included a reassessment of traffic on the old
highway between the years 1980 and 1990. The study indicated that traffic growth was accelerating on the
old highway: the relationship to assumptions made during the Bank's appraisal is not clear. Ultimately,
however, traffic growth in the project corridor did not seriously outpace appraisal estimates.



-6 -
engineering consulting firm 1989, under the United States Government TDP (grant) program.
A delay of about one year resulted for most of the construction contracts.
15.       Shortly after the start of implementation, it was recognized that the major tunnels
required additional preparation, specialized design services and design review, and substantial
assistance from international consultants, particularly for ventilation and control systems: this
ultimately proved to be one of the greatest technical challenges in the project. Design and
contract documentation was finalized in early 1990: however, province's lack of experience
in geological surveying and tunnel design necessitated redesign and led to major
implementation delays and quality control problems (paras. 44-49).
16.       Specialized services were also retained for design of electrical, electronic, and
mechanical systems (E&M systems) which would provide telecommunications, lighting,
traffic surveillance and control, automated traffic and toll collection, and tunnel ventilation.
However, once procurement began it was discovered that the E&M design for tunnels
involved outdated equipment which was unavailable in the international market. Redesign
was initiated to ensure reliability of the ventilation systems and to introduce advanced
equipment. The remaining E&M systems, covering the highway main alignment, were
designed by Chongqing Highway Design Research Institute in 1994. In 1997, the project
implementing agencies retained additional local experts to modify the design.
17.       The original design for the highway was consistent with Class 1 construction
standards. However, in retrospect, the standards which resulted from upgrading the route
raised concerns for the ICR mission, particularly as they affect safety on the new expressway.
These concerns are relevant for the future development of expressways in China.6
18.       Implementation and Construction Supervision. Construction of the Expressway
involved a major mobilization of technical, financial, and physical resources. Earth works
involved 67.9 million cubic meters. Structures comprised 2,070 drainage and pedestrian
culverts, 359 bridges (with total length of 17,592 linear meters, the longest single bridge
measuring 14,000 linear meters), and 10 two-lane twin tube tunnels with total length of
13,942 meters.7 The workforce employed for construction included, at peak strength, an
estimated 50,000 construction workers and 350 construction supervision personnel.
19.       Construction quality was a major issue highlighted throughout Bank supervision.
The surface of the road is asphalt and concrete: about 42.60 km of the expressway are cement
6 The mission's concerns related to: uneven width of roadformation, particularly the shoulder lane, which in
some cases was insufficient for emergency stops (In the western section of the expressway, the shoulder
lane is 2.25 meters wide, far short of the 3.5 meters required for stopping a vehicle. In the mountainous
middle section, lay-byes have been provided at 500-meter intervals to allow for emergency stops. The
eastern section of the expressway includes 3.56 meter wide shoulders which are sufficient for stopping.);
signing, marking, and safety facilities and patrols; design of drainage systems and retaining walls which
allow pedestrians to walk up to and along the main alignment; buses which frequently stop on the main
alignment or breakdown lane to pick up or release passengers; and the absence of weigh stations for
heavier vehicles or acceleration and deceleration lanes.
7   Two of the twin tube tunnels, the Jinyunshan Tunnel (left tube = 2,582 meters and right tube = 2,478
meters) and the Zhongliangshan Tunnel (left tube = 3,160 meters and right tube = 3,103 meters, plus
approaches) are the longest tunnels in China. Both are located in greater Chongqing.



- 7 -
concrete and the remaining 297.60 km are asphalt concrete surfacing. Quality problems were
also prevalent in the asphalt concrete sections within 18 months of completion of the
construction, despite that the expressway traffic levels were not very high. Contractors
completed repair works to asphalt and concrete sections, under warranty, during the period
September 1995 through September 1996.
20.     Concrete surfacing was considered appropriate due to ready availability of
materials, high expected traffic volumes and lower maintenance costs associated with concrete
pavements. However, major quality problems in construction of the concrete road sections,
largely due to labor-based workmanship and time pressure to complete works which led to
construction being carried out at night. Findings of the ICR mission indicate additional
factors which may have affected quality, including the adequacy of geological investigations,
design methodology, quality assurance plans, and supervision, the prequalification criteria
used for contractors, and work which exceeded contractors' implementation capacity.
21.     The Bank's emphasis on quality control, which began during implementation rather
than during preparation, appears to have increased intensity of supervision and helped
mobilize additional technical and manpower resources during construction. However, since
many of the quality problems stemmed from contractors' fundamental lack of experience and
poor performance, or inadequate design, much of the Bank's advice influenced the employer's
organization but could not address the root cause of the problems. Construction supervision
for the expressway works was provided by joint foreign-local teams, including a major firm of
Beijing-based experts. Foreign and local consulting firms helped assemble, train, and manage
the supervision teams. The construction supervision inputs were dramatically higher than
estimated at appraisal, totaling about 19,500 person-months instead of the 4,800 person-
months estimated: supervision contracts were amended to expanded road works and delays
in the construction program. Despite the large scale of this project, only three international
experts were resident during the construction period: much of their working time was
dedicated to processing the hundreds of variation orders and claims for payment associated
with highway civil works.
22.     From the perspective of provincial road agencies, the experience of using FIDIC
conditions for civil works and the establishment of an employer organization has been
positive, increasing efficiency in project management.  The training provided under
supervision contracts was also invaluable to key personnel involved in project management.
The province believes that the supervision and training activities are can be replicated,
providing institutional benefits beyond the given project.
23.     Electrical, Electronic, and Mechanical Works.  Following the decisions to
expand the new highway to Class 1, four-lane standard and to operate the entire route as a
limited access expressway, an electrical, electronic, and mechanical works (E&M) component
was added to the project. By 1994, a decision was made to reserve a portion of project funds
from the equipment category for E&M works, with a 100 percent disbursement rate to allow
utilization by the closing date.8 However, actual implementation of the E&M component was
8  At the time this decision was made, the closing date was December 31, 1994, the original closing date for
the project. The closing date was subsequently extended to December 31, 1996.



-8 -
delayed by several years due to lengthy procurement procedures (para. 82) technical
difficulties, contract negotiations, and the logistics of importing equipment.
24.      One of the three contracts, Contract Q3, covering tunnel ventilation and control
systems for the two major tunnels in Chongqing, was signed in late 1995: at the end of 1997,
however, supply and installation remain stalled due to flaws in power supply and software
design for the central control system. The remaining E&M contracts, Ql and Q2, comprise
systems for fiber optic telecommunications, automated toll collection, and traffic surveillance
systems (sign boards, computer software and hardware for monitoring)9. Throughout the
period of design and procurement for the E&M works, technological change has been rapid:
both bid packages were redesigned in April 1997 to accommodate changes in the
transformation system and capacity. Given the opening of the expressway to traffic nearly
two years ago, a portion of the E&M works had to be implemented outside of the major
supply and install contracts."1
25.      The E&M contract under implementation includes training designed to introduce
Chongqing personnel to the new tunnel ventilation and control systems. A portion of the
training was completed "on the job" in China through observation as the systems were
installed; additional local training covered topics such as ventilation, monitoring, power
supply, traffic management, central control, and fire protection. However, some of the most
critical training covers day-to-day maintenance and operation of ventilators, monitoring and
traffic control systems. This hands-on training should have been completed prior to final
commissioning of the E&M systems, but has been delayed due to continued negotiations on
the content, size, and cost of the training program.
26.      Specialized supervision services were obtained for tunnel ventilation and control
systems in the two largest tunnels (Contract Q3), with contracts signed in mid-1996. The
supervision team retained has a contract of only 7.5 person-months, with a team of non-
resident experts who travel to China to inspect the works at key points during the supply and
install process. This arrangement has proved difficult, given the lack of proximity of
supervision team to contractor or employer. The reviews and recommendations provided by
supervision consultants for the E&M works, covering commercial and technical issues, have
not been readily adopted by the employer, contractors, or subcontractors.   During
implementation, the Bank also dedicated little time to the supervision of E&M works, perhaps
because the E&M works were implemented after 1995, when the Bank ceased field
supervision of the project. Supervision of the remaining E&M contracts (Contracts Ql and
Q2) will be carried out by foreign-local teams, once again including a very small quotient of
foreign services.
9   Once completed, the E&M systems will provide emergency phones every 2 km, computerization of toll
booths and administrative offices, special phone systems connecting offices on the expressway, telephone
exchange centers, traffic counting equipment, surveillance cameras, and wireless telecommunications.
10 Works urgently needed for expressway operation, such as lighting for tunnels, toll stations, major
interchanges, and service areas, were procured under local procedures at a value of $6-7 million.



- 9 -
27.      Economic Evaluation of Chengyu Expressway." The Expressway investment as
a whole is estimated to generate net benefits resulting in an Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
of 15 percent, compared to the SAR estimate of 27 percent. The revised estimates are based
upon the actual cost incurred to date and estimates of future capital and recurring costs.
Benefit flows are based upon the actual corridor traffic during the 1990-95 period, revised
traffic projections for 1996 and beyond, and updated vehicle operating costs.
28.      The ICR evaluation took into consideration the phased opening of the sections of
the new expressway to traffic, and the analyzed corridor traffic as a whole in its evaluation, as
compared to the SAR analysis which did not take into account the northern route in the
corridor. Other main differences between the ICR and the SAR estimates are due to
significant increases in project cost and changes in benefit flows. Construction and project
supervision costs in particular were much higher than the appraisal estimates. The higher
costs are largely due to design changes which resulted in a higher-standard, widened route
(paras. 73-74): this has contributed to relatively lower vehicle operating costs, somewhat
improving the net benefits. In the initial years of expressway operation, traffic levels in the
Chengdu to Jianyang section (greater Chengdu) were higher than estimated in the SAR;
however, traffic in the longest, middle section from Jianyang to Laifengyi was lower than
estimated, and traffic in the Laifengyi to Chongqing section was roughly equivalent to SAR
estimates. The growth of small vehicle traffic, especially small passenger cars and trucks, has
been higher than expected, but the growth of large and articulated truck traffic has been
slower than expected. This traffic development pattern has resulted in a lower impact on the
benefits stream.
29.      Traffic and Toll Operations. The traffic volumes and utilization patterns for the
project corridor differ significantly from appraisal estimates. Traffic volumes in 1996 varied
between 9,500 and 15,000 vpd as against the SAR projections of between 8,000 and 11,800
vpd for different sections of the corridor. Traffic volume was about twice as much as
projected by the SAR on certain old roads in the corridor.
30.      The composition of traffic has also not developed as anticipated on appraisal. As is
characteristic of other regions of China, most freight is being carried by small freight vehicles
rather than the large vehicles anticipated: the proportion of large freight vehicles varies from
less than 1 percent to 10 percent of total traffic in different sections of the expressway, as
compared with SAR projections of approximately 10 to 30 percent of total expressway traffic.
Passenger traffic has grown more rapidly than expected, particularly small passenger vehicle
traffic, which equals 200 to 300 percent of appraisal estimates in some sections.'2
31.      The project feasibility study, design reviews, and SAR indicated the likelihood of
tolling sections of the new highway which offered significant distance savings over the
existing route, such as the tunnels and four-lane sections in greater Chengdu and Chongqing.
Ultimately, the entire highway was constructed as a four-lane, limited access toll facility,
1  A detailed economic evaluation is presented in Annex 1.
12  Passenger movements in the corridor were further supported by provincial transport department
investments in a large fleet of buses, which provide constant transport between the major cities of Chengdu
and Chongqing.



-10-
resulting in one of the longest toll roads in China. Unlike more recent Bank-financed
projects, this project did not include specific activities related to the establishment or
management of tolls (such as a study on toll levels); during supervision, toll operations
received little emphasis. A manual, prepaid toll collection system is being used for most of
the route: completion of the remaining E&M contracts is expected to provide fully automated
traffic counting and toll collection systems.
32.      A toll standard for the expressway, established in 1995, was revised in 1997: the
toll standard is based on several criteria, including affordability, location of toll collection
stations, benefits derived from using the new road, underlying debt of the expressway agency,
total cost of expressway operations, and government regulations for expressways. Toll
sharing arrangements between the east and west sections of the expressway were in place until
mid-1997, when the Sichuan section of the expressway was partially privatized (para. 114).
The impact of this transfer on sharing of toll revenues and interprovincial traffic movements is
not yet known.
33.      Environmental Protection.  A detailed Environmental Action Plan was not
prepared for this project: however, a report prepared by Sichuan Provincial Environmental
Bureau on the impacts of constructing the new Chengdu-Chongqing Highway was provided
during negotiations and found satisfactory. Environmental protection measures had been
addressed by the Sichuan Highway Planning, Survey and Design Institute and the Second
Railway Design Institute during the project design phase. Environmental impact reports
covering noise, ecological and air quality impacts were prepared and approved by the National
Environmental Protection Agency. Geological surveys for the expressway route were
prepared by Sichuan Highway Planning and Design Institute, a unit of Sichuan Provincial
Transport Department.
34.     The assessment as of appraisal, that the project would have no significant
environmental impacts, was seriously misinformed given the difficult mountainous terrain, the
long tunnels to be constructed, the extensive cultivation of land along the route, and the
historical significance of the corridor. In each of these areas, major implementation problems
arose, only some of which could be addressed within the project framework.
35.     The actual geological conditions for construction on the new alignment, using new
techniques and structures, proved much more serious than anticipated. The excavation, filling
works, and stabilization resulted in implementation delays of months and years, requiring
huge quantities of additional fill materials, extensive slope protection, and remedies for soft
soil and landslides.
36.     The geological difficulties presented by major tunnel construction were also poorly
understood during project preparation. During appraisal, two mines in the vicinity of
Chongqing tunnels were identified as potential concerns for environment and resettlement
impacts, but proved to pose only minor problems. 13 The general geological conditions of the
mountains, in contrast, raised problems of stabilization, ventilation, drainage, and at the
extreme, collapse during construction. Controlling the volume and flow of water became a
13  At present, one of the mines is in operation. The second was closed because of tunnel construction.



- I1 -
serious challenge during construction and operation, addressed through various trial
techniques but not completely solved, as evidenced by leaks and visible damage in the
tunnels.
37.      One of the benefits of the new highway is improved access to historic areas such as
Dazu (site of ancient stone carvings) and Zigong (site of dinosaur remains). Not surprisingly,
archaeological remains were discovered during construction, including a large tomb site
dating from the Ming Dynasty. These had not been anticipated during project appraisal, but
were handled effectively through local regulations which require highway authorities to
coordinate with archeological agencies during construction.
38.      The main environmental protection measures during construction included
planting, slope protection, construction of a car washing station, water leakage and rock
collapse resistance in tunnels, drainage systems, routine cleaning, the erection of noise
barriers, barriers between the carriageways to improve safety (New Jersey-type barriers or a
combination of plants and railings). Environmental conditions are now monitored by local
environmental protection agencies on an ad hoc basis.
39.      One of the major environmental issues which was not identified during appraisal
was air quality, both in tunnels and along the alignment generally. The length of the tunnels
on the expressway route required major ventilation systems, in order to avoid poor visibility,
rear-end collisions, and possible fire or explosion. The implementation experience shows that
local technology proposed for ventilation systems was outdated according to international
standards; considerable effort has been spent to design, procure and install appropriate
technologies for tunnel ventilation. More generic emission problems such as carbon dioxide
emissions from vehicles traveling on the expressway are, as in other regions of China, gaining
recognition as a serious problem. Motor vehicle emissions testing is not part of the regular
inspection for most vehicles in Sichuan or Chongqing: however, toll collection stations and
service areas on the expressway make ad hoc checking and minor repair of vehicles possible.
40.      Land Acquisition and Resettlement.  The land acquisition and resettlement
impact resulting from expressway construction was significantly greater than expected on
appraisal, as measured by cost of resettlement. Land acquisition and resettlement cost
increased 288 percent over appraisal estimates, due to much higher than expected unit
compensation rates for land. The actual number of people affected appears consistent with
appraisal estimates, but likely reflects incomplete reporting of resettlement impacts,
particularly on the indirectly affected population.
41.      In retrospect, the appraisal overestimated the amount of land required for the route,
which may have been due to the absence of advanced designs at the time of appraisal and lack
of understanding of how the project was planned and managed on the ground. The quantity of
land required was slightly higher than expected at the outset of construction due to widening
of the middle section of the expressway from two to four lanes. However, the land acquisition
for some sections of the route could accommodate the additional two lanes, due either to



- 12 -
explicit planning for four lanes or through zoning regulations"4 which made additional land
available during the course of implementation.
42.      The most substantial follow-up on resettlement occurred in late 1994, when a
special mission visited China to ensure that resettlement had been adequately managed in all
active transport projects, implying full restitution of assets, including housing and income, for
affected groups. The mission spent about two weeks in the Chengdu-Chongqing corridor,
contacting township and village authorities along the new Chengyu Expressway alignment
and obtaining first-hand information on the impact of resettlement. Despite advance
communication between the Bank and borrower and this extensive field review, applying the
1994 standards for analysis and review of resettlement to a project appraised in 1988 was
difficult. Data on only one section of the expressway was available to the mission; based on
this, an 81 percent increase in the number of people affected by the project and a 281 percent
increase in land acquisition and resettlement cost were estimated. Several specific issues on
compensation levels, procedures, and local access were also cited.
43.      The resettlement review mission correctly perceived that the impact of resettlement
was greater than expected on appraisal, and that the absence of reporting and monitoring made
it difficult to ensure equitable treatment and addressing of grievances. However, the way in
which these findings were handled by the Bank was not effective. First, no specific towns or
counties visited were recorded in the report of the resettlement mission: it vvas difficult to
assess the degree of coverage (or sampling) achieved by the mission, and there was no clear
point of reference for follow-up or remedies. Local implementation would ultimately be
critical for following up the Bank's concerns, and had assured a degree of responsiveness to
community needs.15 Second, the mission report was not provided to Chinese counterparts until
early 1997, more than two years after the original mission, providing little opportunity for
discussion or demonstration of how the resettlement issues had been addressed.
Rural Road Upgrading Program
44.      During negotiations, the Chinese delegation expressed concerns that the technical
and commercial documents required for the rural road upgrading program were not ready, and
questioned investment priorities among the rural road upgrading projects in the province. The
delegation requested exclusion of the roads identified for upgrading in the project, and
assistance for construction of rural roads selected at a later date. The terms of onlending also
proved to a barrier to Bank financing of the component (para. 75).
45.      As implemented, the upgrading program involved neither financing nor supervision
from the Bank; however, the program remained in the project description until closing. The
ICR mission found that the rural roads had in fact been upgraded, albeit by municipal
highway management agencies, rather than the expressway agency implementing the
14  For example, regulations stipulate that no further settlement is allowed within 30 meters of a newly-
constructed high-grade highway.
15  For example, the provision of additional pedestrian and vehicular access for local residents was addressed
during construction: the number of culverts constructed under the project was increased by at least 100%,
and additional contracts for access roads and pedestrian bridges were added to the project.



- 13 -
Chengyu Expressway component. The Ya'an-Hongya highway was upgraded to Class 3
standard, as appraised, with upgrading completed in 1995 instead of the original date of 1992.
The actual cost of upgrading exceed appraisal estimates by forty-one percent. The Fenggu-
Santai highway is being upgraded to Class 1 instead of the Class 3 standard expected on
appraisal: the road is being upgraded in stages and the entire program will be completed in
1998, instead the 1992 completion date estimated during appraisal. The current cost estimate
for upgrading of the Fenggu-Santai highway is more than seven times the appraisal estimate.
46.      The rural highways in this project were selected to improve road access in
relatively isolated areas of the province: the economic development potential of these areas is
now being realized, and these roads, part of a province-wide upgrading program, will be well-
integrated with the Sichuan high-speed network. The Fenggu-Santai highway is located in
Mianyang Prefecture, which is expected to be joined to Chengdu via a Class 1 or expressway-
standard route within the next five years. The Ya'an-Hongya highway will similarly provide
linkages to Class I or Class 2 interurban highways in north central Sichuan.
47.      Economic Evaluation of Rural Road Upgrading Program. Re-evaluation of the
rural road upgrading indicates an ERR of 16 percent for the Ya'an-Hongya highway (slightly
lower than the SAR estimate of 17 percent), and an ERR of the 18 percent for the Fenggu-
Santai highway (lower than the SAR estimate of 21 percent). The bulk of the benefits from
rural road upgrading are derived from VOC savings in both the ICR and SAR evaluations,
arising out of better road conditions, time savings, and generated traffic benefits. The actual
cost of the Ya'an-Hongya upgrading was in real terms close to SAR estimates. However,
construction as well as operating costs for the Fenggu-Santai upgrading are expected to be
much higher than the SAR estimates, due to an increase in technical standard for the road.
The analysis done during appraisal assumed 25 percent reduction in accident rates for both
rural roads following upgrading: however, the upgraded road conditions do not indicate
accident reduction, and accident benefits have not been quantified for the ICR analysis.
Road Safety Pilot Program
48.      By the time of project negotiations, it had been agreed that the road safety pilot
program would be financed strictly with local resources, with the implementation results'6
reported to the Bank by March 1990. However, the road safety pilot program was ultimately
not implemented, primarily due to institutional fragmentation, a lack of ownership within
China, and a lack of systematic follow-up by the Bank.
49.      While the initial road safety study was being prepared, major changes occurred in
the institutional responsibility for road safety, affecting the collection and analysis of accident
data." However, the Sichuan road safety component had a detailed preparation, and was
16  The road safety pilot program would be implemented in Chengdu, Neijiang, and Chongqing, the three
largest prefectures in the project corridor, based on available accident data. A computer program prepared
in Ya'an Prefecture during the first highway project was to be utilized for the pilot.
7 At the central government level, road safety responsibilities were transferred from the Ministry of
Communications (responsible for overall management of the highway sector) to the Ministry of Public
Security (responsible for a variety of police functions).



- 14-
targeted on a few municipalities by the time of appraisal. The broader institutional changes
could have complicated a policy dialogue on road safety, but do not explain the complete
absence of activity on this component. Rather, it appears that there was serious confusion and
a lack of clear responsibility for implementation among actors in China, -- provincial
authorities, expressway implementing agencies, the Highway Science Research Institute in
Beijing, and the municipalities chosen for implementation.
50.     The absence of working relationships between the Bank and concerned
municipalities and road safety agencies in Sichuan and Beijing was also a factor in the poor
outcome of this component. During project implementation, the road safety component
remained a part of the project objectives and description, listed consistently in Bank
supervision reports but absent from Aide Memoires and written communications with the
borrower. The lack of accurate and complete information gave the false impression that the
project was tackling road safety in a substantive way.
51.     Despite that the road safety program was not implemented, the importance of road
safety and its role in sector development is recognized. Road safety measures for the new
Chengyu Expressway have been adopted, including patrol, enforcement, improved signing,
rescue, and repair stations.
Road Management Systems
52.     The project included funding for development and implementation of a provincial
road data bank and pavement management system (in this case, the China Pavement
Management System or CPMS) and acquisition of road data collection equipment."8 The main
objectives included: (a) establishing a provincial road data base compatible with national
guidelines, comprising an inventory of permanent features and current condition of paved
roads; (b) beginning regular monitoring of the current condition of paved roads; (c)
identifying pavement overlay and strengthening needs and resource requirements for about
5,000 km of paved roads; and (d) pilot implementation of a maintenance planning and
management system, compatible with national guidelines, to enable a systematic approach to
maintenance programming. The terms of reference for these activities were ambitious,
including four major tasks and six sub-tasks to develop what would ultimately be an
integrated road management system.
53.     A road data bank has been established, managed by the Chongqing Highway
Survey and Design Institute and Sichuan Provincial Highway Bureau, covering three
categories of roads: expressway; trunk road; and county and village roads. In Sichuan
Province, all national and provincial roads are included in the road data bank. Pavement
management systems have also been established, including acquisition of specialized
equipment to evaluate pavement condition. The pavement management systems are currently
i8 In the SAR, the component is also called referred to as "Sichuan Highway Data Preparation, Pavement
Evaluation and Strengthening Program and Maintenance Management Study." Subsequently, the road
management system components implemented in Sichuan and numerous other provinces have been
generically termed "Road Data Bank and Pavement Management System" (or "RDBIPMS") components.



- 15 -
being utilized on the new Chengyu Expressway, with expansion to other high-grade roads
planned in the years ahead.
54.     Road agencies in Sichuan and Chongqing consider the RDB and PMS systems a
valuable addition to institutional resources for the sector. RDB and PMS are expected to be
extended to half of the counties and municipalities in Sichuan Province in the coming years,
and the program has facilitated several man-years in domestic and international training of
many highway personnel.
55.     However, the terms of reference for the Road Data Bank and Pavement
Management Systems were not fully addressed in Sichuan and Chongqing, both because the
scope of work was too ambitious given the resources and prior experience of the provinces,
and because specific aspects of the design or application constrain utilization of the systems.
In particular, the PMS systems developed could only be used on flexible pavements, limiting
its coverage to 60 percent of the Sichuan network and 18 percent of the Chongqing network.
Data generated by the system for maintenance planning therefore covers only a portion of the
network at present, and is not fully incorporated in the planning, programming and budgeting
functions of the provincial and municipal highway agencies: inputs from the traditional
planning and budgeting dominate for decision-making. In addition, the PMS system at
present appears to not incorporate the influence of budgetary constraints when assessing
potential maintenance and upgrading programs. As a result, some of the recommendations
produced exceed available resources and are impractical for provincial road management and
decision-making. The RDB systems have been constrained by a large amount of detail (at
least 700 items) required to be collected for roads included in the data bank.
56.     Implementation experience shows that resources required for the development of
road data bank and pavement management systems far exceeded estimates: the appraisal
anticipated only part of the hardware, software, and technical services needed to set up and
maintain the systems and in particular, did not foresee the large amounts of manpower
required. The actual manpower"9 well exceeded the total appraisal estimate of 80 person-
months: the system was developed over several years, mostly through full-time work by
specialized units within the highway agencies. The level of consultant services utilized was
lower than appraisal estimates, at 3 to 4 person-months instead of the 12 person-months
estimated in the SAR. Implementation experience indicates that the consultant services could
have been better structured if, instead of having only up-front training and assistance from
consultants, follow-up assistance was provided after the provinces had gained hands-on
experience in using the systems. The institutionalization of systems developed, both in terms
of organizational responsibility and staffing of RDB/PMS in the future, and the broader
integration of systems in the planning, programming, and budgeting processes for the
highway sector, are important for sustainability of the component.
19 Including time allocated by Sichuan and Chongqing highway sector personnel as well as specialized
technical assistance from consultants.



-16-
Staff Training Program
57.     The actual staff training completed by staff of Sichuan Provincial Transport
Department, Sichuan Provincial Expressway Administration Bureau, and Chongqing Major
Highway Construction Directorate far exceeded the estimates and content originally identified
for the project. As agreed during negotiations, $140,000 would be spent on equipment,
technical books, and the services of foreign lecturers for the provision of training in China.
An additional $560,000 would be allocated for 90 person-months of training in project
management and technical subjects.
58.     Actual implementation resulted in a program of $2.38 million, for training in a
wide array of construction, design, project management, finance, and road management
topics. The program provided 771 person-months of training. The actual training comprised
a combination of central government-managed programs and conferences, courses provided
by foreign consultants, and training overseas. Early in the period of implementation for this
project, a Technical Coordinating Unit was established in the Ministry of Communications to
manage training programs for all World Bank-financed projects. This proved a useful
arrangement and was required for the approval and financing of certain training courses, but
was less preferable than the Province's own-designed and -managed courses.
59.     The training program as designed included mostly classroom training and study
tours, but did not incorporate technical, hands-on training required for irmplementation of a
modem expressway. In addition to on-the-job training in construction supervision provided
during construction, specialized technical training for management of the E&M systems and
other aspects of expressway operation is needed.20 The specialized training associated with
specific works contracts is necessarily more structured than the other training in the project,
and cannot be easily restructured. The experience gained in this project indicates that future
training programs should incorporate specialized technical training and include monitoring of
training.
Equipment Procurement
60.      Project appraisal identified operations and maintenance equipment for the new
expressway and equipment to support the development of road data base and pavement
management systems in Sichuan. The equipment actually procured exceeded the amount
estimated on appraisal, and required extensive local funding in addition to the resources
available from the Bank loan and credit. As appraised, the project included procurement of
$8.22 of equipment; during implementation, $11.61 of equipment was procured. A larger
variety of equipment than expected was procured; covering road maintenance, office
equipment and road administration, road safety and rescue, facilities maintenance and
telecommunications. The equipment component was 70 percent funded i-rom local sources,
with Bank funds used for items identified during appraisal. Meanwhile, over 60 percent of the
loan/credit amount originally intended for equipment was used to finance E&M works added
to the project after approval (para. 33).
20  This training was included as part of the contract Q3, an E&M supply and install contract for tunnel
ventilation systems in the east section of the expressway.



- 17 -
61.     The laboratory equipment procured is being used in central laboratories in Chengdu
and Chongqing. In each city, certain pieces of equipment are unique (for example, bridge
testing equipment) and were previously unavailable equipment to road sector agencies.
62.     The project also included procurement of Bank-financed maintenance equipment,
supplemented by the provinces' own-funded procurement program.  The expressway
management agencies do not possess the resources for permanent equipment and repair
workshops. However, maintenance teams, each assigned a certain portion of the routine
maintenance equipment, are situated at 5 sites along the expressway route and mobilized as
needed.
Project Cost and Financing
63.     Project cost increased significantly during implementation, with final total cost of
$728.87 million, an 82 percent increase over the appraisal estimate of $399.77 million. In
local currency terms, total project cost was Y 4,871.75 million, a 207 percent increase over
the appraisal estimate of Y 1,586.15 million, reflecting substantial devaluation of the Chinese
yuan during the implementation period.
64.     The largest cost increases occurred in the main highway construction component,
where civil works cost increased by 234 percent, related costs of construction supervision
increased by about 700 percent, and the cost of land acquisition and resettlement increased by
288 percent. Project costs in nearly every category outpaced appraisal estimates. Most of the
cost increase resulted from expanded project scope, but underestimation of cost and quantities
for key inputs is also evident.
65.     Project financing differed significantly from the plan at appraisal. First, during
project negotiations, the total value of the loan and credit were reduced by $5.0 million, based
on Sichuan's decision not to finance the rural road component from the proceeds of the loan
or credit unless there were savings under the main highway civil works contracts. The terms
of onlending for rural roads contributed to this decision: funds for construction of the
expressway were onlent at a 4 percent interest rate, but for the rural roads, would have been
onlent at 12.75 percent (paras. 54-55). Ultimately, there were no savings in the project and
the rural road upgrading was financed by municipalities and villages in the immediate project
areas.
66.     Second, the expansion of project scope and major cost overruns necessitated
mobilization of additional funding sources. The original financing plan comprised 56 percent
of funding from provincial sources, 13 percent of funding from central government, and the
remaining 31 percent of funding from the World Bank Group. During implementation, the
central government provided a much larger than expected proportion of funding in line with
the increases in scope of the main highway construction component; the World Bank Group's
fixed pool of funds covered little of the largely expanded project budget. The actual
composition of funding for the project comprised 47 percent from provincial sources, 36
percent from central government, and the remaining 17 percent from the World Bank Group.



- 18-
67.     In late 1997, Sichuan Province refinanced its section of the project by establishing
a shareholding company which would manage its section of the Chengyu Expressway under a
30-year operating concession (para. 114).
Procurement and Contract Management
68.     The project preparation underestimated the complexity and challenges presented by
procurement and contract management for major civil works, and did not recognize China's
very limited experience with international procurement and major changes to design and
technical specifications. As appraised, the bulk of the highway construction works would be
procured under 12 unit-priced International Competitive Bidding (ICB) contracts, with small-
scale, advance construction or tunnel works to be completed under 5 National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) or force account contracts. As implemented, the expressway component
involved 39 contracts: 17 ICB and 5 NCB contracts for construction of nnain alignment, 3
supply and install contracts for E&M works, 10 direct contracts for widening of the mid-
section from 2 to 4 lanes, and 4 direct contracts for construction of access or adjacent local
roads. Additional NCB works contracts were implemented for upgrading of the rural roads.
Equipment and consultant services were procured according to the methods agreed during
appraisal for Bank-financed goods and services; however, in both the goods and services
categories, project needs far exceeded the list of items included in the Bank project. Shopping
or direct award were used for much of the additional procurement.
69.     The early years of implementation revealed that most local construction firms
lacked the manpower, financial resources, and equipment to execute the size contracts
envisioned for ICB procurement.21 By 1990, it was agreed between Sichuan authorities and
the Bank to divide several of the ICB contract sections into two, and to re-qualify contractors.
70.     The major design changes introduced between 1991 and 1995 required additional
procurement for widening and upgrading of the new highway, provision of E&M systems,
and construction of access roads and other local infrastructure. The manpower, technical, and
financial constraints of contractors were recognized in 1990: contract sections were halved
and additional contractors retained, resulting in a more appropriate scale of work for each
firm. Subsequently, widening works were assigned to the same contractors who were
constructing the adjacent two-lane contracts to avoid the complications of two independent
contractors working simultaneously on a single road section. However, the contractors' lack
of resources continued to be a serious constraint, contributing to delays of about two years in
completion of construction and impacting quality of the final product. The Class 1 standard
adopted for the route also required the addition of multiple interchanges, medians, and road
firniture, affecting procurement for the project. Most of the additions were achieved through
variation orders on the main construction contracts financed by the Bank, in many cases
amounting to well over 50 percent of contract value. -
71.     The amount of time required for technical preparation, procurement, and start-up of
works and supporting services was underestimated during appraisal: is was impossible to
begin construction within a year after appraisal, as expected, given the lack of final designs or
21 The initial procurement packaging assumed construction lengths of 42 to 60 km per contract.



- 19-
bid documentation for civil works. The contracting process moved smoothly, however, once
specialized international expertise was obtained to finalize the bidding documentation.
72.     Institutional arrangements and procedures for procurement were also more
complicated than anticipated on appraisal. Review and award for NCB contracts was done by
provincial authorities, including a bid evaluation leading group. Review and award for ICB
civil works contracts was carried out by highway agencies in Chengdu and Chongqing
together with the International Tendering Company in Beijing. Procurement for E&M supply
and install contracts, involving reviews and recommendations by provincial authorities
followed by approval of a central government committee, were extremely slow, suffering
from a lack of consensus in valuation. The bid validity period for each E&M contract was
extended by months: the period of bid evaluation and award stretched to two or three years.
Ultimately, only one of the three E&M contracts, Contract Q3 for tunnel ventilation and
communications in greater Chongqing, was signed during the project implementation period.
A second contract, Q2, for communications, traffic control, lighting, and toll collection
systems in the east section of the expressway, will shortly be negotiated: a similar contract
for the west section of the expressway, Contract Q1, remains under evaluation.22
Project Organization and Management
73.     The implementation arrangements as described in the SAR focused mainly on
management of the main investment component, construction of the new Chengdu-Chongqing
Highway.  Two major sections were defined based on the boundary of Chongqing
Municipality: a 226-km "west section" managed by the Sichuan Provincial Transport
Department, and a 114-km "east section" managed by the Chongqing Municipal Transport
Bureau. However, the construction and operation of the expressway was ultimately managed
by specialized, subordinate expressway development agencies: the Sichuan Provincial
Expressway Administration Bureau (west section); and the Chongqing Municipal Highway
Management Department (east section). The Bank's appraisal did not conceive of such public
sector expressway development agencies, which subsequently came to characterize most
Bank-financed projects in the sector, or their potential role.
74.     For most years of project implementation, there were no completed expressway
projects in China which could lend perspective for the development occurring in Sichuan,
requiring a coordinated approach to technical planning, project management, technical
quality, pricing, and expressway operations. Subsequent Bank operations in the sector have
placed increasing emphasis on institutional arrangements for expressway development,
including structure of implementing agencies and independent supervision teams,
qualification of contractors and contract management, E&M systems, pricing rationale (toll
levels), and maintenance arrangements.
75.     The implementation of other investment components, such as the equipment, road
management systems, and E&M works, resided either with the expressway development
agencies, parent agencies, or a municipal or provincial highway agency. However, some
22  Contracts QI and Q2 are expected to be completed by the end of 1998. Contract Q3 was expected to be
fully commissioned by the end of 1997.



- 20 -
components in the project, most notably the institutional components for road safety and staff
training, the rural road upgrading component, and environment and resettlement activities, did
not fall within the domain of the expressway agencies, and suffered from a lack of ownership.
Over the years, the Bank's relationships in the highway sector centered around expressway
development agencies, with minimal information flow to the Bank on components not directly
related to the expressway.23
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
76.      Factors not generally subject to government control. One of the main factors
affecting achievement of project objectives was the quality and intensity of Bank preparation
and supervision (paras. 95-103), which was not sufficient for a project of this complexity and
duration.
77.      Factors generally subject to government control. The main factors affecting
implementation were govermment commitment, which affected oversight and follow-up of the
road safety initiatives, and administrative procedures related to project formulation for
expansion and upgrading of the new highway (paras. 15-27 and 58-61) and procurement
processes which led to implementation delays in the project (paras. 78-82). A road sector
restructuring in Sichuan Province in mid-1997 has supported the partial privatization of one
section of the expressway, and will eventually affect the management of other project
components in Sichuan Province (paras. 112-116). Also in mid-1997, the recognition of
Chongqing as a municipality reporting directly to central government created clear distinction
between the two sections of the new expressway (para. 112).
78.      Factors generally subject to implementing agency control. The main factors
related to implementation delays or difficulties resulting from the implementing agencies'
procedures or limited experience, technical assistance which was utilized in a limited fashion
(paras. 104-108), and limited monitoring and evaluation in the project design (paras. 48, 53,
and 102).
79.      The project experienced major cost changes during implementation, amounting to a
207 percent total cost increase in local terms. The cost increase is primarily attributable to the
decision to significantly expand scope and upgrade the standard of the new highway being
constructed (paras. 15-22): for the main highway construction contracts in the project, 73
percent of the cost increase is attributable to variation orders24 and contractor claims, and 27
percent of the cost increase is attributable to inflation. Other contributing factors were
underestimation of the base cost of land (para. 50) and of the physical quantities required to
mitigate serious geological conditions along the route (paras. 45-46).
80.     Implementation delays in the project were significant:  the number of years
estimated in the SAR from project launch to physical completion was five years, but the latest
estimate of the elapsed period is ten years. The delays are attributable to unrealistic
23  During the ICR preparation process, basic information has been collected on these additional components
to provide a full summary of implementation results.
24  Associated with widening and upgrading the route to a Class I standard.



- 21 -
implementation schedule, particularly the duration of construction contracts; unexpected
technical difficulties including incomplete or insufficient designs, geological complications,
and poor performance of individual contractors; major expansion ofproject scope to construct
a full expressway instead of the highway appraised; inefficient procurement, particularly
affecting the E&M works; and natural disasters such as tunnel collapse and landslide.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
81.     During project implementation, problems of construction quality for the
expressway works were noted, and to some extent, rectified. However, an earlier-than-
expected pavement overlay will be needed, along with a program of routine and periodic
maintenance, to ensure sustainability of the expressway investment. The preparation of a
maintenance plan for the main alignment and the tunnels on the expressway did not receive
sufficient attention during implementation, and remains to be done. The expressway is
operated as a toll road, with sections managed under a public-private concession and a public
expressway authority: these arrangements provide incentives for provision of a reasonable
level of service to road users, including adequate routine and periodic maintenance.
82.     The equipment procured for maintenance and operation of the highway has proven
appropriate and, many cases, the first of its kind introduced to Sichuan Province and
Chongqing Municipality. The project implementing agencies have expressed some concern
about maintenance of the equipment in the medium- and long-term, due to scarcity of spare
parts on the local market. However, the equipment fleet is needed, fully utilized and likely to
be maintained.
83.     The RDB/PMS systems require a series of policy, resource allocation, and project
management decisions to be made in the short- to medium-term, if the system is to become
fully functional and self-sustaining. The decisions of central government agencies such as the
Ministry of Communications regarding the integration of RDB data and the further extension
of RDB and PMS are fundamental to sustainability of the numerous systems piloted
nationwide. At the provincial level, given the changes in project management for the project
(paras. 113-115), ownership and further development of RDB/PMS systems, which are tools
for management of the whole road network, is at issue.
84.     The sustainability of rural road investments under the project depend upon
adequate quality of the remaining construction works and subsequently, adequate routine and
periodic maintenance of the roads. The management of maintenance for these roads is the
responsibility of municipalities or counties who have to rely on local revenues for the
additional capital and recurring expenditures for the roads.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
85.     As designed, the project was consistent with Bank involvement in China's highway
sector by helping to build physical and institutional capacity, modernizing road agency
operations, introducing new methods of project management, and addressing the critical
policy issues for future development of the sector (in this case, road safety). Limited



-22 -
experience was available to inform the Bank's work, since this was one of the earliest Bank-
financed highway projects in China. However, the Bank's appraisal was also weak in
recognizing project risks and key variables, and underestimated the resources, technical
knowledge, and time required to develop a complex highway project. As implemented, the
project achieved many of its physical objectives, but provided limited opportunity to address
institutional and sectoral issues.
86.     The assessment of borrower and implementing agency capacity for and
commitment to physical components proved reasonable for the project scope as appraised, but
not for what was implemented. The Bank fundamentally did not understand the Chinese
vision for development of the corridor, including the very real options of accelerating the
addition of capacity through expanded construction and upgrading programs. The Bank's
appraisal of implementing agency capacity for and commitment to policy and institutional
components of the project was far less accurate. The initial assumption was too broad, that
subsidiary agencies or affiliates of the provincial transport departments would implement
various components, including coordinating their work across organizational or even
provincial boundaries. In actuality, the sectoral agencies, reporting responsibilities, and
political affiliations were more complex than the Bank realized, and coordination could not be
assurned.
87.     The low intensity of Bank resources did not permit the Bank's involvement in
major changes in project design, formulation of institutional components, changes in sector
management, and future operation of the project components. The intensity of Bank resources
during preparation was low; in total, less than forty person-days were spent on field
preparation (missions) from identification through appraisal stages of the project. The project
was supervised in the field every eight months during -the first few years, and subsequently
about once a year: the intensity of field supervision decreased as implementation difficulties
mounted, with the lowest supervision intensity during the critical periods of heavy
construction, E&M works, completion and commissioning of the expressway, and the
subsequent sector restructuring and privatization in Sichuan. The last field supervision
occurred in July 1995, eighteen months prior to loan closing. The choices made by the Bank
regarding supervision had costs in terms of the Bank's development role, providing little
opportunity to inform or help implement the decisions made regarding the expressway or the
larger road network.
88.     Continuity of staffing on the project was achieved, but skills mix was limited: the
project was primarily supervised using highway engineering skills and field supervision was
often carried out by the engineer alone, with the bulk of time consumed by inspection of the
large project construction sites. Specialized reviews were provided by resettlement experts
and pavement management consultants, but in each case, on only one occasion during
supervision.
89.     The Bank's reaction to the early design changes resulted in comrpartmentalization
of issues related to the project, which characterized supervision of the project and the
relationship with the borrower. When the Bank realized that the scope of the project had
increased from a two- to four-lane highway, it required that Bank funds not be used for the
additional works and that separate records and reports be kept for the Bank-financed and non-



- 23 -
Bank-financed works, but did not reassess economic or financial viability of the project. This
decision was unrealistic and inflexible, given that the design changes and additional
procurement were already under implementation at the time of the Bank's decision. In
addition, supervising only two lanes of a four-lane road, while consistent with the original
project description, did not address the likely development impact of the project.
90.      Subsequent technical changes, such as modification of tunnel design, further
upgrading of the highway standard to construct a limited-access expressway, and the decision
to toll the entire expressway and provide rest and service facilities appear to have not been
discussed with the Bank, nor did the Bank offer advice and assistance to the government in
establishing priorities among the additional investments under consideration. The Bank
assisted the borrower with certain technical aspects of the redesign, such as the tunnel
ventilation and E&M design, and encouraged strengthening supervision teams for the
additional works. However, critical institutional aspects of expressway development and
operation were not pursued, such as interprovincial traffic movement, toll operations, and
adequate safety facilities.
91.      The rural road upgrading and road safety pilot programs, both providing strong
rationale for the Bank's involvement in the Chinese road sector at the time of Board approval,
subsequently received no contribution of financial assistance or advice from the Bank, with no
information collected until ICR preparation. In the case of the rural road upgrading, road
improvements were completed outside the context of the Bank project. The Bank effectively
assisted the borrower to prepare the road safety component, including introducing highly
specialized consulting expertise to the sector; however, the road safety initiatives were
neither implemented nor followed up by the Bank at the level of project implementing agency
(in Sichuan) or central government technical institute or ministry (in Beijing) and there was
no continuity of road safety expertise in the project. More active Bank involvement could
have influenced implementation of the road safety component, whether to accurately
understand the institutional aspects of road safety for future Bank projects, or to redesign the
component into one more relevant for the revised project scope, such as an expressway safety
component.
92.     Project reporting was sustained throughout implementation, but its content did not
evolve along with the changes in project scope: the project description as of approval
remained largely intact in the Bank's supervision reporting, despite changes in project scope
and the several components which were neither financed nor supervised by the Bank. The
Bank's review of audit reports and progress reports was minimal during supervision, with
little or no feedback to the project implementing agencies, despite that the scope of the reports
did not consistently cover all project components. The appraisal included an implementation
plan and performance indicators covering the main physical investments: while effectively
implemented, these measures provided little information on policy and institutional
performance. Under these circumstances, the relevance of reports for overall management of
the project was minimal.
93.     The Bank's financial package turned out to be inadequate for the expanded scope of
the project, resulting in a 17 percent financing share instead of the 31 percent expected at
appraisal (paras. 75-76). The timing of Bank funding did not coincide well with project



- 24 -
implementation, due to delayed technical preparation and slow start-up of project activities,
particularly E&M activities. This resulted in extension of the loan closing date from
December 31, 1994 to December 31, 1996: however, even at closing, project investment
remained incomplete with the E&M works largely under preparation. Utilization of the Bank
funds clearly focused on financing major contracts in the expressway component and the
foreign costs of other components. This had negative implications on the Bank's financing of
institutional and policy components and likely contributed to a lack of supervision or follow-
up by the Bank.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
94.     Sichuan Provincial Transport Department gained experience in implementing
Bank-financed projects during implementation of a rural road upgrading component under the
Highway Project, the first Bank-financed project in China's highway sector. In retrospect,
this initial implementation experience had limited relevance for the current project. First, the
new project involved sub-agencies of the provincial transport departments, the Sichuan
Provincial Expressway Administration Bureau and the Chongqing Municipal Highway
Construction Directorate, agencies which became increasingly specialized and autonomous
during implementation. Second, the current project involved activities which had no linkage
to the first project, including construction of the Province's first major expressway,
international competitive bidding procedures for civil works and supply and installation,
modem project management systems, and significant policy and institutional strengthening
for the road sector.
95.     In retrospect, the borrower's preparation of the project was reasonable, considering
the extremely limited base of technical and managerial experience in developing large-scale,
high-grade highway projects.  The experience under this project highlighted several
deficiencies in the Chinese planning and preparation process, such as not sufficiently
identifying the needs and demands of the sector when initially designing the highway; failing
to recognize the technical complexity of the infrastructure needed; and not anticipating the
difficulties of procuring major works in China.
96.     The borrower's performance during project implementation varied among
components. The provinces demonstrated strong commitment and effort to the revised project
scope, both physical objectives such as construction of the new expressway, and institutional
development in establishing and equipping expressway management agencies in Chengdu and
Chongqing. The road management, staff training, and equipment components in the project,
also managed by provincial transport agencies (parent agencies to the expressway
implementing agencies), experienced strong commitment and allocation of additional
resources as necessary. Commitment to the rural road upgrading is difficult to assess, as the
component was implemented by local agencies with which the Bank had little contact.
Commitment to institutional objectives such as road safety was weak;, leading to non-
implementation of the road safety component.
97.     The borrower's performance in technical aspects of implementation demonstrated
initiative but highlighted many weaknesses in capacity, interagency coordination, and project



-25 -
management. The procurement processes, particularly the role of prequalification and the
evaluation of supply and install contracts, were weak and did not improve substantially during
implementation. The geological preparation and detailed design for tunnels and ventilation
systems also proved to be areas of technical weakness and inexperience. The technical
assistance provided for construction supervision, supervision of E&M works, and road
management systems was adequate, albeit far in excess of appraisal estimates. It is clear that
Sichuan and Chongqing counterparts valued technical contributions by experts, particularly
when those translated to training and development of local capacity.  However, the
effectiveness of independent supervision services appears only moderate, due to a low
intensity of services procured, the structure of contracts and services (particularly assistance
from consultants based abroad), and insufficient integration of consultant recommendations
in ongoing works.
98.     The series of changes to project scope and design were, in the early years, perhaps
misunderstood by the Bank to reflect intervention by provincial government. In retrospect, it
is clear that the design changes resulted from a series of technical and economic planning
decisions (paras. 15-22), but the Bank was not informed of these in advance and had limited
opportunity to inform or react to the decisions made. Despite the frustration this caused
during supervision, these actions had no repercussions as regards legal covenants or Bank
financing. The adequacy of counterpart funding was high, including a major funding
contribution from the Ministry of Communications to finance the upgrading and design
changes for the Chengyu Expressway.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
99.     Despite some of the shortcomings of implementation, the project is considered
satisfactory due to the major physical achievements and contribution to transport network
development in Sichuan. The main developmental objective of increasing high-speed
transport capacity was achieved and exceeded: the stream of economic benefits is sustainable,
assuming adequate planning and allocation of resources for maintenance and reconstruction.
The provision of road access to local communities is also expected to be fully achieved and
sustained, albeit through local implementation and without Bank assistance.
100.     The impact of the project on sector developmental objectives was mixed. A key
institutional component for improved road safety conditions was not implemented and the
outcome is unsatisfactory. The development of road management systems has been partially
successful, but requires greater resources, guidance, and ownership for full effectiveness and
sustainability. Institutional strengthening of highway agencies through training, acquisition of
equipment, and modernizing design, contract documentation and other technical aspects of
highway development are considered successful.
101.     A broader analysis of the institutional impacts of the project should also recognize
the experience gained by the provinces in implementing their first major expressway project,
which has contributed to sectoral development and road agency capacity building (paras. 104,
113-114). The benefits of this experience are being realized in the rapidly expanding



-26 -
expressway development program in both provinces, covering urban and interurban roads to
be constructed with local and international financing. The project has also provided assets
which facilitated private participation in the road sector. While this institutional development
was not explicitly cited during Bank appraisal or supervision, it reflects positive impacts of
project development.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
102.      Throughout project implementation, separate agencies in Chengdu and Chongqing
assumed responsibility for construction of the east and west sections of the expressway (para.
82). Initially, this division was natural, given the large geographic area covered by the
project: the distinction has become even more significant during operation of the expressway
and following political changes in Sichuan Province and Chongqing Municipality in mid-
1997. This created greater distinction between the management of east and west sections of
the Chengdu-Chongqing Expressway and ensures separate operation of the two expressway
sections.
103.      The transition from project development to commissioning and. operation was one
of the most important aspects of project implementation in Sichuan. For the first three years
of expressway operation, the implementing agencies functioned as semi-autonomous entities
with broad responsibility for development and management of the new expressway, including
toll collection, maintenance and road safety.25 Integrated financial management, including the
matching of revenues and expenditures for the expressway had not developed; finances were
managed through transfers to and from the provincial road agencies and finance bureaus in
Sichuan and Chongqing. The revenue collected during the first several years of operation
were insufficient to cover full operating, maintenance and financing costs of the expressway.
104.      Several important changes in project ownership and management occurred in
1997, including partial privatization as part of a larger sector restructuring.26 As of October
1997, operating rights for the west section of the expressway (managed by Sichuan Province)
had been granted to an public-private expressway development company which planned to
issue shares on the Hong Kong exchange. The proceeds of share issuance will be used for
additional investments in the Chengyu Expressway and adjacent high-speed roads: the
shareholding company will own control or minority shares in at least six additional
expressway projects, some adjacent to the Chengyu Expressway. Similar restructuring of the
Chongqing section of the expressway is expected. These changes in project management will
expand the pool of resources available for highway development;  however, because
regulatory issues such as competition, pricing, and impact on road sector management and
25  A regulatory framework for management of the new Chengdu-Chongqing Expressway was developed in
1995, involving three public notices and two official documents. A handbook describing regulations and
guidelines for road users and administrative units, prepared by the expressway bureaus, was also approved
by provincial authorities. Much of the equipment procured under the project is managed by the
expressway agencies, at maintenance depots and service areas along the route.
26 The partial privatization of the Sichuan project is one of several similar transactions involving Bank-
financed highway projects in China.



- 27 -
development have not yet been addressed, the transaction also poses risks to effective sector
management.
105.     The Ya'an-Hongya and Fenggu-Santai highways upgraded under the project are
expected to remain under the control of provincial and county highway agencies in Sichuan
Province. Within five years, both of these highways will adjoin expressways linking
Mianyang Prefecture with Chengdu Municipality.  The recent restructuring of road
management agencies in Sichuan Province is expected to have an impact on these highways,
as yet unknown.
106.     The investment in equipment associated with this project is being utilized for
development and management of other portions of the network. The central laboratory in
Chongqing, for example, has become a materials testing site for various classes of roads
throughout the municipality. In Chongqing, the 300 pieces of equipment procured for the
central laboratory in this project, including bridge inspection and pavement evaluation
equipment, have been converted to a quality testing station for the entire Chongqing highway
network. The quality testing station works on construction and major rehabilitation projects,
mainly for high-grade highways; the station is involved in the certification process for
construction work as well as testing the quality of construction materials.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
107.     The major changes in scope, cost, and development impact in this project, which
began immediately after project approval, should have triggered a serious intervention by the
Bank and a change in its style and level of supervision.
(a) A restructuring of the project was warranted, as was a mid-term review,
and given the delays in project implementation, field supervision should
have continued until project closing. For components which could not be
launched, even after an elapse of one or two years, a decision should have
been taken to restructure or cancel the components.
(b) The tools used for project management, including supervision reports,
progress and audit reporting, and procurement tracking, should have been
more realistic and explicit, reflecting changes and implementation
difficulties in the project.
(c) Supervision intensity, including the skills and level of staffing needed for
effective supervision and the frequency of field supervision, were less than
adequate in this project. The technical aspects of expressway design, road
management systems, and road safety are all areas which may have
benefited from greater assistance by the Bank.
(d) When a project includes activities or entire components which are not
financed by the Bank, decisions must be made on whether or how results
are linked to project objectives, and the implications for supervision. In the
absence of clarity, the effectiveness of Bank intervention cannot be
ascertained. The experience from this project shows that some non-Bank



-28 -
financed activities which were critical to project success, such as widening
works, should have been supervised by the Bank, as they directly affected
Bank-financed works. Other non-Bank-financed components, such as rural
road upgrading, which achieved results and addressed development
objectives without Bank assistance, should be attributed to the borrower's
capabilities and commitment, rather than Bank's involvement.
108.     The development of a major expressway network such as China's NTHS warrants
a specific set of technical and institutional arrangements, covering technical and design
standards, procurement, financing, and operation. As a financier of the expressway system,
the Bank should play a role in developing the project preparation framework for the NTHS,
including helping to acquire and disseminate technical knowledge and lessons from
implementation. First, the experience of this project shows that planning and procurement,
particularly for E&M and other technically complex works, need strengthening. Second,
several aspects of design standards, including those which affect safety on the NTHS should
be reviewed and standardized. Third, the project also shows that, while the institutional
components included in the original appraisal were not fully implemented, other institutional
strengthening relevant to expressway development and management was accomplished. The
Bank's future projects should include components relevant to development of the NTHS,
targeted on expressway agencies which are responsible for segments of the NTHS. At the
same time, in order to have a role in development of the NTHS, a greater focus on central
planning and approval processes is needed from the Bank.
109.     The institutional arrangements for implementation of Bank projects, particularly
for policy and reform-oriented components, need more careful appraisal and design. The
lessons from this project are; first, that institutional components require supervision by the
Bank; second, that an effective set of working relationships which need to be developed over
time, both among Chinese agencies and with the Bank, are fundamental to the success of non-
physical components;  and third, that greater flexibility is called for in design and
implementation of these components, particularly during periods of major sectoral change.
In this project, institutional and policy components related to expressway development and
management could have increased effectiveness of Bank involvement and borrower
ownership; consideration should have been given to modify existing components in this
direction.
110.     The Bank's 1995 review of road data bank and pavement management systems in
China has summarized the cumulative implementation experience of Sichuan Province and
various other provinces in developing and using the systems under Bank-fmanced projects. In
order to effectively utilize and disseminate the technologies, policy and managerial decisions
are now needed. The Bank should assist the government in formulation of a strategy for
further development of the systems and tailoring to local conditions; for provinces which
have systems in operation (such as Sichuan), the Bank should focus on ownership,
maintenance of the system, and integration with sectoral planning and allocation of resources.
111.     The rapid physical expansion of road infrastructure in China presents major
financial challenges; at the same time, transport agencies, like other public sector agencies,
are being restructured to respond to the current development challenges. The financial



- 29 -
constraints currently faced by China's road agencies, particularly in the less wealthy provinces
such as Sichuan, are driving sectoral change. Several lessons have been learned from this
project:
(a) Sector restructuring affects both central and provincial agencies, with
serious implications for Bank involvement in the sector. In order to
positively impact sectoral development, the Bank's assistance strategy for
the sector must reflect current realities. The Bank's role would benefit
from up-front institutional analysis, clear definition of roles and
responsibilities, and ultimately, a regulatory framework. The Bank's
involvement in major sector restructuring and private sector development
in the Sichuan project was defined, but also limited by, the range and depth
of its relationships in the sector and the specific legal agreements for the
project. In the future, project descriptions and legal agreements should take
into account the potential for privatization and the Bank's role in this
process.
(b) Phased construction and upgrading programs are a viable and important
form of development, particularly for resource-constrained provinces. This
reality should be recognized during future project preparation and
implementation, and the attendant risks and implications for economic
evaluation and sector development recognized. The utilization of road
infrastructure and specific investments made during a broad upgrading
program or privatization program cannot be assured during appraisal.
However, project evaluation, analysis, and supervision would benefit from
a better understanding of the client's long-term objectives, review of
financing plans, discussion of project management and operational
arrangements, and discussion of long-term development programs or
scenarios.  The economic re-evaluation of this project shows that
quantification of certain risks has a place in project analysis.
112.      The ex post facto review of environment and resettlement components in this
project led to recognition, both on the part of the Bank and the borrower, of shortcomings in
the planning and implementation of remedies to mitigate externalities from highway
development. However, because the original project design did not include monitoring
arrangements and the supervision did not emphasize environmnental or resettlement issues,
follow-up of specific issues was difficult. Future Bank operations which aim to supervise the
environment and resettlement components should ensure first, that there is agreement both on
the part of the Bank and the borrower to address issues, second, that mechanisms are built into
project design to allow monitoring and evaluation, and third, that detailed findings from
reviews are specific enough to be actionable.



- 30 -
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives       Substantial      Partial    Negligible   Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                             x
Sector policies                                                    x
Financial objectives                                                               x
Institutional development                             x
Physical objectives                     x
Poverty reduction                                                                  x
Gender issues                                                                      x
Other social objectives                                                            x
Environmental objectives                                           x
Public sector management                              x
Private sector development              x
B. Project Sustainability                Likely             Unlikely            Uncertain
Physical investments
Expressway construction                  x
Expressway communications                                                         x
Rural road upgrading                     x
Equipment                                x
Institutional objectives
Project management and supervision       x
Road Data Bank and                                                                x
Pavement Management Systems
Road Safety Pilot Program                                    x
Staff Training                                                                    x
C. Bank Performance                   Highly Satisfactory     Satisfactory        Deficient
Identification                                                     x
Preparation assistance                                                               x
Appraisal                                                          x
Supervision                                                                          x
D. Borrower Performance               Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory       Deficient
Preparation                                                        x
Implementation                                                     x
Covenant compliance                                                                  x
Operation (if applicable)                                          x
E. Assessment of Outcome        Highly                                             Highly
Satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory
x



- 31 -
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LoANS/CREDITS
Year of
Loan/Credit Title                           Purpose                approval Status
Preceding Operations
I.   Highway Project                       Provincial road network    FY85   Completed
Loan 2539-CHA/Credit 1954-CHA         expansion/improvement
2.   Beijing-Tianjin-Tanggu Expressway Project  See footnote /a     FY87   Completed
Loan 281 1-CHA/Credit 1792-CHA
Subsequent Operations
1.   Shaanxi Provincial Highway Project     See footnote /a         FY88   Completed
Loan 2952-CHA
2.   Jiangxi Provincial Highway Project     See footnote /a         FY89   Completed
Credit 1984-CHA
3.   Shandong Provincial Highway Project    See footnote /a         FY89   Completed
Loan 3073-CHA/Credit 2025-CHA
4.   Jiangsu Provincial Transport Project   See footnote /a         FY91   Completed
Loan 3316-CHA/Credit 2226-CHA
5.   Zhejiang Provincial Highway Project    See footnote /a         FY92   Ongoing
Loan 347 1-CHA
6.   Henan Provincial Highway Project       See footnote /a         FY93   Ongoing
Loan 3531 -CHA
7.   Guangdong Provincial Highway Project   See footnote /a         FY93   Ongoing
Loan 3530-CHA
8.   Fujian Provincial Highway Project      See footnote /a         FY94   Ongoing
Loan 3681-CHA
9.   Hebei/Henan National Highway Project   See footnote /a         FY94   Ongoing
Loan 3748-CHA
10.  Xinjiang Highway Project              See footnote /a          FY95   Ongoing
Loan 3787-CHA
11.  Shanghai-Zhejiang Highway Project      See footnote /a         FY96   Ongoing
Loan 3929-CHA
12.  Second Shaanxi Provincial Highway Project See footnote /a      FY96   Ongoing
Loan 3986-CHA
13.  Second Henan Provincial Highway Project   See footnote /a      FY96   Ongoing
Loan 4027-CHA
14.  Second Xinjiang Highway Project        See footnote /a         FY97   Ongoing
Loan 3643-CHA
15.  Second National Highway Project        See footnote /a         FY97   Ongoing
Loan 3654-CHA
/a These highway projects have typically included the following components: (1) construction of a major
expressway; (2) improvement of secondary or rural roads; (3) procurement of road maintenance
equipment; and (4) institutional development components, such as RDB and PMS programs, staff
training and selected subsector-oriented studies.



- 32 -
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle                              Date Planned            Date Actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)              N/A                    06/87
Preparation                                                                     10/87
Appraisal                                               01/88
Negotiations                                            04/88                  04/88
Board presentation                                      06/88                  06/88
Signing                                                                        02/89
Effectiveness                                           09/88                  05/89
Project completion                                      06/94                  06/97
Loan closing                                            12/94                   12/96
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENT: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL
($ million)
FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96  FY97
Appraisal estimate            8.00    17.00   65.00   100.00  112.00  122.00  125.00
Actual                        0.00    6.35   22.68   39.47   66.03   91.83   116.07  123.44 124.24
Actual as % of appraisal estimate  0.00   37.35   34.89   39.48   58.96   75.28   92.86
Yearlydistributionin%         0.00    5.11    18.26   31.77   53.15   73.91   93.42   99.35  100.00
Date of final disbursement                                                              July 1, 1997



- 33 -
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Estimated                  Actual
Key implementation indicators in SAR   Start    Complete        Start    Complete
Part A - Highway Construction
Prequalification of contractors including
Bank review                       06/01/88   08/30/88      05/20/88   04/25/89
Bid period
First phase                        09/01/88   11/30/88      05/25/89   01/03/90
Second phase                       10/01/89   12/30/89      05/28/90   01/04/91
Third phase                        01/01/90   03/30/90      02/28/94      ---
Receive and open bids, evaluation and
receipt by Bank of copy of Evaluation
Report and Government
recommendations
First phase                       12/01/88   01/31/89      10/20/89   12/08/89
Second phase                     01/01/90   03/30/90      08/28/90    11/13/90
Third phase                      04/01/90   05/30/90
Appoint supervision staff
First phase                                  06/30/90       04/01/90    11/01/94
Second and third phase                          -           03/01/91    12/31/96
Select consultants for organization of
supervision of works and award                10/30/88      03/30/89   02/22/90
contracts
Construction of highway
First phase                        03/01/89   02/28/94      05/01/90   05/01/93
Second and third phase             09/01/90   02/28/94      04/01/91    09/21/95
Establish ad-hoc highway organization           12/30/91      05/01/87   01/01/88
Part B - Provision of Specialized Equipment
for Pavement Evaluation
Prepare, with consultant assistance,
equipment lists, specifications and bid
documents for Bank review                     12/30/92      09/09/94    10/09/94
Invite bids                                     01/15/93      11/30/94    12/30/94
Evaluate bids                        04/01/93   04/30/93      04/15/95    05/22/95
Review by Bank of evaluation report and
recommendations for award          05/01/93   05/30/93      11/20/94   05/20/95
Award contracts                                 06/30/93      08/08/95   09/20/95
Delivery of equipment                           12/03/93       11/03/95    01/20/96
... Continued



- 34 -
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION (CONTINUED)
Estimated                     Actual
Key implementation indicators in SAR        Start    Complete         Start       Complete
Part C - Provision of Equipment for Paved
Road Strengthening and Betterment Program
Prepare, with consultant assistance,
equipment lists, specifications and bid
documents for Bank review                      12/30/92
Invite bids                                      01/15/93
Evaluate bids                          04/01/93   04/30/93
Review by Bank of evaluation report and
recommendations for award           05/01/93   05/30/93
Award contracts                                  06/30/93
Delivery of equipment                             12/30/93
Part D - Road Data Bank
Preparation of system                             12/30/90       01/17/90      10/30/90
Collection of data                                12/30/90       05/30/90      05/30/92
Preparation of software                           12/30/90                     07/18/93
Preparation of specifications and bid
documents for computer systems     01/01/91   06/30/91       07/01/93      02/01/94
Invite bids                                       07/15/91       10/20/93      12/30/93
Evaluate bids                          10/01/91   11/15/91      10/01/94      11/20/94
Review by Bank                         11/16/91   12/16/91       11/30/94      12/15/94
Award contracts                                   01/30/92       12/15/94      12/30/94
Testing and delivery                              07/30/92                     12/01/95
Part E - Consulting Services
Assistance in supervision and training for
construction supervision           12/30/88   06/30/94       09/01/89      11/01/92
Assistance in pavement evaluation and
preparation of a pavement
strengthening and betterment program    06/01/89             06/01/92      07/01/96
including equipment procurement
Assistance in setting up a road data bank
including equipment procurement    06/01/89                  06/01/92      07/01/96
Assistance in training Sichuan Provincial
Transport Department staff via studies,
seminars and workshops
Part F - Staff Training
Selection of trainees                             12/30/93       05/01/90      12/30/96
Placement of trainees                             12/30/93       07/20/90      03/15/97



- 35 -
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATIONS
Length (cm)        Traffic (1996 AADT)
Estimated   Actual    Estimated   Actual
Expressway Construction
Section 1: ChengdutoJianyang        58.50    58.50        6,855    9,579
Section 2: Jianyang to Laifengyi   245.55   245.55        5,177    5,168
Section 3: Laifengyi to Chongqing   36.50    36.50        9,144    9,874
340.55    340.55
Sources:   Estimates based on data provided in the Staff Appraisal Report.
Actual data provided by the ICR mission.
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
A road safety pilot study was included in the project as developed and appraised. This
was one of a series of policy components included in the group of highway projects approved
by the Bank in the late 1980s and early 1990s, whereby each project addressed a specific
policy issue. The road safety pilot study was to be based on a major technical assistance
effort conducted in 1986 under the first Bank-financed highway project in China (China:
Highway Project, Loan 2539-CHA/Credit 1954-CHA). The technical assistance included
analysis of the cost of accidents in China, based largely on data collected in Sichuan Province,
and a detailed coding manual for accidents to be implemented in several Sichuan prefectures.
The broad study of road safety was managed by the Highway Science Research Institute in
Beijing, a technical institute of the Ministry of Communications.
The study was to be implemented by the Sichuan Provincial Transport Department
with the assistance of municipal highway bureaus. During the process of loan preparation and
negotiation, the Chinese government decided to fund the program  solely with its own
resources.
The pilot study was never implemented in the Sichuan municipalities, as expected, and
appears to have suffered from a lack of ownership. Follow-up by the Bank was also poor:
while the component remained in the project description throughout implementation, no
reporting, communications, or field visits by the Bank took place.



-36 -
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS/a
(Y million)
Appraisal
estimate at January 1, 1988   Actual at December 31, 1996
Item                Local    Foreign   Total       Local    Foreign  Total
Chengyu Expressway
Works
Expressway construction       488.80    551.20  1,040.00    2,255.67   994.56 3,250.24
E&M                              ---       ---      --        126.43   96.37  222.80
Consultant Services for Supervision
andProjectManagement            5.18     4.44      9.62        52.39   25.35    77.44
RuralRoadUpgrading                  53.35    35.56    88.91        440.21    0.00  440.21
Staff Training                       0.00     2.60     2.60         11.32    4.78    16.11
Road Data Bank/
Pavement Management System           0.00     .2.92    2.92          0.00    13.61    13.61
Equipment/b
Asphaltic Concrete Testing        4.00      0.74     4.74           -       -        -
Road Maintenance                  0.00     22.70    22.70         9.77   23.38    33.15
Highway Administration              -        -        -          13.89    0.00    13.89
Expressway Safety and Facilities   ---                 ---5.32    17.68   23.00
Telecommunications                  ---      -        ---         5.61     0.00    5.61
Project Management and Development    ---      --        ---      259.73  1.27.93   387.66
Physical Contingencies              55.13    62.02   117.15           --      -        -
Price Contingencies                 9328    104.31   197.59           --      -        -
Subtotal                        699.74   786.41  1,486.15      2,832.11 1,303.66 4,135.77
Land Acquisition and Resettlement  100.00      ---   100.00       387.74       -   387.74
Total                           799.94   786.41  1,586.15      3,568.09 1,303.66 4,871.75
/a  Costs were converted at average exchange rates prevailing during implementation, unless otherwise
noted. The average exchange rates for conversion are 6.6533 for conversion of yuan-denominated
costs to dollars and 7.1057 for conversion of dollar-denominated costs to yuan.
/b  Costs converted at exchange rates prevailing during the years of procurement.



- 37 -
TABLE 8B: PROJECT COSTS/a
($ million)
Appraisal estimate
at January 1, 1988        Actual at December 31, 1996
Item                Local  Foreign    Total        Local    Foreign    Total
Chengyu Expressway
Works
Expressway construction        132.11    148.96   281.07       339.03    149.48   488.51
E&M                               ---       --                   19.00    14.48    33.49
Consultant Services for Supervision
and Project Management           1.40     120      2.60          7.87      3.53    11.40
Rural Road Upgrading                 14.42     9.60    24.02         66.16      0.00    66.16
Staff Training                       0.00      0.70     0.70          1.70      0.67    2.38
Road Data Bank/
Pavement Management System           0.00      0.80     0.80          0.00      1.58    1.58
Equipment)b
Asphaltic Concrete Testing         1.08     0.20      1.28           -         -       --
Road Maintenance                   0.00     6.14      6.14          1.47     2.75     4.22
Highway Administration               --       ---      -            2.09     0.00     2.09
Expressway Safety and Facilities     -        --       --           0.80     2.08     2.88
Telecommunications                   -        -        -            0.84     0.00     0.84
Project Management and Development     -        --        -          39.04     18.00    57.04
Physical Contingencies               14.90    16.75    31.65            -        -        -
Price Contingencies                  11.59    12.93    24.52            -        -        -
Subtotal                         175.50   197.24    372.74        478.01    192.58   670.59
Land Acquisition and Resettlement   27.03       --    27.03          58.28       -     58.28
Total                            202.53   197.24    399.77        536.29    192.58   728.87
/a  Costs were converted at average exchange rates prevailing during implementation, unless otherwise
noted. The average exchange rates for conversion are 6.6533 for conversion of yuan-denominated costs
to dollars and 7.1057 for conversion of dollar-denominated costs to yuan.
/b Costs converted at exchange rates prevailing during the years of procurement.



-38 -
TABLE 8c: PROJECT FINANCING
($ million)
Appraisal Estimates                       Actual
Government                            Government
World                                 World
Bank                                  Bank
Component            Provincial Central  Group   Total     Provincial  Central  Group   Total
Construction of Chengyu
Expressway           146.30   50.00    84.80  281.10       145.78   259.17  117.05 522.00
Rural Road Upgrading
Program               15.30    0.00     8.70   24.00        66.16     0.00    0.00  66.16
Implementation Support   0.00    0.00      2.60    2.60        7.51      0.00    3.89  11.40
Equipment                 0.00    0.00     8.20    8.20        8.05      0.00    3.56  11.61
Staff Training           0.00    0.00      0.70    0.70        1.88      0.00    0.50   2.38
Land Acquisition and
Resettlement          27.00    0.00     0.00   27.00        58.28     0.00    0.00  58.28
Contingencies           36.20    0.00    20.00   56.20         0.00      0.00    0.00   0.00
Project Development and
Management             0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00        57.04     0.00    0.00  57.04
Total             224.80   50.00   125.00  399.80       344.70   259.17  125.00 728.87
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
(Y million, 1996 prices)
Net Present
Costs /a   Benefits /b Value@ 12%   ERR(%)
Construction of Chengyu Expressway
ICR                                     8,195     27,634      1,117        15.47
SAR                                     1,830     27,251      2,552        26.60
Upgrading of Ya'an-Hongya Highway
ICR                                       76         314        16         15.65
SAR                                       70         251        19         16.69
Upgrading of Fenggu-Santai Highway
ICR                                      406       1,442        78         17.97
SAR                                       98        457         56         21.08
/a Sum of undiscounted cost stream; costs include investments and operations.
/b  Sum of undiscounted benefit stream.



- 39 -
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Cove-              Original    Revised
Agree-                    nant    Present  fulfillment  fulfillment
ment       Section       class    Status     date        date          Description of covenant     Comments
Credit   3.01 (a)           5        C                              Commitment to project objectives
and meeting obligations by
Beneficiaiy under the Project
Agreement
3.01 (b)          3        C                              Satisfactory onlending to
Beneficiary
3.03              5        CD                             Meeting requirements of General
Conditions, Sections 9.03 - 9.05
4.01              1        CD                             Maintaining adequate financial
recording and auditing reporting
requirement
Project   2.01              5        C                              Commitment to project objectives
and meeting obligations by
Beneficiary under the Project
Agreement
2.02              5        CD                             Compliance with Schedule 3 of
Development Credit Agreement
2.04 (a)          9        C                              Exchange of view with the Bank
2.04 (b)          9        C                              Information on interference with
project implementation
2.04 (c)          7        C                              Carry out resettlement actions as
agreed
3.01 (a)          I        CP                             Maintaining adequate financial
recording and auditing
requirement
5.02              5        C                              Authorization of personnel of the
Beneficiary
5.03 (a)          9        CP                             Commitment of providing
information to the Bank
Covenant Class:                                                                   Status:
I = Accounts/audits                8 = Indigenous people                       C   = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue    9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting     CD  = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries    10 = Project implementation not          CP  = complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project     covered by categories 1-9
funds                         11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
4 = Counterpart funding                 budgetary or other resources
5 = Management aspects ofthe            allocation
project or executing agency   12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6 = Environmental covenants             regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement       13 = Other
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
There was no significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Operational Manual
Statement (OD or OP/BP).



-40 -
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
(Staff Weeks)
FY              1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   Total
Preappraisal      7.9    8.8                                                                               16.7
Appraisal                 7.4                                                                                7.4
Negotiations              7.9                                                                                7.9
Supervision               0.4    2.3    8.4    7.6    7.0    5.0    8.0   16.9    5.3    4.6               65.5
Completion                                                                                  15.1   20.5   35.6
Total          7.9   24.5    2.3    8.4    7.6    7.0    5.0    8.0   16.9    5.3   19.7   20.5  133.1
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS /a
Performance rating
Imple-   Develop-
Month  Number  Days Specialized        menta-     ment
and       of      in    Staff Skills    tion      Objec-
Stage of Project Cycle     Year   Persons  Field  Represented /b  Status /c   tives   Types of Problems
Preidentification            --      --      --
Identification and Preparation   10/86  4   N/A  ECO, ENG, OO
Preappraisal                7/87      2       7   ECO, ENG
Preappraisal Follow-Up      10/87     2       3   ENG, ECO
Appraisal                    1/88     2       8   ENG, ECO
Negotiation                 4/88     ---     --
Board Approval              6/88     --
Signing                     2/89     ---
Effectiveness               5/89     ---     --
Supervision 1               3/89      2       3   ENG                 I        I
Supervision 2               11/89     3       4   ENG, TRG            2        1      Construction delays
Supervision 3               7/90      1       6  - ENG                2        1      Construction and procurement delays,
design changes, adequacy of supervision
Supervision 4               4/91      3       6   ENG, 00             2        1      Contractor resources, design, geological
difficulties
Supervision 5               11/91     2       6   ENG                 2        1      Procurement, construction delays, quality
control, supervision
Supervision 6               5/92      3       8   ENG, 00             2        1      Tunnel design, construction delays,
contractor performance
Supervision 7               3/93      2       6   ENG, CIS            2        1      Construction quality, procurement,
contractor resources and performance
Supervision 8               4/94      1       6   ENG                 2        1      Procurement, supervision arrangements,
construction quality
Supervision 9               11/94     1       8   ENG                U         S      Safety, construction quality, resettlement
Supervision 10              7/95      1       7   ENG                 S        S
Completion 1                 1/97     3      11   FA, ENG, 00         S        S
Completion 2                5/97      1      12   FA                  S        S
Sources: Bank supervision reports, quarterly progress reports, and communications in project file.
/a       This summary does not include: (i) a thematic resettlement review mission which visited transport projects in Sichuan, Chongqing,
and other provinces in late 1994; (ii) a specialized mission for review of Road Data Bank/Pavement Management Systems
components in China in mid-1995; and (iii) missions for preparation of the China Road Safety Pilot Study in Sichuan in 1986-87.
lb       CIS: Construction Industry Specialist; ECO: Economist; ENG: Engineer; FA: Financial Analyst; 00: Operations Officer;
TRG: Training Specialist.
/c       1: Highly satisfactory; 2: Satisfactory; S: Satisfactory; U: Unsatisfactory.
N/A indicates data not available.



-41-                      ANNEX 1
ANNEX 1: ECONOMIC EVALUATION
Preface
1.    The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) for the Sichuan Provincial Highway Project
(Report No. 7168-CHA) presents economic evaluation results for (i) the construction of a
340-km rural highway connecting Chengdu, the capital of Sichuan, with Chongqing, one
of the most densely populated municipalities in Sichuan and the largest industrial trade
center in southwest China; and (ii) the improvement of rural roads between Ya'an and
Hongya and between Fenggu and Santai from unclassified to Class III standards.
2.    The actual implementation of both road construction components deviated from
the project design as appraised. The new Chengdu-Chongqing Highway was originally
planned predominantly as a Class 2, two-lane rural highway with Class 1, four-lane tolled
sections in the urban areas of Chengdu and Chongqing, but underwent major design
changes.  The resulting Chengdu-Chongqing Highway, now called the Chengyu
Expressway, was constructed as a Class 1, four-lane divided highway throughout its
length, operated as a limited access (auto-only) toll expressway.
3.    The economic analysis presented in this ICR utilizes updated data on traffic,
vehicle operating cost (VOC), economic cost and road user benefits, taking into account
revised assumptions regarding future traffic growth. The ICR analysis takes into account
the entire road corridor between Chengdu and Chongqing in its evaluation, while the
SAR analysis did not take into account the shorter northern route which is part of the
corridor. The methodology used in the economic analysis for this ICR is similar to that
used in the SAR and incorporates the following assumptions:
(a)   Capital investment and maintenance costs have been revised to reflect
December 1996 prices and included in the cost stream;
(b)   The benefit stream, also reflecting December 1996 prices, has been revised,
and consists of savings in VOC, reduced traffic congestion on the existing
roads, and time savings;
(c)   A project life of twenty-five years (1989-2013) has been assumed;
implementation delays of two years for the expressway component and four
to seven years for the rural road components are reflected in the timing of
costs and benefits;
(d)   The capital investment period for the Expressway is from 1988 through
1999, the bulk of which is incurred between 1989 and 1995;



-42 -                      ANNEX I
(e)   The capital investment periods for upgrading works for the Ya'an-Hongya
and Fenggu-Santai rural highways are from 1992 through 1995 and from
1995 through 1998, respectively;
(f)   Based on the progress of construction of the Chengyu Expressway, partial
benefits began to accrue when sections around Chengdu were opened to
traffic in 1993; other sections were opened during 1994 and 1995. A
substantially higher level of benefits is assumed for the period following
full opening of the Expressway to traffic in 1995.
(g)   Investments in the years following opening of the Expressway to traffic
comprise E&M works for lighting communication and traffic: control and
will result in a modem expressway facility. Benefits accruing from
improved service levels are not quantified.
(h)   Full benefits from the upgrading of rural roads accrue from 1996 onwards
for the Ya'an-Hongya highway and, for the Fenggu-Santai highway,
benefit flow begins in 1999 when its upgrading is expected to be
completed.
4.    The Expressway was divided into three sections for the purposes of economic
evaluation in the ICR: Section 1 from Chengdu to Jianyang (58.5 km); Section 2 from
Jianyang to Laifengyi (245 km); and Section 3 from Laifengyi to Chongqing (36.5 km).
Cost and benefit analyses were carried out separately for each section, and for the
Expressway as a whole.
5.    Both in the case of the main highway construction and rural road upgrading
components, the scope of works actually completed exceeded appraisal expectations. As
appraised, the main highway component comprised construction of a new Chengdu-
Chongqing Highway with predominantly two-lane, Class 2 standards (252 km) and four-
lane, Class 1 standards used at the urban endpoints (totaling 88 km). In actuality, a 340.2
km four-lane Class 1 highway (the Chengyu Expressway) was constructed; the new
highway is operated as a limited access toll facility. The rural road upgrading component
ultimately involved a Class 3 standard Ya'an-Hongya Highway, as appraised, but a higher,
Class 1 standard was adopted for the Fenggu-Santai Highway.
6.    Cost and benefit analyses were carried out separately for each of the rural roads
upgraded under the project.
Corridor Traffic
7.    The 1996 corridor traffic and its distribution between the old roads in the highway
corridor and the new Chengyu Expressway is presented in the following table.



- 43 -                    ANNEX 1
CHENGDU-CHONGQING HIGHWAY CORRIDOR
NUMBER OF MOTORIZED VEHICLES PER DAY (AADT) FOR 1996
The Old    Chengyu      Present    Diversion
Corridor   Expressway    Corridor   Factor (DF)
(1)        (2)      (3)=(1)+(2)  (4)=(2)/(3)
SAR:
Section 1      1,934       6,855        8,789      78.00%
Section 2     2,775        5,177        7,933      65.27%
Section 3     2,646        9,144       11,789      77.56%
Actual:
Section 1     2,619        9,579       12,198      78.53%
Section 2     4,331        5,168        9,499      54.41%
Section 3     5,159        9,874       15,033      65.68%
Actual/
SAR Ratios:
Section 1    135.44%      139.73%      138.79%      -
Section 2    157.19%       99.82%      119.74%
Section 3    195.01%      107.98%      127.51%
Sources: Sichuan Provincial Expressway Administration Bureau,
Chongqing Major Highway Construction Directorate, and World Bank
missions.
8.    Comparisons between the SAR and ICR traffic data must be qualified as follows:
(a)   The traffic estimates prepared for the SAR included the old (existing)
Chengdu-Chongqing Highway (438 km) and the new Expressway, but did not
include other major highways in the corridor, such as the northern route from
Chengdu to Chongqing via Bishan (314 kIn).
(b)   The SAR traffic estimates presumed construction of a rural highway of four-lane
width at either end (totaling 88 km) and a two-lane mid-section (totaling 252
Iam). While early design reviews and the SAR acknowledged the possibility of
tolling the four-lane sections, it is not clear whether the SAR economic
evaluation incorporated this provision.
(c)   The ICR analysis attempts to include actual traffic data for all major roads in
the corridor, recognizing that the population density and economic activities



44-                       ANNEX 1
along other routes is significant. At the same time, the major design changes
in the project have dramatically increased capacity of the facility, doubling the
capacity of the longest, middle section of the route. For these reasons, the
SAR and ICR traffic data are not directly comparable.
(d)   As shown above, the 1996 corridor traffic (i.e., the sum of traffic on the
Expressway and parallel sections of the old roads, including the Chengdu-
Chongqing Highway and the shorter northern route via Bishan) was much
higher than the SAR estimates. The SAR did not explicitly project traffic on
the parallel northern route and did not anticipate the diversion of traffic due to
construction and upgrading.
(e)   The actual diversion of traffic to the Expressway has been at a lower rate than
the SAR estimates for Sections 2 and 3, or at about the same rate (Section 1).
At the same time, the actual traffic in the old highway and other parallel roads
has been significantly higher than SAR estimates (for example, more than 50
percent higher in Section 2 and almost double in Section 3). The overall
increase in corridor traffic over and above SAR expectations explains the
higher than anticipated traffic volume on the Expressway in 1996.
Traffic Projection
9.   In the SAR, the annual traffic growth rate for the new Expressway was assumed to be
8 percent per annum for freight traffic and 9.5 percent per annum for passenger traffic. The
generated traffic was assumed to be 10 percent to 30 percent. It was further assumed in the
SAR that a portion of railway traffic, both passenger and freight, would divert to the
Expressway.
10.   The ICR traffic projections for each of the three sections of the Expressway are made
taking into account, inter alia, the current patterns of traffic on the Expressway as
summarized below:
(a)   There has been a rapid buildup of traffic since expressway opening,
particularly in the road sections near the major cities of Chengdu and
Chongqing, in response to pent-up road transport demand;
(b)   Traffic in the middle, rural section (Section 2) of the Expressway has
increased at a relatively lower rate since its opening in 1994;
(c)   While the overall volume of traffic for the Expressway has been higher than
the SAR projections, diversions for Sections 2 and 3 from parallel routes in
the corridor, -- the old Chengdu-Chongqing Highway and the northern route --
are still below SAR projections;
(d)   The distance and time savings between some of the parallel sections of the
Expressway and the existing arterial roads, particularly the short northern



-45 -                      ANNEX 1
route, may not be large enough to assume higher diversion rates from the old
arterial roads to some sections of the Expressway;
(e)   Further economic development and trade along the parallel arterial roads is
expected to generate local traffic growth which could limit the rate of corridor
traffic diversion to the Expressway in the future; and
(f)   The potential rail freight and passenger traffic growth, which cannot be
handled by the railway because of full capacity utilization, is included in the
ICR passenger and freight traffic projections, taking into account overall
economic activity, transport costs, distance and time savings.
11.   The projected traffic including diverted traffic and generated traffic for the three
sections of the Expressway for the period 1993-2015, by vehicle type, is detailed in Table Al
of this annex. Actual traffic data has been used for the period 1993-1996. The generated
traffic is assuined to be 15 percent of the traffic in each of the Expressway sections. Growth
assumptions for freight and passenger traffic in subsequent years and the resulting traffic
volumes on each of the three sections of the Expressway are as follows:
CHENGYU EXPRESSWAY
TRAFFIC GROWTH RATE ASSUMPTIONS FOR THE PERIOD 1996-2015
Section 1              Section 2             Section 3
Years          Passenger   Freight     Passenger  Freight    Passenger  Freight
1995-2000       11.37%    11.97%        11.60%    12.21%       9.07%    9.52%
2000-2015       10.23%    10.77%        10.44%    11.00%       8.16%     8.57%
Sources: Sichuan Provincial Transport Department and Chongqing Major Highway
Construction Directorate.



-46 -                      ANNEX 1
COMPARISON OF SAR AND ICR TRAFFIC FORECASTS FOR SECTIONS OF THE NEW
CHENGYU EXPRESSWAY (AADT)
Section 1             Section 2             Section 3
Chengdu               Jianyang              Laifengyi
to                   to                     to
Jianyang             Laifengyi             Chongqing
SAR
1993                  5,368                 4,038                  7,142
1994
1995
1996                  6,855                 5,177                  9,144
2000                  9,498                 7,212                 12,712
ICR
1993                  2,937                     0                     0
1994                  5,268                   345                  2,625
1995                  8,458                 4,504                  8,403
1996                  9,579                 5,168                  9,874
2000                 14,880                 8,108                 14,041
2005                 24,484                13,501                 20,898
2010                 40,309                22,486                 31,102
Economic Costs
12.   Financial costs have been converted to economic costs (Tables A2 and A3) by
applying shadow prices shown in Table A4. The overall effect of the revised financial costs
and shadow prices is that the total economic cost of construction is about 200 percent higher
than the SAR estimate, at constant December 1996 prices. The economic vehicle operating
costs are given in Table A5.
COMPARISON OF ECONOMIC COST FOR CONSTRUCTION OF CHENGYU EXPRESSWAY
(Y million)
SAR
December      ICR
1996      December    ICR/ SAR
May 1988 equivalent      1996         (in%)
Total Construction Cost   1,132     1,830        5,469          299



-47 -                      ANNEX I
Economic Benefits
13.   The economic analysis includes the benefits derived from: (a) VOC savings for both
basic and generated traffic; (b) relieved congestion on the existing road; and (c) time
savings (Tables A6 to A9).
14.   Based on the actual traffic performance, it is estimated that between 54 and 78 percent
of corridor traffic has diverted to the new expressway. As a result, lower traffic levels are
assumed on the existing arterial roads, reducing congestion and VOCs. It is estimated that on
average, VOC is reduced by 29 to 34 percent in Section 1, 7 to 13 percent in Section 2, and
22 to 33 percent in Section 3 for different types of vehicles. However, after the year 2000,
traffic progressively increases and VOC would increase much faster than the vehicle traffic
capacity ratio. The ICR analysis recognizes this and costs are accordingly adjusted to reflect
the increasing congestion both in the old roads and on the new Expressway.
15.   The SAR assumed that there would be some reduction in accidents in the old highway
and the northern route following the opening of the Expressway to traffic. Benefits valued at
Y 2.2 million per year were originally assumed based on reduced accident costs. However,
given the complexity of the current corridor traffic and the multiple alternative routes, an
analysis of corridor safety is needed to quantify such benefits. The accident data for Sichuan
Province and Chongqing Municipality do not support this corridor analysis, due to fractured
or overly generalized reporting. Since the opening of the road to traffic, there appears to
have been a reduction in the severity of accidents, due to driver education or engineering
improvements (for example, improved ventilation systems in tunnels and signing for reduced
speeds). The ICR analysis does not assume that this trend can be sustained over time, and
takes a conservative view by not quantifying accident reduction benefits in the evaluation.
Overall Economic Evaluation
16.   The overall ERR on the expressway component is estimated to be 15 percent versus
the SAR estimate of 27 percent (Table A6). Total costs and benefits streams, Economic Rate
of Return (ERR) and Net Present Value (NPV) for each section of the Expressway are
presented in Tables A7 to A9 and summarized as follows:
SAR                  ICR
Best estimate of rate of return           27%                   15%
NPV (12%, Y million)                     NA                   876
17.  It may be seen from the sensitivity analysis (Table A6) that in future: (i) an increase
of 100 percent, or doubling, of the operating costs would lead to reduction in ERR to 13.2
percent; (ii) lower traffic growth would increase congestion savings but depress VOC
benefits, and reduce the overall ERR to 13.8 percent; (iii) poor maintenance practices and
consequent road deterioration would increase VOC costs and result in an ERR of 13.2



- 48 -                     ANNEX 1
percent; and (iv) a combination of higher operating costs and lower traffic growth would
depress the ERR further to 12.2 percent.
Economic Evaluation of Rural Roads Component
18.   The ICR estimates that the Ya'an-Hongya road upgrading would yield an ERR of
15.7 percent, slightly lower than the SAR estimate of 17 percent (Table AlO). ICR costs are
about 109 percent of the SAR estimates in constant 1996 prices. Compared to the other
investment components in the project, the SAR estimates are relatively closer to the ICR
estimates based on actual performance. On the benefits side, the bulk of the benefits are
derived from VOC savings. The project appraisal overestimated the traffic; only a little over
70 percent of the traffic forecast by the SAR actually materialized in 1995. This might have
been due to occasional closing of sections of the road while the upgrading works were being
done. There has been no evidence of reduction in the accident rate on this road, hence the
accident reduction savings envisaged in the SAR have not been quantified or included in the
ICR evaluation.
19.   The ICR estimates that the ERR of Fenggu-Santai road upgrading is 18 percent, as
compared with the appraisal estimate of 21 percent (Table Al 1). The construction and
operating cost estimates are much higher than the SAR estimates, as the road is now being
upgraded to a full Class 1 standard. SAR projections had underestimated the traffic on this
road: the SAR forecast for 1995 was 30 percent less than the actual motorized traffic in 1995
in terms of annual average daily traffic (vpd). Over 80 percent of benefits derive from VOC
savings. As in the case of the other investment components, for want of evidence, accident
reduction benefits have not been considered in the evaluation.



TABLE Al: CHENGYU EXPRESSWAY TRAFFIC SUMMARY (AADT)
Small Truck           Medium Truck           Large Truck           Tractor-Trailer     Small Passenger Vehicle     Medium Bus             Large Bus          All Traffic (AADT)
Without                Without               Without                Without                Without                Without               Without                 Without
With Project Project - With Project  Project - With Project Project - With Project  Project -  With Project Project -  With Project Project - With Project Project -  With Project Project -
Old  Project  Old    Old  Project   Old    Old  Project  Old    Old  Project  Old           Old   Project Old    Old  Project  Old    Old  Project  Old         Old  Project  Old
Corridor Road  Corridor Corridor Road  Corridor Corridor Road Corridor Corridor Road  Corridor Corridor   Road Corridor Corridor Road Corridor Corridor Road Corridor Corridor Road Corridor
Section I
1990      704       0    704    993       0     993      97             97    80      0        80    816       0     816     297      0   297       37       0     37    3,357     0   3,357
1991      810       0    810   1,143      0   1,143    112             112    92      0        92    939       0     939     342      0   342       42       0     42    3,865     0   3,865
I"2       933       0    933   1,316      0   1,316    129             129   106      0       106   1,081      0   1,081     393      0    393      49       0     49    4,450     0   4,450
1993      692    577   1,154    877    768   1,491    .91    6         141    58    64        109    633    806   1,278      230   293    464       28    366      58    2,869 2,937   5,219
1994      560   1,165   1,492    739   1,317   1,793     69   11       159    40    94        115    520   1,419   1,655      189   516   602       23    645      75    2,353 5,268   6,567
1995      654   1,764   2.065    690   1,872   2,188     58   15       185    35    13         45    540  2,558   2,586       196   930   940       24   1,162   1,17    2,419 8,458   9,185
1996      706   1,412   1,836    752   2,219   2,527     63   65       584    38    26         59    583  2,899   2,902      212  1,054  1,055      26   1,318   1,31    2,619 9,579  10,282
2000      930   2,219   2,317    991   3,488   3,191     83  1,02      737    50    41         74    796  4,460   3,664       290  1,621  1,332     36   2,028   1,66    3,502 14,88  12,981
2005     1,249   3,701   2,819   1,330   5,817   3,882    III  t,70    897    67    68         90   I,111  7,258   4,458      404  2,634  1,621     50   3,300   2,02    4,777 24,48  15,793
2010     1,677   6,173   3,190   1,786   9,700   4,392    150  2,84    1,015    90   114      102   1,551  11,812   5,044     564  4,294  1,834     70   5,370   2,29    6,523 40,30  17,869
20t5    2,252  10,294   3,609   2,398  16,177   4,969    201  4,74    1,148   121   190       116   2,164  19,223   5,706     787  6,989  2,075     98   8,739   2,59    8,906 66,35  20,217
Section 2
1990    1,086      0   1,086   1,261      0   1,261    274             274   186      0       186    960       0     960     240      0   240       33       0     33    4,337     0   4,337
1991    1,175       0   1,175   1,346     0   1,346    298             298   212      0       212   1,044      0   1,044     266      0   266       36       0     36    4,700     0   4,700
1992    1,271       0   1,271   1,437     0   1,437    324             324   244      0       244   1,135      0   1,135     295      0   295       39       0     39    5,098     0   5,098
1993    1,391       0   1,391   1,666     0   1,666    372             372   279      0       279   1,311      0   1,311     350      0   350       44       0     44    5,817     0   5,817
1994    1,390      72   1,448   1,390    27   1,412    328    3        355   326      1       327   1,123    116   1,216     425    42   459        52      53     57    5,510   345   5,786
1995    1,050    988   1,840   1,136    888   1,846    380   42        718   217      2       219    760  1,242   1,754      292   448    650       45    513      86    4,290 4,504   7,893
1996    1,119   1,227   2,101   1,121    990   1,913    301   44       659   142    26        163    886  1,468   2,060      316   477    698       44    532      87    4,331 5,168   8,465
2000     1,504   1,945   2,652   1,509   1,570   2,415    403   71     832   189    41        206   1,209  2,277   2,601      432   740   881       60    825   1,10    5,853 8,108  10,687
2005    2,099   3,277   3,227   2,072   2,645   2,938    550  1,19    1,013   257    69       250   1,686  3,741   3,165      601  1,216  1,072     84   1,356   1,33    8,109 13,50  13,003
2010    2,930   5,522   3,651   2,846   4,457   3,324    751  2,01    1,146   350   117       283   2,351   6J147   3,581     837  1,998  1,212    1,17  2,228   1,51   11,239 22,48  14,712
2015    4,091   9,305   4,130   3,909   7,510   3,761   1,024  3,39    1,297   475   197      320   3,378  10,399   4,051   1,166  3,282  1,372    1,66   3,660   1,71   15,705 37,75  16,645
Section 3
1990     1,025      0   1,025   1,423     0   1,423    339             339   337      0       337    763       0     763     361      0   361       38       0     38    4,631     0   4,631
1991     1,006      0   1,006   1,447     0   1,447    397             397   314      0       314    837       0     837     377      0   377       42       0     42    4,799     0   4,799
1992      988       0    988   1,522      0   1,522    469             469   295      0       295    921       0     921     421      0   421       47       0     47    5,088     0   5,088
1993     1,491      0   1,491   1,422     0   1,422    333             333   385      0       385   1,367      0   1,367     627      0   627       89       0     89    6,517     0   6,517
I994     1,571    398   1,889   1,134    199   1,293    999   18    1,149   348       8       354   3,283    992   4,077   1,219   372  1,517    1,59    468   1,96   10,148 2,625  12,248
1995      890   1,418   2,024    652    505   1,056    650   48    1,035   453    10          461   1,484  3,533   4,310     571  1,258  1,577      60   1,198   1,56    5,305 8,403  12,027
1996     1,036   1,932   2,582    591    499    990    379   39        695   275      7       281   1,891  4,814   5,742     557  1,242  1,551      43    985   1,21    5,159 9,874  13,058
2000     1,348   2,780   3,259    764    718   1,250    491    56      877   355    10        354   2,505  6,813   7,249      736  1,758  1,958     56   1,394   1,53    6,768 14,04  16,486
2005    1,785   4,193   3,965   1,006   1,083   1,521    647   85    1,068   464    15        431   3,381  10,085   8,820     993  2,602  2,382     76   2,063   1,87    9,043 20,89  20,057
2010    2,365   6,325   4,486   1,324   1,634   1,721    853  1,29    1,208   609    17       488   4,565  14,928   9,979   1,338  3,851  2,695    1,03   3,054   2,11   12,089 31,10  22,693         -
2015    3,133   9,542   5,076   1,742   2,464   1,947   1,123  1,95    1,367   798    25      552   6,163 22,097  11,290   1,804  5,701  3,049    1,39   4,520   2,39   16,158 46,30  25,675
Sources: Sichuan Provincial Expressway Administration Bureau, Chongqing Major Highway Construction Directorate, and World Bank missions.



TABLE A2: SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC COSTS FOR
CONSTRUCTION OF THE CHENGYU EXPRESSWAY
(Y million)
1988    1989   1990      1991     1992     1993    1994   1995   1996   1997   1998    1999  2000  Total
Financial Costs
(Current)
Section 1: Chengdu-Jianyang    0.000   49.285 103.654  125.483  131.036    92.124    8.103  13.023   0.686  12.500 48.084   0.042  0.000  584.021
Section 2: Jianyang-Laifengyi   0.000   34.955  67.520  373.789  670.077   642.681  477.078 239.492   2.931  11.134 36.360   0.180  0.000 2,556.195
Section 3: Laifengyi-Chongqing  2.804   12.090  99.415  172.635  199.391   163.047   81.257  39.270  60.967  42.417  0.444   0.222  0.000  873.960
Total       2.804   96.329 270.589  671.907 1,000.504   897.852  566.438 291.785  64.585  66.051 84.888   0.444  0.000 4,014.175
Economic Costs
(December 1996 Prices)
Section 1: Chengdu - Jianyang   0.000   83.727 165.594  190.315  187.830   120.684    9.806  12.876   0.667   0.486  0.083   0.041  0.000  772.108
Section 2: Jianyang - Laifengyi  0.000   70.476 125.838  605.957 1,015.060   868.783  537.751 236.270   2.900   2.114  0.361   0.180  0.000 3,465.691
Section 3: Laifengyi - Chongqing 5.711   23.820 176.669  289.837  315.268   227.457   93.576  39.517  57.484   1.221  0.444   0.222  0.000 1,231.225
Total       5.711  178.023 468.102 1,086.109 1,518.158: 1,216.924  641.133 288.663  61.051   3.821  0.888   0.444  0.000 5,469.025



- 5 1 -                          ANNEX 1
TABLE A3: COMPONENTS OF TOTAL PROJECT COST /a
(Y million, in current prices)
Construction of Chengyu Expressway /b
Civil Works
Main alignment and widening                                                2,687.317
Bridges and tunnels                                                         405.373
Access and local roads                                                       157.549
E&M Supply and Installation
Toll facilities, traffic control, and communications - main alignment        105.000
Tunnel ventilation                                                           117.800
Land acquisition and resettlement                                                 387.744
Implementation support                                                             77.743
Equipment for central laboratory, maintenance,
administration, and expressway management                                       75.649
4,014.175
Rural Road Upgrading Program /c                                                        91.970
Road Data Bank/Pavement Management Systems                                             13.605
Staff Training Program                                                                 16.106
Engineering design and project management                                            387.660
Total              4,523.517
/a Reflects total financial costs at December 31, 1996.
/b Unadjusted financial costs included in economic evaluation of Chengyu Expressway.
Ic Unadjusted financial costs included in economic evaluation of Ya'an-Hongya and
Fenggu-Santai rural highway upgrading.



TABLE A4: SHADOW PRICE CALCULATION
(Y million, December 1996 prices)
Chengdu - Jibnyang           Jianyang - Shanjiapo          Shanjiapo - Laifengyi          Laifengyl - Chongqing
Financial                   Financial                       Financial                      Financial
Conversion                       Eco-                            Eco-                           Eco-                           Eco-   Total
Factor    Local Foreign  Total nomic    Local Foreign Total   nomic   Local Foreign  Total   nomic  Local Foreign  Total   nomic  Project
Land            1.00      43.36    0.00  43.36 43.36    151.5   0.00  151.59 151.59    56.7    0.00  56.79  56.79     83.93    0.00   83.93  83.93
Ltbor:
tlnskilled     1.00       8.67    0.00   8.67  8.67     36.0   0.00   36.05  36.05    12.4    0.00  12.49  12.49     18.46    0.00   18.46  18.46
Semiskilled/    0.67     58.60    0.00  58.60 39.26    222.1   0.00  222.14 148.84    53.4    0.00  53.47  35.83     79.03    0.00   79.03  52.95
Technician
Supervisor     2.00      16.98    3.08  20.05 37.03     64.3   8.92   73.30 137.67    19.4    5.48  24.96  44.44     28.80    7:09   35.88  64.68
Materials:
Steel          1.00      19.21    1.90  21.12 21.12     71.7   5.52   77.28  77.28    31.8    0.00  31.87  31.87    47.10    0.00   47.10  47.10
Timber         1.00      9.58    0.00  9.58  9.58      35.8   0.00   35.88  35.88      1.2    0.00   1.24   1.24     1.84   0.00    1.84   1.84
Cement         1.00     24.24    0.00  24.24 24.24     77.4   0.00   77.42  77.42    33.8    0.00  33.89  33.89     50.09    0.00   50.09  50.09
Sand          0.80      118.12    0.00 118.12 94.50   439.9   0.00  439.99 351.99    122.2    0.00  122.28  97.82    180.74   0.00   180.74 144.59
Bitumen        1.00      17.66   20.17  37.83 37.83    79.4  64.15  143.63 143.63    18.7   15.39  34.15  34.15     27.72   19.89   47.61  47.61
Other         0.80       13.46    0.41  13.88  11.19    51.8   1.20  53.04  42.68    39.0    0.00  39.02  31.21     57.67    0.00   57.67  46.13
Fuel:
Diesel          1.00      13.24    0.00  13.24  13.24    51.5   0.00   51.50  51.50    28.6    0.00  28.65  28.65     42.35    0.00    42.35  42.35
Gasoline        1.00       0.91    0.00  0.91  0.91       3.4   0.00    3.43   3.43    11.2    0.00  11.24  11.24     16.62   0.00    16.62  16.62
Heavy oil      1.00      0.00    0.00   0.00  0.00      0.0   0.00    0.00   0.00     0.1    0.00   0.10   0.10      0.15    0.00    0.15   0.15
Others         1.00      0.46    0.00   0.46  0.46       1.7   0.00    1.72   1.72    0.0    0.00   0.05   0.05      0.08    0.00    0.08   0.08
Water           0.80       0.27    0.00   0.27  0.22      1.2   0.00    1.20   0.96     1.5    0.00   1.55   1.24      2.30    0.00    2.30   1.84
Electricity     1.50       2.83    0.00   2.83  4.24      9.9   0.00    9.96  14.94    19.1    0.00  19.12  28.68     28.26    0.00    28.26  42.39
Construction    1.00       5.02.   0.00   5.02  5.02     17.0   0.00   17.00  17.00     6.5    0.00   6.53   6.53      9.65    0.00    9.65   9.65
Mechanical      1.00      42.54   63.66 106.20 106.20   159.4  42.01  201.49 201.49    49.6   33.95  83.64  83.64     73.44  170.14   243.58 243.58
equipment
Other           0.80      61.25   83.59 144.84 132.59   241.8  96.32  338.20 289.82    11.9   47.59  59.51  57.12     17.61   61.53    79.15  75.62
456.41  172.81 629.22 589.66   1,716.7 218.11 1,934.821,783.89   518.1  102.41 620.55 596.98    765.83  258.65 1,024.48 989.66
Overall conversion factor                      0.94                            0.92                          0.96                            0.97     0.94
Note:    All figures are rounded.
Shadow exchange rate = I.0.



TABLE A5: ECONOMIC VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS
(Y per km, December 1996 prices)
Road Condition and Terrain
Good                              Fair                               Poor
Flat               Mountain-      Flat               Mountain-      Flat                Mountain-
Rolling    Hilly       ous        Rolling     Hilly       ous       Rolling     Hilly       ous
Four-lane road
Small car          0.929      0.970       1.000      1.041      1.082       1.113       1.348      1.388      1.419
Small bus          0.993      1.178       1.329      1.144      1.329       1.481       1.464      1.632      1.784
Medium bus         1.565      1.818      2.036       1.851      2.120       2.339       2.440      2.676      2.895
Large bus          3.335      4.067      4.718       3.715      4.474       5.098       4.501      5.233      5.857
Small truck        0.834      1.043       1.199      0.939      1.147       1.304       1.147      1.330      1.512
Medium truck       1.332      1.641       1.951      1.487      1.827       2.137       1.796      2.137      2.478
Large truck        1.787      2.190      2.593       1.989      2.416       2.794       2.366      2.794      3.197
Tractor/trailer    3.737      4.928       5.959      4.059      5.283       6.314       4.832      5.991      7.054
Two-lane road
Small car          1.033      1.078       1.112      1.158      1.203       1.237       1.498      1.544      1.578
Small bus          1.131      1.342       1.515      1.304      1.515       1.688       1.668      1.860      2.033
Medium bus         1.783      2.071      2.320       2.109      2.416       2.666       2.781      3.049      3.298
Large bus          3.602      4.392      5.095       4.012      4.832       5.505       4.861      5.651      6.325
Small truck        0.945      1.182       1.359      1.063      1.300       1.477       1.300      1.507      1.713
Medium truck       1.537      1.894      2.252       1.716      2.109       2.466       2.073      2.466      2.859
Large truck        2.063      2.527      2.992       2.295      2.789       3.225       2.731      3.225      3.689
Tractor/trailer    4.108      5.419       6.552      4.463      5.808       6.942       5.313      6.588      7.756
Source: Mission estimates based on Chinese data and Yangtze Economic Zone Transport Study.



TABLE A6: OVERALL ECONOMIC EVALUATION FOR THE CHENGYU EXPRESSWAY
(Y million, December 1996 prices)
Base Case                                                 Sensitivity Analyses - Net Benefits Assuming
Costs                                    Benefits
100%                             Operating cost
Reduced                                   increase in            Poor mainte-  increases and
Construc- Operations and            VOC    Time   Congestion  Generated    Total      Net       operating  Low traffic  nance and road   low traffic
Year     tion     Maintenance    Total    Savings Savings   Benefits    Traffic    Benefits    Benefits  costs     growth    deterioration    growth
1989       183.73         0.00     183.73     0.00    0.00       0.00      0.00     0.00     (183.73)    (183.73)   (183.73)      (183.73)      (183.73)
1990       468.10         0.00     468.10     0.00    0.00       0.00      0.00     0.00      (468.10)    (468.10)   (468.10)     (468.10)      (468.10)
1991      1,086.11        0.00    1,086.11    0.00    0.00       0.00      0.00     0.00    (1,086.11)   (1,086.11)  (1,086,11)    (1,086.11)    (1,086.11)
1992      1,518.16        0.00    1,518.16    0.00    0.00       0.00      0.00     0.00   (1,518.16)   (1,518.16)  (1,518.16)   (1,518.16)    (1,518.16)
1993      1,216.92        1.41    1,218.33    21.11   19.98    232.51      1.86   275.46      (942.88)    (942.88)   (942.88)     (942.88)      (942.88)
1994       641.13        13.90     655.04    68.96   76.12     244.97      5.54   395.59      (259.45)    (259.45)   (259.45)     (259.45)      (259.45)
1995       288.66        35.03     323.69   263.26  249.22     177.73     24.12    114.32      390.63      390.63     390.63        390.63       390.63
1996        61.05        68.76     129.81   296.09  260.01     175.97     27.18    759.25      629.44      629.44     629.44        629.44       629.44
1997         3.82       129.25     133.07   329.06  287.76     189.36     30.29    836.47      703.40      574.15     642.27        757.90       513.02
1998         0.89       129.25     130.14   365.73  318.51     203.78     33.76    921.77      791.63      662.38     723.66        833.96        594.41
1999         0.44       129.25     129.69   441.15  385.62     228.26     40.90  1,095.92      966.23      836.98     883.99        991.09       754.74
2000         0.00       375.89     375.89   440.31  378.55     208.78     40.82  1,068.46      692.57      316.68     610.80        828.82        234.91
2001         0.00       129.25     129.25   480.45  411.30     217.71     44.85  1,154.31     1,025.06     895.81     935.62       1,005.91       806.37
2002         0.00       129.25     129.25   523.26  446.89     226.90     49.11  1,246.17     1,116.92     987.67    1,019.30      1,060.96       890.05
2003         0.00       129.25     129.25   571.29  485.56     236.22     53.78  1,346.84     1,217.59    1,088.34    1,110.97     1,119.31       981.72
2004         0.00       129.25     129.25   623.73  527.57     245.98     58.89  1,456.17     1,326.92    1,197.67    1,210.47     1,180.19     1,081.22
2005         0.00       375.89     375.89   681.01  573.21     256.02     64.49  1,574.74     1,198.85     822.96    1,071.65      1,082.04       695.76
2006         0.00       129.25     129.25   734.67  613.73     260.78     69.80  1,678.98     1,549.73    1,420.48    1,412.51     1,208.19     1,283.26
2007         0.00       129.25     129.25   791.82  656.73     265.89     75.46  1,789.90     1,660.65    1,531.40    1,512.76     1,205.69     1,383.51
2008         0.00       129.25     129.25   853.10  702.33     270.15     81.55  1,907.13     1,777.88    1,648.63    1,618.55     1,196.62     1,489.30
2009         0.00       129.25     129.25   918.75  750.63     272.09     88.11  2,029.57     1,900.32    1,771.07    1,728.74     1,179.40     1,599.49
2010         0.00       568.48     568.48   987.38  801.70     274.58     95.15  2,158.82     1,590.34    1,021.87    1,405.74      830.11        837.26
2011         0.00       129.25     129.25   910.99  745.53     248.84     88.30  1,993.65     1,864.40    1,735.15    1,693.28      771.56      1,564.03
2012         0.00       129.25     129.25   815.08  677.74     217.84     80.25  1,790.92     1,661.67    1,532.42    1,506.77      426.59      1,377.52
2013    (2,306.65)      129.25  (2,177.40)   684.36  504.39    183.24     67.48  1,439.47     3,616.87    3,487.62    3,489.94    2,375.68      3,360.69
NPV                    876.17      368.98     577.17        354.76        69.98
ERR                   14.62%      13.16%     13.79%        13.24%       12.23%
Note:    Construction salvage value at 50% of original cost is assumed in year 2013.
Total economic cost = Y 8,194.81 million.
Total economic cost of expressway construction = Y 5,469.02 million.
First year benefit ratio = 13.10%.



TABLE A7: ECONOMIC EVALUATION FOR SECTION 1 (CHENGDU-JIANYANG)
(Y million, December 1996 prices)
Costs                                            Benefits
Operations                                         Reduced
and                      VOC         Time      Congestion   Generated    Total
Year    Construction Maintenance    Total         Savings    Savings     Benefits    Traffic     Benefits     Net Benefits
1989          83.73        0.00       83.73          0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        (83.73)
1990         165.59        0.00      165.59           0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00       (165.59)
1991         190.32        0.00      190.32           0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00       (190.32)
1992         187.83        0.00      187.83           0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00       (187.83)
1993         120.68        0.00      120.68          21.11       19.98      20.49        1.86       63.44        (57.25)
1994           9.81        2.34       12.15          37.32      35.19       16.76        3.28       92.55          80.40
1995          12.88        3.48       16.36          59.91      63.41       16.84        5.18      145.34         128.98
1996           0.67        8.23        8.89          70.63      71.90       18.24        6.11      166.89         158.00
1997           0.49       15.66       16.15          78.83      80.08       19.62        6.82      185.35         169.21
1998           0.08       15.66       15.74          87.98      89.18       21.10        7.62      205.88         190.14           (,,
1999           0.04       15.66       15.70         107.29      109.19      23.86        9.29      249.63         233.93
2000           0.00       51.28       51.28         103.54      104.52      22.36        8.80      239.23          187.95
2001           0.00       15.66       15.66         112.30      113.13      23.13        9.72      258.29         242.63
2002           0.00       15.66       15.66         120.48      122.42      24.15        10.54     277.59         261.93
2003           0.00       15.66       15.66         130.56      132.42      25.03        11.43     299.44         283.78
2004           0.00       15.66       15.66         141.43      143.19      26.11        12.38     323.11         307.45
2005           0.00       51.28       51.28         153.15      154.78      27.22        13.41     348.55         297.28
2006           0.00       15.66       15.66         161.01      161.97      27.85        14.06     364.89         349.23
2007           0.00       15.66       15.66         168.85      169.01      29.24        14.70     381.80         366.14
2008           0.00       15.66       15.66         176.57      175.79      30.27        15.32     397.95         382.29
2009           0.00       15.66       15.66         184.07      182.19      29.54        15.91     411.71         396.05
2010           0.00       94.91       94.91         189.57      188.05      30.01        16.45     424.08          329.17
2011           0.00       15.66       15.66         188.90      207.29      32.01        16.48     444.68         429.02
2012           0.00       15.66       15.66         212.62      235.10      33.03       20.07      500.81         485.15
2013        (327.56)      15.66    (311.90)         233.47      180.77      35.16       22.17      471.57         783.47
NPV                      462.16
ERR                     19.04%            -
Note:  Construction salvage value at 50% of original cost is assumed in year 2013.



TABLE A8: ECONOMIC EVALUATION FOR SECTION 2 (JIANYANG-LAIFENGYI)
(Y million, December 1996 prices)
Costs                                      Benefits
Operations                                   Reduced
and                   VOC       Time   Congestion Generated    Total         Net
Year      Construction Maintenance   Total     Savings    Savings    Benefits    Traffic    Benefits  Benefits
1989           70.48        0.00      70.48       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00     (70.48)
1990           125.84       0.00     125.84        0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00    (125.84)
1991          605.96        0.00     605.96       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00    (605.96)
1992         1,015.06       0.00   1,015.06        0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00   (1,015.06)
1993          868.78        0.83     869.61       0.00       0.00     155.80      0.00     155.80    (713.81)
1994          537.75        4.39     542.14        8.53      9.26     141.70       1.00    160.48    (381.66)
1995          236.27       23.11     259.38      133.83     93.41     112.97      15.22    355.43       96.05
1996            2.90       45.25      48.15      150.78     99.50     115.97      17.18    383.42      335.27
1997            2.11       87.46      89.58      168.68    111.03     125.07      19.22    424.01      334.43
1998            0.36       87.46      87.82      188.72    123.91     134.89     21.50     469.02      381.20
1999            0.18       87.46      87.64      229.88    152.33     150.72     26.18     559.11      471.47                  CN
2000             0.00     244.84     244.84      234.05     152.66    139.67      26.67    553.05      308.21
2001             0.00      87.46      87.46      257.84     167.96    146.39      29.39    601.57      514.11
2002             0.00      87.46      87.46      284.33     184.79    153.11      32.41    654.63      567.17
2003             0.00      87.46      87.46      313.54    203.30     160.09      35.74    712.66      625.20
2004             0.00      87.46      87.46      345.75    223.66     167.31      39.41    776.13      688.67
2005             0.00     244.84     244.84      381.26    246.06     174.79      43.46    845.57      600.73
2006             0.00      87.46      87.46      417.91    268.79     178.87      47.64    913.22      825.76
2007             0.00      87.46      87.46      457.57    293.59     182.72      52.17    986.06       898.60
2008             0.00      87.46      87.46      500.94    320.64     186.30      57.12   1,064.99     977.53
2009             0.00      87.46      87.46      548.35    350.14     189.54      62.52   1,150.55    1,063.09
2010             0.00     388.72     388.72      600.17    382.30     192.39      68.44   1,243.30     854.59
2011             0.00      87.46      87.46      550.90    338.06     172.60      62.93   1,124.50    1,037.04
2012             0.00      87.46      87.46      463.46    280.26     149.68      52.97    946.37      858.91
2013       (1,425.37)      87.46  (1,337.91)     350.56    206.52     123.27      40.11    720.46    2,058.37                  z
NPV                   83.00
ERR                 12.43%                   -
Note:  Construction salvage value at 50% of original cost is assumed in year 2013.



TABLE A9: ECONOMIC EVALUATION FOR SECTION 3 (LAIFENGYI-CHONGQING)
(Y million, December 1996 prices)
Costs                                     Benefits
Operations                                Reduced
and                 VOC       Time   Congestion Generated    Total         Net
Year    Construction Maintenance  Total    Savings   Savings   Benefits    Traffic    Benefits   Benefits
1989          29.53       0.00   29.53         0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      (29.53)
1990         176.67       0.00   176.67        0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00     (176.67)
1991         289.84        0.00  289.84        0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00     (289.84)
1992         315.27       0.00  315.27         0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00     (315.27)
1993         227.46       0.58  228.04         0.00      0.00      56.22      0.00      56.22     (171.82)
1994          93.58       7.17   100.75       23.11     31.67      86.52      1.26     142.55       41.80
1995          39.52        8.44   47.95       69.52     92.40      47.92      3.72     213.55       165.60
1996          57.48       15.29   72.77       74.68      88.61     41.76      3.89    208.94        136.17
1997           1.22       26.13   27.35       81.54     96.65      44.67      4.25     227.11       199.76
1998           0.44      26.13   26.57        89.03    105.42      47.79      4.63     246.87      220.30
1999           0.22      26.13   26.35       103.98    124.10      53.67      5.43     287.18      260.83
2000           0.00       79.77   79.77       102.72    121.37     46.75       5.35    276.18       196.41
2001           0.00       26.13   26.13      110.31     130.21     48.19       5.74    294.45       268.32
2002           0.00       26.13   26.13      118.45     139.69     49.64       6.16    313.94       287.81
2003           0.00       26.13   26.13      127.19    149.84      51.10      6.61     334.74       308.61
2004           0.00       26.13   26.13       136.56    160.72     52.56       7.10    356.93       330.80
2005           0.00       79.77   79.77       146.61    172.38     54.01       7.62    380.61       300.84
2006           0.00       26.13   26.13      155.75    182.96      54.05       8.09    400.86       374.73
2007           0.00       26.13   26.13       165.40    194.13     53.92       8.59    422.04       395.91
2008           0.00       26.13   26.13       175.58    205.90     53.58       9.12    444.19       418.06
2009           0.00       26.13   26.13       186.32    218.30     53.01       9.68    467.31       441.18
2010           0.00       84.85   84.85       197.64    231.35     52.18      10.26    491.44       406.59
2011           0.00       26.13   26.13       171.19    200.19     44.22       8.89    424.48       398.35
2012           0.00       26.13   26.13       139.00    162.39     35.13       7.21    343.74       317.61
2013       (553.72)       26.13 (527.59)      100.33    117.09     24.81       5.21    247.44       775.03
NPV                  331.01
ERR                 16.30%
Note:  Construction salvage value at 50% of original cost is assumed in year 2013.



TABLE AIO: ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF YA'AN-HONGYA ROAD UPGRADING
(Y thousand, December 1996 prices)
Traffic Volume in
Converted Units               Costs                              Benefits                                          Sensitivity Analyses
Low Gen
Traffic, Op
Non-                                                                                                                            Cost lncr of
motorized           Operations                                                                Generated    Operating    Total      100%, and
All       &                   and                 VOC                                                 Traffic      Cost       Benefits     Other
Traffic   Tractors   Construc-   Mainte-            Net   Generated    Time       Total      Net    Decreases of  Increase of  Reduced by    Benefits
Year  (AADT)  (AADT)    tion          nance      Total    Savings   Traffic   Savings   Benefits    Benefits    50%         100%         20%     Dccr by 20%
1990      624        184       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
1991      704        192       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
1992      799       203   22,400.00      0.00   22,400.00     0.00     0.00      0.00       0.00 (22,400.00)  (22,400.00)  (22,400.00)  (22,400.00)  (22,400.00)
1993      914       219   19,718.00      0.00   19,718.00     0.00     0.00      0.00       0.00 (19,718.00)  (19,718.00)  (19,718.00)  (19,718.00)  (19,718.00)
1994     1,053      243   16,202.00      0.00   16,202.00     0.00     0.00      0.00       0.00 (16,202.00)  (16,202.00)  (16,202.00)  (16,202.00)  (16,202.00)
1995     1,224      280   14,114.00      0.00   14,114.00     0.00     0.00      0.00       0.00 (14,114.00)  (14,114.00)  (14,114.00)  (14,114.00)  (14,114.00)    J)
1996     1,285      294        0.00    184.00     184.00  11,173.00    363.00    569.00   12,105.00   11,921.00    11,921.00    11,921.00    11,921.00  9,572.60    
1997     1,350      309        0.00    184.00     184.00  11,736.00    382.00    604.00   12,722.00   12,538.00    12,347.00    11,890.00  9,993.60  9,231.00
1998     1,417      324        0.00    184.00     184.00  12,323.00    401.00    640.00   13,364.00   13,180.00    12,979.50    12,532.00    10,507.20  9,738.90
1999     1,488      340        0.00    184.00     184.00  12,943.00    421.00    677.00   14,041.00   13,857.00    13,646.50    13,209.00    11,048.80    10,274.50
2000     1,562      357        0.00    184.00     184.00  13,585.00    442.00    719.00   14,746.00   14,562.00    14,341.00    13,914.00    11,612.80    10,832.20
2001     1,640      375        0.00    184.00     184.00  14,262.00    464.00    763.00   15,489.00   15,305.00    15,073.00    14,657.00    12,207.20    11,420.00
2002     1,722      394        0.00    184.00     184.00  14,972.00    487.00    809.00   16,268.00   16,084.00    15,840.50    15,436.00    12,830.40    12,036.30
2003     1,808      414        0.00    184.00     184.00  15,716.00    511.00    857.00   17,084.00   16,900.00    16,644.50    16,252.00    13,483.20    12,681.90
2004     1,899      435        0.00    184.00     184.00  16,505.00    537.00    910.00   17,952.00   17,768.00    17,499.50    17,120.00    14,177.60    13,368.50
2005     1,994      457        0.00    276.00     276.00  17,328.00    563.00    964.00   18,855.00   18,579.00    18,297.50    17,931.00    14,808.00    13,991.10
2006     2,094      480        0.00    276.00     276.00  18,196.00    592.00   1,023.00   19,811.00   19,535.00    19,239.00    18,887.00    15,572.80    14,747.20
2007     2,199      504        0.00    184.00     184.00  19,110.00    621.00   1,084.00  20,815.00   20,631.00    20,320.50    19,983.00    16,468.00    15,633.70
2008     2,309      529        0.00    184.00     184.00  20,068.00    653.00   1,150.00   21,871.00   21,687.00    21,360.50    21,039.00    17,312.80    16,468.90
2009     2,424      555        0.00    184.00     184.00 21,071.00    685.00   1,219.00  22,975.00   22,791.00    22,448.50    22,143.00    18,196.00    17,342.50
2010     2,545      583        0.00    184.00     184.00  22,120.00    719.00   1,293.00   24,132.00   23,948.00    23,588.50    23,300.00    19,121.60    18,257.90
2011     2,672      612        0.00    184.00     184.00 23,225.00    755.00   1,370.00  25,350.00   25,166.00    24,788.50    24,518.00    20,096.00    19,221.50
2012     2,806      643  (36,217.00)    184.00 (36,033.00) 24,386.00    793.00   1,452.00   26,631.00   62,664.00    62,267.50    62,016.00    57,337.80    56,451.90
NPV               15,716.17    14,922.18    13,671.94  5,100.32     1,517.40       Z
Total                        72,434     3,312     75,746                         ERR                  15.7%       15.5%       15.2%       13.3%        12.4%
Note:    First year benefit ratio = 0.17.
Major resurfacing in Years 2005 and 2006.
Salvage value assumed to be 50% of original construction cost.
VOC benefits are for both passenger and freight vehicles.



TABLE All: ECONOMIC EVALUATION OFFENGGU-SANTAI ROAD UPGRADING
(Y thousand, December 1996 prices)
Traffic Volume in
Converted UJnits             Costs                             Benefits                                          Sensitivity Analyses
Low Gen
Traffic, Op
Non-                Opera-                                                                            Construction            Cost Incr of
motorized             tions                                                                 Generated   Cost Incr of    Total    100%, and
All      &                    and                 VOC                                               Traffic     30% and     Benefits     Other
Traffic   Tractors            Main-                 Net    Generated   Time    Total       Net      Decreases of  Oper Cost  Reduced by   Benefits
Year  (AADT)  (AADT)  Construction  tenance    Total     Savings    Traffic   Savings  Benefits   Benefits    50%     Incr of 100%    20%      Decr by 20%
1990    5,323     1,644        0.00    0.00     0.00                                      0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00
1991    5,580     1,650        0.00    0.00        0.00                                   0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00
1992    5,874     1,662        0.00    0.00        0.00                                   0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00
1993    6,194     1,679        0.00    0.00        0.00                                   0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00
1994    6,542     1,703        0.00    0.00        0.00                                   0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00
1995    7,020     1,732        0.00    0.00        0.00     .                             0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00
1996    7,319     1,767   131,920.00    0.00   131,920.00                                 0.00 (131,920.00) (131,920.00) (131,920.00) (131,920.00) (131,920.00)
1997    7,632     1,802   131,920.00    0.00   131,920.00                                 0.00 (131,920.00) (131,920.00) (171,496.00) (131,920.00) (171,496.00)
1998    7,960     1,838   131,920.00    0.00   131,920.00                                 0.00 (131,920.00) (131,920.00) (171,496.00) (131,920.00) (171,496.00)
1999    8,303     1,875        0.00  658.00      658.00   59,437.00  6,698.00  6,939.00  73,074.00   72,416.00    69,067.00    71,136.00    57,801.20    54,511.80
2000    8,662      1,913       0.00  658.00      658.00   62,405.00   7,032.00  7,356.00  76,793.00   76,135.00    72,619.00    74,855.00    60,776.40    57,386.80
2001    9,037      1,951       0.00  658.00      658.00   65,521.00   7,384.00  7,798.00  80,703.00   80,045.00    76,353.00    78,765.00    63,904.40    60,409.20
2002    9,430      1,990       0,00  658.00      658.00   68.794.00   7,752.00  8,266.00  84,812.00   84,154.00    80,278.00    82,874.00    67,191.60    63,586.00
2003    9,842     2,030        0.00  658.00      658.00   72,234.00   8,140.00  8,762.00  89,136.00   88,478.00    84,408.00    87,198.00    70,650.80    66,928.80
2004    10,274    2,071        0.00  658.00      658.00   75,849.00   8,548.00  9,288.00  93,685.00   93,027.00    88,753.00    91,747.00    74,290.00    70,445.60
2005    10,725    2,112        0.00  658.00      658.00   79,640.00   8,975.00  9,847.00  98,462.00   97,804.00    93,316.50    96,524.00    78,1 i 1.60    74,139.10
2006    11,198    2,154        0.00  658.00      658.00   83,626.00   9,424.00 10,437.00 103,487.00  102,829.00    98,117.00   101,549.00    82,131.60    78,024.40
2007    11,693    2,197        0,00  658.00      658.00   87,805.00   9,895.00 11,064.00 108,764.00  108,106.00   103,158.50   106,826.00    86,353.20    82,104.70
2008    12,212    2,241        0.00  987.00      987.00   92,197.00  10,390.00 11,727.00 114,314.0p  113,327.00   108,132.00   112,047.00    90,464.20    86,067.20
2009    12,756    2,286        0.00  987.00      987.00   96,811.00  10,910.00 12,431.00 120,152.00  119,165.00   113,710.00   117,885.00    95,134.60    90,581.60
2010    13,326    2,332        0.00  658.00      658.00  101,657.00  11,456.00 13,177.00 126,290.00  125,632.00   119,904.00   124,352.00   100,374.00    95,657.20
2011    13,923    2,379        0.00  658.00      658.00  106,742.00  12,029.00 13,968.00 132,739.00  132,081.00   126,066.50   130,801.00   105,533.20   100,644.50
2012    14,548    2,427  (197,880.00)  658.00 (197,222.00) 112,077.00  12,630.00 14,806.00 139,513.00  336,735.00   330,420.00   335,455.00   308,832.40   303,763.40
NPV                77,500      67,237      44,185      32,486      -6,987         Z
Total                       395,760   9,870     405,630                         ERR                 18.0%       17.2%       15.1%       14.6%       11.5%
Note:    First year benefit ratio = 0.18.
Major resurfacing in Years 2005 and 2006.
Salvage value assumed to be 50% of original construction cost.
VOC benefits are for both passenger and freight vehicles.
Cost increases assumed for sensitivity analysis reflect increases in excess of price contingencies.






-61 -                      ANNEX2
ANNEX 2: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
The Borrowing Party's Implementation Completion Report
1.    The loan/credit number of the Sichuan Provincial Highway Project is 2951/1917-
CHA. The agreements were signed between the Chinese Government and the World
Bank on February 27, 1989, and came into effect as of May 31, 1989. The targets of each
sub-item in the appraisal document and loan/credit agreements have all been fulfilled and
appraisal thereof is made in this report.
Project Introduction
2.   In the appraisal document and loan/credit agreements, the planned objectives of
the project are:
(a)   To construct a higher-class highway, about 340.2 km in length (of which
88 km are Class I highway, 252.2 km are Class II highway), linking
Chengdu and Chongqing;
(b)   To provide consultant services to assist in construction supervision of the
Chengdu-Chongqing Highway;
(c)   To improve road planning by means of computerized road data banks;
(d)   To carry out pavement evaluation and hence prepare a scheme pertaining
road maintenance;
(e)   To provide a maintenance programme;
(f)   To provide staff training.
3.    Completed works include:
(a)   The 340.2 km long Chengdu-Chongqing higher-class highway;
(b)   Engaging Wilbur Smith Associates (WSA) as the foreign supervision
engineer with consultant services of 158 man-months provided;
(c)   Establishment of computerized road data banks in Chengdu and
Chongqing, respectively;



- 62-                      ANNEX2
(d)   Establishment of pavement evaluation systems in Chengdu and Chongqing
respectively;
(e)   Procurement of equipments used for road maintenance, bridge testing and
tunnel washing;
(f)   Carrying out of training covering 44 man-months, including project
planning, highway design, financial management, project management,
etc.
The Procurement of Target Project
4.    As approved by the State in October 1986, the Sichuan Provincial Highway
Project was listed as one of the sixth batch of World Bank loan projects. After appraisal
by the State Planning Commission and many site visits and pre-appraisal made by the
World Bank missions for the project, the loan/credit agreements were signed in
Washington, DC, USA, on February 27, 1989, and came into effect as of May 31 of this
year. Subsequently, a relending agreement for the World Bank loan/credit was signed
between the Ministry of Finance (MOF) of China and the Sichuan Provincial and
Chongqing Municipal People's Governments.
5.   In the stage of appraisal by the World Bank, talks were held many times between
the World Bank and the Sichuan Provincial Transport Department (SPTD) and
Chongqing Municipal Transport Bureau (CMTB). The World Bank understood the effect
of poor infrastructure on economic development in China and deemed it very necessary
to grant loans/credits for the development of Sichuan's highway construction. Both
parties reached a consensus on constructing a higher class highway from Chengdu to
Chongqing. This highway performs an important function in strengthening the ties
between the two large cities in Southwest China and improving the backward rural
economic status along the route. The sub-systems of this project are the establishment of
road data banks and pavement evaluation systems, supervisory and consultant services
and staff training, as well as equipment procurement for highway maintenance.
Project Planning and Design
6.    Based on the planned objectives in the appraisal report,
(a)   Introduce advanced technique of planning by means of establishing
computerized road data banks;
(b)   Introduce advanced pavement evaluation techniques by means of
establishing pavement evaluation systems;
(c)   Train managerial staff;



- 63 -                    ANNEX2
(d)   Provide a train of aids to the preparation of ICB contract documents.
7.    To realize the above objectives, the project design covers:
(a)   Construction of the 340.2 km higher class highway;
(b)   Training of managerial staff in respect of supervision and quality control
through consultant services;
(c)   Establishment of road data banks, pavement evaluation systems and
installation of highway maintenance equipments;
(d)   Staff training.
Project Implementation
8.   In accordance with the Guidelines of the World Bank, the International Tendering
Company of the China National Technical Import & Export Corporation was entrusted by
SPTD and CMTB with the prequalification of the firms applying for bidding, and the
international bidding for civil works under this project was completed in two phases in
August 1989 and December 1990. Furthermore, with the approval of the World Bank,
the five contracts A, G, H, L and N have gone through domestic bidding. The
international bidding of the E&M equipment contract Q3 for the tunnels in the East
section was completed in September 1995. The bids for the other E&M contracts Q1
and Q2 under international bidding were opened in September 1996. Inasmuch as the
World Bank informed the Ministry of Finance by fax on October 16, 1996, that it cannot
agree to extend the loan closing date for the Chengdu-Chongqing Highway project, which
is December 31, 1996, the international bidding of contracts Ql and Q2 has not been
completed. The agreement between SPTD and WSA was signed on February 16, 1988.
The supervision of this project is undertaken by the Chengdu-Chongqing Highway
Engineering Supervision Department jointly formed by the foreign consulting firm WSA,
the Chinese consulting firm China International Engineering Consulting Corporation
(CIECC) and SPTD/CMTB. The civil works for this project were entirely completed in
September 1995 and the highway was put into operation on a trial basis.
9.    Pavement management system: SPTD and CMTB have set up CPMS managerial
groups separately, which use the application software compiled by the Ministry of
Communications (MOC). This work has been completed.
10.   Road data bank: Road data banks have been set up by SPTD and CMTB
respectively, using the application software compiled by the Shaanxi Provincial Transport
Department. The collection and recording of data was completed in June 1996.



- 64 -                     ANNEX2
11.   Staff training: Altogether staff training has been conducted abroad for 44 man-
months, including highway planning and design (3 man-months), project management
(15.5 man-months), road data bank and pavement evaluation system (1.5 man-months),
traffic engineering and other training courses (24 man-months). Moreover, the training
agreement on high-class highway operation and management (10 man-months) submitted
to the World Bank on December 6, 1996, will be executed on approval of the World
Bank.
Operation Conditions
12.   The operation conditions of the main item and the conditions of sub-items are
basically satisfactory.
13.   The traffic volume on the Chengdu-Chongqing Highway last year: The average
daily traffic on the Chengdu-Chongqing Highway in 1996: Chengdu-Jianyang 9579
vehicles/day;  Jianyang-Laifeng  5168  vehicles/day;  Laifeng-Chongqing  9874
vehicles/day.
14.   Road data banks have been established in Chengdu and Chongqing, providing
highway information consultation and statistical analysis and increasing work efficiency.
15.   The pavement evaluation systems have been utilized for the maintenance
management of the Chengdu-Chongqing Highway.
Cooperation between Contractors and Consultants
16.   There are 21 contract sections for all civil works on the Chengdu-Chongqing
Highway. Of the 21 contract sections, 16 are under international competitive bidding and
5 are under local competitive bidding. The construction of these contract sections was
undertaken by 21 contractors, with the construction period being 24 or 36 months. In
total, there are 68.45 million m3 of earthworks, 344 bridges 15,962 m in total length, 20
interchanges, 2012 culverts and passageways; 7.03 million m2 of pavement (of which 0.85
million m2 are cement concrete pavement, 6.18 million rn2 are asphalt pavement), 10
single tubes of tunnels 13,945 m in total length, and 2.17 million rn3 of drainage and
protection works. On the 340.2 km highway, the operation conditions in the last two
years have shown that the overall construction quality is fairly good and all items of work
have gone through hand-over and acceptance procedures.
17.   There are 3 E&M  contracts for the Chengdu-Chongqing Highway, namely, Q1,
Q2andQ3.
18.   Consultancy: In the stages of engineering design and bidding, Chinese and
foreign consulting experts have rendered useful consultant services; especially for the



- 65 -                     ANNEX2
variation in design of tunnel ventilation, valuable suggestions have been offered, playing
an important role in the successful change of design in tunnel ventilation.
19.   Supervision engineers: The Chengdu-Chongqing Highway is a project completed
mainly under international bidding. During implementation of the project, more than
three hundred Chinese supervision personnel and three foreign supervision experts
resident in Sichuan worked together, establishing a comprehensive supervision system,
and, in accordance with FIDIC conditions of contract, exercising efficient control over
quality and progress of work and measurement and payment.
20.   Project preparation: SPTD and CMTB has made adequate preparation for the
Chengdu-Chongqing Highway project. Project appraisal was made in September 1983.
Engineering feasibility study was completed in July 1984. This project was listed as
World Bank loan project by MOC in October 1986. Formal appraisal of the project
feasibility study report was made in May 1987. In the entire course of preparation, the
project has obtained the guidance of the State Planning Commission, MOF, MOC and the
help of the World Bank and also the support from governments at all levels and relevant
departments, so that work on fund raising and land acquisition and buildings removal
could proceed smoothly.
21.   Project implementation: For purposes of implementing the Chengdu-Chongqing
Highway project, Leading Bodies for the Construction of Sichuan Provincial arid
Chongqing Municipal Major highways and Sichuan Provincial and Chongqing Municipal
Major Highway Construction Directorates were set up respectively as decision-making
organs and executing agencies for the project. At the same time, directorates were also
set up at the district and county level to help with land acquisition and resettlement.
22.   Raising of matching funds: For smooth implementation of the project, SPTD and
CMTB have raise sufficient matching funds as a result of a subsidy from MOC and self-
raising by the provincial and municipal localities.
23.   Experiences: In the course of construction of the Chengdu-Chongqing Highway,
we have accumulated the following experiences:
(a)   Adequate earlier stage preparatory work is the basis for project
implementation, and variations in works should be decreased to the
minimum possible.
(b)   Overall control over quality and progress of work and measurement and
payment by supervision engineers is a quite effective method of
management.
(c)   The Sichuan Provincial and Chongqing Municipal Major Highway
Construction Directorates, as the executing agencies of the project, have
made fruitful efforts. They have gained a wealth of important experience,



- 66 -                    ANNEX2
in respect of bidding, land acquisition and resettlement and fund raising.
Besides, to strictly implement the provisions of the guidelines of the
World Bank and the construction supervision system is also a very
important experience.
(d)   To earnestly carry out the instructions given by the World Bank and
actively cooperate with it is an important condition for the successful
completion of the engineering project.
(e)   The road data bank and pavement management system are the bases for
upgrading and developing the highway construction management system.
(f)   Through staff training and project implementation, a number of qualified
personnel have been trained and tempered for construction and
management, implementing FIDIC conditions of contract. The is the key
to ensuring completion of the project.
(g)   Carrying out scientific research with reliance placed on the project is
another important experience. As a result of scientific research, new
techniques, new technologies and new materials were employed,
shortening the construction period and reducing the cost.
The Work of the World Bank
24.   Project preparation: The World Bank made an investigation of the Sichuan
provincial highway project and the preliminary appraisal report, in July 1987, and made
the formal appraisal in January 1988. The report made overall arrangements for the
benefit and planning of the project, and summarized the important requirements for
project implementation.
25.  In the stage of project implementation, the World Bank harmoniously cooperated
with the executing agencies. Apart from supervision through progress reports, the World
Bank missions came to Sichuan for project inspection 1-3 times a year from 1989 through
1995, solving many practical problems and ensuring the smooth progress of the project.
26.   Good cooperation between Sichuan Province and Chongqing Municipality: This
project was jointly implemented by the Sichuan Provincial and Chongqing Municipal
Major Highway Construction Directorates. Both Directorates coordinated their activities
in a unified way, respected the opinions of the World Bank, and achieved satisfactory
results.



-67 -                     ANNEX2
27.   Experiences:
(a)   The World Bank has assisted the executing agencies in raising the level of
project implementation, rigorously executing management and supervision
procedures, reducing the construction cost and improving the quality of
work.
(b)   Through staff training, a number of qualified specialized personnel have
been fostered and brought up. The training covers project management,
engineering design, financial management, road data bank and a pavement
evaluation system. These people have given full play to their talent and
ability on the project.
Operation Plan
28.   Opinions for reference on the operation plan in future
(a)   The Chengdu-Chongqing Highway is currently administered and operated
respectively by Sichuan Provincial Expressway Administration Bureau for
the 226 km from Chengdu to Longchang and by Chongqing Municipal
Expressway Administration Office for the 114.2 km from Rongchang to
Chongqing. The operation and management of this highway covers toll
collection, traffic surveillance and control, telecommunication, road
administration, maintenance, E&M control, etc., so as to ensure safety,
fast speed and comfort on the highway, attract more and more passenger
and freight traffic and spur the economic development along the highway.
(b)   The use of the road data banks and pavement evaluation systems should be
progressively spread to the Chengdu-Chongqing Highway and other
network trunk highways for the analysis of the distress treatment.
29.  Indices for supervision and execution
(a)   The economic and financial appraisal of the State is made once every three
years to supervise the implementation of the operation plan. The indices
for supervision include the rate of recovery in profit (ERR), net profit,
cost, profit and rate of return on investment, traffic volume, maintenance
cost, traffic accidents, toll level and toll rate.
(b)   The main indices for road data banks and road management systems
include the training on application of CPMS and the collection and
recording of road data.






- 69-                         ANNEX 3
ANNEX 3: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIREl
1.    A World Bank mission visited Sichuan Province between January 11 and 21, 1997 to
initiate work on an Implementation Completion Report for the Sichuan Provincial Highway
Project (Loan 2951/Credit 1917-CHA). The Bank mission comprised Mme./Messrs. Rita Pasi
(Financial Analyst, Task Manager), Subhash Seth (Highway Engineer, Consultant), and E Liu
(Operations Officer, Beijing Resident Mission). Key officials met by the mission included
Messrs. Zheng Daofang (Deputy Director, Sichuan Provincial Transport Department), Teng
Xiquan (Director, Chongqing Municipal Highway Construction Directorate), Cui Binquan
(Chief Engineer, Sichuan Provincial Expressway Administration Bureau), and Yang
Qingyuan (Deputy Director, Chongqing Municipal Highway Construction Directorate). The
mission wishes to thank Sichuan officials for the cooperation and patient assistance extended
to the Bank mission.
2.    Status of Loan and Credit. The loan and credit associated with this project closed on
December 31, 1996, reflecting a two year extension from the original closing date of
December 31, 1994. At present, a balance of about US $3.8 million remains in the loan
account. The mission explained to Sichuan authorities that the remaining balance can be
disbursed against existing contracts in the goods category (specifically, the Q3 E&M contract)
where ample expenditures were incurred up till the end of 1996 without full disbursement
from the Bank. There are several project activities which remain to be completed; only the
portion of expenditures incurred by December 31, 1996 (i.e., by the closing date) would be
eligible for Bank financing.
3.    The loan and credit have been divided into two portions for repayment by each of the
implementing agencies for the project. The mission was informed that $50 million will be
repaid by Chongqing Municipality, and the remaining balance (about $75 million) will be
repaid by Sichuan Province.
4.    Project Scope. The project was appraised in January 1988 and was approved by the
Bank's board of directors on May 12, 1988. The mission confirmed that there have been
several major changes in project scope since appraisal, as follows:
(a)   Design. The Chengdu-Chongqing Highway, originally designed with 4-lane,
Class I sections on the ends of the route in Chengdu and Chongqing (59 and 29
km, respectively) and a 252-km two-lane middle section, was ultimately
This annex presents the text of the ICR mission's Aide Memoire. The original (signed) Aide Memoire
may be found in the Project File.



- 70-                         ANNEX3
constructed as a four-lane, Class I expressway throughout (340.2 km total
length). Based on the findings of the mission, there were major design
variations in most works contracts under the project.
(b)   Procurement. There was significant repackaging of procurement during
implementation including, most notably, the addition of electrical and
mechanical works contracts for the entire expressway alignment. All project
components experienced delays in procurement, resulting in some cases in
under- or non-utilization of the Bank loan (for example, in the goods and
training categories).
(c)   Toll road development. Once the decision was made to widen the entire
alignment to four-lane, Class 1 expressway standard, tolling was planned for
the entire length of the expressway and access to the main carriageway was
restricted. The original plan for 5 interchanges and 15 intersections was
modified to -15 interchanges, with additional ramps, access roads, toll stations,
and service areas added to the project design. E&M works in the project were
expanded to include fully cover lighting, monitoring, ventilation, traffic
control, communications, and power supply along the entire alignment,
including tunnels.
5.    Completion of Works and Delivery of Goods and Services. The Bank's last
supervision mission was during July 1995. The understanding of the mission is that, since
that time: (a) the expressway has been fully opened to traffic since September 1995; (b)
certain repairs have been completed by contractors during the warranty period;  (c)
construction supervision teams have demobilized; and (d) E&M works in the Chongqing
tunnels (Contract Q3) began. However, the physical works in the project are clearly not yet
complete. The mission expressed its concern that these important works be completed
without further delay so that the expressway can become fully operational. The following
points were discussed:
(a)   The installation of E&M equipment covering major tunnels in the east section
of the expressway (Contract Q3) is complete and trials will be conducted by
March 1997. The supervision consultant is presently not on site but is
expected to return during or after the testing phase of the E&M system.
Another important component of this E&M contract, the training of Chongqing
staff in how to use and maintain the various equipment, is still under
negotiation but the mission was inforned that this training would be completed
by March 1997. The mission's view is that effective supervision of the
remaining works, as well as an operational plan for safety, security, and
maintenance for the tunnel E&M system, is needed.
(b)   Remaining E&M works (Contracts Ql and Q2), covering telecommunications,
toll collection, and traffic surveillance along the entire (main) expressway



-71-                          ANNEX 3
alignment, have been the focus of a lengthy ICB procurement process; the
latest step completed was bid opening in mid-September 1996. Evaluation of
bids has not been completed and the mission was informed that the validity for
all 21 bids received will expire March 8, 1997. While the Province recognizes
the importance of completing this work as soon as possible, the mission
received no clear indication of when the contract would be awarded. In the
mission's judgment, it will take at least one year for completion of the works
under Contracts Ql and Q2 once the contract is signed, and, as the experience
in implementing Contract Q3 shows, specialized knowledge is also needed for
E&M  installation and supervision.  Sichuan authorities have noted their
intention to call bidders for negotiations in March to finalize minor changes in
technical specifications of equipment and will award the contract to the lowest
bidder. It is expected that work will begin in April 1997 and be completed by
December 1997. Sichuan will confirm the following by March 15, 1997: (a)
the agreements reached during contract negotiations; (b) proposed agreed
changes in design of the component, if any; (c) the date of commencement of
works; (d) the date of completion of works; and (e) supervision arrangements.
The Bank will follow up, as necessary.
6.    Project Management.  The mission learned that, throughout the period of
implementation, separate project management organizations have been working in the
Sichuan Province (covering 226 km of expressway, including one tunnel and several bridges)
and Chongqing Municipality (covering 114 km of expressway, including two major tunnels)
sections, respectively. Meetings during the current mission provided exposure primarily to
the west (Sichuan Province) section of the expressway. The mission expressed concern about
the adequacy and completeness of data received from each section of the expressway and
understandings reached concerning project management during the construction and operation
phases. The mission requested additional meetings in Chongqing to fill some of the gaps in
quantitative information and understanding of institutional arrangements. If these meetings
are not possible, the Bank will follow up in writing by January 31, 1997 and requests that a
written response be sent to the Bank no later than February 21, 1997.
7.    Traffic Volume and Corridor Development. The mission was provided with traffic
data for the old Chengdu-Chongqing Highway and the new Chengdu-Chongqing Expressway.
Based on a preliminary review, it is clear that a certain portion of traffic in the corridor is
diverting to another major highway, the Chengdu-Beishian Highway in northern Sichuan
(which adjoins National Route 318 and eventually links to Shanghai). While this northern
route was not taken into consideration in the economic analysis during project appraisal, the
mission's view is that it should now be fully considered. The mission will request additional
traffic and related data on the highway corridor before January 31, 1997, and asks that this
data be submitted to the Bank as soon as possible, but before February 21, 1997.
8.    The mission was informed of the rapid development of adjacent and intersecting roads
in the expressway corridor. The master plan for development as it affects the expressway was



-72 -                          ANNEX 3
presented to the mission, both by Sichuan and Chongqing representatives, covering short-
term, imminent construction as well as investments up to the year 2020. The mission will
follow up accordingly, through correspondence.
9.    Road Safety. The Road Safety Pilot Program described in the Staff Appraisal Report
was not implemented under the current project, despite mention in the SAR that road safety
measures were to be piloted in the cities of Chengdu, Chongqing, and Neijiang. It had been
agreed by negotiations that Bank funding of this activity would not be needed. The main
reasons for absence of implementation of the component as explained by the Province were
that the study was to be implemented by other provincial or central government agencies,
despite mention in the SAR of road safety measures to be piloted in the cities of Chengdu,
Chongqing, and Neijiang. It was not clear to the mission whether provincial authorities were
aware of the findings of the Sichuan Pilot Road Safety Study, a major report completed in
1987 (around the time of project appraisal and approval).
10.   The mission received accident data for both the old Chengdu-Chongqing Highway and
the new Chengdu-Chongqing Expressway. The accident rate on the new expressway is
sharply increasing, and shows decline on the old road (without considering changing volume
and composition of traffic). The mission's view is that the major contributing factors to the
high accident rates are: (a) inadequate vehicle testing and maintenance; (b) need for better
road signing and marking; (c) lack of effective collaboration between the various agencies
responsible for road sector management; and (d) driver behavior.
11.   The Sichuan authorities expressed their awareness of the road safety problem and its
seriousness, particularly on the new expressway. The expressway management agencies have
begun to adopt measures to improve safety for the operational phase of the project. The
mission was provided with some accident analysis reports and visited expressway units which
contain safety units. It was agreed that the development of a safety plan covering all road
facilities is an important element to be included in the operational plan for the project.
12.   Sustainability of Road Investments. Given that repairs on several sections were
needed during the contract performance period, it is necessary to carry out close supervision
of the road pavement during operation. The mission was informed that the expressway
administrations have established separate units which would be responsible for assessing
maintenance needs and taking appropriate action as necessary.
13.   Road Data Bank/Pavement Management System.  In order to improve road
planning, an RDB/PMS system was introduced to the province, administered by the Sichuan
Provincial Highway Administration Bureau. The system at present mainly covers national
and provincial roads (including the new expressway), but the province has a plan to extend its
coverage to lower-level roads (and road agencies) by the year 2000 subject to availability of
funds. The RDB/PMS system has the capability to identify maintenance and rehabilitation
needs for the expressway and other road networks. The mission was pleased to note that a



- 73 -                        ANNEX 3
GIS system has been established, which is capable of interfacing road condition data and data
collected on bridges.
14.   Rural Road Development. The rural road upgrading component described in the
SAR, covering construction or improvement of 105 km of roads (the Ya'an-Hongya and
Fenggu-Santai Roads) was not implemented under this project. The reasons provided to the
mission are that: (a) Sichuan Province realized rural roads were being sufficiently covered by
other Bank-financed projects; (b) there were delays in preparing the rural road program; and
(c) the on-lending terms for the component were not attractive. Subsequently, both of the
rural roads originally included in this component were upgraded using the Province's own
resources. It was agreed that, if more descriptive or quantitative information is needed on this
component, the Bank would follow up with a written request.
15.   Equipment. The project made provision for the purchase of equipment for: road
management, operation, and maintenance; highway research and testing laboratory; and
pavement evaluation. An equipment list has been received by the mission, which indicates
that the equipment procurement totaled significantly less than appraisal estimates (not
including the E&M contracts financed from the goods category). The mission feels that a
detailed discussion of the equipment component is needed before conclusions can be drawn.
16.   Staff Training. The staff training component included in the project was reviewed
with the mission. The mission's impression was that about the same value of training as
anticipated at appraisal was completed; however, for various reasons, the domestic training
was not implemented as described. The mission feels that a detailed discussion of the training
component is needed before conclusions can be drawn.
17.   Consultant Services for Construction Supervision.  The mission discussed
construction supervision in several contexts during their stay in Sichuan Province, and learned
that the services of 4 technical consulting firrns were retained during project implementation.
Two foreign firms were retained; one to provide resident supervision services for expressway
construction and a second to provide supervision services for the installation of E&M
equipment in Chongqing tunnels. Local supervision consultants were retained to provide
resident supervision services for expressway construction. The mission feels that more
detailed information and discussion on the amount (months), cost, organization, and impact of
supervision services is needed in order to complete the ICR.
18.   The mission learned that at least two the consultant services contracts have not been
completed, most notably that final inspection of some works has not been done and the
consultants' completion reports have not been started. Sichuan authorities informed the
mission that the completion report for E&M works should be available by March 1997 and
the completion report for expressway civil works should be available by April 1997. The
mission understands, following discussions in Sichuan Province, that these completion reports
will be important inputs for the borrower's contribution to ICR. It was agreed that the
completion work and reports should begin as soon as possible. The mission requests that



- 74 -                         ANNEX 3
Sichuan inform that Bank in writing by February 21, 1997, when the reports will be
completed and made available to the Bank.
19.   Land Acquisition and Resettlement. The findings of a 1994 Bank resettlement
review mission were discussed with the Sichuan authorities. While Sichuan was aware of the
issues raised by the 1994 mission, they had not been provided a detailed write-up of the
mission's findings. The main conclusions of discussions during the current mission were:
(a)   Resettlement impact.  Relative to appraisal estimates and the 1994
resettlement review, the up-to-date resettlement informnation provided to the
mission indicates a much greater than expected impact in terms of the area of
houses removed but significantly smaller number of people resettled and cables
or other infrastructure relocated. The mission questioned this data in light of
the significantly increased scope of physical works for the expressway and
expects to follow up.
(b)   Follow-up of issues from resettlement review. It was explained to the
mission that those issues raised by the 1994 resettlement review mission for
which the highway agencies in Sichuan are responsible have been addressed.
However, the mission felt that this discussion was incomplete and may require
further follow up.
(c)   Additional resettlement activities. The mission observed a construction site
along the south side of the expressway in Longchang where additional
facilities (buildings and plaza or overpass) are being constructed by the end of
March 1997 and was informned that a number of families in the area had been
or are being resettled during the work. Since this work began in July 1996,
before loan closing, the Bank would like to review the resettlement
arrangements adopted for this work. The mission will ask the Bank's Resident
Mission in Beijing to assist in this review.
20.   Environmental Management.  It was noted by the mission that a detailed
Environmental Action Plan was not prepared during the appraisal of this project, but that the
project had been implemented in accordance with prevailing Chinese regulations on
environmental protection. It was agreed that there is scope for improved environmental
management of the expressway: Sichuan authorities proposed to include a discussion of
environmental management in the operational plan. The mission observed that the air quality
in tunnels if not well managed poses serious environmental, safety, and health hazards. It was
explained that prevailing Chinese environmental standards for tunnels (which the mission
understands concur with international standards) were used in developing specifications for
the tunnel ventilation equipment.
21.   Project Cost and Project Financing Plan.  The mission worked with Sichuan
authorities to formulate up-to-date cost and financing data, which indicate that actual project



- 75 -                         ANNEX 3
costs exceeded appraisal estimates by nearly 300%. The actual financing plan shows that,
along with increased provincial funding, central government funding was increased
dramatically in total financing. The on-lending rate for loan and credit proceeds is 4% per
annum.
22.   A report on actual project cost was received by the mission and further revised during
their stay in Sichuan. The cost increase for construction works in particular needs to be
understood in terms of the original project design (as appraised) and the increased scope of
work that has resulted in all sections of the expressway. Further, the mission's understanding
of the increase in contract cost due to increased scope of work versus price escalation is not
yet clear. A detailed report of the construction cost increase (over 150 pages of data, contract
by contract) which had been compiled for the Bank on October 25, 1994 was provided to the
mission for reference. Further follow-up is necessary.
23.   The mission was informed that Sichuan Province intends to issue shares against assets
of the Chengdu-Chongqing Expressway, along with reorganizing several key highway
agencies (including the implementing agencies for this expressway) to create corporations.
The amount of money to be raised, ownership structure, or transfer of assets are not clear at
this time, but the Chengdu-Chongqing Expressway had been approved by central government
authorities for equity financing in international markets. The mission reminded Sichuan
authorities that the Bank must have advance notification of actions such as share issuance. It
was agreed that Sichuan would inform the Bank in writing of the status of share issuance by
February 28, 1997.
24.   Future Plan of Operation. An operational plan for the expressway was discussed,
and will be prepared in draft by April 15, 1997 and submitted to the Bank in English by May
15, 1997. The operational plan will include: organizational structure, completion of the
E&M works, maintenance, safety, management of equipment fleet, financial management,
establishment and repricing of toll levels, policies for environmental protection and land
acquisition and resettlement, further training, and management/further development of the
RDB/PMS system. The mission will follow up by letter.
25.   Indicators for Project Performance. A set of performance indicators appropriate for
monitoring and evaluation of the project is being developed, taking into consideration the
actual investments made during the project and project/sectoral objectives. It was agreed that
indicators to monitor the performance of the project operation should be adopted. The
proposed next steps are: (a) to identify what would be measured (objective or parameter); (b)
to identify how it would be measured and with what frequency; and (c) formulate a set of
baseline (starting) indicators using actual data. Sichuan will inform the Bank of its proposed
performance indicators in writing by February 21, 1997 (points a-c, above), and will explain
the role of each implementing agency in preparing, recording, and exchanging this
information, and will state whether the set of indicators will be monitored and evaluated
during future operation of the project.



- 76-                         ANNEX 3
26.   Next Steps. The requirements for ICR preparation, including both the Bank's role and
the borrower's contribution to the ICR, were discussed in detail.
(a)   Data required for preparation of ICR tables. The mission received revised
cost data for completion of ICR tables throughout the second week of the
mission, with the latest data received January 20, 1997 and more data expected
by the end of this month. It was agreed that the Bank would review all the
infonnation received to date and send comments to Sichuan no later than
January 31, 1997. With respect to revisions or additional data requested up to
January 31, 1997, it was agreed that Sichuan would send the data to the Bank
as soon as possible, but before February 21, 1997. Additional follow-up from
Bank headquarters in Washington and the Resident Mission in Beijing is
expected during the next two months. The detailed information received by
the mission will be acknowledged separately and submitted to the project file.
The mission informed Sichuan authorities that the target date for sending a
draft ICR to China for review and comment is March 31, 1997.
(b)   Borrower's contribution to ICR. The borrower's contribution to the ICR,
including operational plan and project performance indicators (described in the
above paragraphs), was fully discussed with the mission. Sichuan authorities
informed the mission that they would submit their section of the ICR in
English to the Bank no later than April 30, 1997.
Ms. Rita Pasi                              Mr. Zheng Daofang
Task Manager                               Deputy Director
World Bank                       Sichuan Provincial Transport Department
Chengdu, Sichuan Province
January 21, 1997



IBRD 28877
4-  1              182~~~~~~~~~~~~~         10'42                      106,                      I w                      I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~18  10'  11 2'                 1;4-
CHINA                                       3
-3A        QiNGHAl                                         T.                       A N I                                                          SICHUAN PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT 3
TRANSPORT NETWORK IN SICHUAN PROVINCE
_                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AND CHONGQING MUNICIPALITY
"'-                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT
-   CHENGYU (CHENGDU-CHONGQING) EXPRESSWAY
STrop                                                                                                                          ASTER~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l. 0051N. 15
0Abo                                                                                            212   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
I  -  Ho"gpoo  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---HIGH-GRATE HIGHWAYS
'-ru-T X-
50'99000                                                                          -    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OTHER EXPRESSWAY
- -- --  ''---" RAILROADS
0                                                                                                                   NATIONAL ROADS                     22~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NAINLROD  2
---SECONDARY ROADS
-32~~~~~                                                                                              h-9       1.,,                                                            Al RPORTS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HoE,
Detgsii44     t:~ DoR                                   ukr -o-                  ,nyo                  Crg                                                                             RIVRR PORYS
T~~~~~~ th-'                                                                          4z,~hcuo0__  ods~    js 0W                                                                 RIVERS
VLhiidii,ho21                                                                                                                                   PROVINCE CAPITAL
'SicflUA                     L,9X-    r~                                                               K., 9nprg  X-'o      4 .U~O                     PREFECTURE BUDRE
Sh,q',  yo      OO,     Idga                                                                                PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
XiEose Ah-  27   uo                                  O                     Xio                                                                                    INTERNATIONAL ROUNDARY
Sdn oZI1A          '80 oo                 jWoy
Yd              Q--g  -    I            I~~r~"5~k   ~     o1%g                        /   AI                     who
Yo1iong  HHnT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ogIen9  LI                         0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~6112-                                                                  114
To Lh.,o                                         uud, 'g9m                                              QT.9                    T
m NG                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RUSSIAN FEDERAYIGN    ''
I                                                                                                                                                    IS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
DOSOOT   /        I         I                 Mobao~~~~~~~~~y-                                                                      T.oChogdo                      MONGOGIA  
*1                                                                                                                                                     c-v           .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'AN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. -
V.'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9T
2V0
Yo2./oog~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h.                                                                                                                                                                    RI.
m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ONE,-
DC ~~~~~~~~~. "-
mq-0                               0      "I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5   lOT    150   2500G
<                        m                                                                   K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILOMETERS                 1o ]o            'A
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~-1
ku                                      h,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~poc   --uc hune, - l~                                      LAb--\ --kG-
OrA) RE  >                   POArE
MARCH 1998



CHINA                        lEN~~~~~~~IbD 28878
-     CHENGYU (CHENGDU-CHONGQINGI EXPRESSWAY        OLD CHENGDU-CHONGQING HIGHWAY                                                ,,       S IC H UAN   PROVINCIAL  HIGHWAY   PROJECT
{} INTERCHANGES                                     NORTHERNROUTEFROM/CHENGDUTOCHONGQINGVIABISHAN                                         ,                            PROJECT  AREA
T YOLL STATIONS                                   NATIONAL HIGHWAYS                     ,0
TUNNELS                                       SECONDARY HIGHWAYS
BRIDGE                                        RAILROADS                                                                                  -0                    10     2I      30      AO       50
*   MAINTENANCE FACILITIES                        RIVERS                                                                                                                    KILOMETERS
SERVICE AREAS                             --- PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
-     PROVINCE BOUNDARY
MxfAN~~~~~~~A1                                                            Y        NG\I9\ 
%  CHQNGQING
CHENGDU~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
OF~l                                                                                                                                       LDozuJ I <N    Gil  N  
,- C H                      FYI                 5 IE |
*. L  )\  \  ZIYANG1   sty   ng            9   ,                            \         \,                        \    '   |       r     l              2           \    ay  \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,.hw,   wo, AE,MEiE"w,   EyIh' NI  iE, hTM
-Dazu J                                   p0ddNh W      G G,,\  J  N
'EA)9NEEEAIGEIHEIEEEP y   O,ANG yE, E\ Iqy
_  S  LjEDF E : 0 F ^' W -. i RfR ' "> ; % , <kshuR\ -- .W4 MARCH 199~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MACH 59



