Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1917 CHA
LOAN NUMBER 2951 CHA
Project Agreement
(Sichuan Provincial Highway Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SICHUAN PROVINCE
Dated February 27, 1989
CREDIT NUMBER 1917 CHA
LOAN NUMBER 2951 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 27, 1989, among INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association), INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) 
and SICHUAN PROVINCE (Sichuan).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
thirty-six million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 36,100,000), on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that Sichuan agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as 
are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to seventy-five million dollars ($75,000,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Sichuan agree 
to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS Sichuan, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit
Page  2
Agreement with the Borrower, and the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with the 
Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) and 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set
forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Sichuan declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project, through SPTD and Chongqing Municipal Transport Bureau, 
under the general supervision of MOC, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and highway 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association and the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. Sichuan shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions applicable to the 
Development Credit Agreement and in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of 
the General Conditions applicable to the Loan Agreement (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Sichuan shall, at the request of the Association or the Bank, 
exchange views with the Association or the Bank with regard to the progress of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Credit and the Loan.
(b)
Sichuan shall promptly inform the Association and the Bank of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, 
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit and the Loan, or the performance by 
Sichuan of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.05. Sichuan shall carry out the resettlement under the Project in 
accordance with the plan agreed with the Association and the Bank.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Sichuan shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its 
operations and financial condition in respect of the activities related to the 
Project.
(b)
Sichuan shall:
 
(i)
have the accounts re\1aerred to in paragraph (a) above, for each 
fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Page  3
Association and the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Association and the Bank as soon as available, but 
in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year a 
certified copy of 
the report of such audit by said auditors of such 
scope and in such detail as 
the Association and the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association and the Bank such other information 
concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof, as the 
Association and the Bank shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
 
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association, the 
Bank and Sichuan thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following dates:
(i)
the date on which both the Development Credit Agreement and the 
Loan Agreement
shall have terminated; or 
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement or both of said 
Agreements terminate in accordance with their respective terms before the date 
specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association or the Bank or both, 
as the case may be, shall promptly notify Sichuan of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions 
applicable to the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Page  4
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D,C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For Sichuan:
Sichuan Provincial People's Government
Chengdu, Sichuan Province
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
Chengdu, 0086
60103 MHCD CN
 
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Sichuan or by 
Sichuan on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan 
Agreement, may be taken or executed by the Governor of Sichuan or such other person or 
persons as the Governor shall designate in writing,
and the Governor shall furnish to the Association and the Bank sufficient evidence of 
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. As long as the Bank has not given notice to the contrary to 
Sichuan and so long as the Development Credit Agreement shall not have terminated 
prior to the termination of the Loan Agreement:
(a)
the obligations of Sichuan to consult with, and to furnish information, 
documents, plans, reports, records and statements to, the Bank shall be satisfied to 
the extent performance in respect of such obligations is rendered to the Association;
(b)
the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to furnish information 
to Sichuan shall be satisfied to the extent such obligations are fulfilled by the 
Association; and
(c)
all actions taken (including the giving of approvals or the granting of 
waivers) by the Association pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement shall be 
deemed to be taken pursuant to both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan 
Agreement, and in the name and on behalf of both the Association and the Bank.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
Page  5
SICHUAN PROVINCE
By /s/ Zhao Xixin
Authorized Representative
