Indigenous Peoples Development Plan: Brazil AIDS IIl Project
1 - AIDS and Indi2enous Peoples
Indigenous Peoples: Brazil has an estimated indigenous population of some 350,000 Indians.
This population is distributed over almost every state in Brazil, comprising 587 officially
recognized Indian reservations (terras) and some 215 different societies and cultures speaking
180 languages. Almost 55% are located in the Northem Region, with the State of Amazonas
accounting for 26% of Brazil's total indigenous population; 17% are in the Center-West region,
18% in the Northeast, 2% in the Southeast, and 8% in the South.
However, it should be noted that this information does not include those Indians now living in the
metropolitan areas of Brazil's major cities. This population is estimated at approximately 50,000
Indians, with the greatest concentrations in the cities of Manaus and Manacapuru (Amazonas),
Campo Grande and Dourados (Mato Grosso do Sul), and Aguas Belas (Pemambuco), together
with lesser concentrations in such metropolitan regions as Sao Paulo, Porto Alegre (Rio Grande
do Sul), Brasilia, Chapec6 (Santa Catarina), and Londrina (Parani). Migration to and settlement
in major urban areas varies enormously, from temporary movements for health care, work and
education, to relocations rooted in the individual mores and practices of certain indigenous
cultures resulting in the presence of sizable Indian population groups in urban areas, which
Stephen Baines has described as representing "large temporary villages for paid work." It is also
important to draw attention to the urban areas of Brazilian cities bordering on other countries,
such as the regions of Tabatinga/Benjamim Constant (Peru and Colombia); Rio Branco (Bolivia);
Boa Vista (the Guianas); Guajara-Mirim (Bolivia); Corumba (Bolivia); and Foz do Iguacu
(Paraguay).
The areas with the greatest concentrations of Indians that are most vulnerable to HIV/AIDS are
listed below, by tribal groups:
STATE                                  TRIBE       CASES DE
AIDS
Amazonas:
URBAN AREA                      Manacapuru      Apurina
Manaus - Conjunto  Satere-Maue      X
Santos Dumont
BORDER                                           Ticuna       X
Benjamim Constant
Tabatinga
Roraima:
URBAN AREA                  Boa Vista/Bairro   Guianese       X
Pintolandia and Raiar   Indians
do Sol
Acre:
URBAN AREA                       Rio Branco      Various
groups
Mato Grosso do Sul:
URBAN AREA                        Dourados      Guarani       X
Campo Grande        Terena      X
BORDER                            Corumba        Terena
1           RLE COFY



Pernambuco:
URBAN AREA                     Aguas Belas      Fulni-6      X
Sao Paulo:
URBAN AREA                         Jaragua      Guarani
Favela Real Parque  Pankararu      X
Favela Parais6polis  Pankararu
Rio Grande do Sul
URBAN AREA
Cases of AIDS and STDs: The CN-DST/AIDS (STD/AIDS National Coordinating Office -
Coordenacao Nacional de DST/AIDS) received reports of 52 cases of AIDS among the
indigenous population over the period 1986-2001. The first case of AIDS among indigenous
peoples was reported by FUNAI (National Foundation for the Indian - Fundacdo Nacional do
Indio) and the MS (Ministry of Health - Minislt6ro da Saude) in 1988, in the State of Santa
Catarina, in the southern region of Brazil.' Since then, additional cases were identified in other
regions. The epidemic affected mainly Indians who had regular contacts with the surrounding
society and who traveled relatively frequently to the cities or were in contact with populations
living in border cities.2 Currently the indigenous population that has been most severely affected
by the epidemic is that in Mato Grosso do Sul. The principal characteristic of this region is that it
has the largest number of Indians living in urban areas. Thus, the distribution of cases of AIDS
and of STDs within the indigenous population cannot be viewed in a uniform manner, as from an
epidemiological point of view there are significant differences in vulnerability, since many of
these Indians are in regular contact with the population living in villages.
Regional distribution of AIDS cases: The regional distribution of AIDS cases among the
indigenous population confirms the general tendency discussed above, namely that the number of
cases of AIDS is greatest in the Center-West and Northern regions and that it is to be found in
urban areas and in small and mid-sized municipalities. This tendency shows how important it is
to gain a better understanding of the interaction networks that develop from contact with the
surrounding society and associated risk factors. The table below shows the number of cases and a
percentage breakdown by region. The spatial distribution of the indigenous population in the
South and Southeast regions, where the first cases were reported, is characterized by the presence
of villages located very close to urban areas and with a highly mobile population, resulting in
more frequent interethnic interactions. The Center-West region has today, the largest number of
cases, and has shown a higher growth in cases than other regions. This contrasts with other parts
of the country, since most of the cases being reported in the Center-West involve Indians living in
urban areas, with women being those most affected. The variables that come into play here
include poverty, prostitution among Indian women, and alcoholism. The first of the graphics
appended to this report shows the spatial distribution of AIDS cases by DSEI (Special Indigenous
Health District - Distritos Sanitcirios Especiais Indigen as).
' Flavio Wiik, Contato, epidemia e corpo como aeentes de transformacao: um estudo sobre a AIDS entre
osindiosXokln6 de Santa Catarina Cadernos de Saide Publica, 17 (2): 397-406, Rio de Janeiro, 2001.
2 Leonardi, V.; " Fronteiras Amaz6nicas do Brasil Saude e Hist6ria Sociar' Ed. Marco Zero & Paralelo
15. Brasilia, 2000.
2



50% -
40%--
30%-
20%- /_           _     _ _._.
10%                 4 
0%-                                  ___                  (%)
North   Northeast Southeast  South    Center-
West
Regional Distribution of AIDS Cases
among the Indigenous Population - 2001
Distribution of AIDS cases by sex and age group:
In Table I we show the percentage distribution of AIDS cases, by age group and sex. The age
group most affected are individuals between the ages of 20 and 34, representing 68.0% of total
cases, or 65.2% for males and 79.2% for females. It should be noted that women are becoming
the most vulnerable group and consequently those who bear the greatest impact of the socio-
cultural changes affecting their group. In general, the increased frequency of contacts with
individuals outside the group, particularly for male Indians who travel regularly to cities and
towns near their villages and/or who move back and forth between the cities and the villages,
together with increased prostitution among Indian women, alcohol consumption and the sexual
mores of the group, are all factors responsible for the spread of the epidemic among village
Indians.
As regards the reporting of AIDS cases in urban areas, it should be noted that many cases
involving the indigenous population are likely to be underreported. A recent study by the Centro
de Referencia Terapeutico in Sao Paulo, based on a review of patient records, showed a much
larger number of AIDS cases among Indians than had been expected, with 22 patients identifying
themselves as Indians. SINAN (the Reportable Diseases Information System - Sistemna de
Informac5es sobre Agravos Notificaveis) only started including the race variable in 1996.



Percentage Distribution of AIDS Cases among the
Indigenous Po ulation - 2001
AGE GROUP
(YEARS)            MALE            FEMALE             TOTAL
15 to 19     01       (4.3%)  01      (4.2%)    02        (4.0%)
20 to 24     02       (8.7%)   04    (16.6%)    06       (12.0%)
25 to 29     06      (26.1%)   11    (46.0%)    17       (34.0%)
30 to 34     07      (30.4%)   04    (16.6%)    11       (22.0%)
35 to 39     04      (17.4%)   01     (4.2%)    05       (10.0%)
40 to 44     03      (13.0%)   01     (4.2%)    04        (8.0%)
45 to 49     -
50 to 64                       02     (8.2%)    02        (4.0%)
Age unknown     No data          No data          03         (6.0%)
TOTAL        23      (100%)    24     (100%)    50       (100%)
Source: CN-DST/AIDS - Ministerio da Saude
In sum, the major tendencies and characteristics of the AIDS epidemic among the indigenous
population are as follows:
(a) The epidemic is growing and is expanding among Indians living in urban areas who maintain
frequent contacts with their villages;
(b) The younger population is the most vulnerable, with individuals between the ages of 20 and
34 representing 68.0% of total cases, or 65.2% for males and 79.2% for females;
(c) As a category, young women are the most severely affected group with a sex ratio of 1/1, and
their vulnerability is linked to various factors, such as early sexual initiation, differing sexual
mores across tribal groups, cross-lactation, school attendance, and the socioeconomic impact
of major projects.
But these factors can only be understood on the basis of existing risk and vulnerability
differentials within the population.3 The social networks that people form are rather complex,
and require an effort in terms of characterizing and identifying them in their anthropological and
political dimensions, and determining how they operate in the spread of disease. Thus each
ethnic group needs to be placed within the context of its own particular situation and related to
the broader dynamics of interethnic contacts, such as:
(a) interethnic contacts resulting from the entry into native areas of garinmpeiros (unlicensed
miners), woodcutters, farmers and ranchers, and development projects, e.g. construction of
hydroelectric power plants and building of roads);
(b) interethnic contacts involving indigenous peoples in border areas;
(c) seasonal mobility and migration of Indians to urban areas in search of work, education and
health care;
3 Ministerio da Saude: Povos IndiQenas e a prevencdo as DST, HIVe AIDS Manual de diretrizes t&nicas
Brasilia, DF, 2000.
4



(d) kinship structure and sexual customs among some tribal groups that may increase risks and
promote vulnerability, such as cross-nursing, scarification rituals, polygamy, and early sexual
initiation;
(e) breakdown in traditional structures of community authority;
(f) conflict between the concepts of traditional medicine and the Western concept of the
health/disease process, as a result of which many health professionals find themselves
unprepared to cope with these situations and reject traditional beliefs, making preventive
measures difficult.
INDICATORS FOR RISK AND VULNERABILITY DIFFERENCES FOR INDIGENOUS
PEOPLES
External Factors Increasing   lnternal Factors within
Vulnerability of Indigenous  Indigenous Communities         Institutional Responses
Communities              Increasing Risk and
Vulnerability
1. Exploitation of forest   I. Level of purchasing power  1. Situation regarding
resources                   and schooling               regularization of title to
indigenous lands
2. Authorized and           2. Level of political power and  2. Existence of Indians employed
unauthorized mining         capacity to mobilize support  by public institutions who travel
operations on indigenous lands                           frequently
3. Roads and/or railroads   3. Balance in kinship relations  3. Presence of community
and gender issues           development projects
4. Leasing of indigenous land  4. Level of knowledge about  4. Existence of special indigenous
health situation and how    health districts and access to
diseases are transmitted    health services
5. Power sector projects    5. Permanent residents from  5. HR policy for the training of
outside the group and mobility  indigenous health agents
of higher-status individuals
within the group
6. Squatter invasions       6. Inter-group and inter-ethnic  6. STD/AIDS programs
relations                   established in the DSEls
7. Rural centers and land   7. Indigenous presence in
settlement projects         urban centers
8. Presence of regular travelers  8. Sexual mores within the
group
9. Presence of indigenist
agencies
Cases of STDs
In Figure 2 (see Annexes) the coefficient of incidence shows just how serious the STD problem is
in some districts. In general, in nearly all of the DSEIs, cases of STDs are higher than among the
population in general, with incidence rates usually above double digits. But particularly
deserving of attention are situations where incidence rates reflect general epidemic conditions, as
is ihe case in Manaus, Altamira, Alto Jurua, Alta Purus, Maranhao, Ceara, Pemambuco, Culab6,
5



Xingu, Araguaia, Amapa and northern Para. The data do not indicate what type of infection is
most frequent, as the reporting system adopted by the DSEls does not classify cases by etiology.
Nevertheless, it is important to stress the need to prioritize STD prevention and treatment
measures, as a correlation with HIV infection is more likely in situations like these where high
STD rates are prevalent. The spatial distribution of STDs also coincides with what the data
reveal about the distribution of AIDS cases. Once again, young people and women are the
segments of the population who are most affected.
II -The Government's Response
Legal framework governing indi2enous health: Responsibility for indigenous health currently
resides with the Ministry of Health, which regulates and implements health actions - both
prevention and treatment - through a care model based on 34 Special Indigenous Health Districts
(Distritos Sanit6rios Especiais Indigenas) or DSEIs. Each DSEI has centralized (p6lo) care units
which conduct health operations within the villages. Most of this network is operated by civil
society organizations (NGOs) under agreements with the National Health Foundation (Funda,do
Nacional de Saiude - FUNASA) for basic care activities. For more complex operations, the
system operates through agreements and incentives with the SUS (Sistemna Unificada de Satde -
Unified Health System). STD/AIDS operations are conducted in the DSEIs, and the CN-
DST/AIDS provides technical assistance in program implementation, training of health care
professionals, and standardization of activities in conformity with indigenous health care policy.
Social oversight is exercised through the District Councils and by the Inter-Institutional
Committee for Indigenous Health (Colnissdo Interistitucional de Saude Indigena - CISI) and by
the National Health Council (Conselho Nacional de Saude - CNS). The AIDS Committees
(CominissJes) of the states and municipalities play a complementary role in this social oversight,
as does the Office of the Public Prosecutor (Mintst&rio Ptublico) in the case of human rights issues
and invasion of Indian lands.
With respect to AIDS/STDs prevention, treatment and care responsibility for coverage is shared
between FUNASA and the National AIDS/STD Coordination as established in the National
Conference on Indigenous Health of 2000. The AIDS/STD program is responsible for the
development of technical norms and guidelines, educational materials, monitoring and evaluation,
training of local administrators at state and municipal levels and the provision of technical
assistance to DSEIs. Actual basic care and prevention services delivered in indigenous
conmmunities are the responsibility of the DSEI/FUNASA, and of the States and Municipalities,
who can contract NGOs. Thus, under AIDS III, there are three types of financing mechanisms
for indigenous health (AIDS/STD): a) strategic projects with NGOs/civil society; b) fund-to-fund
transfers to states and municipalities who include activities directed to indigenous health in their
PAMs (pianos de acoes e metas); and c) transfers to DSEI/FUNASA through an intersectoral
agrcement to finance activities agreed in an Action Plan. Given that both FUNASA and the CN
belong to the same ministry, no formal agreement is required.
History of response by the National STD/AIDS Pro2ram
The STD/AIDS National Coordinating Office (Coordena,do Nacional de DST/AIDS - CN-
DST/AIDS) began its work among indigenous populations in 1989. At that time, its operations
were carried out jointly with the National Foundation for the Indian (Funda,cio Nacional do Indio
- FUNAI), its main objectives being to train health sector professionals and support field research
into STDs and AIDS. These activities were generally not carried out in a continuous fashion and
6



did not result in the creation of consolidated structures to support systematic prevention and
treatment measures.
Starting in 1994, with the signing of the AIDS I loan agreement with the World Bank, under the
umbrella of the PREVINA program, operations targeted at the indigenous population became
more institutionalized and grew in scale, as awareness grew of the perilous health conditions
afflicting indigenous peoples, together with evidence of localized STD epidemics. These
activities, it should be noted, were conducted on case by case and emergency basis.
Not until the period 1996-98 did a concrete proposal emerge targeted at STD/AIDS prevention
and treatment among indigenous peoples. Thus, a national response was developed, based on
strengthening indigenous organizations and Indian support groups, with regularly scheduled and
continued training of indigenous health agents, and the establishment of a specific forum for
discussion of the issue of STDs and AIDS within indigenous communities.
One major problem in implementing the proposal was the fragmentation of indigenous health
care activities between FUNAI and the National Health Foundation (Fundaf ao Nacional de
Satrde - FUNASA)4 and the lack of communication between the health care systems coordinated
by the two foundations. FUNAI responded with treatment and social support services, while
FUNASA took responsibility for preventive measures, primarily control of malaria and other
endemic diseases. This dichotomy gave rise to countless institutional conflicts and torpedoed the
movement toward the establishment of a health care system geared to the realities of indigenous
life, which had been the aim since the first National Conference on Protecting the Health of the
Indian (Conferencia Nacional de Proteqa^o ci Sacide do Indio - I CNPSI) in 1986, the First
National Indigenous Health Forum (I F6rum Nacional de Sau'de Indigena) in 1993, and the
Second National Health Conference for Indigenous Peoples (II Conferencia Nacional de Saude
para os Povos Indigenas - II CNSPI) in 19935. There was no properly structured and
coordinated system, making it difficult to gain access to treatment services under the Unified
Health System (SUS). Access was difficult for a number of reasons: (a) long distances between
SUS treatment centers from the communities; (b) health professionals were poorly prepared to
cope with the indigenous peoples; (c) tardy application of the law establishing the DSEIs; (d) the
indigenous health agents were poorly trained; (e) absence of specific programs (e.g. for
STD/AIDS, reproductive health, or tuberculosis) established in the communities. Given the lack
of a formal health structure at the time, the program gave its support to indigenous organizations
and NGOs working in the area of indigenous health care.
Signing of the AIDS 11 loan agreement made it possible to consolidate the proposals envisaged
earlier and gave new impetus to preventive measures. The current approach was changed, and
the concept of vulnerability was adopted as the theoretical/operational reference point. This
period was marked by the decisive influence of actions undertaken by CN-DST/AIDS in regard to
Brazil's indigenous health policy. Starting with local organization of prevention campaigns,
awareness was created for the formulation of an indigenous health policy led by the Ministry of
4 Athias, R & Machado, M.; " A saude indigena no processo de inplantacdo dos distritos sanitarios
discursos antropol6gicos e mndicos". Communication presented to the meeting of the Associacao
Brasileira de Sauide Coletiva, Sao Paulo, 1999.
5See the technical reports presented at: I ConfereAncia Nacional de Protecdo a Saude do Indio, Relat6no
Final, Brasilia, Minist6rio da Saude, 1986.; 1 Confer6nca Nacional de Saude para os Povos Indigenas,
Relat6rio Final, Brasilia, 1993; I F6rum Nacional de Saqide Indigena, Documento Final, mimeographed
text, Secretaria de Estado da Saude de Sao Paulo, 1993.
7



Health.6 This process was only made possible by two significant steps: (1) publication of the
draft Law 63/1997 authored by S6rgio Arouca; (2) Provisional Measure No. 1911-8/1999, which
transferred responsibility for the health of indigenous peoples to FUNASA. This period was
marked by a number of sectoral conflicts, both inside and outside the government apparatus. It
was also a period of direct conflict between indigenous peoples and homesteaders (posseiros),
illegal miners (garimpeiros), mining companies, dam builders and with federal and local
government authorities.7
The strategy pursued by CN-DST/AIDS changed with the establishment of the Special
Indigenous Health Districts (DSEIs), and began to place priority on coordination with FUNASA
in order to strengthen local response, with the establishment of DSEI-based STD/AIDS
prevention and treatment programs. Support for projects began to be directed toward issues
regarded as of strategic importance, with priority focus on measures targeted to young people,
Indian women, and groups living in border areas. Assistance measures are being carried out
jointly with FUNASA.
Access to Preventive, Diagnostic and Treatment Services for Indigenous Peoples:
Prevention: Preventive services are provided by the DSEI organizations and involve five
strategic lines of action: (1) mobilization of the community and its leadership on the issue of
HIV/AIDS and other STDs; (2) training of indigenous health agents and other professionals
working within the DSEI to spread information on reproductive health, sexually transmitted
diseases, and counseling and guidance on HIV antibody testing; (3) training of teachers and
students at indigenous schools in health promotion techniques, particularly in regard to
reproductive health and prevention of STDs and HIV/AIDS; (4) intersectoral linkages with other
parts of the government involved in indigenous affairs; and (5) support for strategic projects in
areas of increased vulnerability and risk.
With regard to the mobilization of indigenous peoples, special mention should be made of the
work of the District Councils and of the Inter-Institutional Committee on Indigenous Health
(CISI) within the National Health Council (CNS). These social monitoring bodies have been the
designated address for requests and complaints from the sector, while also serving as important
actors in formulating policy proposals for the health sector. The AIDS committees of the states
and municipalities have also played an important role in representing the social monitoring
function. Proper linkages between decision-making bodies and programs in the area of
indigenous health are needed to avoid duplication of effort and overlapping decision-making in
STD/AIDS matters. This segment of the population is also served by the National Conference on
Indigenous Health (Conferencia Nacional de Saude Indigena), a strategic body for defining
national policy guidelines. The Third National Conference on Indigenous Health is to be held in
May, and for the first time STD/AIDS will be included on its agenda.
Wiih strategic projects, the object is to link together a network of stakeholders and institutions
with the aim to reduce the epidemic's impact on the most vulnerable and endangered groups,
namely: (a) indigenous reserves that have been invaded by outsiders or are close to where mining
6 Brasil: "Politica Nacional de Atenicdo a Saude dos Povos hidiQenas." Minist6rio da Saude, Brasilia,
December 2000.
7 Varga Van Deursen, I & Adorno, R.C.F, "Terceirizando a indianidade? Sobre a politica nacional de
saude para os povos indigenas. aos 500 anos." Mimeographed text, Universidade Sao Paulo, Faculdade de
Saude P1`blica, 2001.
8



operations are taking place, including informal mining operations (garimpos), together with
woodcutting operations, large-scale farming and livestock projects, and dam and highway
construction sites; (b) indigenous communities within urban areas; (c) indigenous communities
located in border areas; and (d) impoverished communities.
Strategic projects are those more especially designed to improve the situation of populations not
covered by ongoing prevention and treatment campaigns and who also find themselves at a
social, cultural and epidemiological disadvantage in coping with the HIV/AIDS epidemic and
other STDs. Also classified as strategic are those projects designed to encourage the
development of sound practices and innovative technologies in the areas of prevention and
treatment. The partners in developing these projects are indigenous organizations, non-
governmental organizations active in indigenous affairs, state and municipal level STD/AIDS
coordinating offices, and the DSEIs.
Projects supported and resources deployed: Twelve projects, representing an investment of
BRL 338,000 for indigenous peoples, were supported in 2002. These projects are viewed as
strategic by the National Coordinating Office (CN) as they are designed to subsidize the
implementation of specific STD/AIDS programs. The decline in the number of projects for this
segment of the population is justified by the fact that programs of this type are being incorporated
into the DSEIs, as recommended by the National Conference on Indigenous Health.
All of the projects listed below are preventive in nature, encompassing the training of indigenous
health agents in community intervention activities, promoting awareness among community
leaders and traditional healers, organizing young people and women, and guaranteeing access to
condoms. The projects include direct representation of community leaders. The Coordinating
Office does not give the project its final approval until it has been endorsed by the indigenous
community.
Support for STD/HIV/AIDS Prevention within the Indigenous Health Program,
1998 to 2002
Product    1998/99  Coverage   2000     Coverage    2001/2002 Estimated  Major results
January to  coverage  achieved -
July      for the    STD/HIV/
year       AIDS
2001/2002
1 -Project  1998 - 27  97,702  10       N= 323,000  15 projects N=       See situation
support    projects   Indians  projects  193,800              350,000    report
1999 - 17  (30.2%)           (60.0%)               258,400
projects                                           (74.0%)
2 - Educa-  1 video  32 DSEIs  I direc-  100% DSEI  1 textbook
tional     (02      (100%)     tives
materials  tapes)   27 CE-     docu-    100% NGO
1 STD/   AIDS       ment
AIDS     (100%)              100% CE
manual   100% of
1 serial  coopera-
album    ting NGOs
9



3 -Working                                           3 regional  I regional
offices for                                          offices    office
establish-
ment of
STD/AIDS
programs in
the DSEIs
HIV testing: Under the AIDS II project, a proposal to monitor the course of the AIDS epidemic
and other STDs among indigenous peoples was developed in conjunction with FUNASA, based
on an analysis of areas of greatest vulnerability and highest risk, on the basis of the indicators
mentioned earlier. A surveillance model was drawn up that took account of the cultural
characteristics and differences among each of the tribal groups. It was agreed that measures
would be taken to monitor the HIV situation among pregnant women, and patients diagnosed
with STDs and with tuberculosis. Implementation of this project was dependent on approval of
the use of quick tests by ANVISA. Access to testing for indigenous peoples is guaranteed
through the CTAs (testing and counseling centers - centros de testageni e aconselhaniento), but
testing is still in an early phase and is not yet being conducted on a regular basis. There is a
proposal to train the DSEI teams to enable them to guarantee and expand access to these quick
tests as a diagnostic tool.
Access to Treatment and Care. As regards access to treatment for individuals suffering from
STDs and living with HIV/AIDS, we should like to stress two points: (1) basic care and
prevention services are provided by the DSEI units, in the form of training for health care
professionals in setting up programs using the syndromic approach, and also in the form of
training for indigenous health agents, teachers and community leaders in the areas of education
and community health promotion; (2) as regards secondary and tertiary care, referrals are made to
the SUS (Unitary Health System), via SAE (Specialized Outpatient Services - Servi9os
Ambulatoriais Especializados), ADT (Home Therapeutical Care - Assist6ncla Domiciliar
Terapeutica), and the credentialed hospital network. These services receive specially earmarked
funds for treating the indigenous population.
Responsibility for basic care and treatment rests with FUNASA, while CN-DST/AIDS is charged
with providing guidelines with regards to the establishment of services and standardizing
procedures and routines. The CN provides training of health care professionals in the syndromic
approach to STDs, together with training in counseling, training of indigenous health agents in
developing prevention campaigns and specific educational materials. With regard to access to
anti-retrovirals and monitoring of pregnant women, the DSEls send their requests to the SAEs,
which in turn register the patients and continue to monitor them in conjunction with the technical
staff of FUNASA. In regions where distances between the community and available services
make access difficult, the National Coordinating Office has been mobilizing other sectors, such as
the Armed Forces medical services.
Major challenges and lessons learned The program faces the following challenges: (1) to
reduce the current levels of rotation of health professionals within the DSEIs; (2) finalize the
process of coordination of state and/or municipal programs with the DSEIs in order to implement
specific actions targeting indigenous peoples on the basis of criteria established by the National
Coordinating Office (CN) and FUNASA; (3) reduce barriers relating to access to services, testing
10



and treatment in conformity with cultural and tribal differences; and (4) guarantee additional
resources to keep strategic projects going.
We would list the following successes: (1) integration at the national level of the work agendas
of FUNASA and CN-DST/AIDS; (2) development of culturally appropriate educational materials
in various indigenous languages; 3) progress in the process of creating programs within the
DSE-Is; (4) monitoring of major trends in the epidemic among the indigenous segment of the
population; and (5) coverage based on enhanced vulnerability and risk as the relevant criteria.
As regards NGOs carrying out direct activities among indigenous peoples, it is important to note
that many of these organizations have no experience working with STD/AIDS, making it
necessary for them to strengthen the capacity of their teams; in addition, the NGOs have
frequently come into conflict with the communities, with resultant interruptions in work
programs. For these reasons, the National Coordinating Office has preferred to work with
recognized indigenous organizations and Indian support groups and to strengthen the response
capability of the Indians' own organizations.
III - Plan of Action:
Objectives:
I - Improve the local management process and encourage the programming of joint actions by
the DSEls and local STD/AIDS administrators;
2 - Mobilize additional human and technical resources to train DSEI health teams;
3 - Strengthen the task force to monitor the establishment of STD/AIDS programs within the
DSEIs;
4 - Prioritize prevention and treatment measures aimed at members of the indigenous population
living in urban areas, through strategic measures coordinated with state and municipal authorities
and non-govemmental organizations;
5 - Establish a joint plan of action for assistance measures between FUNASA and the National
Coordinating Office, by defining guidelines, priorities, flows and counter-reference for STDs and
HIV/AIDS; and
6 - Establish instruments to match, at the local level, information collected by the Indigenous
Health Care Information System (Sistema de Informa,Jes da Aten,do ai Saude Indigena - SIASI)
and the Reportable Diseases Information System (Sistenia de Informa,ces sobre Agravos
Notiflcaveis - SINAN), in order to reduce the underreporting of STD and HlIV/AIDS cases
among the indigenous population.
Indigenous Development Plan:
> Support for behavioral modification projects and health campaigns being executed jointly
with non-govemmental organizations, indigenous organizations, and Indian support groups,
to train indigenous health agents and teachers as disseminators of information;
11



34 projects/year (at least one project in each DSEI) = BRL 5,100,000.00 for the three years
covered by the AIDS III Project
' Organization of macroregional meetings to define STD/AIDS prevention strategies, promote
social monitoring in the health area, and mobilize the indigenous peoples, by bringing
together the health care institutions making up the Unified Health System (SUS), FUNAI,
non-governmental organizations, and institutions representing the indigenous communities;
7 meetings/year (21 meetings over the 3 years of the project) = BRL 630,000.00
> Basic and advanced training of indigenous agents and Indian schoolteachers as information
disseminators to help develop prevention programs in indigenous communities;
12 training courses (4 in each year of the project) = BRL 600,000.00
> Guaranteed supply of needed inputs (condoms and quick tests) to develop preventive
measures for health in general and STD/AIDS in particular;
Included in the general project total
> Conducting of seroprevalence studies in selected (sentinel) sites to identify the risk situation
and exposure to HIV/AIDS and syphilis among segments of the indigenous population at
greater risk and/or with heightened vulnerability;
1 seroprevalence study = BRL 120,000.00
> Production of technical documentation and instructional material to assist in intervention
measures among the indigenous community;
Included in the general project total for Information, Education and Communication (IEC)
> Reduction in the prevalence of STDs within indigenous communities by providing support to
DSEI technical staff and training physicians and nursing staff in a syndromic approach to
STDs.
30 courses on the syndromic approach over the 3 years of the project = BRL 900,000.00
>  Sustainability of preventive measures and of the civil society institutions carrying out the
intervention projects. For this component, meetings will be held with the administrative
agencies (Coordinating Offices at the national, state and municipal levels, together with
FUNASA) to discuss the inclusion of "additional funds" to finance the prevention campaigns
for indigenous peoples at PAM medical posts, and to guarantee financing through indigenous
health care.
It is important to emphasize that, in every stage of preparing this plan of action and the strategies
to be employed, the CN-DST/AIDS has included representative organizations of the Indians
themselves, both in the social monitoring bodies mentioned earlier, and in committees and
advisory groups. The resources should include counterpart funds from FUNASA for training
activities and administration of STD/AIDS programs within the DSEls.
12



Potential Monitoring Indicators:
Number of NGOs working with Indigenous Peoples.
Number of indigenous people covered.
Amount of financing allocated to Indigenous services.
% of those municipalities with indigenous populations that included activities for indigenous
health in their PAMs.
No. of indigenous health agents trained.
Prevalence of AIDS amongst indigenous people.
Prevalence of STDs amongst indigenous people.
SITUA(;AO DAS DST NOS DSEIs EM 2001                Indd_d_a Conheada de  por D   _S - iE3A12001
Etla     No  HV  Pop  InOJlOhb -
1 Alto PJo Juru  231  0  7 061  3Z.7
. 2 AltoiR.P.- N2o   (  5i44   39.0
3 - Alt. o   Wlgro  114i   32 43
4 .AJtoNRO OSirlfOs  2  2  281907   0,1
5  o Malus      29   0   11108  18.0
I                         ~~  AM t PA /~~~~~V 7 Mli.MdloNtoP,,moo0  300  t   671 5
F.M6dIo04Fin0. - 2   0 -610M  - 53
7 -M611 SJ6.  3  -   - i 250 7
¢  7  5 /S [,,1  r5 ,#>^MA ,1      t1~~~~~~~~~~~~8 P-rtins  10t _  7 9t4  12t
tt  <,f fSl :~~~~~~~~~ 7  g ~~~20         9 - C+ 90 Vdojawr ma  42'  ( 255  16,2
10,1 -L LJtd. FrW.. 22   08910ol - 1,
12 PortoVelho  t 7 t   6041   11,1
13. Vilhomn2o           4!     6,7
14 .A3tooira    5 -     6T7   92.i
15 -Ch.oArTO    36   0  3.69   9,7
16 - iV..p6 . PA  1  0  12t3  0.31
17.R.oTpj6.     29 Z   4.S     5
IS .A aoto a Nxte do Po  115  0  8201I  16.
19 - TOomtr     34     6.9454,3
220- Mroh9      So1  0  19 021  35.8
21 - Ca d       21-   - t119  31.
S4     7        _>4          22. Potygla    6-4      9 701  E69
>19 f SP   _         24 - Agoss o Srgippe   1 -  6997   0,1
25- Bh,a    t     t    14 9E   0.0
29.Min-, Goro. fESmto  16  70  9212  17,4
27 -LUtorl Sul  19   0  31     5.
2R- Intenror Sul  3  0 1-7,   '12.4
2 30- Aragli    10   0  2     39.8
30- WO1          0  4 4521 -
31 - K-.pd.MT  -        940   5.0
3   g.  2I         -  -9 3992  ,3
13Moto ~0OS0 400To
13



DSEls COM CASOS DE HIV/AIDS                                 1     1-Alto R,oJu,uA-AC
2     2 - Alto Rio Purus - AC I AM
NOTIFICADOS - 1998 a 2001                                 3     3-AltoRioNegro-AM
4     4 - Alto Rio Sohm6es - AM        02
5     5 - Manaus -AM                   02
6     6 - M6dio Rio Purus - AM
7     7 - Mddio Rio SolimOes - AM
8     8 - Parintins - AM I PA
9     9 - Vale do Rio Javari - AM
10    10 - Lesto de Roraima- RR        03
11    11- Yanomaml - RR AM
\,Altf ¢  2   PA  .;  2               12    12-PortoVelho-RO/AM
4    7                         I.. 5 / MA                      13    13 -Vilehna- ROIMT
t   s  Q1/ 7   7  h  20  1  1  C   14  14 - Altamira - PA
15    15 - Gua m  Tocantins - PA
1'                               2    16    16 - Karapo - PA                 01
17    17 -Rio Tapaj6s -PA
10    19 - Amop6 a Norte do Pari - AP I PA  02
. I  ,       1                             19    19 - Tocantins - TO
Ml sz-tT       MG                      20    20 - Marainho - MA
21.   21 - CearA -CE
22    22 - PoAiguiar - PB              01
23    23 - PCnuabaco - PE              01
GO                      ~~~   ~~~~~~24  24 -Al'agoas oSergipe .AL ISE  01
25    25 - Bahla - BA                  01
M:C  n326                     26 - M Gerais a Esp Santo - MG I ES  01
27    27 - Ltoral SuL- RJ ISP IPR ISC IRS  01
28    28 -Interior Sul -SP IPR /SC IRS
29    29 - Araguaia - GO I MT          03
30    30 - Culab4 - MT
31    31 - Kalap6 - MT
32    32 - Xavante - MT
33    33 - Parque Indigena do Xlngu - MT
34    34 - Mato Grosso do Sul - MS     24
14



