Report No. PID11512
Project Name             BRAZIL-BR-AIDS & STD Control III
Region                   Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                   Health (100%)
Project ID               P080400
Borrower(s)              GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL
Implementing Agency
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Address: National AIDS & STD
Coordination Unit,
SEPN Quadra 511, Bloco C, 2ndo andar
Brasilia, DF 70750-543
Contact Person: Paulo R. Teixeira,
Coordinator
Tel: 55-61-448-8000-6
Email: Pteixeira@Aids.Gov.Br
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared        November 15, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      January 15, 2003
Bank Approval Date       April 15, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Background: This loan would be the third STD/AIDS Control project to be
financed in Brazil. Brazil has the highest number of AIDS cases in the
region (just under the U.S.). Since the first cases appeared in 1980, the
Brazilian Government has put HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment high on its
agenda.
The Epidemiology of HIV/AIDS: AIDS first appeared in Brazil in 1980. The
number of AIDS cases reported has risen from 550 in 1985, to close to
240,000 in mid-2002. The number of individuals infected by HIV is
currently estimated at 600,000, or 0.65% of the population aged 15-49
(this estimate includes about 120,000 persons who have AIDS that are
alive). Prevalence of HIV has ranged from 0.5 to 0.8 since end of 1997
showing a trend towards stabilization. In the case of AIDS, the number of
cases reported per year has been stabilizing as well. Given the existence
of free antiretroviral therapy (ARV) mortality from AIDS has declined from
9.6 per 100,000 in 1996 to 6.3 per 100,000 in 2000. The availability of
ARV will lead to increases in prevalence of HIV, at least as long as the
number of new infections is greater than the number deaths from AIDS.
Although the epidemic appears to be stabilizing, its mode of transmission
and demographics have changed significantly. While in 1985 85% of all
cases were among men who have sex with men, they now account for 26.6% of
all AIDS cases reported. Heterosexual transmission has increased,
increasing from 16.4 in 1990 to 39% by 2001, and women now account for one
third of all new cases. In addition to the feminization of the epidemic
(which is occurring all over Latin America), new cases are less educated
and a broader group of municipalities. The proportion of AIDS cases



derived from blood transfusion has declined over time, while the
proportion transmitted through intravenous drug-use has remained the
same. However, the proportion infected through vertical transmission has
almost doubled. Overall incidence of AIDS was estimated at 12.4 per
100,000 in 2000, declining to 8.1 in 2001. However, there are important
regional disparities. Incidence rates for AIDS however, have been
declining amongst men in the southeast and center west. They remain high
in the south and in all regions amongst women.
The National Response:
The First AIDS & STD Control Project (1994-1998, becoming effective June
1, 1994) for a total of US$250 million (US$160 million IBRD) accounted for
one-third of Brazil's spending on AIDS. Its objectives were to reduce the
spread of the epidemic and to strengthen public and private institutions
engaged in AIDS and STD control. The project left in place a solid
institutional framework for HIV/AIDS & STD control that is strongly
supported by partnerships with state and local governments and a wide
range of NGOs.
The ICR noted two important shortcomings of AIDS I: (a) the project
evaluation unit was not adequately staffed nor equipped, making it
impossible to quantify the achievements of the project; and (b) inadequate
supervision (by both Borrower and Bank) of procurement activities
subcontracted to UNDP. Mention was also made of the need for greater
integration of activities in prevention, surveillance, diagnosis,
treatment, training and evaluation. That said, the achievements of the
project are substantial, and the lessons learned have proven key to the
sustainability and effectiveness of project activities: (a) building a
constituency for the project very early on among states, municipalities
and NGOs proving valuable in a rapid and smooth start-up and buy-in; and,
(b) the involvement of NGOs proved critical to reaching high risk groups.
The Second AIDS & STD Control Project (1998-2002) which is financing
activities for a total of US$296.5 million (of which US$161.5 is IBRD
financed) became effective February 9, 1999. The Government requested a
six-month extension (to June 30 2003) in order to complete its
implementation which was slightly delayed due to the late approval of
supplementary budget. The objectives of AIDS II are to reduce the
incidence of HIV and STD infection, and to expand and improve diagnosis,
treatment and care for persons with STD, HIV and AIDS. The rationale for
the second project was to extend coverage of preventive activities (while
maintaining a focus on high-risk groups), strengthen evaluation capacity,
and work toward the sustainability of the project through the devolution
of some responsibilities to the state and the definition of more
cost-effective interventions.
Accomplishments of AIDS II to date: The project expanded prevention
services significantly through increased participation of NGOs and
partnerships with states and municipalities, increasing accessibility to
condoms (male and female), doubling the number of testing and counseling
sites and HIV testing (to how much). However, although prevention
activities expanded (while maintaining a focus on high-risk groups),
expansion continues to be insufficient. Moreover, the enthusiasm for
prevention seems to have been overshadowed by that of treatment and care
-2 -



(in part due to the international visibility they have acquired in
bringing down ARV prices internationally). With regards to treatment, it
increased specialized ambulatory facilities five-fold, almost doubled day
hospitals and accredited 50 additional conventional hospitals. It also
strengthened provision of prevention services in testing, treatment and
care facilities. Moreover, the sentinel surveillance system was greatly
improved. The use alternative care options such as day hospitals and
specialized ambulatory facilities have reduced the number of
hospitalizations per AIDS patient from 0.8 in 1997 to 0.3 in 2001,
yielding some important savings, in addition to those derived from the
reduction in the incidence of opportunistic infections resulting from the
use of ARV. While not financed by the project, all the training,
development of protocols, and studies conducted to ensure adequate
provision of ARV treatment and follow-up services were financed by the
project. The project has continued to build strong alliances with NGOs,
the private sector, associations of people living with HIV/AIDS, and state
and municipal stakeholders, fostering participation in project preparation
and implementation.
Remaining Challenges:
Coverage and quality need to be improved: While expansion of services has
been significant in the last four years, the team acknowledges that
coverage still needs to be expanded and quality of care needs to be
addressed. Further emphasis of prevention efforts with high-risk groups
needs to be a high priority Coverage of intravenous drug users is only
10%. Coverage of men who have sex with men is estimated at 52% but the
size of the target population seems underestimated, and coverage of
commercial sex workers is unknown due to the difficulty in estimating the
target population. However, there are more NGO subprojects with sex
workers than the other groups. And, with regards to prevention of
mother-to-child transmission, only 40% of pregnant women are currently
tested and only one third of those testing positive receive treatment. STD
diagnosis and treatment continues to be weak given that states, who are
responsible for the provision of medications for treatment of STDs, have
not made available the necessary supplies. Coverage of HIV testing for
pregnant women and treatment for those infected also continues to be low
(only 409 tested and only 32% testing positive are receiving treatment).
And, despite free treatment, only one-third of all estimated HIV positive
cases have been reached.
A monitoring and evaluation system of the program needs to be implemented:
Regarding monitoring and evaluation of the epidemic and the program, some
advances have been made although they are still inadequate for a program
of this magnitude and stature (and given the fact that this was to be an
important focus of AIDS II). AIDS/HIV surveillance has improved but STD
surveillance continues to be inadequate. Although the project has
developed numerous independent data sets developed for specific purposes
(other than project monitoring and management), and has conducted some
studies to assess project outcomes and impact, they have not been
conducted systematically and often fail to use comparable methodologies.
Thus, as such, the project has studies and data but no evaluation strategy
nor system, resulting in a lack of systematic information on project
outcomes and impacts in various areas. They have never hired M&E staff
with the appropriate background and do not have a culture of using data
for decision-making. As part of the agreement to extend the project
-3 -



closing date by six months, the project team will prepare a detailed M&E
operational plan and develop indicators to assess performance of
municipalities financed under the fund-to-fund transfer in 2003 before the
6-month extension period is over.
Program sustainability needs to be addressed: The project needs to
decentralize financing and decision-making to the states and
municipalities (and thus be in line with current health sector reforms in
Brazil), and reduce its operational costs at the center. AIDS II only
contemplated the decentralization of the supervision of its
NGO-implemented subprojects to the states. The project went further than
what AIDS II required, by transferring the bidding and selection processes
for the NGO subprojects to 8 states. Bidding for all other 19 states and
financing of subprojects remained centralized. Given the decentralization
of financing that currently prevails in the health sector, it is crucial
that the AIDS program align its implementation strategy to be coherent
with the rest of the health sector.
The project took some steps in this direction in the last 6 months. In
order to align the AIDS program with financing mechanisms currently
employed in the health sector to allocate federal funds to state and
municipal programs, the project has prepared a draft law that establishes
a fund-to-fund transfer mechanism (federal level to state or municipal
level health fund) for qualifying states and municipalities. At present a
total of 411 municipal and 27 state health programs are eligible in terms
of their epidemiological profile. They still need to qualify in terms of
management capacity. This is an important advance in the process of
decentralization and coherence with current reforms, and ensures funding
for AIDS activities as part of the regular program of states and
municipalities. However, a clear plan and procedures need to be developed
to ensure the transfer works as an incentive and not merely as an
entitlement.
2. Objectives
The project would have the following objectives:
fn Reduce the incidence of STDs, and HIV
n Improve the quality of life for people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA)
n Strengthen the sustainability of the national response
To achieve the first objective, the focus would be on prevention
activities targeting high risk populations (behavior change, condom use,
needle exchange), extending Voluntary Counseling and Testing (VCT),
Prevention of Mother to Child Transmission (PMTCT), prevention and
treatment of STDs and in all of the above, improving the quality of
services provided. To achieve the second objective, the project would
provide treatment for opportunistic infections, protection of human
rights, social/psychological support, and extending laboratory support for
testing for HIV, and for following up patients under ARV. To achieve the
third objective, the focus would be on: (a) increased decentralization of
project management and implementation activities (NGO subprojects,
fund-to-fund transfers) (b) strengthened management (strong M&E capacity
centrally and state level, performance based management tools and
processes, computerized monitoring system, improved surveillance); (c)
- 4 -



focus on more cost-effective interventions; and (d) identification of
alternative preventive and curative strategies.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The project is an important investment for the Bank, not just because AIDS
prevention is a high priority for the Bank, but because of the high
visibility of the program worldwide. It has been the leader in many
respects, and despite the fact in some areas their coverage is not as
great as it could be, they tend to do a better job than anyone else.
Lessons learned will be applicable to parts of the majority of AIDS
prevention programs currently supported by the Bank. Moreover, any gains
in containing the epidemic in Brazil are bound to have spillover effects
in other countries.
4. Description
COMPONENT I: Improving the Quality and Coverage of Services (the
response)
Subcomponent 1: Improving Quality and Expanding Service Delivery (for
those in fund-to-fund financing): Activities financed under this
subcomponent are the same as subcomponent 2 but are financed through a
different modality, and are managed at the state and municipal levels.
Originally, the project team requested that this subcomponent be financed
exclusively with counterpart funds. However, it seems likely that funds
for NGOs in qualified states, for a total of US$12.8 million for the life
of the project may be included in the transfers. Ten percent of resources
transferred to each state will be earmarked for NGO subprojects, bringing
the overall total allocated to the transfer to US$72.8 million. This would
ensure Bank participation in the transfer mechanism.
Services to be financed include both prevention and treatment and care
activities. In Prevention and Promotion, the following services will be
financed: behavior change to prevent STDs and HIV with a strong focus on
high risk groups, mother to child transmission, condom promotion, risk
reduction among IV drug users (needle exchange programs), IEC
(information, education and communication), and the protection of human
rights to encourage more people to test themselves.
Services in Diagnosis, Treatment and Care include the expansion of
voluntary counseling and testing services, expanded diagnosis and
treatment for STDs, Opportunistic Infections, HIV (ARV not included in the
project), home-based social/psychological care, palliative care, and
strengthening instruments to guarantee protection of human rights,
training on rights, advocacy targeting legislative and judicial branches
of government. The laboratory network will be strengthened and some
facilities will be upgraded.
Subcomponent 2: Improving Quality and Expanding Service Delivery:
Municipalities and States not in Fund-to-Fund Financing, and Strategic
Projects/Investments.
This subcomponent includes the same activities as above but will be
financed via annual implementation plans with the states/municipalities
rather than through fund-to-fund transfers. This will include all
municipalities that have not qualified to receive financing via the
- 5 -



fund-to-fund transfer mechanism. This component also includes regional
initiatives and areas which acquire strategic importance throughout
implementation, giving the team some flexibility to address emerging
issues.
COMPONENT II: Scientific and Technological Development. This component
will finance preparatory studies and infrastructure for clinical trials
for vaccines to prevent HIV infection and microbicides, and improve
effectiveness of treatment.
Subcomponent 1: Readiness for clinical research. Establish GMP
excellence centers, clinical support for participation in phase I, II and
III clinical trials for the development of AIDS prevention vaccines and
microbicides, bioinformatic support for clinical trials, and activities to
prepare and promote civil society participation in clinical trials. The
component would finance training of national institutions in international
settings such as NIH, UNAIDS, ANRS, workshops for participants in trials,
laboratory equipment and supplies for the implementation and monitoring of
clinical trials, and computer equipment.
Subcomponent 2: Implementation of studies. The contents of the studies
are under discussion as many are not areas the Bank generally finances.
The Carta Consulta was vague, but did mention research on new forms of
treatment, side-effects of medications, and the development of new
algorithms for treatment and testing, development of new rapid tests for
HIV testing. They also want to pilot test new national products.
COMPONENT III: Strengthening Program Management
Subcomponent 1: Strengthening of Project/Program Monitoring and
Evaluation. This subcomponent includes the establishment and operation of
a Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit at the federal level that will
utilize performance based management to assess program progress in meeting
specified targets (by region/target group/priority interventions), the
resources dedicated to reach them, and utilize this information to
redirect program activities for the following funding cycle (strategic
planning). Similar, smaller units will be established in each state.
States will analyze their own information and send a subset of information
to the National Program for overall program direction and policy
formulation. Emphasis will be made on training staff to use information
for decision-making and setting the right incentives for them to use it.
It also includes activities designed to strengthen HIV/AIDS and STD
surveillance at all three levels of government. The current strength of
surveillance is on AIDS. The focus of AIDS III will be to strengthen STD
and HIV surveillance, particularly of high-risk groups. In addition,
periodic behavioral surveillance surveys will be conducted.
Thus, the subcomponent would finance the following activities at federal,
and state levels: the establishment of M&E systems: (staffing, training on
M&E, computerized management tools (hardware and software)); and, in the
case of the federal level, this subcomponent would finance the operation
of the M&E system, including consulting services to conduct quantitative
and qualitative evaluations on a periodic basis, planning and evaluation
meetings to discuss results, and specific operations research studies to
- 6 -



assess adequacy and quality of service delivery and to identify improved
ways of delivering services, and beneficiary assessments to improve
quality. The project would finance technical assistance to ensure adequate
monitoring capacity and the opportune use of information for management
and setting priorities. In the case of surveillance, the project will
finance data collection and analysis, training at state level (municipal),
assessment of quality of data, methods to improve data collection and
reduce underreporting. Most of the funds for evaluation would go to the
national and state levels. Activities for monitoring the meeting of agreed
targets associated with the fund transfers to states and eligible
municipalities would also be financed.
Subcomponent 2: Strengthening Management Practices. This subcomponent
will finance management training for the federal, state and municipal
levels, and NGOs. In the case of NGOs training will also include:
training on income generation and promotion of their services and to find
other sources of financing. NGO forums will be established where
non-existent, and strengthened elsewhere to strengthen their negotiation
capacity vis-a-vis the states/municipal governments, providing them with
political, institutional and financial sustainability. This component
will also include the development and application of management tools,
including such tools as logistics for supplies, software for inventory
management and follow-up of individuals under HAART.
Subcomponent 3: Strengthening Institutional Development of the PCU. This
will include funds for the preparation of joint ventures/studies with
other countries to improve program performance, to conduct studies
included in Component 2, participation in international forums to exchange
ideas and information, and to provide guidance in such important
initiatives as the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB and Malaria.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $100.00
IBRD $100.00
IDA
Total Project Cost $200.00
6. Implementation
The project will be executed by the Ministry of Health through the
National Coordination Program for AIDS and STD and by states and
participatory municipal health secretariats. In addition, NGOs will be
providing prevention and care services in all states.    At least 10t of
funds transferred to states will be executed by NGOs.
7. Sustainability
The project needs to decentralize financing and decision-making to the
states and municipalities (and thus be in line with current health sector
reforms in Brazil), and reduce its operational costs at the center. AIDS
II only contemplated the decentralization of the supervision of its
NGO-implemented subprojects to the states. The project went further than
what AIDS II required, by transferring the bidding and selection processes
for the NGO subprojects to 8 states. Bidding for all other 19 states and
financing of subprojects remained centralized. Given the decentralization
of financing that currently prevails in the health sector, it is crucial
- 7 -



that the AIDS program align its implementation strategy to be coherent
with the rest of the health sector.
The project took some steps in this direction in the last 6 months. In
order to align the AIDS program with financing mechanisms currently
employed in the health sector to allocate federal funds to state and
municipal programs, the project has prepared a draft law that establishes
a fund-to-fund transfer mechanism (federal level to state or municipal
level health fund) for qualifying states and municipalities. At present a
total of 411 municipal and 27 state health programs are eligible in terms
of their epidemiological profile. They still need to qualify in terms of
management capacity. This is an important advance in the process of
decentralization and coherence with current reforms, and ensures funding
for AIDS activities as part of the regular program of states and
municipalities. However, a clear plan and procedures need to be developed
to ensure the transfer works as an incentive and not merely as an
entitlement.
With regards to operational/administrative costs, the project more than
likely doubled its staff instead of than reducing it. There were as many
as 470 people working in the unit up to June 2002. Although the Bank has
been informed that about 200 staff left since, the project unit needs to
downsize and decentralize if they are serious about sustainability and
decentralization.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
These are the lessons learned from the first AID & STD Control Project:
Building a Constituency for the Project. Building support for the project
at the local level before project implementation is labor intensive,
especially for projects that are broad in geographic scope. Such an
effort, however, can help to accelerate start up and promote timely
implementation.
NGO Participation and Effective Outreach to High Risk Groups. The
implementation of HIV/AIDS and STD control efforts among specific high
risk groups can be most effectively carried out by societal organizations
that have formed a relationship of trust with members of certain high risk
groups. The individuals being targeted often belong to marginalized
segments of society with which governments may have little experience.
NGOs can often bring more of the specialized knowledge needed and often
have an established credibility with the target group. This is especially
true for work with homosexuals, commercial sex workers, street people, and
indigenous peoples.
Greater Focus on Evaluation. Although the SAR included a long list of
monitoring and impact indicators, the project still failed to track
changes in high risk behaviors in key target populations. An effective
evaluation plan should specifically define what survey instruments will be
used, when they will be tested and applied, and by whom. A plan to
execute these evaluation instruments should accompany the implementation
plan to help ensure that appropriate baseline data are collected in a
timely fashion.
Appropriate Staffing of the Evaluation Unit. In order to ensure adequate
evaluation of program activities, the project management unit should
maintain sufficient qualified staff exclusively dedicated to the task of
evaluation.
-8-



Cost-Effectiveness Analysis. A variety of disease control interventions
are being carried out among a variety of targeted high risk groups.
Optimally, the program should gather the necessary pre-and
post-intervention data to determine the relative cost-effectiveness of
these various interventions. This kind of analytical information would
help the program to set priorities, especially when resources are scarce.
Integration of Program   Activities.    There are many opportunities for
integrating the program's various activities in prevention, surveillance,
diagnosis, treatment, training and evaluation. To provide just one
example, the counseling expertise in CTAs could be made use of in nearby
day hospitals, in specialized ambulatory care units, or by local NGOs
working with specific risk groups.
Procurement. More intensive supervision, by project management and by the
Bank, of the procurement process is necessary when procurement activities
are contracted out to third parties.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        Special or hazardous waste streams may be generated
as a result of implementation of studies under component II. Therefore
the project will be taking the necessary steps to ensure protection and
safety training for workers that will be performing such services and to
develop an adequate plan to manage resulting waste streams.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Sandra Rosenhouse
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-2747
Fax:   (202) 522-1102
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Cleared by: Madalena Dos Santos, Sector Leader, LCC5C
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
November 22, 2002.
9



