                                                     Document of
                                                 The World Bank

                                         FOROFFICIAL USEONLY




                                                                            Report No: 25759-BR




                                   PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                  ONA

                                           PROPOSEDLOAN

                                INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$lOO.OOMILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                  FEDERATIVEREPUBLICOF BRAZIL



                                                FORTHE

                                    AIDS & STDControlI11PROJECT

                                               June 4,2003




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                    (Exchange RateEffectiveMarch 14, 2003)
                              Currency Unit = Real
                                          1.00 = US$
                                     US$l.OO = R$3.48

                                      FISCALYEAR
                                    January 1 -- December 31

                     ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

ANRS         FrenchAgence Nacionalede Recherche sur le SIDA
ANVISA       Agencia Nacional de Vigilancia Sanitaria
ARV          Anti Retroviral (drugs)
ART          Anti Retroviral Therapy
AZT          Azido-Deoxy Thymidine
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CBO          Community-based Organizations
CDC          Centers for Disease Control
CGOF         General Coordination Unit for Budgetingand Finance (MS)
CGU          Federal Controller General
CIB          Comissao Intergestora Bipartite
CIT          Comissiio Intergestora Tripartite
CN           National Coordination (AIDS Program) - same as PCU
CN DST/AIDS  National Coordination of the STD and AIDS Programs
CONASS       ConselhoNacional de SecretariosEstaduaisde Saude
CNS          ConselhoNacional de Saude
CONASEMS
cso          ConselhoNacional de SecretariosMunicipais de Saude

csw          Civil Society Organization
             Commercial Sex Worker
DALY         Disability-Adjusted Life Years
FARAH        Financial Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook
FES          Health State Fund(each State has one)
FHP          Family Health Program
FMR          Financial Monitoring Reports
FMS          Health Municipal Fund(not all Municipalities have)
FNSIFUNASA   National Health Fund
HAART        Highly Active Antiretroviral Therapy
HRSA         Health Resourcesand Services Administration
HSWMP        Health Services Waste Management Plans
IAVI         International AIDS Vaccine Initiative
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDU          Injecting Drug Users
IEC          Information Education and Communication
IO           International Organization (UNESCO/UNDCPLJNAIDS/etc.)
MDGs         MilleniumDevelopment Goals
MF           Ministry of Finance
MP           Planning and Budgeting Ministry
M S          Ministry of Health
MSM          Men who Have Sex with Men
NASCP        National AIDS/STD Control Program
NASTAD       National Alliance of State and Territorial AIDS Directors
NGO          Non Governmental Organization
NIH          National Institute o f Health

                                                                 FOROFFICIAL USEONLY




        NOAS           (Norma Operacional de Asistencia 18Saiide)
        OED             Operations Evaluations Department
        P A M           Action & Target Plans for States and Municipalities (Planos de A@es e Metas)
        PI              Health Ministry Ordinance (Portaria Incentivo No.23 13 Dec/19/02)
        PLWHA           People Living with H I V AIDS
        PMTCT           Prevent Mother to Child Transmission
        POA             Annual Operating Plan
        SAE             Specialized Ambulatory Care centers
        SEAIN           International Affairs Secretariat (MP)
        SES             State Health Secretariat (SecretariaEstadual de Saide)
        SFC             Federal Control Secretariat
        SIAB            Sistema de InforrnatizapTo deAtenpio Bdsica
        SIAFI           Federal Financial Administration System
        SIAIDS          Information System of AIDS Project
        SIDOR           Federal Budget Information System
        SIMOP           Sub-project Monitoring System
        SINAN           Sistema de InformaGiies de Agravos de NotifcaGdo (National Notification System
                        for Communicable Diseases)
        SIS Incentivo   Fund-to-Fund Transfer Monitoring System
        SISCEL          Control of Laboratory tests and examinations of the AIDSKTD program.
        SICLOM          Control of pharmaceutical procurement, stock and distribution information system.
        SISFAF          System operated by FNS for the transfers to FES and FMS.
        SOE             Statement ofExpenditures
        SOF             Federal Budget Secretariat (MP)
        SOT             Statement of Transfers
        SPI             Strategic Projects Secretariat (MP)
        SPS             Health Policies Secretariat (Ministry of Health)
        STD             Sexually Transmitted Disease
        STN             National Treasury Secretariat (MF)
        sus             Sistema Unico de Saude
        UCSF            University of SanFrancisco, California
        UNAIDS          United Nations AIDS Programme
        UNDP            United Nations Development Programme
         UNDCP          UnitedNations Drug Control Program
         UNESCO         UnitedNations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organization
         WHO            World Health Organization




                                                Vice President:        David De Ferranti
                                  Country ManagerDirector:              Vinod Thomas
                                    Sector ManagedDirector:             EvangelineJavier
                           Task Team Leadermask Manager:                Sandra Rosenhouse




This document hasa restricted distributionandmay beused by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


                                                 Brazil
                                  AIDS & STD ControlProjectI11


                                             CONTENTS

A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page
   1. Project development objective                                                       2
   2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
   1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
   2. Main sector issuesand Government strategy                                           3
   3. Sector issues to be addressedby the project and strategic choices                   12
C. Project Description Summary
   1. Project components                                                                  14
   2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       18
   3. Benefits and target population                                                      18
   4. Institutional and implementationarrangements                                        19
D.Project Rationale
   1. Projectalternatives considered andreasonsfor rejection                              29
   2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          30
   3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                            32
   4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    33
   5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         33
E. Summary Project Analysis
   1. Economic                                                                            33
   2. Financial                                                                           34
   3. Technical                                                                           35
   4. Institutional                                                                       35
   5. Environmental                                                                       37
   6. Social                                                                              38
   7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  40
F.Sustainability and Risks
   1. Sustainability                                                                      40
   2. Critical risks                                                                      42
   3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      42
G. Main Loan Conditions
   1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             43
   2. Other                                                                               43
H. Readinessfor Implementation                                                            43
I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                              43

Annexes

Annex 1: ProjectDesign Summary                                                      44
Annex 2: DetailedProject Description                                                50
Annex 2a. Accomplishments of the BrazilianAIDS Program                              58
Annex 2b. EnvironmentalAssessment                                                   61
Annex 2c. SocialAssessment, includingIndigenousDevelopmentPlan                      68
Annex 2d. Monitoring andEvaluation                                                  87
Annex 2e. Ministry of HealthStatement on ARV developmentand productionPolicy        92
Annex 3: EstimatedProject Costs                                                     95
Annex 4: Economic Analysis Summary                                                  96
Annex 5: FinancialSummaryfor Revenue-EarningProject Entities,or FinancialSummary    102
Annex 6: Procurementand DisbursementArrangements                                    104
Annex 7: ProjectProcessingSchedule                                                  124
Annex 8: Documentsinthe ProjectFile                                                 125
Annex 9: Statementof Loans and Credits                                              127
Annex 10: Countryat a Glance                                                        130

                                                           BRAZIL
                                                  Aids & STD Control I11Project




 Date: June 4,2003                                                      Team Leader: Sandra Rosenhouse

 Country ManagerlDirector: Vinod Thomas                                 Sector ManagerlDirector: Evangeline
                                                                        Javier
 Project ID: PO80400                                                    Sector(s): Health, Nutrition and
                                                                        Population
 Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)                     Theme(s): Fightingcommunicable
                                                                        diseases (P)
                                                                        Poverty Targeted Intervention: N

 Project FinancingData
~




  [ X ] Loan             [ ] Credit      [ ] Grant    [ ]Guarantee     [ ]Other:


 For Loans/Credits/Others:
 Amount (US$m): US$100.0
 ProposedTerms (IBRD): Variable-Spread US$ Dollar Loan
 Grace period(years):5                                         Years to Maturity: 15
 Commitmentfee: 0.75% of undisbursed balance                   Front end fee (FEF) on Bank Loan: 1%

 FinancingPlan (US$m):                  Source                            Local           Foreign       Total
 BORROWER                                                                  100.00             0.00      100
 IBRD                                                                       56.04            43.96      100
 Total:                                                                                                 200




        FY                     2004      2005      2006       2007
r         Annual               10.3      36.0      35.0       18.7
      Cumulative
      Cumulative      1        10.3    1 46.3    I 81.3   I   100     I           I           I          I    I
 Project implementationperiod: 3 years
 Expectedeffectivenessdate: September 1,2003                        Expectedclosing date: December 31,2006


         OCS PAD Fam Rev March 2MO

 A. Project DevelopmentObjective

 1. Projectdevelopment objective: (see Annex 1)
 This is the thirdloanto the Government of Brazil to assist the National STD & AIDS Control
 Program in its efforts to enhanceits ability to combat the HIV/AIDS epidemic and reduce its
 impact. The first loan (1994-1998) sought to prepare and strengthenpublic and private
 institutions working in prevention and care, leaving in place a solid institutional framework for
 HIV/AIDS & STD control. The second loan (1998-2003) sought to extend coverage of prevention
 activities, strengthen institutional capacity for the delivery of antiretroviral (ARV) therapy, and to
 beginto decentralize some project activities to states and municipalities. This third operation
 seeks to improve the effectiveness and sustainability of the program's response.

 The development objectives of the Brazil STD&AIDS Control I11Project are to reduce the
 incidence of STDs and HIV and improve the quality of life for people living with HIV/AIDS by
 strengthening the effectiveness and efficiency of the nationalresponseand ensuring its
 sustainability in the mediumand long-term. These objectives would be reachedby: (a) expanding
 the coverage and quality of interventions; (b) decentralizing the financing and management of
 programactivities to states and municipalities inaccordancewith current national healthpolicy;
 (c) strengthening programmanagementby establishing an effective M&Ecapacity and instituting
 the use of managementtools, including performance-based management, focusing on more cost-
 effective interventions and improving their targeting; (d) introducing technological innovation
 and upgradingexisting technology intreatment and prevention; and (e) reducing discrimination
 and stigma associatedwith HIV/AIDS.

 2. Key performanceindicators: (see Annex 1)


                                                A. Output Indicators
 Increasecoverageof treatmentof HIV uositivewomen inchildbirth from 34% (2002)to 95% 2006.
                -                                                             .    ,
 Increasetesting of sexually active populationaged 14+from 30% (2003) to 50% in2006.                            I

 Increasein % CSW who usedcondomlast sex with irregularpartner from 68% (2002) to 75% (2006)
 Increase% of populationspontaneouslyindicatingsexual relationsare a source of HIV transmission from 86% (2003)
 to 95% (2006)
 Increasethe % of AIDS patientswho reportthey havetaken 100%of their medicationsfrom 68% (2002) to 75% (2006)
 Increase meanfirst CD4 cell count. (in oeoole not on     from 387 cells 2002 to 425/mm2006


                                                B. ProcessIndicators
 Increase the No. of condomssold in Brazil from 420 million (2002) to 550 million (2006)
 No. of laboratorysupplies for diagnosis andARV patientfollow-up developed.
 % of CTAs that receivedat least50% of test resultsinthe last 6 mos. within one week from 32% 2002 to 65% 2006.
 Increase the % states who are subcontractingNGO subprojectsthrough fund-to-fundtransfers
 Increasethe % states that are meeting75%of the agreed targets.


I                                           C. Imuact /Outcome Indicators                                        I




                                                         2

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related Country AssistanceStrategy (CAS) goalsupportedbythe project: (see
Annex 1)


Document number: 20160-BR/ March 6,2000            Dateof latest CAS discussion: May 20,2002;
CAS Update 24182-BR.


Poverty reduction is at the heart of the Banks assistance strategy for Brazil. Assistance focuses
on long-termactions for poverty reduction and socially and environmentally sustainablegrowth.
Thus, targeted poverty reduction andfiscal stability (as abasic preconditionfor sustainable
poverty reduction) are the two principal areas of Bank support to Brazil. The Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) discussed on March 30,2000, is being effectively implementedand remains
relevant and appropriate under current conditions as assessedin the CAS Update of May 20,
2002. The CAS identifies health services for the poor as one of the essential targeted
interventions to combat poverty (p.32). Specific health sector goals of the CAS are to reduce
child mortality, improve maternal health and combat communicable diseases including AIDS,
malariaand other diseases. These three programmatic health priorities identified in the CAS are
contained inthe Government's overall development goals and are well aligned with Millennium
Development Goals (MDGs). The CAS also notesthat to support targeted poverty reduction, the
Bank i s increasing its support for specific reforms inthe health sector, specifically"...theBank
supportshealth system improvements inthe areas of health financing, regulation of the
pharmaceutical sector, decentralization, accessto health care, health surveillance and
managementof public facilities" (pp. 33-34).

Policy notes were prepared in late 2002 as a framework for discussions with the incoming
government, to set the stage for the preparation of a new CAS in early 2003. Overall, the new
CAS is expected to continue to support poverty reduction, human welfare, growth and fiscal
reforms. Integrated approacheswould be emphasizedinthe support of selected states, and
sustainabledevelopment would be emphasizedinthe North. With respect to the health sector, the
Policy Notes identify four priority areas for future Bank support to Brazil, including: (a) reducing
inequities inhealth through improved resource allocation; (b) increasing the efficiency,
effectiveness and quality of services through improvedresource allocation and aligned incentives;
(c) rationalization of the organization andfunctioning of SUS; and (d) prevent and control non-
communicable diseases and injuriesthrough health promotion and social interventions.

The proposedproject i s in line with CAS goals in its emphasis on improving health outcomes by
combating the spreadand impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Brazil. The proposed project i s
aligned with the new operational normof 2001 (NOAS) on health decentralization, an important
policy reform noted in the CAS update. The project also adheresto CAS and Policy Notes goals
of improving efficiency and effectiveness through improved resource allocation and aligned
incentives.

2. Main sector issuesand Government strategy:
Main Sector Issues:

The proposed operation would be the third STD/AIDS Control project that the World Bank
finances in Brazil. Brazil has the secondhighest number of AIDS cases inthe region (second to
the US.)and the Government has placed HIV/AIDSprevention and treatment high on its agenda




                                                  3

since the first case was identified in 1983. However, despite the important achievements of the
Programto date, the challengesfacing the Government continue to be substantial.

The Brazilian programis unique inthat since 1996, federal law mandatesthe free provision of
ART through the public health system(Sistema Unicode SuLide,SUS). Another unique feature
has to do with the role that civil society has played inpublic AIDS policy. The program shares
many of the obstaclesfaced by all AIDS control programs including, the challenge of inducing
behavior change, the difficulties of reaching some high risk groups, ensuring an adequate
response inthe context of regional disparities and decentralized execution, the development of
resistanceto available drugs, and the risingcosts of the epidemic. However, given universal
access to ARV, risingcosts stemfrom the provision of ART rather than from increased morbidity
and mortality, and issues regarding the development of resistanceto existingdrugregimens (even
though current evidence notes that resistancei s lower than levels observed inEurope andthe
US.)andthe appearance of new HIVcladesbecomemore central. Inaddition, its cultural and
geographic diversity, existingdisparities in health financing and service utilization, the
ambiguous roles of states and municipalitiesandfragmentation that has resulted from the process
of decentralization of the sector, all pose important hurdles that needto be addressedto combat
the epidemic.

The Epidemiologyof HIVIAIDSinBrazil: The number of AIDS cases reported has risenfrom
550 in 1985, to close to 240,000 in mid-2002. Inthe United States, the only country inthe region
with more cases than Brazil, close to 363,000 hadbeenreported by 2001 (CDC).Mexico, with
the third highest number of AIDS cases had 51,000 by 2001 (UNAIDS).

Incidence of AIDS inBrazil, as measuredby year of diagnosis increasedfrom 8.0 /100,000 in
1991to 15.9/100,000 in 1998, showing a small decline or stabilizationthereafter. Incidence was
estimated at 12.4/100,000 in2000. AIDS incidence begins to decline a bit earlier inthe southeast
(SE), andcenter-west (CW) (refer to table below). The epidemic has spreadfrom its focus inthe
southhoutheast to the north and northeast, and from metropolitan areas to smaller urban
localities. Incidence rates for AIDS have been declining amongst men inthe southeastand center
west, suggesting the epidemic has reachedits peak inthose places. They remain highinthe south
and in all regions amongst women. According to estimates from the Pan American Health
Organization (PAHO, 2002), incidence of AIDS per 100,000 in 1999 was 16.5 for the United
States, and4.0 for Mexico and 13.6 for Brazil. The Caribbean, with a small population, has an
incidence of 23.0.

                              AIDS Casesand Incidence(per 100,000)by Region1980-2002




This stabilization andapparentdecline of incidence of AIDS is inpart a result of free universal
access to ART mandatedby the federal Government as of December 1996. Although some ART
was provided inhealth centers as early as 1991, it was not until 1996, with the availability of
HAART, that federal law mandatedfree, universal provision of ART, and access really expanded.
While guidelines recommend that ART should be offered to any individual with AIDS-related
symptoms or a CD4 cell count of 200 or less, it is available to patients with CD4 cell counts of
350 upon medical recommendation. Thus, some can access ART before developing symptoms of



                                                      4

AIDS (although they are notified as AIDS cases). Even though efforts are made to adjust for
reporting delays, evident trends may also be partially affected by reporting delays, as it takes an
average of 2-3 years and a maximum of 5 years to receive notifications in SINAN (Sistema de
InformaqBes de Agravos de Notifica@o). Access to ART has also reduced mortality from AIDS.
Mortality from AIDS has declined from 9.6 per 100,000 in 1996to 6.3 per 100,000 in2000.

Data on prevalence and incidence of HIV are more limited. The number of individuals infected
with HIV in Brazil was estimated at 600,000 in 2000 (this estimate includes about 120,000
persons who have AIDS). Dataon prevalence are available from 1997to the presentfrom the
sentinel surveillance system. Prevalence of HIV has ranged from 0.5 to 0.8 since end of 1997
showing a trend towards stabilization. Current prevalence among women in delivery i s estimated
at 0.65%. Prevalence will continue to increaseas longas new infections continue to emerge and
access to ART continues to reduce the likelihood of progression to AIDS and reduce mortality.
Prevalence amongst CSW was estimated at 6.5% in 2001. Prevalence of HIV among males aged
20-24 receiving treatment for STDs was 4.5% in 1999.

Data on STDs are limited. SINAN data indicate an increasein the incidencerate of urethral
discharge amongst men from 24 per 100,000 aged 15-49 in 1999to 42 per 100,000 in 2001.
However, part of the increment i s due improved data collection. Data on prevalence of syphilis
amongst women attending prenatal care has fluctuated between 1.4 percent and 2.8 percent
between 1997 and 2001. Prevalenceof syphilis amongst army conscripts aged 17-19 increased
from 1.1percent in 1996to 1.5 percent in 1998inthe north, northeast and center-west. Other
regions remain at the same level.

Although the epidemic appears to be stabilizing, its demographic profile and mode of
transmission and have changed significantly. While in 1985, 85 percent of all AIDS cases
reported were among men who have sex with men, they now account for 27 percent.
Heterosexual transmission has increasedfrom 16 percent in 1990to 39 percent by 2002, and
women now account for one thirdof all new cases. (Refer to table below). Amongst 13-24 year
olds, young girls are more affected than boys, and account for a greater percentageof AIDS cases
(16% of all women infected were 13-24 years of age compared with 11% of men). Infact, in
some highprevalence states, like Siio Paulo, AIDS i s already the main cause of death for women
aged 20-49 (Parker & Camargo, 2000). The proportion of AIDS cases derivedfrom blood
transfusion has declined over time, while the proportiontransmitted through intravenous drug-use
has remained the same. The proportion infectedthrough vertical transmission has almost
doubled, although there has been adecline interms of absolute numbers in recent years.

                          PERCENTAGE CASES OF AIDS BY MODE OF TRANSMISSION AND YEAR OF DIAGNOSIS
                                         -
r                 I   CUMMULATIVE        I                 ANNUAL                        ICUMMULATIVE TOTAL
                                                                                                        7
                                                                                               1980-2002




Source: Epidemiological Bulletin, March 2002



                                                      5

 Inaddition to the feminization of the epidemic (which is occurringall over Latin America), newly
 reported cases have had less schooling and include a broader group of municipalities. Over 65
 percent of AIDS cases in 1985 had completed high school compared with 25 percent in 2001.
 And, although primarily an urbanphenomenon, it has spreadto 60 percent of all municipalities,
 many of which are less urban and harder to reach.

 The NationalResponse: The Brazilian Government movedquickly to containthe growth of the
 HIV/AIDS epidemic since the first cases were identified inthe early 1980s. A National AIDS
Committee was organized in 1986, leading to the establishment of the National AIDS/STD
Control Program(NASCP) later that year. The World Bank has providedfinancing inthe amount
of approximately US$330 million throughout the life of the program. While inrecent years Bank
financing has madeup only between 8 to 15 percent of federal financing for AIDS, it has
financed key aspectsof the program. The first such support came in 1988, when the Bank
approved a $109 million loan to support an endemic diseasecontrol project, of which $6.6
million were devoted specifically to contain the emerging epidemic of HIV/AIDS. As it
continued to spread in the early 1990s, the Bank approved a $160 million loan in 1993 to finance
the government's AIDS and Sexually Transmitted DiseasesControl Project (AIDS I).         Bank
financing representeda larger share of the program's financing before the introductionof ART.

The first AIDS project defined, tested and implemented the main strategies to address the
epidemic including various types of IEC approachesand condom provision through NGOs and
public services, the establishment of a network of voluntary testing and counseling sites,
provision of clinical services for STD and HIV/AIDS patients, community support programs, and
improvement the safety of blood supply. Behavioral interventions targeted highrisk groups. With
regards to treatment, the project financed the preparation of protocols andtrainingfor services
delivered, strengthenedthe national network of reference laboratories, provided equipment, some
pharmaceuticals for STDs, and strengthenedthe surveillance system. Treatment and care
financed by the project at the time, involved primarily treatment of opportunistic infections,
palliative care and provision of AZT to pregnant HIV positive women. The project left inplace a
solid institutional framework for HIV/AIDS & STD control that i s strongly supported by
partnerships with state and municipalgovernments and a wide range of NGOs.

Buildingonthe project's success, the World Bank approved another $165 million loan in 1998to
consolidate and expand the program(US$3.5 million of the loan were subsequently cancelled).
The secondproject (AIDS 11) focused on the expansion of coverage of prevention, care and
treatment, particularly strengthening services andthe laboratory network to provide care for
PLWHA, providingthe necessary support for the implementationof the policy of universal
access to ART. The project expandedpreventionservices significantly through increased
participationof NGOs and partnerships with states and municipalities, increasing accessibility to
condoms (male and female), doubling the number of testing and counseling sites since 1998 and
increasing the number of HIV tests performed. Facilities providing treatment and care also
doubled inthe last four years. While ARV drugs were not directly supported by the project, the
project facilitatedtheir use by financing the preparation of the necessary protocols, mechanisms
for patient adherence follow-up, studies to measurepossible resistance to treatment, training for
all staff involved inthe provision of ART, andlaboratory supplies. (A detaileddescription of the
NASCPs accomplishments is includedin Annex 2a).

RemainingChallengesfacing the BrazilianNASCP: While the ICRfor the FirstAIDS & STD
Control Project (1994-1998) noted its many achievements, it also identified two important
shortcomings of AIDS I:   (a) the absence of an adequate project evaluation system, making it
impossible to quantify the achievementsof the project; and (b) inadequate supervision (by both


                                                 6

Borrower and Bank) of procurement activities subcontractedto UNDP. Mention was also made
of the needfor greater integration of activities in prevention, surveillance, diagnosis, treatment,
training and evaluation.

ADS I1shares some of the same shortcomings as the first project, namely (a) the lack of an
adequate monitoring and evaluation systemto improve the targeting of its efforts and steer the
programtowards higher impact and more sustainableinterventions, and (b) an insufficient
supervision of program activities (including procurement) of decentralized entities (states,
municipalities and NGOs). Inaddition, some new challenges have arisen. The program needs to
intensify and expand programactivities and identify new strategies to respond to the epidemic's
changed demographic profile, a trend that was evident since 1997. Moreover, the effectiveness of
interventions has roomfor improvement, particularly with regards to the targeting of activities,
the quality of services, andthe integration of prevention activities into care and treatment settings
and other health services, and other sectors. More needs to be done with regards to improving the
sustainability of the program. While muchhas beenachieved through the reductions inthe prices
of condoms and ARV drugs, and reductions in hospitalizations, important aspects of the program
continue to be centralized, and its implementation at the nationallevel dependent on a significant
number of externally funded professionals. The programneeds to decentralize a large share of
program managementand financing to states and municipalities to be inline with SUS policies.
Inaddition, new technologies needto be sought to improve on existingsuccesses and reduce
costs inthe future.

Program InterventionsNeed to Adjust to the Changed Profile of the Epidemic: Current
prevention strategies do not adequately address the needs of most women in Brazilnor elsewhere.
Current interventions needto be diversified and needto address the specific situation of each
subgroup of women as they each face different risks. Most preventioninterventions directed to
women emphasizeprimarily condom use and treatment of STDs, which are insufficient to protect
most women, who happen to be poor andthus have little leverage innegotiatingthe use of
condoms in sexualencounters.While some effort has been madeto provide women with
negotiations skills, the effectiveness of these interventions needs to be assessed. A study
conducted in S o Paul0 found that half of all new AIDS cases among women were women with a
single partner (Heise & Elias, 1995), suggesting specific groups of women need to be targeted
with messages addressingtheir specific situation. Moreover, where relevant, they should be
approachedwith their partner for greater effectiveness. It should be notedthat part of the increase
in the numbers of women infected relativeto men may be due to the fact that women are more
likely to come into contact with the health system.

Recent analysesalso note that more recent AIDS cases have significantly less education and
come from a larger and more diverse group of municipalities, some of which are less urban and
more difficult to reach. Moreover, cases with less education and lower income tend to reach
health services later, at a more advancedstage of infection, and as a result, develop AIDS sooner.
Thus, new strategieshave to be devised to reach apoorer, less literate, andlessconcentrated
population, who already has lower access to services in general. Given the changing profile of the
epidemic, it i s important to identify which groups of women and lower income populations are
being most affected and target services to them. Women, youth and the poor should not be
treated as homogeneous groups.

InterventionsIServices Need to be Improvedto Ensure MaximumEffectiveness: While
much has beenaccomplished, HIV infections will continue to increase, as will the population
requiring treatment. Fiscal constraints add to this already difficult situation. Thus, NASCP needs
to maximizeprogram effectiveness. A number of factors needto be strengthened, including the


                                                   7

quality of interventions, their targeting, and integrationwith other programs and sectors. And,
actions must be significantly expanded, particularly to address the current profile of the epidemic.

Quality: The NASCPs focus in the last 4 years has been on expanding coverage of both
preventionand treatment. It now has to consolidate those gains by investing inquality of both
prevention and care. NGOs have playeda very significant role in prevention and care activities,
helping to reach high-risk groups and expandcoverage beyondthe confines of public health
services. NGOs are key players as they are community-based, have direct links to high-risk
populations and are much more aware of the needs of their clients, who are often their peers.
NGOs, however, are not a heterogeneousgroup and two assessments conducted have noted the
needto strengthen weaker NGOs to ensure improved access. The quality of prevention
"services" within the health network must also be strengthened, as sometimes health service
professionals are insufficiently informed and continue to have discriminatory attitudes towards
patients. Access to timely test results i s important to ensure individuals return for their results.
Delays in obtaining HIVtest results are significant, with more than half of confirmatory tests
takingbetween 4-6 weeks andneedto be reduced. As many as one-quarter of all people testeddo
not returnfor test results due to delays.

The quality of treatment andcare also needto be improvedto ensure greater utilization. A study
conducted in Siio Paul0 noted some variability inthe quality of care provided to HIV/AIDS
patients inpublic facilities. The same study found adherence to treatment improved with better
quality of care. Adherence to treatment i s equivalent to that observed in other countries. A
nationalstudy of quality of services in specialized ambulatory AIDS facilities, day hospitals,
VCT centers, conventional hospitals and home care services is currently being conducted to
address this issue. Strengthened supervision of program implementationi s necessary at municipal
and state levels.

Expansion of Coverage: NASCPs prevention program includes some of the most cost-effective
prevention interventions identifiedinthe literature, namely, peer education programs for CSWs,
MSMsandIDUs,, STDcontrol, VCT, male andfemale condompromotion, improvingblood
supply safety, and prevention of vertical transmission including short-course ART with formula
feeding (Marseille, et al. 2001; Jha, et al. 2001; Merson, Dayton, O'Reilly, 2000). However,
some of these interventions haveto be implemented at a wider scale to have significant impact.
And, prevention within the health network needs to beprioritized, as most preventioncurrently
takes place inthe community inthe hands of NGOs.

Early detection of HIV is important for bothprevention and treatment. Although demand for
testing has increasedsince 1999, only 30 percent of the population aged 15-49 in 2003 has ever
beentested. Comparable figures for the U.S. placed the population ever tested at 42% in 1996
(CDC). There are an estimated 600,000 people are living with HIV/AIDS out of which 200,000
are receiving some form of treatment (including 125,000 receiving ART), suggesting there i s
considerable roomfor improvement inboth testing of highrisk groups and treating those who
needit. As is the case with HIV test results, delays in viral load and CD4 test results need to be
reduced. It is estimated that 34 percent of those testing positive duringchildbirth have received
treatment. Data on coverage of testing of pregnant women i s currently not available. STD
prevention and control i s also deficient primarily because supplies are often lacking. STD
diagnosis and treatment continues to be weak becausestates, which are responsible for the
provision of medications for treatment of STDs, have not made available the necessary supplies.

Integration with other health programs and other sectors: Although the programhas involved
many other players inits efforts to control the epidemic, there i s still insufficient integration with



                                                   8

 other healthprograms and sectors. Increasing synergy with other health programs and ensuring a
 multi-sectoral approach are crucial elementsof a sustainableresponse.Withinthe health sector,
 important synergy was brought through work with the NationalAnti-DrugSecretariat inthe
 inclusion of harm-reduction programs as part of its nationalpolicy. However, integrationwith
 other health programs could be improved. Of particular importance i s integrationwith the Family
 Health Programand the Basic Care Program (Aten@ Bdsica), which are the port of entry to the
 health system, the Women's Health Program and the TB Control Program. The national TB
program i s in the processof beingrestructured and the current government has included the
control of TB amongst its priorities. It is hoped that this will improve the effectiveness of
 interventions to control TB/HN co-infection at the three levels of government.

Integration with other sectors i s also crucial. The program made some important gains with
respectto ensuring a multi-sectoral response. It has increasedcoverage of the incarcerated
population through its agreements between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministryof Healthto
provide treatment for STDs and AIDS, and opportunistic infections including TB, to prisoners.
Advances have also been made regarding the introduction of prevention of HIV/STDs into school
activities through a longdistance learningprogramfor schoolteachersto guide them inhow to
include prevention themes and activities in their classes. However, it i s important to involve the
education sector more directly in the promotion of preventionamongst youth particularly through
the applicationof curricular guidelines with respect to elective themes including preventionof
HIV/AIDS and druguse in schools, rather than discontinuous, sporadic actions.

Rising Costs make it Imperative to Seek Alternative Technologies: The Brazilian program is
unique in many ways. It took action early on to stem the spread of the epidemic, established a
strong prevention program, developed solid participationby civil society, and was the first to
provide universal access to ART to all who needit. As such, it i s a second-generation program.
While providingART generates important savings from declines in morbidity and mortality, it
also comes with a significant cost. Many medications are costly, and the development of
resistanceof existing strains to current drugregimens and the appearanceof new HNclades
means that new treatment algorithms and medications must be sought, and that adherence to
treatment regimens and the pool circulatingof sub-types of HIV must be carefully monitored.
Reagentsfor confirmatory HIV tests, CD4 and viral load counts, as well rapid HIV test kits are
also neededon an increasing basis. In2000, treatment represented80 percent of programcosts.
ARVs alone represented69 percent of total costs. Overall, public expenditures onAIDS
represented2.6 percent of the public expenditures, and 3.5 percent of the Ministry of Health's
expenditures (Piola, 2001). Brazil has been successfulinnegotiating lower costs for many
medications that are currently under patent protection, and has promoted the use of generic ARVs
to reduce costs. However, given that it i s unlikely that new cases of HIV will be stemmed inthe
near future, costs will continue to increaseand new cost-cutting options will have to be identified.

A Solid Monitoring and Evaluation Systemis the Backbone of an Effective Program: The
programhas made some advances with regardsto monitoring and evaluation of the epidemic and
the program's interventions, but met agreements madeunder AIDS Iand I1only partially. AIDS
and HIV surveillance have improved but STD surveillance continues to be inadequate. As for
evidence on the impact of interventions, numerous studies have been conducted but results are
inconclusive due to the fact that studies conducted have employed different methodologies and
definitions. Moreover, they were not conducted on a regular basis makingit difficult to compare
informationacross time or regions. Thus, although data are available, the programhas lacked a
monitoringandevaluation strategy, information systems that are linked, studies that are
systematic, and an in-house team that can readily analyze available datasets. As a result,
informationon project outcomes i s sparse, and data are not routinely used for decision-making.



                                                   9

Moreover, information systemsdeveloped do not permit aggregation or manipulationfor specific
queries neededto follow-up on programactivities at the local level. The absenceof regular data
on program progress and effectiveness of interventions make it difficult to steerthe program
towards higher impact and more sustainableinterventions. A culture of usingdata for decision-
making needs to be fostered, particularly in view of decentralization of programfinancing and
activities to states and municipalities and the stewardship role that the national level has to
assume. This has to be coupled with a regular supervision of programactivities of decentralized
entities (states, municipalities and NGOs).

Decentralizationand Performance ina Decentralized Setting: The health sector has
embarked in a processof decentralization and reforms to modify the structure, organization and
financing of the sector. Inan effort to improve access and equity, the 1988Constitution extended
a universal rightto health care, fused the social security health services with those of the Ministry
of Health (to form the Sistema Unico de Sau'de,SUS), and decentralized financing to the states. It
also introducedmechanismsfor social participationby establishing "Councils" at municipal, state
and federal levels of government to provideoversight of service provision and participate inthe
definition of priorities. A secondset of reforms in the early 1990stransferred most of the
responsibility for health care delivery to municipalities and implemented accompanying financial
mechanismsfor the financial allocationof federal funds to states and municipalities. The most
recent wave of reforms (1996-2001) has focused on a reorientation of the health care delivery
model for basic care, including the introduction of alternative payment mechanismsto support
basic care, and legislation and regulations to clarify the roles of the different levels of
government. Thus, municipalitiescame to receive fixed capitated payments from the federal
government to deliver a specific packageof care to their population. Participatingmunicipalities
mustqualify to receive these transfers by meeting specified criteria including the agreementof
the annual targets to be met. The latter has encouraged municipalities to spend more on health,
increasing their contribution to health finance from 7 percent of public spending in 1980to over
15 percent in 2000. Municipalities can opt to receive funds directly from the federal government,
by-passing the state, by qualifying for GestzoPlenado SistemaMunicipal (FullManagement of
the Municipal System).

Despite improvements inthe equity of resource allocation, inequalities inhealth status, finance
and service utilization persist. The role of State Health Secretariats (SES) vis-2-vis the Ministry
of Health and municipalities within SUS continues to be ambiguous as they are no longer
responsible for the provision of care, yet have hadan unclear role with regardsto the monitoring
and control of federal financial transfers. Most states have not developed the technical and
managerial capacity to fulfill their main function in SUS including: planning, coordinating,
monitoring and evaluating the implementation of national policies and delivery of municipal-
managed services. Municipalcapacity i s also weak. Only 10 percent of municipalities had
qualified for GestcZoPlena by December 2001.

Havingemphasizedimprovement of equity and access, reforms failed to focus sufficiently on
improving the efficiency, effectiveness andquality of service provision. And, even though
municipalitieshave to qualify to receive federal transfers and targets are agreedannually, the
requirements for certification are administrative innature, and targets to be met to continue
receivingtransfers have focused on the specification of inputsused, rather than performance
benchmarksregarding efficiency, effectiveness and quality. This makes it difficult to ensure that
newly qualified municipalities have the necessarycapacity to meet targets, and the targets
specified makeit difficult to assess the effectiveness of their efforts. As a result, municipalities
continue to receive funds without havingto demonstrate results. Linkingfinancing to




                                                  10

performance, and monitoring and evaluating this performance would stimulate accountability of
municipal managersand providers to produce results.

Given the enormous challenge of combating the AIDS epidemic, the programwas initially
structured to have strongparticipationby the federal level. That said, approximately 45 percent of
funds inAIDS I1were executedby states andmunicipalities who receivedtransfers from the CN.
Thus, managementwas decentralized but financing was not. Further steps to decentralize
financing were taken duringAIDS 11culminatinginthe definition of a legalframework to
introduce a fund-to-fund transfer mechanismfor AIDS/STD activities. Moreover, instruments for
decentralized management were improved. Decentralization of the process of NGO subproject
biddingandselection, and supervision of NGO subproject activities to states hasbeen slower. By
the end of 2002, the program had only decentralized these functions to 8 states, although
financing remained centralized. Decentralizingprogramactivities would ensure greater
effectiveness andefficiency in the mediumterm, and a more sustainable response.

Some important steps have beentaken inthe last 2 years. The NASCP drafted a law signed by the
Minister of Health in December 2002, establishing a fund-to-fund transfer mechanism (federal
level to state or municipal level health fund) for qualifying states and municipalities that are
affected by the epidemic. At present a total of 411municipal and 27 state health programs are
eligible interms of their epidemiological profile. This representsan important increase in
coverage as under AIDS 11, only 150 municipalities were receiving funds for HIV/AIDS. Eligible
municipalities still needto qualify in terms of managementcapacity. This is an important
advance in the processof decentralization and coherence with current reforms, and ensures
fundingfor AIDS activitiesas partof the regular programof states and municipalities. However,
the program faces many of the risks faced by other decentralized programs, namely, an uneven
capacity to implement at the municipaland state levels, and will have to provide incentives,
trainingand intense supervision to ensure improved implementation.

Government Strateav:

HIV/AIDSis and has beencentral to the Brazilian Government's healthpolicy since the mid-
1980s.Combating the epidemic is an important component of the new government's healthplan
(Palocci, 2002). The Constitutionformulated in 1988 declared health a humanright andextended
free access to care to the population. Inresponseto the epidemic, the Ministry of Health began
providing treatment for opportunistic infectionsfor AIDS patients that year, and as of 1991,
beganproviding AZT. In 1996, in responseto pressurefrom civil society, the Government passed
a law that guarantees free access to ART, including HAART,through the public health systemto
all who neededit (as determined by government guidelines, i.e. anyone with AIDS-related
symptoms or a CD4 cell count below 350 cells). This change inpolicy ledto a doubling of
federal expenditures for AIDS, from US$340 million to US$553 million from 1997 to 1999
(Piola, 2001). The increasein spending on ARV went from US$34 million in 1996, prior to the
universalization of ART, to US$336 in 1999 (NASCP/Ministry of Health, 2002). This ledthe
government to stimulate national production of ARV drugs anduse of generics. Since the first
bio-equivalent generics were approved inFebruary 2000, the government has given priority to
processing generic applications of medications inaddition to ARVs. By 2000, just over half of
ARV drugs consumedwere producedlocally. Inthe case of ARV drugs, 7 of the 13 medications
that are usedby the Ministry of Healthare now producedin Brazil, and six of them are available
in generic/similar form (GalvBo, 2002, Levi & Vitbria, 2002). The Government has also
negotiated prices for the other 6 medications with international pharmaceutical firms, threatening
to break patentsand produce the medications locally, although to date, no compulsory licensing
of ARV drugs has taken place. The new government that took office inJanuary of 2003 is also


                                                 11

placing much emphasis on ensuringlower costs and self-sufficiency with regards to ARV drugs
and other necessary medications and supplies (Palocci, 2002).

With respectto decentralization and the organization andfinancing of the health sector, the
incoming government is poisedto continue the policies introduced by the previous
administrations, strengthening the process of decentralization, and accompanying it with strong
participation by civil society to ensure accountability. Plans are to progressively increase
spending for health ingeneral, expand the family health programand strengthen its role as the
port of entry to the system, strengthenthe referral network, and the overall quality of services.
Providing federal transfers to qualifying municipalities for specific programs will continue to be
encouraged, as will the development and negotiation of health plans with performance targets.


3. Sector issuesto be addressed by the project andstrategic choices:
The proposed project will support the government's quest for a more sustainable programby
improvingthe effectiveness of interventions, providing tools and capacity neededto focus
managementdecisions on results, facilitating the process of decentralization of programactivities
andfinance, andexploringalternative technologies to reduce costs and improveeffectiveness.

Improving the effectiveness of InterventiondServices: To improve the quality of
interventions, the project would support technical training for health sector staff and participating
NGOsinprevention, reductionof discrimination, and care. To improve the quality of care inthe
context of the public healthsystem, the project will strengthen the competency of health sector
staff, improve the logisticsfor the supply of drugs and supplies, upgrade medicalequipment and
infrastructure where necessary,and will strengthenthe laboratory network for diagnosis and
patient follow-up to reduce waiting time for diagnostic test results. The program will also work
more closely with other sectors.

Coverage of prevention activities will be further extended by working inclose partnership with
other programs. Prevention and testing services will be integrated into other programs, including
TB Control, the Family HealthProgram (FHP), andthe Women's Health program. Training of
FHPhealth teams on prevention anddiagnosis, andreferrals for HIV/AIDS and STDs, will
expandthe program's reach and quality. The amount of fundingfor NGO subprojects will be
increasedto expand activities in specific populations. Mass mediacampaigns will address
specific issues and target groups. Access to free condoms will also be increased augmenting the
federal government's contribution by ensuring states contributeto 10-20percent of their needs
each year, and through the introduction of a social marketingprogram for condoms. Price
reductions of commercially sold condoms are being sought through reductions inimport and sales
taxes, and fostering local production. Intreatment andcare, access to STD diagnosis and
treatment will be expanded, and HIV counseling and testing will be integratedinto TB programs.

The project will improve the targeting of interventions by regularly obtaining and analyzing data
to determine which populations are affected and where they are located. Strengthening
prevention in counseling, treatment and care facilities will reduce risky behavior amongst
PLWHA. The needto address this particular group i s evident from increasing incidence of HIV
among MSMindeveloped countries where access to ART has given PLWHA a false sense of
security with regardsto their infectivity and mortality. While current data have not shown this
trend inBrazil, this will needto be carefully monitored. Particular attention will be given to sero-
discordant couples, including partner counseling to encourage information sharing.




                                                12

Incorporating new technology to improve effectivenessand reduce costs. Brazil's decision
to provide universal free access to ART introduced significant improvements inthe survival and
quality of life of PLWHA by shifting the morbidity and mortality profile of HIV infection, with
positive economic effects, both interms of reduction of treatment for opportunistic infections and
increased productivity. However, the provision of therapy and diagnostic tests to follow-up on
patients on ART has resulted in significant costs. The current government i s actively seeking
options to reduce costs and increaseeffectiveness of its interventions through technological
transfer and development, and investinginresearchto develop new technologies to help fight the
epidemic. Central to the Government's strategy i s the needto ensurethe availability of drugs and
other medical goods at affordable prices. One of the strategiesadopted has beenthe development
of generic versions of some available drugs, including ARVs and the development and production
of rapid tests for HIV and reagentsfor CD4 cell counts, viral load and HIV tests. This strategy is
justified by the concerns of relying exclusively on the internationalmarket and suppliers as
sufficient and sustainablesources of the goods required, at a affordable prices.

Technologicaldevelopment can be attained through training, research, obtaininga license for the
transfer of technology, or throughjoint ventures with partners who possess the technology. The
Government proposes to strengthenits capacity to conduct researchanddevelopment (R&D) and
to engage in R&D along these lines in order to scale up its capacity to provide adequatecoverage
to its population. It has not requestedfinancing for production. Brazilhas developed numerous
partnerships in its fight against AIDS. It i s working with the Centers for DiseaseControl (CDC)
on rapid test technology, the FrenchAgence Nacionale de Recherches sur le SIDA (ANRS) on
vaccines and ARVs, International AIDS Vaccine Initiative (IAVI) and the National Institutes of
Health (NIH) on the development of capacity to conduct AIDS vaccine trials. It has a well-
articulated plan and has the capacity to formulate and produce pharmaceuticals. Enhancing R&D
capacity is a key step for a country to develop an internationally competitive industry, and
increasing competition inthe market for ARV drugs will lower prices and benefit other countries.

Decentralizingprogram management andfinance to states and municipalities. The project
will support the NASCP in its processof decentralization of part of the managementand
financing of programactivities to states and municipalities. As notedearlier, the Minister of
Health signed a law inDecember 2002, establishing a fund-to-fund transfer mechanismfor
qualifying states and municipalitiesthat are affected by the epidemic. At presenta total of 411
municipal and 27 state health programs are eligible basedon the extent to which they are affected
by HIV/AIDS. This is an important advance in the process of decentralization and coherence
with current reforms, and ensures fundingfor AIDS activities as part of the regular programof
states and municipalities. Each state and municipality has to qualify to receive transfers and has
to negotiate action and target plans (PAMs) on an annual basis to receive such funds. A module
to monitor compliance with agreedPAMs i s being developed. The transfers include funds for
states to finance NGOactivities. IncludingNGO funds inthe transfers ensures NGOs will have
assured financing in the future.

Improvingeffectivenessand efficiency through performance-based management. Improved
effectiveness through the implementation of targeted, effective interventionsrequires the
existence of a solid monitoring systemto follow up on programprogress, and studies to evaluate
the effectiveness of the various activities implemented. This i s even more important ina
decentralized settingwhere the central level i s responsible for policy formulation and steering the
programto ensure an adequateresponseto the epidemic and where compliance with agreedPAM
targets needs to be monitored. The project would support the establishment of an M&Eunit at the
national level, strengthening of capacity for monitoring at the state level, a series of evaluation
studies incorporated in an M&EOperational Plan, a system to monitor compliance with targets


                                                  13

agreedto receive federal transfers, and activities to develop a culture of performance-based
management. It would also support the development of software to improve logistics and
management systems necessary for the improved operation of the project. Although M&Ewas
not adequately addressed in two earlier projects, the need to better target programactivities,
improve managementand the use of resourceshave led the NASCP to place greater emphasis on
this issue. The visibility the program has attained and the demandby other countries and
organizations for information on programresults have further emphasizedthis need. The NASCP
sought the collaborationof the CDC and other experts on HIV/AIDS surveillance and M&Eto
help it in its approach and methodologies. Moreover, the fact that the incoming government is
placing so much emphasis on demonstrating results has created a new environment fostering a
performance-based orientation.


C. Project DescriptionSummary
     1. Projectcomponents(seeAnnex 2for adetailed description andAnnex 3 for adetailed
          cost breakdown):
COMPONENT1: Improvingthe Quality and Coverage ofPrevention, Treatment and
Care. (US$166 million). Component 1 has four subcomponents, the first three of which include
centrally financed initiatives. They are centrally funded as they include investments that are for
federally mandated activities; are regionalin nature, i.e. involving more than one municipality or
state; are of a strategic nature designedto address emergingissues; and, in cases where
municipalities lack the capacity to address the issueadequately. The last subcomponent includes
municipal and state-managedinitiatives funded through direct transfers from the federal level to
the state or municipal levels.

Subcomponent 1.1: Prevention of STDs and HIV. The activities to be financed under this
subcomponent include promotion of behavior change to prevent STDs and HIV with a strong
focus on highrisk groups, mother to child transmission, condom promotion, risk reduction among
IVdrugusers(needleexchangeprograms), expansion of voluntary counselingandtesting
services and IEC (information, education and communication). The project will support these
interventions by financing: strategidsupply driven subprojects (type A) anddemand-driven
subprojects (type B) to finance NGOs and other strategic partners to expand prevention activities,
includingvoluntary testing and counseling and mother to childtransmission, among others (for a
definition of subprojects type A and B, refer to "implementation arrangements" section and
Annex 6); goods including educational materials, male and female condoms, lubricant gels, rapid
test kits, laboratory equipment; consulting services includingdevelopment of IEC materials, mass
media campaigns, design of prevention strategies and training to strengthen prevention services
and logistics of supplies.

Subcomponent 1.2: Treatment and Care. This subcomponent would finance expanded
diagnosis and treatment for STDs, treatment of opportunistic infections andHIV/AIDS (although
ARV drugs are not supported by the project, this subcomponent i s financing activities to improve
logistics, expand dispensingunits,training staff to foster adherence, and increasing access to
diagnostic and treatment follow-up laboratory tests), home-based sociaVpsychologica1 care and
palliative care. The laboratory network will be strengthened and some facilities will be upgraded.
The project will finance Subprojects A to establish medication dispensing unitsand improve
distribution logistics, increaseadherenceto treatment, expand laboratory services, introduce
certification of service facilities; Subprojects B to finance care activities; goods including
educational materials, computer software and hardware, laboratory equipment, reagents;




                                                   14

consultant services to improve treatment and care; and training for healthcare staff on treatment
and care, encouraging adherence, patient follow-up, dispensing unit operation.

Subcomponent 1.3: HumanRights. Activities financed under this subcomponent will further
foster the protectionof fundamental rightsof PLWHA and vulnerable populations, including the
rights to employment, education and health. This component will finance workshops to minimize
situations of social and individual vulnerability of PLWHA, reduce stigma and discrimination,
strengthening of the human rights network, consultancies for the formulation of laws to protect
rights,training for lawyers andjudges on the rightsof PLWHA, and training for health
professionals and managerson ethics and human rights. The project will also finance Subprojects
type A and B to finance NGOand other partner activities inhuman rights including provision of
legal advise, awareness of rights; and goods including educational materials.

Subcomponent 1.4: Municipal,State and NGO-managed Initiatives inPrevention,
Treatment, Care, and Institutional Development. This subcomponent includes similar
activities to those funded under the rest of Component 1except it includes only those activities
that are to be managedby the state and municipal coordinationunitsandfinanced through funds
transferred directly from the federal government.

A total of 411municipalitiesand27 states are eligible to receive fund-to-fund transfers from the
federal government on the basis of agreedannual action and target plans (PAMs). Eligibility
criteria employed are discussedunder implementation arrangements. States and municipalities
with adequatePAMs will qualify to receive federal transfers. States and municipalities that fail to
qualify, will not receive funds through the fund-to-fund transfer mechanismuntil they qualify.
Ten percent of federal funds transferred are earmarked for NGO-executed activities, for atotal of
US$l.O million annually, or US$3.0 million for the duration of the project. An additional amount
of US$12.0 million from the loan will finance NGOactivities through this subcomponent,
bringing the total going to NGOs to approximately US$5.0 million annually. Activities are to be
executedby NGOs under NGO agreementswith the States, out of which 80% are financed with
Bank funds. Funds for NGOs are transferred through state PAMs.Eligible activities to be
financed include: (a) prevention interventions; (b) diagnosis, counselingand tests at VCTs; (c)
treatment of PLWHAs; (d) diagnosis and treatment of DST and common complications of
DST/AIDS; and e) epidemiological surveillance of HIV/AIDS and main DST.

COMPONENT2: Scientific and Technological Development (US$9.5 million). This
component will strengthen the capacity of researchcenters, laboratories and universitiesto
engage in scientific and technological research and development (R&D), and will finance R&D
studies and activities to improvethe effectiveness of treatment and prevention of HIV/AIDS. The
R&D activitiesare expected to beundertaken by public entities, several of which have
international credibility. Partnerships with international agencies specializinginthe issues
addressed will be formed in order to standardizemethodologies and facilitate technological
transfer. This does not differ substantially from what happensinthe U.S. where NIHconducts or
supports most basic researchand some development. The project will not finance the actual
productionof medications nor medical supplies. However, the Borrower has indicatedits
willingness to stimulate greater private sector involvement in future production of the developed
medications and supplies. The Borrower presenteda statement on its policy on researchand
development on antiretroviral drugs (ARVs) and its views regarding the role of the private sector
inthe production of ARVs.The Bank considersthat the Brazilianposition adequately addresses
the needfor private sector participation inARV production. The Ministry of Health's statementis
includedinAnnex 2e.



                                                  15

Subcomponent 2.1: Strengthening capacity for scientific and technologicalresearch and
development. This component will strengthen the capacity of researchcenters, laboratories and
universities to engage in scientific and technological researchand development (R&D) to
improve effectiveness and increaseaccess to treatment and prevention of HIV/AIDS. It would
develop good clinical practices (GCP) in public clinical sites to provide clinical support for
participation in phase I, I1andI11clinical trials and to test preventive andtherapeutic AIDS
vaccine candidatesand microbicides, bio-informatics support for surveillance and clinical trials,
and activities to prepare and promote civil society participation inclinical trials. It will also
develop capacity for good manufacturing practices (GMP) centers of excellence, and for the
establishment of methods andinfrastructure to ensure quality control of medications and
biological supplies produced. The project will finance Subprojects type A for all of the activities
mentioned above, and Subprojectstype B to finance small innovative studies to expand scientific
knowledgegeneral technological issues on AIDS prevention and treatment, feasibility studies for
test sites for vaccines and microbicides and consultancies for appliedresearch.

Subcomponent 2.2: Technologicalresearch and development. The second subcomponent
will finance R&D in the following areas: development of combinations of two or three ARVs in a
single presentation to increase adherenceto treatment; studies on the molecular structure of
pharmaceuticals with antiretroviraleffects to identify possible effects of new synthetic molecules;
testing the potential antiretroviraleffects and anti-STD effects of potential candidates; clinical
trials to assess microbicide effects of an indigenous plant and pre-clinicalevaluation of other
products with potential microbicide effects; development or transfer of technology to develop
reagents for confirmatory diagnostic tests for HIV while at the same time buildlocal capacity;
researchto develop reagentsfor CD4 cell count, viral load and other tests to diagnose and
monitor HIV infection; and studies to develop products that can be employed in vaccine, reagent
and microbicide trials. The project will finance Subprojects type A for all of the above and
subprojects type B for the development of vaccine and microbicide products.

COMPONENT3: Strengthening Program Management(US$24.5 million): This
component aims to strengthenthe overall managementof the program, steering it towards results-
basedmanagementpractices. The project would support the establishment of an M&Eunit at the
national level, strengthening of capacity for monitoring at the state and municipal level, a series
of evaluation studies incorporated inan M&EOperational Plan, a system to monitor compliance
with PAMs agreedwith municipalities and states to receive federal transfers, and activities to
develop a culture of performance-basedmanagement. It would also support the development of
software to improve logisticsand management systems necessary for the improved operation of
the project.

Subcomponent 3.1: Monitoring, Evaluation and EpidemiologicalSurveillance. This
subcomponent includes the establishment and operation of a Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning
Unit at the federal level, and reference M&Eunitsat the state level, with a minimumof one per
region. A draft M&EOperational Plan preparedduringproject preparation will be finalized and
will serve as a guide for the implementation of M&Eactivities. A subset of states will be selected
early on to function as referenceM&Esites where different decentralized monitoring initiatives
will be pilotedto be disseminated to other states once the mechanisms are specified and tested.
Relevant staff in states and large city municipalities will be trained on the use of information for
decision-making. The component will finance a series of evaluation and operational research
studies to assess program effectiveness, many of which were identified duringpreparation.
Details on the strategy for M&Eare detailed Annex 2d on Monitoring and Evaluation. Activities
designedto strengthen HIV/AIDS and STD surveillance at all three levels of government are
included, with an emphasison HIV and STD surveillance. The project will finance Subprojects


                                                 16

type A to provide support inthe establishment of M&E systems at the state and municipal levels,
analyze national AIDWSTD accounts, assess HIV incidence and behavioral surveillance, studies
of HIV 1 molecular biology, and epidemiologicalassessment of actions with IDUs and CSWs,
among others; goods includingcomputer software and hardware, educational materials,
epidemiological and survey result reports and manuals to orient on the use of the various
information systems; consultant services for evaluation studies and the development of software
for improved management; and training on monitoringand evaluation at federal, state and
municipal levels.

Subcomponent 3.2: Fostering Performance-basedManagement. This subcomponent will
promote a culture of use of information for managementat the federal, state and municipal levels
through training on the use of information for decision-making for PCUstaff, managersat the
national and state levels, and key project coordinators. This subcomponent would finance the
training for municipalities and states to improve their planning and management skills, for the
preparation of PAMs, use of information to monitor PAMimplementation, and to set up and
manage NGO competitive funds. To ensure improved sustainability of NGOs under decentralized
financing, training in management, income generation and on the identification of alternative
sources of financing will be provided. NGOforums will be established where non-existent, and
strengthenedelsewhereto strengthentheir negotiation capacity vis-&vis the states/municipal
governments, providingthem with political, institutional and financial sustainability. Seminars,
workshops and conferences for the exchangeof information and methodologies will be held at the
nationallevel and regional level. Participationin international fora to exchange ideas and
information, and to provideguidance in such important initiatives as the Global Fundto Fight
AIDS, TB and Malaria will also be financed, as well as for the development of strategic alliances
with less developed countries to facilitate exchange of information and experiences, and to form a
network with these countries. Activities for monitoring the meetingof agreedtargets associated
with the fund transfers to states and eligible municipalities would also be financed. In sum, the
project will finance Subprojects type A to strengthen NGO's sustainability, improve management
of public implementingentities; goods including educational materials, computer equipment;
consultant services to strengthenPCU managementprocesses, and improve management of
specific programs at the local level; and training on managementand information use for project
staff and program managers, preparation of PAMs, conducting NGOcompetitive selection
processes, and on sustainability options for NGOs. The project would also finance attendance
and carrying out of seminars and conferencesfor knowledge sharing.

Subcomponent 3.3: Project Management. The proposed project will finance incrementalcosts
related to the management and supervision of the Project, including PCUstaff, technical
assistance to ensure adequateimplementation and supervision of the project, administrative
expenditures for the PCU, office equipment, as well as operation and maintenance of office
equipment as needed, travel expenses and sundry items.




                                                 17

    3.3 Project Management                                     10.53        5%        6.4        6%
                         Total ProjectCosts                    200         100%       100       100%

                                  Front-endfee

                     Total FinancingRequired


2. Key policyandinstitutionalreformssupportedby the project:

The project supports the major lines of policy and programmatic reforms currently underway in
the Brazilian health sector, including:

    (a)       Promoting cost-effective approachesto healthcare including a strong emphasis on
              prevention, promotion of use of generics, and alternative care options
    (b)       Ensuringcivil society participationinproject implementation and oversight
    (c)       Decentralization of health systemmanagementresponsibility to state and municipal
              levels.
    (d)       Introduction of performance-basedfinancing mechanisms for decentralized
              management.
    (e)       Development of a culture of evaluation, quality and performance-based management.


3. Benefitsandtargetpopulation:
The project will benefit the general population, and particularly high-riskgroups, by reducing
their risk of contracting HIV. Specific highriskgroups are being targeted with more directed
behavior change interventions, including PLWHA, CSWs, MSM, IDUs, prisoners, truckers,
partners of high-risk individuals, and specific groups of youth. Given the changing fact of the
epidemic, emerging populations will also be targeted. The project will specifically benefit
pregnant women and their infants through the systematic testing for HIV of all women attending
antenatalcare, andthe treatment of women testing positive to reduce the risk of vertical
transmission. The project will also benefit PLWHA by improving their quality of life through the


                                                 18

provision of ART, care for opportunistic infections and support for human rights issues. The
population of the 411municipalitiescontaining 90 percent of AIDS cases will receive additional
funding for direct interventions through specific, municipally managedHIV/AIDS preventionand
treatment activities, financed through federal transfers to municipalities. NGOs working on
HIV/AIDS preventionandcare will also benefit by receivingtraining and technical assistanceto
improve their prospectsfor sustainability.


                   Program's' Main Stakeholders Network
                          National Health System SUS-




                                                           Coordination     andotherSTls
                                                              Unit            Program


                                                                              c




                                                                                    Universities,
                                                                                   Foundations and




4. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements:
InstitutionalOrganization

Estimated period of implementation: 3 years

The major stakeholdersinthe National HIWAIDS and other STDs Program are the Ministry of
Health through its NationalAIDS and STDProgramCoordination Unit (CN), other Ministry of
Health instancesinvolved in combating the epidemic, other Government Ministries, Civil Society
organizations (including NGOs and CBOs), Communities, the Private Sector, and External
Partners. Each entity plays a key role within the program. Inorder to meet its specific objectives,
each entity will fulfill the responsibilities outlined below.

Ministry of Health and related OperationalBodies. The Ministry of Health plays a key strategic
role inthe national effort to fight HIV/AIDS and other STDs. The Federal level is responsible by
law for formulating and implementingnationalhealth policy, as well as for systemplanning,
assessment andcontrol. The allocation of funds also falls within the purview of the federal
government. The Ministry of Health includes the Executive Secretariat, and 5 other secretariats
including: HealthCare Services, Participatory Management, Management of Employment in
Health, and Science, Technology and Strategic Supplies, and Health Surveillance. The NASCP i s


                                                    19

a Technical Directorate under the Health Surveillance Secretariat. The Health Surveillance
Secretariat i s responsible for the formulation of policy and strategies inHealth Surveillance, with
special emphasis on TB, AIDS/STDs, hepatitis and others. It includes the Department of Health
Management Information Systems which coordinates and maintains the Ministry's information
systems, and the Department of Epidemiological Surveillance (where the TB programis currently
located). Inaddition, the Secretariat includes the Coordination Unit for Environmental
Surveillance.

The NASCP works closely with the unitswithin the Health Surveillance Secretariat, the
Department of Decentralization of Actions to States and Municipalities and the Department of
Investment and Strategic Projects within the ExecutiveSecretariat.Inaddition, important links
exist with the Basic Care Department, including the following programs: Community Health
Agents, Family Health, Women's Health, Child andYouth Health. Inaddition, the C N works
closely with other institutions linked to the Ministry of Health such as FIOCRUZ, National
Health Foundation (FUNASA), and ANVISA.

CNS CONASS CONASEMS. Decision-makingwithin the public health sector involves: (a)
     -             -
the National Health Council (CNS), comprised of representativesof government entities, private
sector and civil society, service providers, and health care professionals, which i s charged with
the implementation of health policy; (b) the Tripartite Inter-managerial Commission (CIT), made
up of representativesfrom the Ministry of Health, the NationalCouncil of State Health
Secretaries (CONASS), and the National Council of Municipal Health Secretaries
(CONASEMS), which establishesthe rules for the system's operation; and, (c) the Ministry of
Health itself, which manages the allocation of federal funds, under the supervision of the CNS,
and proposes operating rules to the CIT. For matters dealing with federal and state relations only,
the Bipartite Inter-managerial Commission(CIB) comprised of representatives from the Ministry
of Health and CONASS, i s involved.

Federal District, Statesand Municipalities are the main implementing bodies of SUS (Sistemu
Unico de Suide) policies and are responsible for the development and implementation of local
governmental programs on HIV/AIDS and other STDs. Includedare public institutions inhealth
and other sectors who are working to improve the quality of life quality of PLWHAat state and
municipal levels.

State functions and responsibilities include service coordination, distribution of financial
resources,and certain decisions related to the provision of specialized (hightechnology)
interventions. Reproducing the Federal structure, the state-level decision-making bodies include
the State HealthSecretariat, the Bipartite Inter-managerial Committee (CIB) and State Health
Council   .

Municipalities, which are the main focus of the decentralization efforts to date, have been given
the responsibility for delivering health-related goods and services to the population, including
health promotion, preventive health care, rehabilitation, and treatment. At the Municipallevel
there i s a Municipal Health Secretariat and a MunicipalHealth Council.

Other Ministries. HIV/AIDS must be approachedmulti-sectorally to ensure an adequate
response. The main other sectors involved in fighting the epidemic include the Ministry of
Education, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Social Assistance, among others.




                                                 20

Human Rights Network on HZV/AZDS constitutes a strategic alliance betweenthree Brazilian
constitutionalpowers (Executive, Legislative, and Judiciary) and organized civil society to ensure
and defend the human rights for PLWHA.

The Private Sector through the National Enterprise Council on HN/AIDS, an entity comprised
of 24 companies of considerable importance in the country, plays an important role inBrazil's
multisectoralresponseby addressingHIV/AIDS issues inthe workplace and inthe business
community. The private sector finances and implements prevention initiatives inthe workplace
for a total of 4.0 million of workers.

Civil Society Organizations (CSOs)represent a wide range of actors outside government and the
for-profit sector, including non-government organizations (NGOs), professional associations,
organizations of PLWHA, faith-based and community-based organizations (CBOs). Their
specific objectives are to implement HIV/AIDS prevention and care activities at the community
level. They also play an important role in ensuringthe social accountability of the program.
Close to 1000NGOs have participated inproject implementation.

National Coordination Unit (CN). C Noffice will be responsible for the day-to-day
managementof the NationalAIDS and STD ControlProgram(NASCP), including
procurement, contracting implementingagencies, disbursement, preparation of consolidated
annual work programs, budgets, quarterly and annual progress and financial reports. Inaddition,
it will be responsible for approvingsubprojects and proposals by the various implementing
agencies.A managementinformation systemwhich links financial management information to              -
the physical progress of the project will track information, as it has under AIDS 11.The C N will
supervise, monitor, and report on project activitiesto the relevant government entities and to the
Bank,and will ensurethat annual audits are carriedout as stipulated inthe LoanAgreement and
the Operational Manual. C N will also liaise with internationalentities such as UNDCP, WHO,
UNESCO, CDC, UNAIDS, USAIDand other partners to ensure that all programactivities are
coordinated.

International Organizations. United Nations agencies play an important role inthe provision of
technical cooperation and the mobilization for the implementation of HIV/AIDSand STD
policies. The UNAIDS Thematic Group constitutes a forum for discussion between UNagencies,
other international institutions, the Braziliangovernment and civil society organizations.

Otherpublic andprivate institutions. Training events, special studies and researchactivities are
conducted by Universities, Foundations, Institutes for Researchand Development, Centers of
Excellence at the three levels of government.

ImplementationStrategy

The project, which has various implementingentities that differ in scope and capacity, will
support five implementation mechanisms: i)strategic supply driven subprojectsfor implementing
partners (universities, institutes, academic and researchentities, line ministries and other
government entities, and NGOs); ii)demand-driven subprojectsfor implementingpartners,
includingCSOs, researchcenters and universities, and government entities; iii)fund-to-find
transfers for states, municipalities and CSOs; iv) contracts with the private sector (suppliers,
consultancies); and v) non-bank financed contracts.




                                                 21

1. StrategicSupply-DrivenSubprojects(SubprojectsA)
Universities, research institutes, entities for clinical and biomedicalresearchand special studies,
line ministries, government entities and NGOs will adopt the following implementation
mechanism.

Strategic supply-driven subprojects include activities/programs consisting of research(including
technological development), service delivery, training andprocurement of supplies and
equipment in which the scope and timingof the subprojects are definedby the CN. Subprojects
can focus on prevention, treatment, care, human rights, technological R&D, and management and
evaluation activities. The selection of the implementingentity i s basedon the needto respond to
technical priorities established on the basis of the strategic impact of the activitiesunder the
subproject, as to ensure sustainability of the national responseto the epidemic. Once the need i s
identified by the CN, a technical proposal including a detailed budget and procurement plan will
be drafted by the implementingentity. The content to be contained inthe technical proposals was
agreed duringappraisal and will be included inthe Operational Manual.

A subproject agreement would then be signedbetween CNor institutiondesignatedby the
Ministryof Healthandthe implementingpartner. Fundswill bedisbursed ininstallments, based
on verification of the management of funds, and meeting objectives. Disbursements for Type A
subprojects will be on the basis of Statementsof Expenses (SOEs). The C N will assist each
agency with implementation issues, resolve bottlenecks and monitor progress.

2. Demand-DrivenSubprojects(SubprojectsB)
Type B subprojects are intendedfor: a) demand driven researchinitiatives with public and private
institutionsand foundations, and prevention and care by CSOs to targeted to specific risk groups.
The subproject cycle has several stages:

1. Planning and promotion. Initial steps should be taken to identify areas of intervention, target
    beneficiaries, type of implementingentities, selection criteria andother related policies. The
    monitoring of trends of the epidemic, coverage of target groups by type of intervention will
    provide the necessaryinputsto identify the types of subprojects that should be requested. In
    the case of technological research, needs assessmentsof technological researchas identified
    by experts, will orient the open invitation ("edital"). This will permit the pre-allocationof
    financial resources under specific strategies. The advertising of the availability of funds and
    selection criteria to finance interventions on HIV/AIDS relatedneeds would be part of this
    planning and promotion phase.
2. Subproject Proposals. Potential implementingentities would be invited to submit proposals
    through open invitation (Edital) placed inthe mass media, internet or other similar
    announcement. Usingspecific formats, implementing partners will submit a Subproject
    Proposal to participate in the fundingcycle and to be considered as potential implementing
    partners. A subproject proposal is to contain: i)justification for an intervention; ii)identified
    beneficiaries; iii)description of proposed activities andoutputs; iv) cost breakdown; v)
    counterpart (local) contribution; vi) an implementationplan; vii) monitoring and evaluation
    plan. Complex subprojects may contain additional requirements.
3. AppraisaUApproval: Proposals are reviewedand appraised by an external technical
    committee madeuptechnical experts duringa one week period. They approveheject
    proposals according technical criteria and availability of funds, and submit their selections to
    the CN.
4. Formalization of the Agreement. Subproject agreements will be signed between the C N (or
    institution so designated) and the selectedimplementingentities, through legal instruments.


                                                   22

     The agreementwould establish the scope of work, expecteddeliverables, financial data, and
     other specific items. Fundswould be disbursed in installments, based on verification of
     appropriate managementof funds and progress on meeting the proposal objectives.
5. ComplementaryDocuments. Candidatesselectedto implement subprojects will be askedto
     present additional legal and technical documents.
6. Implementation.The implementation phase comprises the execution of plannedactivities,
     supervision visits by municipal, state and federal teams to monitor technical, procurement
     and financial issues.
7. Disbursementsare done through SOE.
8. Completion.A legal closure of the agreement will be take place upontermination of
     subproject activities.
9. Evaluation. C N will carry out an evaluation of the subproject activities as part of the overall
     evaluation of program effectiveness and impact.




        outputs                          Processesand Procedures                   Instruments
                          NationalCoordination Unit (CN)  Implementing Partners




                                                                                        Subproject
                                                                                        Model Form



                                 3 -Subproject Apprais




                                 4 -Subproject Approv




                                                                                        Procurement
                                     5 -Subproject                                      Management
                                     Implementation                                      Guidelines
                                    (supervision and
                                     disbursement)




                                                                                        Progress and
                                                                                         Summary
                                                                                          Report




3. Fund-to-FundTransfers
Since the early 1990s,a series of administrative instruments and financing reforms have been
enactedto expandanddeepen the decentralization process, mainly by (a) establishing criteria for
various levels of decentralization; and (b) providing incentives for municipalities and states
willing (and able) to take on increasing responsibilities, consistent with national health policy. In
particular, the Basic Operational Norms (called Normas OperacionaisBdsicas, or NOBs, inthe



                                                        23

earlier years, and more recently Norma OperacionaldeAssistkncia 16 Sau`de or NOAS), have
helped to shape the evolution of decentralization. Inthis case, the fund-to-fund transfers are
specifically for the implementation of institutionaldevelopment, and HIV/AIDS and STD
prevention, treatment andcare activities at the state and municipal level. At present, 411
municipalities, which contain 90% of all AIDS cases, andthe 27 state level programs are eligible
to participate. Eligibility is based on the magnitude of the epidemic inthe particular municipality.

This financing mechanism includes eight main steps: i)Certification; ii)Definition of Funding
Caps; iii)Capacity BuildingStrategy; iv) Development of Plans ( Planos de A@es e Metas,
PAMs); v) Appraisal andApproval of PAMs; vi) Implementationperiod; vii) Monitoring; and
viii) Evaluation Strategy.

Certification ("aualificacc2o") of States and Municipalities. Inorder to qualify to participate in the
fund-to-fund transfer mechanism, a state or municipality must first comply with criteria
established by NOB/96 and NOAS102 for certification to receive funds. It must also comply with
criteria certifying it to participate inthe HIV/AIDS/STD fund transfer. These include: (a) capacity
of health secretariatsat municipal and state level to manage HIV/AIDS/STDprograms; (b)
establishment of adequate and feasible output targets related to HIV/AIDS interventions across
the territory, basedon the epidemiological situation of the state or municipality and its capacity to
deliver the services proposed. Capacity is measuredas service delivery capacity and management
capacity. The latter i s confirmed via a document presentedby the Secretary of Healthconfirming
the necessary managementcapacity, accompaniedby the name of the technician incharge of the
program.

Inaddition to the criteria above, statesandmunicipalitiesmust:a) have technical staff responsible
for planning and managing local HIV/AIDS/STDprograms; b) the state "manager" (Gestor
Estadual) must presentthe situation of the municipality in its RegionalizationPlan with respect to
the referral network operating within the state; c) contribute local funds as counterpart
contribution; d) establish, maintainand ensure the participation of civil society working on
HIV/AIDsand STDs, particularly duringthe planning,monitoringandevaluation of PAMs; e)
the state "manager" must present the "resolution" of the CIB, regardingthe responsibilities of
states and municipalities in the procurement and distribution of medications to treat STDs and
opportunistic infections. States must agree on activities andtargets with NGO forums in
meetings held with AID/NGOs for this purpose.

The responsibilities of the three levels of government must be specified inannually agreed action
andtarget plans (PAMs), which describethe epidemiological situationof the municipality, the
actions proposedto address the situation, the cost of those actions and the outputs expected at the
end of the 12 month period. Becausethis would be the first year states and municipalities are
participatinginthis financing mechanism for HIV/AIDS/STD activities, indicators to measure
achievement of targets have not been standardized. Not all are adequately expressed, and many
possess no baseline information. A subset of indicators will be standardized across all PAMsto
ensure some comparable informationon performance is collected. Baseline information will be
available at the end of the first year of PAMimplementation.

Definition of FundingCaps. To ensuretransparency and equity in the distribution of funds across
selected states and municipalities, the Ministryof Health has applied the following criteria:

    1. 52% of available funds are allocated to health promotion, prevention and institutional
         development according to population size, rate of growth of AIDS, estimated prevalence
         of HIV, incidence of AIDS and insufficient structuralcapacity in its temtory.


                                                 24

    2. 38% of available funds are allocated to the organization and improvement of treatment
         and care of PLWHA according to the number of registered cases of AIDSwithin the
         1999-2001 period.
    3. Counterpart funds from States and Municipalities.

The PortariaNo.23 13 Dec/l9/02 presentsthe list of municipalitiesand states with allocated funds
beginning in 2003. A total of US$85 million (Reais $300 million, Reais $100 per year) infederal
funds will betransferred to states and municipalitiesover the three years of project
implementation. Ten percent of the funds transferred are earmarked for NGO delivered activities.
Inaddition, US$12.0 million inloanfunds will be addedto the funds transferred over the three
years of implementationof the project to finance NGOprevention andcare activities. Only
US$60 million of the US$85 million are includedas counterpart funds for the project.

Capacity Building. Given the novelty of a fund-to-fund transfer for HIV/AIDS/STD activities,
states and municipalities needto be trained on the preparation of the PAMs. Some training has
already been impartedto some municipalities during2002, through regional workshops and
seminars. Inthe case of weaker municipalities, it i s expectedthat they will include training
activities in their respective PAMs to strengthentheir planning capacity. CNtrains state level
staff and states train municipal staff.

PAMPreparation. States andMunicipalitiespreparePAMsusingspecific formats providedby
the CN. The PAM format is divided infour main sections: a) situation analysis of the territorial
unit; b) epidemiologicaldiagnosis and analysesof interventions relatedto HIV/AIDSandother
STDs; c) assessment of local institutional and managementcapacity; andd) elaboration of a work
plan with specific targets and processes, output and impact indicators (when feasible). Guidelines
and formats are available for both states and municipalities. Inaddition C N has set-up a WEB
page (www.aids.gov.br/incentivo) that may be used to prepare PAMs "on-line" and to submit
them directly to the CN. Activities in state and municipal PAMs must complement each other.

Eligible activities to be financed under PAMs: (a) preventioninterventions; (b) diagnosis,
counseling and tests at VCTs; (c) treatment of PLWHAs; (d) diagnosis and treatment of DST and
common complications of DST/AIDS; and e) epidemiological surveillance of HIV/AIDS and
main DST.

PAMAppraisal andApproval. The CNis to ensure the adequacy andcompletenessof the
informationcontained in the prepared PAMs, on the basis of criteria established inthe Operations
Manual. Special attention is given to the adequacy of the proposed targets and the feasibility to
achieve them. Ifnecessary, states or municipalities are requestedto complete or complement their
PAMs before submittingthem to the final approvalinstance, the CIT. MunicipalPAMs must be
presentedto the Municipal Health Council for evaluation and approval, which are then sent to
CIB for approval and then to the CNwho forwards them to the CIT for approval. Inthe case of
State PAMs, the process is similar. PAMs are sent to the State Health Council for evaluation and
approval, who then sendthem to the CIB for approval. PAMsthen go to the CNwho forwards
them to the CIT for approval. Municipalities and states are considered to be certified on the basis
of an approved PAM. Once approved inthe CIT, a Portaria i s published by the Minister of
Healthcertifying states and municipalities to receive fund-to-fund transfers inthe subsequent
month. As of May 2003, 14 states and 158 municipalities hadbeen certified (qualijkudos). It i s
expected that by the end of 2003, 70 percent of states and municipalities will have "qualified" and
another 30 percent will have "qualified" by the end of 2004.




                                                 25

It is expected that duringthe first year, at least 80 percent of states and municipalities (that
participated inAIDS 11)will meet conditions for certification.With regardsto receivingfunds for
NGO activities, some states do not currently possess the operational and legal conditions to
subcontract out to NGOs. CN will providetechnical assistance to facilitate the identification of
legal options to do so. It is expectedthat at least 5 states will be ready to subcontract NGOs inthe
first year. Another 13 states are expectedto possessthe necessarylegaland operational
conditions duringthe second year, and all 27 states are expected to participate inthe
decentralization of NGO activities by the end of the project. Eighteen months after project
effectiveness, the degreeto which decentralization of NGO activities has taken place will be
reviewed. If less than 35% of funds allocated to those activities have beendisbursed by that
point, measures to acceleratethis process will be discussed. Ifno adequate solution i s found, the
amounts allocated will be subject to cancellation.

PAMImplementation: Fundsare transferred to states and municipalities in equal monthly
installments according to a specific schedule. Inprinciple the money is transferred directly from
the FNS to the FES or FMS, inequal monthly installments. There is a special account for each
municipality or state for the fund-to-fund transfers, usually at the Banco do Brad. Justification
of expenditures i s done on the basis of outputs or targets reached rather than on the basis of
statementsof expenditure.

PAMMonitoring: MonitoringPAMfinanced activities are responsibility of each state or
municipality. C N will provide guidelines and instruments to help implementers to follow up
proposed activities within the PAMs.Given the uneven implementationcapacity of some states
and municipalities, and that only 150 of the 411municipalities had received continuous financing
for HIV/AIDSactivities, the implementation of this subcomponent will be closely supervised.
The supervision strategy to be adopted is described inAnnex 2 under the description of
Component 3.

Evaluationof PAMCompliance: As notedbefore, this is the first time this HIV/AIDS/STD fund-
to-fund transfer i s implemented and severalaspects needto be fine-tuned. Each municipality and
state has developed a set of indicatordtargets it has agreedto meet by the end of the year. None of
these havebeen standardized, and needto be reassessedto ensure they are feasible and
measurable. The C N will work with the states and municipalities to reach agreementon a subset
of indicators that will be common to all PAMs to permit sub-national comparisons. These will be
includedin PAMsfor 2004.

Certified states and municipalities have a twelve month period to implement the agreedactions
and meet agreedtargets included in PAMs. On the 10" month of implementation, the
performance of municipalities/states will be reviewed by the next level. A new PAMwill be
proposed which includes adjustments based on their implementation capacity. Targets are
measuredevery 6 months. A failure by municipalities to meet targets at the end of the 6 month
period must be assessedand confirmed by the MunicipalHealth Council. Said municipalities
mustpresentcorrective action plans to the Council. Suspension of fundtransfers will be
determined by the respective CIB and CIT. When municipal fundtransfers are suspended, the
municipality must re-certify to receive federal funds once again.

Fiduciarv Innovations: Pooling of Bank financing with federal grant transfers for AIDS/STD
activities, and SOT disbursements. Under subcomponent 1.4, Bank financing will be pooled with
federal grant transfers for AIDS/STD activities. Grant transfers will be made to the 26 states and
the Federal District who meet eligibility requirements for the implementation of HIV/AIDS and
STD activities and have the necessary mechanisms inplace to subcontract the servicesof NGOs


                                                   26

and CSOs. Loanfunds are earmarkedfor NGO activities to be managedby states and would
represent 80% of funds earmarkedfor NGO activities and 17% of total funds transferred.
Resourcestransferred this way will be addedto the local counterpart contributions from the
relevant State andMunicipal HealthSecretariats.

Bank funds would be pooled with counterpart funds inthe FNS and transfers would be made
from FNS to FES to finance the actions to be developed by selectedCSOs included inthe States
PAMs. Based on the specific actions to befinanced included inthe PAMs, a virtual pooledfund
would be dimensioned within the larger amount of MSbudgetary resources allocated to the
Program. The Bank would thus participate with approximately 80% of the pooled funds
earmarked for CSO activities and the Government with the remaining 20% from MSbudgetary
resources. The States would preparethe PAMs to be partially implemented in partnershipwith
qualified CSOs, selectedaccording to biddingrules. Fundswill be more readily available thus
eliminating delays infunding the proposedactions. The transfers will be monitored electronically
and funds utilization will be followed upand audited through internal adequateand efficient PIUs
controls.

The pooling feature was employed by the recently approved BrazilFamily HealthProject. The
Family Health Project obtained an exception from Bank Policy to link disbursements to
statements of grant transfers made to participatingmunicipalitiesrather than to incurred
expenditures (advancing funds against SOT). Given the solidity of the borrower's fiduciary
framework and the agreedrisk mitigation measures, as described inAnnex 6, the Bank has agreed
to disburse into the Borrower's grant transfer system. The amounts to be transferred are
considerably smaller than inthe Family HealthProject, include no large procurement, and are to
be executed by CSOs. The PAMs implementation schedule will be the basis for establishing the
disbursement schedule for Bank's disbursement into the grant transfer system. The CN will
submit quarterly FMRsto report on the disbursements. Year-end Reconciliation Statements will
be prepareddemonstrating the amounts transferred via the fundto fund mechanism, vis a vis
actual eligible expenditures. These ReconciliationStatements will be audited by independent
auditors and certified as to the eligibility of at least 80% of the expensesincurred. Furthermore
the C N will follow upthe PAMs implementation and achievement of established goals through
the SIS Incentivo system(see Annex 6 FinancialManagemendDisbursement arrangements).

The pooling and related de-linkingof disbursementsfrom expenditures offer a number of
advantages: (i) affording Bank the opportunity to form a long-termpartnership with the Borrower
inthe sector since grant transfers arecurrently usedto transfer 70% of all federal funds to states
and municipalities; (ii)facilitating the smooth and timely flow of Bank funds to the states; (iii)
providing an opportunity for Bank involvement inthe most important reforms of the sector, as
well as the design and testing of future reforms such as performance-based transfers; and (iv)
enhancing developmental impact by shiftingBank supervision from tracking transactions
financed through loan proceeds to oversight and improvement of the borrower's fiduciary
systemsfor procurement and financial managementof the fundingpool (not just loanproceeds).

The borrower's existing financial managementand procurement rules and systems have been
assessedand deemed sufficiently robust to govern the use of Bank funds includedinthe pool (See
Annex 6). This means that a number of fiduciary oversight and control measures (such as
reportingrequirements, record keeping, audits and remedies) will be applied to the larger pool of
federal grant resourcestransferred to the states.




                                                    27

4. Contracts
The project will finance the acquisition of medical, laboratory, information and other equipment;
reagents, rapid tests, male and female condoms and other supplies. It will also finance several
consultancies carried out by local andforeign consultants. These services will be procuredusing
open and competitive processes and following World Bank guidelines.

5. Non-Bank Financed Contracts
Certain activities includingcommunications strategy development and campaigns, and related
services would be contracted out. Selection of agenciesunder this implementationstrategy,
which will be undertaken according to Ministry of Health regulations and disbursed amounts will
be considered as local counterpart.

6. Implementation mechanisms-Summary Table
The table below indicates the type of mechanism to be usedby each key agency.




     CN, Ministry of                                                        X
     Health
     Decentralized              X            X
     entities of the
     Ministry of Health
     Other ministries and       X            X
     public institutions
     States and                 X            X                                             X
     Municipalities
     Universities,              X            X
     Academic
     Institutions,
     Foundations,
     Researchand
     Development
     Entities
     NGOs                       X            X
     Private Sector             X


Operational Manuul

An operational manual (OM) is being preparedby CNand a draft was submitted to the Bank for
review during negotiations.The final version of the O M is expected to be cleared by the Bank
and adoptedby the Government by effectiveness.A good portion of the OM i s near completion,
as the main activities have been described inthe Project Implementation Plan. The OM would
includeconditions necessary for implementation, such as procurement and contracting
procedures, budget, disbursement, and administrationof the project. In addition to general
administrative, financial and procurement procedures, the OM would include the procedures for
carrying out monitoring and evaluation of the project, processesto be followed under the two
types of subprojects(A andB), including selection criteria, eligible (and non-eligible)
expenditures, and a model agreementfor implementation of A and B Subprojects, details on the
operation of the fund-to-fund financing mechanism includingeligibility and qualification criteria,
and rules for disqualification, model PAMs, guidelines for PAMprogramNGOexecuted


                                               28

activities, would be clearly defined in the OM. The OM would also include the Environmental
Management Planand Indigenous People'sPlan.

An O Mwill increasetransparency andreduceimplementation delays, as roles and
responsibilities, mechanisms, schedules, and accountability arrangements would be clearly
delineated and agreedupon by all executing agenciesprior to project effectiveness. Inaddition, it
would facilitate review/supervision of the project by the Bank.

D. Project Rationale
1. Projectalternativesconsidered andreasonsfor rejection:
Noproject altemative: A thirdoperation was consideredbecauseof the importance of improving
the sustainability of the Brazilian HIV/AIDS and STDProgram inthe face of the continued
spread of the epidemic. Equally important i s the needto ensure the development of sounddata on
the results of the Brazilianprogramto provide orientation and lessons for other AIDS programs
in low and middle income countries.

Continuing with current design versus re-conceptualizing theproject: Although the current
design has delivered good results, project execution has remained too centralized and is not
consistent with the objective of enhancing the sustainability of the project. The reliance on a
significant number of externally funded consultants also goes contrary to enhanced sustainability
and programdecentralization. The current operation will finance these costs only on a declining
basis.

Vertical, centralizedprogram organization versusdecentralization: The government had
originally proposed the establishment of a National Institute of STDs and AIDS, with
administrative and financial autonomy. However, that option was rejected as it would go counter
to the government's decentralization of the health system.




                                                29

2. Major relatedprojectsfinancedby the Bankand/or other developmentagencies
(completed,ongoingandplanned).
                                                                                 LatestSupervision
               Sector Issue                            Project                     (PSR) Ratings
                                                                             (Bank-finance projectsonly)
                                                                            Implementation  Development
  Bank-financed                                                              Progress (IP) Objective (DO)

 AIDS and STDprevention and control AIDS (Loan 3659-BR)                          HS              S

 Health Sector financing, improvement Health Sector ReformProject -
 of infrastructure and management        REFORSUS (Loan 4047-BR)                  S              S

                                         DiseaseSurveillance and Control
 Strengthening health surveillance      Project -VIGISUS (Loan 4394)              S              S
                                         with IDB

                                         SecondAIDS and STD Control
 \IDS and STD prevention and control Project - AIDS I1(Loan 4392-                 S              S
                                         BR)

 'amily Health                           Family HealthProject (Loan
                                         7105-BR)

 3ealth, education and social protection HDProgrammatic Human
 iolicy improvement                     Development Adjustment Loan
                                        (Loan7159-BR)

 Other developmentagencies
 GTZ(Germany)                                Estimationof prevalenceof
                                             STDs in specific populations.
                                             (U$$509,090.00)
 ARNS (France)                               Behavioralstudiesto adopt
                                             Safe Sex amongMSM
                                             (US$68,890.00)
                                             Cost effectivenessof Anti-
                                             Retroviraltherapy in Brazil
                                             (US$46,453.00)
                                             Policy on generic medications,
                                             includingresearchand
                                             development for production.
                                             (IJS$60,000.00)
                                         D   Vaccines
                                            (Cost will be decided- 2003)
 CDC (USA)                               D   Researchon quick HIV test,
                                             focus on vulnerable groups
                                             (MSM,IDUs,CSW).
                                         'Total (US$400,000.00),
                                         TARE (US$210,000.00),
                                         &ick Test (US$190,000.00)




                                               30

 CDC, NASTAD & HRSA (USA)                   @    Evaluation Program.
                                            Cost to be decided for 2003
 CDC (USA)                                       Mathematical modeling of
                                                 vaccines.                                         I
                                                 (US$5,000.00)
 DFID(England)*                             *    Financial support (DFID-CN)
                                                 for Prevention, care and
                                                 Surveillance in Peru and
                                                 Bolivia.

 Berkeley University (USA)                  B    Research methods.
                                            B    New H I V diagnostic
                                                 techniques.
                                            r(US$40,000.00)
 htemational AIDS Vaccine Initiative        B    Vaccines (Clinical Research,
 (USA)                                           advocacy, ethics).
                                            ~(us$lo.ooo.oo)
 M A I D S                                  D    Advocacy among members of
                                                 parliament andjournalists,
                                                 preparation of a database with
                                                 price o f ARV medications,
                                                 projects with teenagers, support
                                                 to projects developed in
                                                 Portuguese-Speaking African
                                                 Countries, support to projects
                                                 involving countries associated
                                                 with Mercosul.
                                            'Total (US$145,000.00) -Meetings
                                           and Seminars(US$60,000.00),
                                            PAF's, Databank,Parliamentarians,
                                           lreenagers, and Press(US$85,000.00)
 USAID(USA)                                 B    Social Marketing.
                                            B    NGO's.(Non-Governmental
                                                 Organizations).
                                            B
                                            'Total
                                                 Research and evaluation.
                                                    (US$8,000,000.00) startingin
                                            2003-for 6 year period.

 FordFoundation (USA)                            Prevention and Human Rights
                                                 in Mozambique by the NGO
                                                 ABRASCO (Brazilian                                I
                                                 Associationof pos-graduation in
                                                 Public Health)
                                                 (us$200,000.00)
 Japan                                           Project developed with NGO.
                                                 Deals with Brazilian
                                                 community living inJapan
                                                 (Dekasseguis). It involves
                                                 prevention and preparationof
                                                 materials IEC.
                                                (US$96,993.53)                     I
IP/DO Ratings: HS (HighlySatisfactory),S ($ itisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory),HU (I ghly Unsatisfactory)




                                                   31

3. Lessonslearned andreflected inthe project design:
The design reflects lessons related to (a) relevant local and international experience with the
implementationof HW/AIDS prevention and treatment; and (b) previous Bank work inhealth
operations and evaluations. The main lessons and design responsesare:

Lessons learnedfrom relevant local and international experience. The project considered local
experience in shaping its design and implementation strategies. A key lesson from AIDS Iand I1
has been the importance of building a constituency for the Project. Buildingsupport for the
project with relevant public and private stakeholdershas been one of the elements of success of
the project. It has facilitated a multisectoral response, it has generatedpublic support for new
initiatives, and has insuredbuy-in from other branchesof government.

With respectto program content, evidence notesthat focusing on some of the most cost-effective
prevention interventionsidentified inthe literature, including peer education programs for high
riskgroups, STDcontrol, VCT, male andfemale condompromotion, improving bloodsupply
safety, and prevention of vertical transmission will ensure a more effective use of available
resources (Marseille, et al. 2001; Jha, et al. 2001; Merson, Dayton, O'Reilly, 2000). Moreover,
prevention should remain at the core of the response. Treatment and care should be linkedto
advocacy and prevention. PLWHA needto be a key target of preventionefforts, with special
attention to be given to sero-discordant couples. While treatment representsa key aspect of the
government's response, prevention remains a central part of its approach. A focus on high-risk
groups has been increasedinthe last two-three years.

Fostering strong NGOparticipationinpreventionand care has facilitated access to specific
high-riskgroups with whom they havedeveloped a relationship of trust by natureof their
previous involvement with these populations. The individuals beingtargeted often belong to
marginalized segments of society with which governments may have little experience. NGOs can
often bringmore of the specialized knowledge neededand often have an established credibility
with the target group. Inaddition being more able to address culturally sensitive issueson care
and prevention, NGOs also have the added value that they are more innovative and flexible in
their approachesand already have an infrastructure in the communities where they work. NGOs
have been shown to be very effective vehicles for prevention efforts in several countries in
Africa, Asia and the US.

Lessons learnedfrom the Bank's operational and evaluation work. The project lessons were
extracted from several types of documents: i)ICRsfrom the following Brazilian projects: Second
Northeast Basic Health Services (98), AIDS and STD Control (98), and Endemic DiseaseControl
(97); ii)OED's reports: Investing in Health: Development Effectiveness in the Health, Nutrition,
and Population Sector (99),and The Brazil Health System: Impact EvaluationReport (98).

OED's report also recommendsthat preventive andcommunity-based approaches, which were
fundamental to the rapid health improvements of the 1980s shouldbe applied more vigorously
particularly with HIVIAIDSand malaria(OED, 1999). As noted above, this i s a key strategy of
this project.

One of the drawbacks of AIDS Iand I1was that they failed to establish an adequate monitoring
and evaluation systemto assesseffectiveness, target interventionsand manageprogramactivities
on the basisof results. A greater emphasis on monitoring andevaluationto track program
progressand measure results has been shown to be a key ingredient of a well-managed program.



                                                   32

 OED's reports "Investing in Health: Development Effectiveness inthe Health, Nutrition, and
Population Sector"and "The Brazil HealthSystem: Impact Evaluation Report" fault the weak
emphasis on M&Efor the insufficient results orientation of many projects. The needfor strong
M&Eis echoed inseveralICRs (Endemic DiseaseControl (97), SecondNortheast Basic Health
Services (98). OED recommendsgreater use of performance-basedbudgetingsystems,and
encouragesthe engagementof independentevaluativeorganizations. The project is
transferring federal funds to municipalities on the basis of compliance with agreed performance
targets. A computerized monitoringsystemto monitor compliance with agreedtargets i s being
developed. Detailedevaluation studies that needto be conducted, and the compositionof an
internalM&Eunit have beendefined. Support from other developmentpartners such as the
CDC, HRSA, UCSF and NASTADinthe implementation of the project's M&Estrategy has been
agreedto provide the necessary expertise and training. Specific studies are to be contracted out to
ensure independenceof results.

The needto continue to support the processof decentralization of SUS has also beennoted in
ICRs and Reports (Endemic DiseaseControl, 97; OED Brazil Health System: Impact Evaluation
Report (98).

4. Indications of borrower commitmentand ownership:
CombatingHIVIAIDS is and has beencentral to the Brazilian Government's health policy since
the mid-1980s. NASCP was one of the flagship programs of the past government and is an
important component of the new government's health plan. The fact that the Government has
committedto providingfree universal coverage of ART inthe face of risingeconomic constraints
i s one of the strongest evidence of that commitment. Ownership of the programextends well
beyond the government to close to a thousandNGOs that have been implementingprevention and
care activities duringthe last decade, and civil society advocacy groups that have worked with the
programto press the government for policy reformwhen necessary. With respectto commitment
to the reforms introduced to decentralize programexecution and introduce performance-based
management, these too form an important thrust of the new government's health plan.


5. Value added of Bank support inthis project:
The Bank's value added to the project can be summarized as follows: a) global international
experience and expertise inboth HIV/AIDS programs and performance-based lending; b) broad
strategic perspective on the sector and ability to bringinexperiences from other government
agenciesand development partners; and, c) coordinationwith other donors and developmental
institutions to support the project. The Bank is the largest financier of HIV/AIDSand STD
controlprojects and has ample experience in the design, implementation and evaluation of these
programs in all continents the Bank works in. Thus, the Bank can bringworldwide experience to
enrich policy dialogue with authorities to improve project design and implementation. Its
experience andexpertise inhealth sector-wide reforms andbroad view of the sector will facilitate
the neededexpertise to operationalize these reforms.

E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are inthe project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic(seeAnnex 4):
NPV=;ERR= % (see Annex 4)

The economic justification for public interventioninthe slowing the spread of the HIV/AIDS
epidemic is clear. While AIDS infection is generally the result of private decisions, public
interventionis necessary to reduce the risk to society as a whole, as the provision of information



                                                 33

 about the state of the epidemic or about the effectiveness of alternative remedies is something that
 benefits society but that private entrepreneurshave insufficient incentives to produce on their
 own. Moreover, markets to insure againstpremature deaths and HIV are imperfect. And, there are
 negative externalities resultingfrom lack of informationon actual risk, as i s the case with partners
 of bisexual men, infected blood transfusions, vertical transmission, and victims of rape. Given
 these market imperfections, public economics argues for government intervention.

 Although the rationale for government involvement in prevention, treatment and care activities
 supported by the project is clear, quantifyingthe benefits of the project is a difficult task. Brazil
 has come a longway in combating the epidemic inthe last 10years. And, through the years, a
 large quantity of epidemiological and behavioural data have been gathered. Collectively, the data
 suggest there has been a maintained and significant decrease in high-riskbehaviours. However,
 despite exhaustive efforts, the segmentedand largely non-systematic nature of these data did not
 permit an exact quantification of the impact of preventive activities. For these reasons, the
 marginal cost-utility of project prevention has been calculated usingdifferent assumptions of
 effectiveness, as illustratedin the table below. Incontrast, with a total annual cost of about
 US$S,300 per patient, ARV treatment has a cost-utility estimated at US$S,069/DALY. Inthis
 methodology, DALYs (Disability-Adjusted Life Years) are a sumof YLDs (Year Lived with
 Disability) due to disability, and YLLs (Years of Life Lost) due to mortality.

                             Case Preventionand Marginal Cost-Utility
I                         Under Different Assumed Levels of Prevention"
  Percentageof Infections I    Number of Cases     1   DALYsAverted        I   Marginal Cost-Utility,  I
        Prevented                  Prevented                                         US$/DALY
           10%                       5,205                 97,247                      2,021
           20%                      10,410                 194,493                      1,011
           30%                      15,614                 291,740                      674
           40%                      20,819                 388,986                       505
           50%                      26,024                 486,233                      404


 2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
 NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
 Fiscal Impact:
 Federal expenditures on health over 2000 and 2001 have been an average of 3.25% of GDP.
 Assumingthat this patterncontinues, health expenditures in2003 would be close to US$17.0
 billion (in constant 2003 US$). Expenditures for HIV/ADS are also assumedto holdconstant at
 US$437 million; this is the value calculated for 2000 and i s a conservative estimate. Government
 investment for the AIDS I11Project represents0.35-0.4 1% of annual federal healthexpenditures.
 The Project i s also estimated to generaterecurrent costs of about US$29 million from 2006
 onward. This would represent0.17% of federal healthexpenditures, and 6.6% of HIV/AIDS
 expenditures. Under the assumption of a constant HIV/AIDS budget, the incrementalrecurrent
 costs would be relatively easy to accommodate. However, given the probability that government
 expenditure for ARV treatment of AIDS patients may increase substantially inthe near future,
 other increments incosts may meet varying degrees of resistance. To assure project sustainability,
 itis essentialto maintainpolitical support and informdecision-makers of the continued
 importance of controlling the epidemic.




                                                  34

3. Technical:


Project design was based on international best practice on the most effective prevention and
treatment interventions to combat HIV/AIDS and STDs, current health sector reforms designed to
decentralize the managementand financing of health services, and lessonslearnedfrom years of
implementation of the Brazil AIDS & STD Program. Thus, Component 1expands the coverage
of interventions implemented under AIDS Iand 11, which, as notedbefore, have been identified in
the literature as beingthe most effective interventions available. Targeting emerging populations
will enhance effectiveness. Component 2 will be implemented inclose partnership with
internationally credible institutionsto ensure the adequacy of technical content inan area that is
not within the Bank's comparative technical advantage. And, Component 3, introduces the
necessary monitoring and evaluation mechanismsto assess the effectiveness of interventions to
better target programactivities, to measure performance, and to provide the necessarysupport to
the processof decentralization. This support will be crucial in the transition from working with
 150 municipalities to 411, of which 261 have not implemented AIDS activities on a significant
scale before. Evaluation activities will be receiving technical support from the Centers for
DiseaseControl and their partners on a regular basis duringthe next three years. The project will
continue working closely with civil society, given that its role inincreasing political commitment,
providing some social accountability of the program, and in reachinghardto reach populations
has beenamply demonstrated.

4. Institutional:

4.1 Executingagencies:

The major stakeholdersin the National HIWAIDSand other STDs Program are the Ministry of
Health, other Government Ministries, Civil Society organizations (including NGOs and CBOs),
Communities, the Private Sector, and ExternalPartners. The programi s managed by the National
AIDS and STD Program CoordinationUnitwithin the Ministry of Health. The unitreports
directly to the ExecutiveSecretariat of the Ministry. Bank-approved UNagencies will administer
the hiringof consultants and procurement of goods and services.

4.2 Project management:

Project managementcapacity at the national level i s generally good. However, the unit continues
to be very centralized and dependent on a large number of consultants currently financed by the
loan. The consultants forming part of the unit will now be financed on a declining basis. It i s
expectedthat once a large part of the programi s decentralized to states and municipalities, fewer
staff will be requiredat the central level. The current government established a new Secretariat
(Management of Employment in Health) which has as one of its mandates, to define a human
resourcespolicy for SUS. The project will present to the Bank, at the end of the second year of
implementation, a functional analysis of the staffing needs of the Coordination Unit including a
plan for the sustainability of the posts assessed as necessary.

4.3 Procurement issues:

A procurement capacity assessment of the National AIDS & STD Coordination Unitof the
Ministry of Health was carried out following numerous meetings with the PCUand field visits to
the States of Roraima, Amazonas and S2o Paulo. The procurement risk was rated as highdue to
the highly decentralized nature of the project and the lack of legal framework to transfer



                                                  35

government fundsto NGOs. The risk on procurement is increasedby the "fund-to-fund transfer"
component. This will imply closer supervision by the Government, the Bank, and independent
reviewers in highrisk states. The analysis did not detect any critical deficiencies that needto be
addressedbefore project launch except for the needto strengthenthe procurement function and
establish a supervisory unit able to visit and orient implementingentities at the state and
municipal levels.

The organizationof the C N includes an administrative unit and a procurement unit.The
procurement performance at the central level i s good and the C N i s consistent on the application
of the rules for the procurement of goods and services. However, the experience under AIDS I
and 11, which involved a large number of decentralized units, demonstratesthe needto monitor,
follow-up and guide the procurement, information, and to some extent, financial control aspects
of the project implementationat the decentralized level. Two annual ex-post reviews of
procurement are recommended.The project would hire independent procurement reviews to
analyze a sample of NGOs under the "fund-to-fund transfer".

Based on the findings of the assessment, an action plan was agreed with the borrower intwelve
areas that cover matters such as exceptions to local law inthe loan agreement, planning and
supervision of procurement actions, staffing, organization, training, record keeping, and
independent reviews. This action plan is part of the project implementationdocumentation.

4.4 Financial managementissues:

A financial managementassessment was carried out inaccordancewith OP/BP 10.02andthe
Guidelines for Assessmentof FinancialManagement Arrangements inWorld Bank-Financed
Projects issued by the FinancialManagement Sector Board onJune 2001. The Guidelines for
Fiduciary Management for Community-Driven Development Projects -CDD Guidelines, where
taken into consideration where applicable.

The assessment was carried out on site following numerous meetings and work sessions with the
PIU staff and included field visits to selectedStates and Municipalities implementing agencies
and NGOs which will eventually participate in the Project's implementation. The overall
assessment work included: a) discussions with the PCU's Financial staff and other members as
deemednecessary, b) assessment of the Financial Management Systems to be used for project's
accounting, financial administration, controlling andreporting, c) analysis of the financial staff
manpower and structure, d) review of funds flow mechanisms, e) review of internal controls and
administration proceduresto control and monitor project execution, f)review disbursement
methodology to be used, g) agreement on reporting requirements, h) review internal and external
audit arrangements. Ingeneral the findings of the Financial Management assessment were
satisfactory. There are no Country issuesthat would impede Bank's lending.

Annex 6 contains a detailed description of the FinancialManagement arrangements.
The financial management risk associatedto the PIUi s rated as moderate although the overall
riskinrelationto the Project is considered as substantial due to the highdegreeof
decentralization to States, Municipalities and participant NGOs. However no major risks were
identified which would require special recommendations or actions, other than those already in
place and/or included inthe action plan agreed with the PIU. The assessment concluded that the
financial managementarrangements of the PIUsatisfy the Bank's minimumrequirements, and
that it has inplace a financial managementsystem that can provide, with reasonableassurance,
accurate andtimely information on the status of the project.




                                                  36

5. Environmental:                             EnvironmentalCategory: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMPpreparation
(including consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging
from this analysis.

An environmental assessmentfor this project was carried out inOctober andNovember of 2002
which entailed a review of available legislationconcerning managementof healthcare wastes and
its adequacy, an examination of existing practices for handling medical wastes, and the definition
of activities to be implemented by the project to address weaknesses identified incurrent practice.
The assessment is included inAnnex 2b. The assessmentconcluded that Brazilian federal and
state environmental regulations and norms contain clear procedures and guidelines for
environmental assessment of health services, proper handling of medicalwastes, proper final
disposition of such wastes, and proper monitoring guidelines for reducinghealth risks. Federal,
State and municipal roles are clearly stated as well. Inaddition, results from field visits to health
centers inthe State of Bahia and GoiAs indicate that local sanitary and environmental practices for
proper handling and disposal of medical wastes are applied. Given that bio-safety measures are
already universally applied in all facilities, and that the handling of HIV/AIDS does not require
any additional proceduresinthis respect, it i s not expected that municipalities that have hadless
experience in implementingHIV/AIDS activities will have inadequate bio-safety procedures in
place. Basedon these findings the EA recommended an Environmental Category B rating.

The activities financed by the project are not expected to have a negative environmental impact.
Work on prevention, which generally takes place in the community, has if anything, positive
environmental effects given its emphasis on health promotion. With regards to treatment and
care, most services take place in outpatient facilities which generate 80% less waste than
hospitals. As to disposal of waste in health facilities and laboratories, the program has adequate
procedures in place. No additional technology for managing health care wastes is neededto inthe
treatment of HIV/AIDS.Training for staff on handling of blood products and delivering health
care to HIV/AIDS patients is a regular program activity. It can therefore be concluded that the
environmental impacts arisingfrom implementationof the AIDS 111project are controllable with
relatively simple measures.

The findings of the EA were discussedwith the project team duringpre-appraisal. Agreement
was reachedregarding proposed activities, most of which are already part of regular project
activities (contained inthe proposed Environmental Management Plan). Agreement was reached
that the Project's Operations Manual and Project Implementation Plan would include the
EnvironmentalManagement Plan. All actions are considered within the scope of the project's
components and will be the responsibility of the NASCP. No additional staff nor fundingare
required for the monitoring and implementationof the plan.

5.2 What are the main features of the EMPand are they adequate?
The limited negative environmental impacts that could occur can be significantly attenuatedby
following of guidelines already developed and providing regular trainingfor all new participating
entities. The latter is an integral part of the project. It should be notedthat REFORSUS, a project
financed by IBRDand IDB, developed guidelines for the implementation of HSWMPswhich are
being adoptedby the SUS network. Guidelines currently employed by the project will be
reviewed to ensure they incorporate all procedures recommended by the REFORSUS guidelines,
and will be included inthe project's Operational Manual. All new participatingfacilities will
have to submit an H S W P that adequately addresses the handling of health care wastes
emanating from project activities.




                                                    37

5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
                    Date of receipt of final draft: February, 2003

5.4 How have stakeholders beenconsulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b)
draft EA report on the environmental impacts and proposedenvironment managementplan?
Describe mechanismsof consultation that were usedand which groups were consulted?

The EnvironmentalAssessment was carried out jointly with the project team.

5.5 What mechanismshave beenestablishedto monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on
the environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?

Supervision of municipalcompliance with guidelines will be the responsibility of state level
Secretariats. Municipal Secretariats will supervise compliance of facilities intheir territory.
Accreditation criteria of facilities already include the adoption of bio-safety measures, and
guidelines for handling health services waste relatedto HJY/AIDS. Indicatorsto measure
performance under the fund-to-fund transfer sub-component are inthe process of beingdefined.
The project will continue to monitor compliance with guidelines and with the provision of
training. Indicators will befine-tuned at the end of the first round of financing.

6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.

A social assessment was carried out for this project (Annex 2c). The assessment was based on
consultations with organized civil society. Representativesof state NGO AIDS Forums were
askedto review the proposedAIDS/STD I11Control project and make recommendations on
project design and implementation based on their experience with the first two projects. An
action plan addressingthe control of the epidemic among IndigenousPeoples i s presentedat the
endof the annex.

A solidpartnership with awide rangeof NGOshas beenestablished between nationaland sub-
 national governments for HIV/AIDS and STDs program inthe context of the first and second
ALDS/STD control projects. The strong alliances with NGOs, the private sector, associations of
people living with HN/AIDS and state and municipal stakeholders inthe preparation and
 implementation of the projects, has proven instrumental in ensuring the successful control of the
epidemic. There are, nevertheless, opportunities to enhance and perfect the participatory
 approach. The suggestions for improvement derived from the consultations with 17 of the 19
existingNGO forums inDecember 2002 include:

 (a) Further decentralize the programnationwide to address the spread of the epidemic to smaller
     cities throughout the country.

(b) Furtherstrengthenregionalinstitutional arrangementsfor partnerships with organized civil
     society and reinforcethe commitment of states and municipalities to comply with
     agreements reached.

(c) Expand and strengthenprevention activities provided through government entities.




                                                  38

 (d) Establish priorities for promotionandprevention activities basedonthe mappingof target
     populations, and activities of the participatingorganizations according to the nature of the
     interventions, the targetedhigh-risk groups, and the geographic coverage of the
     interventions. Prevention and promotionactivities should be supported by effective social
     marketing at the local level.

 (e) Improve the quality and coverageof care to PLWHAby providingtrainingto health workers
     inbothtechnicalandhumanaspects of care on acontinuous basis, andby strengthening
     ARV, STD and opportunistic infection drug distribution logistics.

 (0 Address the gaps inprogramcoverageby focusingonthe current profileof the epidemic,
     giving more attention to the population inprisons, the poor and uneducated, heterosexuals,
     women, indigenous peoples and the youth. Expandand improve the coverage of
     interventionsto prevent vertical transmission. Strengthendecentralization and address
     region-specific characteristics of the epidemic.

 (g) Continue strengthening epidemiological surveillance by improving information systems,
     notification procedures, data transmittal and informationdissemination.

6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholdersparticipating in the project?

This would bethe third AIDS/STD Control project to be financed inBrazil. The project has an
excellent record with respectto its involvement of civil society inthe definition of program
policy, ensuring social accountability of its implementation, and inthe implementationof
preventionand care activities at the community level. The NASCPhas been working closely with
civil society since 1992.With regardsto service delivery, over US$23 million were spent on 2163
NGOsubprojects duringAIDS 11.NGOs have also been very active inthe policy arena. NGOs
were instrumental inthe government's decision to provide universal free access ART to the
population, and ensuring sufficient funds are allocated to the AIDS budget each year.

6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations? NGOs are representedinnumerous coordinatingcommittees that orient program
direction. They have by law, 5 representativesinthe National Commission on AIDS, the body
advising the Ministry of Healthon technical and operational issues regardingAIDS control and
their evaluation, and orient the formulation of policy. The NASCP has fostered this relationship
through the establishment of NGOforums ineach state. These forums bringtogether all NGOs
and civil society working on HN/AIDS issues ineach state. At present there are 19 forums.

6.4 What institutional arrangements have been providedto ensure the project achievesits social
development outcomes?
The NGOforums and their members monitor programactivities inthe community and serve to
enhancethe social accountability of the program. They are very vocal and represent very large
sectors of the population, including PLWHA, women's groups, highrisk groups such as MSMs
and CSWs. Becauseparticipationmobilized actors beyond the health sector through extensive
inter-sectoral dialogue, health promotion against AIDS/STDs i s now seen as the responsibility of
society a large.

To continue strengthening the participatory approach, improvements can be made inthe
following areas:




                                                 39

 (a) The collaboration betweenNGOs and state and municipal authorities inhealth andother
     sectors can be improvedthrough better dissemination of NGO activities, and continued
     training of the actors involved. Other measures includethe strengthening of inter-
     institutionalAIDS committees at the local level, further expansion of AIDS Forums in states
     and municipalities, and more frequent forum meetings linked to local health councils. The
     local ownership of the AIDS/STDs programwill be strengthenedwith the introduction of
     direct resource managementby municipalities, provided by the fund-to-fund federal
     incentives system. Mechanisms to ensureaccountability of the new decentralized financial
     system should includethe participation of organized civil society.

 (b) Moretechnical support should beprovided to NGOsand more attention should be given to
     strengthening programmatic and financial sustainability of the organizations.

 (c) The processing and financing of CSO projects can be further streamlined. More attention
     should be given to compliance with eligibility criteria for CSO participation and financing to
     ensure transparency.

6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?

The project has begun to establish a strong M&Eunit.Given the changing profile of the
epidemic, the project will monitor progressinreaching emerging populations. The effectiveness
of programactivities will be evaluated utilizing rigorous methodologies, including assessments of
the quality of services anduser satisfaction assessments. Consultations with CSOs will provide
additional feedback on issues that needto be addressed.

7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguardpolicies apply to the project?
                                    Policy                                          Applicability
     EnvironmentalAssessment (OP4.01, BP4.01, GP 4.01)                                   Yes
     Naturalhabitats(OP4.04, BP4.04, GP4.04)                                              No
     Forestry(OP4.36, GP4.36)                                                             No
     PestManagement(OP4.09)                                                               No
     CulturalProperty (OPN11.03)                                                          No
     IndigenousPeoples(OD4.20)                                                           Yes
     InvoluntaryResettlement(OD4.30)                                                      No
     SafetyofDams(OP4.37, BP4.37)                                                         No
     ProjectsinInternationalWaters (OP7.50, BP7.50, GP 7.50)                              No
     ProjectsinDisputedAreas (OP7.60, BP7.60, GP7.60)                                     No


7.2 Describeprovisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard
policies.
Project activities will support all actions requiredunder the EMPand the IPDP. The EMPi s
includedunder Annex 2b andthe IPDPinAnnex 2c.
F. Sustainabilityand Risks
1. Sustainability:
The Brazil AIDS & STD Control Program i s central to the Government's strategy to combat
AIDS andother infectiousdiseases. It forms a key part of the current government's health plan.
Moreover, the programis partially implemented by hundreds of NGOswho are very active in
pressuringthe government to increasefinancingfor AIDS and to protect the program's financing


                                                  40

incases of fiscal constraints. The fact that financingfor HIV/AIDS will now be includedas a
regular transfer to states and municipalities facilitates funding stability, and helps institutionalize
the programat state and municipal levels. Not only has the Ministry of Health increased
budgetary allocations to AIDS inthe last few years, but as a result of current financial reforms
federal spending on health increasedoverall by 7 percent by 2001 and 2004.

Two issues pose a riskto sustainability. The first has to do with the growing expenditures on
ART. While lower cost options arebeingsought with respectto medications, the increasein
resistanceto available drugs means that new drugs will have to be identified on a regular basis.
Moreover, it may be that lower cost options may not be easily available. The secondissue has to
do with the size of the current project managementunit. There are over 200 staff inthe unit, all of
who are financed with loan proceeds. And, the majority are located inthe central unit. It i s
expected that as municipalities and states become stronger implementers, the need for such a
large core of staff at the center will diminish.Project staff salaries will be covered on a declining
basis. The project will presentto the Bank, at the end of the secondyear of implementation, a
functional analysis of the staffing needs of the Coordination Unit including a plan for the
sustainability of the posts assessedas necessary.




                                                 41

2. CriticalRisks(reflecting the failure of critical assumptionsfound inthe fourth column of
Annex 1):
                      Risk                       I Risk Ratina                    Risk Mitiaation Measure
 From Outputsto Objective
 Budget cuts in the health sector may reduce             M           There is considerable commitment to the
 the likelihood that the program will be able                        program from all levels of government and civil
 to continue to expand its response,                                 society. Its role in the internationalarena will
 particularly focusing on emerging                                   also encourage the government to prioritize
 populations.                                                        budget support to the program.
 The rising number o f people requiring ART                          Lower cost options for treatment are being
 together with diminishing health budgets                 S           sought. Preventionefforts should reduce rates of
 may reduce equity of access to ARV drugs.                            infection.
 From Componentsto Outputs

 Emerging populations are harder to reach as                         This will be an issue primarily with populations
 they are located in less urbanized areas and           M            located in smaller localities with more limited
 are less educated.                                                  access to HIVIAIDS services. Referral systems
                                                                     are being defined together with community
                                                                     mourn
 The curative orientation of health services                         States and municipalities will be required to
 reduces the likelihood that prevention will be          M           include training for health service delivery staff
 emphasized in treatment and care settings.                          on prevention in their PAMs
 The lack of sufficient experience on                                Supervision will be more intense to
 HIV/AIDS/STD work of many                               H           municipalities with less capacity. Training for
 municipalities and the speed with which they                        PAM preparation and working under fund-to-
 are being decentralized may result in low                           fund transfer financing initiated in October.
 execution duringthe first half of the project.                      Training is to be an important part of the first
                                                                    year's PAM.
 Very few states possess an adequate legal                           The project has hired a legal consultant to help
 framework to proceed with NGO                           M           states define legal mechanisms to subcontract
 subcontracting.                                                     NGOs.
 Work on science and technology on this scale                         The structure o f TORSfor these work programs
 is a new endeavor for the project and may                            will be defined at appraisal, as will the potential
 encounter difficulties identifying optimum                           partners for each type of study.
 partners and adequately managing work in

                                                                     The program is receiving continuous technical
 management is difficult to induce.                      S           support on M&Efrom the CDC. The
                                                                     implementation of performance based financing
                                                                     will encourage information use.
 Overall Risk Rating                                   M-S
Risk Rating- H(High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N( iegligible or Low Risk)


3. PossibleControversial Aspects:
Potentially insufficient private sector participation inthe future production of medications and
laboratory supplies developed under component 2 of the project.




                                                      42

0. MainLoanConditions
1. EffectivenessCondition
OperationalManualapprovedbythe Bankandadoptedbythe Borrower.
TORSfor Audits, includingAudits tobeperformedinStates, MunicipalitiesandCSOs

2, Other [classi& accordingto covenanttypes usedinthe LegalAgreements.]
H. Readinessfor Implementation
   1,  -NA-      The enbeering design documents for the 5rst year's activities are complete
       andready for the start ofproject implementation.(Not applicable)

   2,  -X-     The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete andready
       for the start ofproject implementation.

   3. -X- A fully staffed andfunctioningPCU, where administrative,financial and
       procurement functions are satisfactorilyperformed,

   4,  -X- TheProjectImplementationPlanhasbeenappraisedandfoundtoberealisticand
        of satisfactory quality.

    5. The following itemsare lacking andare discussedunder loanconditions (Section G):

I. Compliancewith BankPolicies

[XI1 This project complieswithall applicable Bankpolicies.
     .
         -3



                                                 I                V
 SandraRosenbouse                        ha-Maria Arriagada                  VinodThomas
 Team Leader                             Sector ManagerlDirector             Coun6y ManagerlDirector




                                               43

                              Key Performance
  Hierarchy of Objectives         Indicators      Monitoring& Evaluation      CriticalAssumptions
 Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:   Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank
                                                                            Mission)
Reduce poverty through
improvedutilization of basic                                                The program will be able to
servicesby the poor, by                                                     extendsustainedaccess of
improvinghealth service      Same as PDO.                                   preventionand care to
responsiveness. Specific                                                    lower income populations
emphasis is assignedto                                                      who have become one of
combatingAIDS and other                                                     the emergingpopulations
communicable diseases and
improvingthe healthof women                                                 currently affectedby the

and children.                                                               epidemic.




                                               44

Project Development         Outcome/ Impact        Projectreports:             :fromObjectiveto Goal)
Objective:                  Indicators:
Reduce the incidence of STDsReduceHIV prevalence                                The government will be able to
and HIV                     among youth:                                       :ontinue and expand its
                            Males aged 17-19from   Annual conscript surveys,   :esponse, particularly focusing
                            -(2003)to-(2006)       Delivery roomprevalence     3n emergingpopulations.
                                                   surveys
                            Maintain HIV
                            prevalence among                                   Iducation,outreach, and
                            young women aged 15-   Conscript surveys, delivery  ounselingcan help people
                            24 at 0.6% (2000-2006) room surveys                 dopt healthpracticesand
                                                                               reventive measuresthat in
                            Prevalenceof syphilis:                             urn will reduce the
                            Males aged 17-19from                               ransmissionof AIDS/STDs
                            1.3% 2003 to 1.0%
                            2006                                               Cultural barriers to behavior
                            Femalesaged 15-49                                  zhange can be overcome.
                            1.7% (2000) to 1.0%
                            (2006)                                             Sentinelsurveillance and
                                                                               householdsurveys are reliable
                            Reduce prevalence of                               and representative.
                            HIV in high risk
                            groups:                ProjetoAjude I1and new      There is reliable and low cost
                                                   Ajude survey                access to condoms, syringes
                            IDUfrom 36.5% 2003     CSW surveys                  for needle exchange
                            to 20.0% 2006                                       programs.
                            CSW aged 20-24 from    SI-CTA (MSM)
                            6.1% 2002 to 4.5%
                            2006
                            MSM(20-24) from
                            14.2% 2002 to 10.0%
                            2006

                            Reduceprevalenceof
                            syphilis in highrisk   Projeto Ajude I1and new
                            groups:                Ajude survey
                                                   CSW surveys
                            IDUfrom 0.4% 2003
                            to 0.4% 2006           SI-CTA (MSM)
                            CSW from 3.8% 2002
                            to 3.0% 2006
                            MSMfrom 7.7% 2002
                            to 4.0% 2006

                            ReduceHIV incidence    Prospectiveanalysis of
                            relatedto vertical     sample from Projeto Nascer
                            transmissionfrom 16% maternities.
                            (1998) in 2003 to 8%   Age cohort analysisof
                            by 2006.               SINAN data




                                                45

                               Reducesyphilis          Sentinel study usingblood
                               prevalence in PLWHA collectedfor CD4 tests in
                               from-(2003) to          referencelabs.
                               -(2006)

                                                                                                  ~~        ~
Improvethe quality of life for ReduceAIDS mortality Mortality notificationsystem   Peopleseeavalue ingetting
PLWHA                          from 6.3 in 2000 to 6.0 (SIM), annual               testedfor HIV
                               in 2006
                                                                                   Access to ART continues to
                               Reduce AIDS             Infectiousdisease           expand.
                               incidence from 14.2 per notification(SINAN),  annual
                                100,000 in 2000to 10.0
                               per 100,000 in2006.                                 Resistanceto drugs can be
                                                                                   keptto a minimum.

                              [ncreasesurvival of      Specialstudy employing

                              idult patients with      SINAN,   SIM andchart       Treatment of opportunistic

                              41DS from 58 months      reviews.                    infectionsis accessibleto all

                              1996to 72 months                                      who needit.

                              2006.

                                 Key Performance
 Hierarchyof Objectives               Indicators       Monitoring& Evaluation         Critical Assumptions

Output from each               Output Indicators:      Project reports:            (from Outputsto Objective)
Component:

Expandthe coverageand          Increasecoverageof      Special study.              The program is able to expand
quality of interventions,      treatmentto HIV+                                    to areas that are less urbanized
includingthe reductionof       women delivering                                    and possessless infrastructure
discrimination                 birthsfrom 34.4% in                                 and trained humanresourcesto
                               2002 to 95% 2006                                    work with HIV/AIDS/STDs.

                               Increasetestingof       Opinionsurvey
                               population14 years
                                              +                                    Healthservicesbeginto
                               of age (sexually active                             address preventionincare
                               last 6 mos) from 30%                                settings to reducerisk behavior
                               (2003) to 50% (2006)                                of PLWHA.

                               Increasein % who                                    Newly decentralized
                               usedcondom last sex     Opinionsurvey               municipalitieswill be able to
                               with irregularpartner:                              get up to speed on
                                                                                   HIV/AIDS/STD activities very
                              Population 14   + years                              rapidly.
                               of age (sexually active Opinion survey
                               last 6 mos) from 76%
                              2003 to 80% 2006                                     NGO subcontracting
                                                                                   proceduresand legal
                              Youth aged 14-24                                     framework are establishedin a
                              from 2003 64% to         Opinionsurvey               timely manner.
                              80% 2006

                              Usedcondom in last
                              sexualrelationshiplast Conscript studies.
                              12 mos.: Conscripts


                                                    46

17-19 from 50% in
2000 to 70% 2006.

Increase in % CSW      CSW SpecialStudy
who usedcondomlast
sex with irregular
partnerfrom 68% 2002
to 75% 2006

MSMfrom 92%2003        Opinion Survey -MSM
to 95% 2006

% of people who        Opinion survey
spontaneously indicate
sexual relationsas a
source of HIV from
86% 2003 to 95%
2006.

Reduced % of           HIV+ population in SAEs
PLWHA reporting        specialstudy.
discrimination episode
inlast 6 mos.

% of AIDS patients     SICLOM.
who report they have
taken 100%of their
medicationsin last 3
days from 68% 2002
to 75% 2006.

Number of condoms      Secondary sources on
sold inBrazil from 420 imports, production.
million 2002 to 550
million 2006

% MSMwho report        Opinion Survey
participation in
prevention activity
:onducted by NGO in
last 6 mos.

% funds transferred    Fund-to-Fund MIS
dlocated to prevention
xojects with:
UDI, CSW, MSM,
PLWHA, youth
:separately).

?roportionof public    Annual school census
;econdary schools that
listribute condoms as
1 regular activity.



                    47

                                % public schools that   Annual school census
                                conduct HIVIAIDS
                                activities:
                                Primary:
                                Secondary
                                Reduce % of women       SI-CTA
                                tested in VCT centers
                                that are referred by
                                prenatal programfrom
                                32.3% 2002 to 20%
                                2006

                                Increase mean first     SISCEL, annual
                                CD4 cell count. (in
                                people not on ART)
                                from 387 cells 2002 to
                                4251"     2006.

                                % of CTAs that          SI-CTA
                                received at least 50%
                                of test results in the
                                last 6 mos within one
                                week from 32% 2002
                                to 65% 2006.

                                % municipalities with   Fund-to-Fund MIS
                                indigenous populations
                                receiving federal
I                               transfers that have
                                included prevention
                                activities directed at
                                indigenous people in
                                their P A M

 Increase the effectiveness o f Increase number of      Project reports.       Partnerships are formed with
 the Government's response      new AIDS research                              highly qualified entities.
 through technological          nuclei established from
 innovation and upgrading       0 in 2002 to 6 2006.                           Project staff is able to
 existing technology.                                                          adequately manage the
                                Number of new           Project reports.       studieslinvestments.
                                therapeutic
                                presentations of
                                combinations of ARV
                                from 0 in 2002 to 3 in
                                2006.

                                Increasethe No. o f     Project reports.
                                laboratory supplies for
                                diagnosis and ARV
                                patient follow-up
                                3eveloped from 1in
                                2002 to 5 in 2006.



                                                      48

Improve the effectiveness of  Increasethe % of       I PA M database      Data for decision-making are
interventions through the use states who are                              available on a timely basis.
of evidence-based             subcontracting NGO
management and                sub projects through                        A culture of evaluation and
decentralization of program   fund-to-fund transfers                      evidence-based management is
management and financing to   From0%in 2002 to                            engendered.
states and municipalities in  100%in2006.
accordance with current SUS
policy.                       Increasethe % o f       PAMdatabase         The process of decentralization
                              states that are meeting                     is adequately supervised.
                              7.5%of the agreed
                              targets from 0% in                          Capacity buildingof municipal
                              2002 to 100% in2006.                        and state level implementing
                                                     I                    entities i s sufficient and of
                                                                          good quality, and they are
                                                                          provided adequate tools to
                                                     I                    managetheir services.

Project ComponentsI Sub-       Inputs: (budget for    Project reports:    (from Componentsto
components:                    each component)                            Outputs)

Improving the Quality and      US$166million                              Sufficient and timely budget
Coverage of Prevention,                                                   allocation.
Treatment and Care
                                                                          Capacity of municipalities to
                                                                          receive fund-to fund transfers.

Scientific and Technological   US$9..5million                             Availability and willingness of
Development                                                               high quality partners.

Strengthening Program          US$24.5 million                            Commitment to improvement
Management                                                                of management.




                                                   49

                            Annex 2: Detailed Project Description


By Component:

ProjectComponent 1 US$l66 million
                      -
COMPONENT1: Improvingthe Qualityand Coverageof Prevention, Treatment and
Care. Component 1has four subcomponents,the first three of which include centrally financed
initiatives. They are centrally funded as they include investments that are for federally mandated
activities; are regional innature, Le. involving more than one municipality or state; are of a
strategic nature designedto address emerging issues; and, incases where municipalities lack the
capacity to address the issueadequately. The last subcomponent includes municipal and state-
managedinitiatives funded through direct transfers from the federal level to the state or municipal
levels.

Subcomponent 1.1:Preventionof STDs andHIV. The activities to be financed under this
subcomponent includepromotion of behavior changeto prevent STDs and HIV with a strong
focus on highrisk groups, mother to childtransmission, condom promotion, riskreduction among
IVdrugusers(needle exchange programs), expansion of voluntary counseling and testing
services and LEC (information, education and communication).

To improve the quality of interventions, the project would support technicaltraining for health
sector staff and participatingNGOs inprevention and provide them with the necessary supplies to
carry out their work. Given that municipalities and states have very uneven technical and
administrative capacity, training addressingthese deficiencies will be imparted duringthe first
year of the project, with greater emphasis on states identified as the weakest (see table at the end
of description of Component 3), to reduce these initial disparities. NGOsalso possessuneven
capacity and will be trained so as to improve quality, and will be closely supervised by the states
and municipalities.

Prevention activities will be integrated into other programs, including TB, the Family Health
Program (FHP), and the Women's Health program. Training of FHP healthteams on prevention
and diagnosis, and referrals for HIV/AIDS and STDs will expand the program's reach and
quality. The inclusion of HIV/AIDS indicators inthe information system for basic care (SIAB,
Sistema de Informatiza@io deAtenpTo Ba'sica)is beingdiscussed. HIV counseling and testing
will be integrated into TB programs and amongst the services providedby family health teams.
The programwill also work more closely with other sectors such as education. Prevention
designs will be improved on the basis of results of evaluations conducted duringimplementation.

Coverageof prevention activities will be extendedto the broader population by working in close
partnership with the FHP, and integratingpreventioninto other programs inpublic health
services, such as the Women's Health Program, and Adolescent Health. The amount of funding
for NGO subprojects will be increasedto expand activities in specific populations. Mass media
campaigns will address specific issues and target groups. Access to free condoms will also be
increasedaugmenting the federal government's contribution by ensuring states contribute to 10-
20 percent of their needs eachyear. Pricereductions of condoms are being sought through
reductions inimport and sales taxes, and local production.




                                                 50

Improved targeting of available interventions will enhance effectiveness as it will ensure the most
vulnerable will be reached. Strengthening prevention incounseling, treatment and care facilities
will ensurePLWHA, the sources of infection, reducerisky behavior. The need to address this
particular group is evident from increasing incidence of H Namong MSMin developed countries
with where access to ART has given PLWHA a false sense of security with regards to their
infectivity and mortality. Particular attention also needs to be given to sero-discordant couples.
Partner counseling and notification will be improved. Existing data will be reanalyzed to identify
groups of women and youth that are at greater risk of infection. Inthe case of women, in addition
to CSWs that are currently targeted by the program, efforts will expand to include partners of
high-riskindividuals, victims of sexual violence, women attending STD clinics, and female IDUs,
and adolescents giving birth.The same exercise will be conducted with youth.

The project will support these interventions by financing: strategic/supply driven subprojects
(type A) and demand-driven subprojects (type B) to finance NGOs and other strategic partners to
expand preventionactivities, including voluntary testingand counseling and mother to child
transmission, among others (for a definition of subprojects type A and B, refer to
"implementation arrangements" section and Annex 6); goods including educational materials,
male and female condoms, lubricantgels, rapid test kits, laboratory equipment; consulting
services including development of IEC materials, mass mediacampaigns, design of prevention
strategies and training to strengthen prevention services and logistics of supplies.

Subcomponent1.2: Treatmentand Care. This subcomponentwould finance expanded
diagnosis and treatment for STDs, treatment of opportunistic infections and HIV/AIDS (although
ARV drugs are not supported by the project, this subcomponent is financing activities to improve
logistics, expand dispensing units, trainingstaff to foster adherence, and increasing access to
diagnostic and treatment follow-up laboratory tests), home-basedsociallpsychological care and
palliative care. The laboratory network will be strengthenedand some facilities will be upgraded.

To improve the quality of care inthe context of the public health system, the project will
strengthenthe competency of health sector staff, improve the logistics for the supply of drugs and
supplies, upgrade medical equipment and infrastructure where necessary, and reduce waiting time
for diagnostic test results. Health staff will be trained to foster adherence to treatment. Outreach
by VCT centers will help increaseearly diagnosis. A national study of quality of services in
specialized ambulatory AIDS facilities, day hospitals, VCT centers, conventional hospitals and
home care services i s currently beingconducted which will identify a core set of national
indicators to monitor the quality of A D S services. Training for NGOs working inthe
community to provide care will also be strengthened.

Coverage of treatment and care will be expanded by increasing access to the necessary supplies
(reagentsfor CD4, viral load and HIV test, and rapid test kits), expanding the network of
dispensingunitsof ARV and other drugs, expanding access to care services, and expanding the
laboratory network. Training to ensurebio-safety standards are observed will continue to be
provided to health care workers as has been done in the past.

Given the spreadingof the epidemic to less urban settings (interiorization) geographic mapping
will be employed to locate areas with greater levels of infection and identify geographic flows of
infection, and permit improved targeting of treatment and care services. Community structures
will be establishedto link patients to available services and bringthem into the health network.

The project will finance Subprojects A to establish medication dispensingunitsand to improve
distribution logistics, increaseadherenceto treatment, expand laboratory services, introduce


                                                   51

certification of service facilities; SubprojectsB to finance care activities; goods including
educational materials, computer software andhardware, laboratory equipment, reagents;
consultant services to improvetreatment and care; and training for health care staff on treatment
and care, encouraging adherence, patient follow-up, handlingof blood-products and other bio-
safety measures, dispensingunit operation.

Subcomponent 1.3: HumanRights. Activities financed under this subcomponent will further
foster the protection of fundamental rightsof PLWHA and vulnerable populations, including the
rightsto employment, education andhealth. This component will finance workshops to minimize
situations of social and individual vulnerability of PLWHA, reduce stigma and discrimination,
strengthening of the human rights network, consultancies for the formulation of laws to protect
rights,training for lawyers andjudges on the rightsof PLWHA, andtrainingfor health
professionals and managers on ethics and human rights. Activities designedto strengthen the
empowerment of PLWHA will include the development and strengthening instruments to
guarantee protectionof human rights, organization of specific groups affected by HIV/AIDS
including groups of IDUs, CSWs, etc, to address these issues, and advocacy targeting legislative
andjudicial branches of government. The project will also finance Subprojects type A and B to
finance NGOand other partner activities inhuman rights including provision of legal advise,
awareness of rights; and goods includingeducational materials.

Subcomponent 1.4: Municipal and State Initiatives inPrevention, Treatment and Care
(PAMs). This subcomponentincludes similar activities to those funded under the rest of
Component 1except it includes only those activities that are to be managedby the state and
municipalcoordinationunitsand financed through funds transferred directly from the federal
government.

The 411municipalitiesand27 states that are eligible to receive fund-to-fund transfers on the
basis of the degreeto which they are affected by the epidemic will prepare annual implementation
and target plans (PAMs) describing the extent of the epidemic intheir area of influence, their
program's priorities, the activities they plan inresponseto it, the targets which they agree to meet
and the resourcesthey will spend, including federal transfers andcounterpart funds. Eligibility
criteria employed are discussedunder implementation arrangements. States and municipalities
with adequatePAMs will qualify to receive federal transfers. States and municipalitiesthat fail to
qualify, will not receive funds through the fund-to-fund transfer mechanism untilthey qualify.
The ordinance (portaria) establishing the AIDS transfer earmarks ten percent of the transferred
funds for NGO-executed activitiesto be managedby the state, for a total of US$1.0 million
annually, or US$3.0 million for the duration of the project. The latter i s financed with counterpart
funds. This amount is expectedto increaseeach year. An additional amount of US$12.0 million
from the loan will finance NGO activities through this subcomponent, bringingthe total going to
NGOsto approximately US$5.0 millionannually. Activities are to be executed by NGOsunder
NGO agreementswith the States, out of which 80% are financed with Bank funds.

Activities to be financed include, inprevention: IEC, promotion of human rights,including VCT,
development of counseling abilities, hotline for HN/AJDS, promotion of safe sexual practices,
harmreduction amongst drugusers andPMTCT.Intreatment it will finance diagnosis and lab
follow-up, care for HNpositive pregnant women and infected infants, care for PLWHA, and
care for STDs. The project will also finance coordination with other entities to improve
effectiveness, and managementof resources and supplies. The project will finance consultancies,
inputsfor prevention and testing (condoms, medications, needle exchange kits,reagents, minor
equipment, small rehabilitationof infrastructure, IEC materials, andtravel and perdiem.




                                                  52

Medications for STDs and opportunistic infections will be financed with municipal and state
counterpart funds.
Given the uneven implementation capacity of some states and municipalities, and that only 150of
the 411municipalities have had ample experience in implementingHIV/AIDS activities, the
implementationof this subcomponentwill be closely supervised.A managementinformation
system is being developed to monitor compliance with agreed targets. Decentralized monitoring
will be assisted by strong civil society participation.

Activities are to be executedby NGOs under NGO agreementswith the States, out of which 60%
are financed with Bank funds. Fundsfor NGOs are transferred through state PAMs.Eligible
activities to be financed include: (a) prevention interventions; (b) diagnosis, counseling and tests
at VCTs; (c) treatment of PLWHAs; (d) diagnosis and treatment of DST and common
complications of DST/AIDS; and e) epidemiologicalsurveillance of HIV/AIDSand main DST.

Project Component 2 US$9.5 million
                      -
COMPONENT2: Scientific andTechnological Development. This component will
strengthenthe capacity of researchcenters, laboratories and universities to engage in scientific
and technological researchand development (R&D), and will finance R&D studies and activities
to improve the effectiveness of treatment andprevention of HIV/AIDS. The R&Dactivities are
expected to be undertaken by public entities, several of which have internationalcredibility. This
does not differ substantially from what happensin the U.S. where NIHconducts or supports most
basic researchand some development. Partnerships with international agencies specializing in
the issues addressedwill be formed in order to standardizemethodologies and facilitate
technological transfer. While R&D i s not the Bank'scomparative advantage, the Government of
Brazilfeels having a substantial amount of funds for R&D will give it greater leverage with
potential partnerships with entities such as NIH, IAVIand the ANRS. Given that the Bank has
no expertise inthis area, it will seek the support and expertise of organizations such as WHO,
NIH,centers of excellenceinclinical research,inorder to assessthe technical feasibility and
merits of specific proposals. The project will not finance the actual production of medications nor
medical supplies. However, the Borrower has indicatedits willingness to stimulate greater private
sector involvement in future production of the developed medications and supplies. The
Borrower presenteda statement on its policy on researchand development on antiretroviral drugs
(ARVs) and its views regarding the role of the private sector inthe production of ARVs. The
Bankconsidersthat the Brazilianposition adequately addressesthe needfor private sector
participationinARV production. The Ministry of Health's statement i s included in Annex 2e.

Subcomponent 2.1: Strengthening capacity for scientific and technological research and
development. This component will strengthenthe capacity of researchcenters, laboratories and
universities to engage in scientific and technological researchand development (R&D) to
improve effectiveness and increaseaccess to treatment and preventionof HN/AIDS. It would
develop good clinical practices (GCP) inpublic clinical sites to provide clinical support for
participationinphase I,I1and 111clinical trials and to test preventiveand therapeutic AIDS
vaccine candidates and microbicides, bio-informatics support for surveillance andclinical trials,
and activities to prepare and promote civil society participation inclinical trials. It will also
develop capacity for good manufacturing practices (GMP)centers of excellence, and for the
establishment of methods and infrastructure to ensure quality control of medications and
biological supplies produced.

The Government has had a longinvolvement inclinical trials for the development of an HIV
vaccine. Most of this work has beenthrough universities and government entities in association



                                                 53

with the NM's HIV Vaccine Trial Network. The Brazilian HIV vaccine effort has focused inthe
following areas: (a) virological and immunological studies (HIV isolationand characterization,
with the creation of a national repository, and the implementation of techniques to assess humoral
and cellular immunity); (b) clinical and epidemiological trials (setting up and maintainingcohorts
such as HIV-positive and HN-negative individuals, HIV incidence studies, risk factor studies,
Phase MI(safety and immunogenicity) studies, and Phase I11(efficacy) studies; (c) socio-
behavioral studies (vulnerability studies, evaluation of non-vaccine preventive measures, study of
the social dynamics of the epidemic); and (d) development andproduction of supplies and
vaccines: product availability, intellectualproperty, transfer of technology. The project will
finance some activities inthe first three areas under this subcomponent.

Although the NASCP is responsible for the planning and implementationof all activities related
to the HIV vaccines, this effort is coordinated by the Brazilian HIV Vaccine Committee. The
committee advises the NASCP on priorities for research, infrastructure and training needs,
researchgroups to support technological development and agreementsfor transfer of technology
and evaluation of HIV vaccine-related researchprotocols and proposals. Many of these
initiatives are conducted inpartnership with international and nationalcenters of excellence.

The project will finance Subprojects type A for all of the activities mentioned above, and
Subprojects type B to finance small innovative studies to expand scientific knowledge general
technological issues on AIDS prevention and treatment, feasibility studies for test sites for
vaccines and microbicides and consultancies for applied research.

Subcomponent2.2: Technological research and development. The second subcomponent
will finance R&D inthe followingareas: development of combinations of two or three ARVs in
a single presentation to increaseadherenceto treatment; studies on the molecular structure of
pharmaceuticals with antiretroviral effects to identify possible effects innew synthetic molecules;
testing the potential antiretroviral effects and anti-STD effects of potentialcandidates; a phase 1
trial to assess microbicide effects of an indigenous plant (aroeira) and pre-clinical evaluation of
other products with potential microbicide effects; transfer of technology for non-confirmatory
HIVdiagnostic tests while at the sametime buildlocalcapacity; researchto develop reagentsfor
CD4 cell count and viral loadtests to diagnose and monitor HIV infection; and studies to develop
products that can be employed to test the effectiveness of vaccines, reagents and microbicides.
The project will finance Subprojects type A for all of the above and subprojects type B for the
development of vaccine and microbicideproducts.

ProjectComponent3 US$24.5 million
                      -

COMPONENT3: Strengthening Program Management: This component aims to strengthen
the overall managementof the program, steering it towards results-based managementpractices.
Planning, monitoring and evaluation are necessarytools to improve programeffectiveness, by
permittingthe identification of bottlenecks, the targeting of interventions, andthe identificationof
the most effective strategies. The project would support the establishment of an M&Eunit at the
national level, strengthening of capacity for monitoringat the state and municipal level, a series
of evaluation studies incorporated in an M&EOperational Plan, a system to monitor compliance
with PAMsagreedwith municipalities and states to receive federal transfers, and activities to
develop a culture of performance-based management. It would also support the development of
software to improve logistics and managementsystems necessary for the improved operation of
the project.




                                                  54

Subcomponent 3.1: Monitoring, Evaluationand Epidemiological Surveillance. This
subcomponent includes the establishmentand operation of aMonitoringand Evaluation Unit at
the federal level with at least 3 full-time staff, and reference M&Eunitsat the state level, with a
minimumof one per region. As capacity at the state level is strengthenedandthe needfor
dedicated staff i s evident, states will in the mediumterm, hire a full time epidemiologist to
manage M&E activities. A draft M&EOperational Plan prepared duringproject preparation will
be finalized and will serve as a guide for the implementation of M&Eactivities. A subset of states
will be selectedearly on to function as referenceM&Esites where different decentralized
monitoring initiatives will be pilotedto be disseminatedto other states once the mechanisms are
specified and tested. Relevant staff in states and large city municipalities will be trained on the
use of information for decision-making.

The Centers for DiseaseControl and some of its partners (HRSA, NASTAD and UCSF), and
some national researchentities will be working closely with the M&Estaff to assist them in the
implementation of this plan. Two staff from the CDC are already basedin Brasiliato begin the
programof work they have agreedwith the Ministry of Health, which includes assistanceinthe
implementation of the M&EOperational Plan for the NASCP.

The component will finance a series of evaluation and operational researchstudies to assess
programeffectiveness, many of which were identified duringpreparation. Details on the strategy
for M&Eare detailed Annex 2d on Monitoring and Evaluation. Activities designed to strengthen
HIV/AIDS and STD surveillance at all three levels of government are included, with an emphasis
on HIV and STD surveillance. The current strengthof surveillance i s on AIDS. Activities will
include training, technical assistance, the development of manuals and supervision. The project
will support the preparation and dissemination of epidemiological bulletins and studies. This
component will also includethe development and application of managementtools, including
suchtools as logistics for supplies, software for inventory management and follow-up of
individuals under HAART.

Thus, this subcomponentwould finance the establishment of M&Esystemsfor the federal and
state levels (staffing, trainingon M&Eand surveillance, equipment, technical assistance), and
with regardsto the operation of the M&Esystem, it would finance consulting services to conduct
quantitative and qualitativeevaluations on aperiodic basis, planning and evaluation meetings to
discussand disseminateresults, specific operations research studies to assess adequacy and
quality of service delivery and to identify improved ways of delivering services, and beneficiary
assessments to improve quality. The project would finance technical assistance to ensure
adequatemonitoringcapacity and the opportune use of information for managementand setting
priorities.

The project will finance Subprojects type A to provide support in the establishment of M&E
systems at the state and municipal levels, analyze national AIDS/STD accounts, assess HIV
incidence and behavioral surveillance, studies of HIV 1molecular biology, and epidemiological
assessment of actions with IDUsandCSWs, among others; goods including computer software
and hardware, educational materials, epidemiological and survey result reports and manuals to
orient on the use of the various information systems; consultant services for evaluation studies
and the development of software for improved management; and training on monitoringand
evaluation at federal, state and municipal levels.

Subcomponent 3.2: Fostering Performance-based Management. This subcomponent will
promote a culture of use of information for management at the federal, state and municipal levels
through training on the use of information for decision-making for PCUstaff, managers at the


                                                   55

national and state levels, and key project coordinators. This subcomponent would finance
activities to help states and municipalitiesqualify to receive fund-to-fund transfers, including
training to improve planningand managementskills, for the preparation of PAMs, use of
information to monitor PAMimplementation, and to set up and manage NGO competitive funds.
To ensure improved sustainability of NGOs under decentralized financing, training in
management, income generation and on the identification of alternative sources of financing will
be provided. In states that currently lack the legalframework to contract NGOs directly, the
project will finance technical assistance to help them establish the necessarymechanisms.NGO
forums will be established where non-existent, and strengthenedelsewhere to strengthentheir
negotiation capacity vis-&-vis the states/municipal governments, providing them with political,
institutionaland financial sustainability. Seminars, workshops and conferences for the exchange
of information and methodologies will be heldat the national level and regionallevel.
Participation in international fora to exchange ideas and information, and to provide guidance in
such important initiatives as the Global Fundto FightAIDS, TB andMalaria will also be
financed, as well as for the development of strategic alliances with less developed countries to
facilitate exchangeof information and experiences, and to form a network with these countries.

InAIDS 111, the NASCP will increaseits sphere of interventionfrom 150municipalitiesto 411.
While all 27 states have implemented HIV/AIDS activities, for 261 municipalities, this will be the
first time they receive federal fundingto implement more continuous AIDS/STD activities. This
makes it imperative that the NASCP strengthen its supervision and technical support to
municipalities. Inorder to address this rapidexpansion, states have beenclassified into high,
mediumand low financial and technical risk.Financial risk i s defined on the basis of mean time
taken to execute financial resourcestransferred last year. States with highfinancial risk delayed
26 to 37 months to execute the assignedbudget. Mediumrisk states took 21 to 23 months, and
low risk states took 16to 20 months. Technical risk is defined on a state's capability in terms of
possessingthe necessary staffing, MIS systems for patient follow-up functioning, NGO
partnerships established, prevention activities with high-riskgroups under way, and specific
activities addressingPMTCT. States who are highrisk on technical issues are generally highrisk
on financial execution, but, as the table below demonstrates, there are some differences. States
with highand mediumrisk will receive direct support from the National Coordination Unit (PCU)
or external consultants on a quarterly basis untilcapacity to implement improves. Visits would
decline to once a year, complemented with regular reporting and meetings. For low risk states,
follow-up will be done less intensively with supervision visits conducted on a semestralbasis,
complemented by semestralprogressreports. The latter visits would also be reduced to annual
visits once implementation i s considered adequate. Data collectedthrough the PAMcompliance
database would also be employed as inputs to this supervision. Activities for monitoring the
meetingof agreedtargets associatedwith the fund transfers to states and eligible municipalities
would also be financed.

Insum, the project will finance Subprojects type A to strengthenNGOs sustainability, improve
managementof public partners; goods including educational materials, computer equipment;
consultant services to strengthenPCUmanagementprocesses, and improve managementof
specific programs at the local level; and training on management and information use for project
staff and program managers, preparation of PAMs, conducting NGO competitive selection
processes, and on sustainability options for NGOs. The project would also finance attendance
and carrying out of seminars and conferencesfor knowledge sharing.




                                                 56

                             FINANCIALRISK                           TECHNICALRISK


               Para, Amapa, Roraima, Piaui, Bahia, Mato Sa0 Paulo~Rio          do SUI, Santa
     LOW       Grosso, EspiritoSanto, Sao Paulo, Santa   Catarina
               Catarina
               Acre,Tocantins, Sergipe, Alagoas,         Acre, Amapa, Para, Alagoas, Bahia, Paraiba,
               Maranhao, Paraiba, Pernambuco, Ceara,     Pernambuco, Piaui, Sergipe, Maranhao,
   MEDIUM      Goias, Mato Grosso do SUI                 Goias, Mato Grosso


               Rondonia, Amozonas, Rio Grande do
    HIGH       Norte, Distrito Federal,Minas Gerais, Rio Amazonas, Rondonia,Roraima,Tocantins,
               de Janeiro, Rio Grande do SUI             Rio Grande do Norte, DistritoFederal



Subcomponent 3.3: Project Management. The proposed project will finance a coordination
unitfor the project, includingPCUstaff, technical assistanceto ensureadequateimplementation
and supervision of the project, administrative expenditures for the PCU, office equipment, as well
as operation and maintenanceof office equipment as needed. This component will also finance
the supervision of project activities.




                                                  57

                    Annex 2a: Accomplishmentsof the NASCPto date

The accomplishments of the NASCP to date are numerous but difficult to synthesize ina concise
summary. Part of the difficulty lies in the fact that although the project has conducted a number
of studies to assess the effectiveness of its interventions, methodologies employed have varied as
have the types of samples employed, making it difficult to generalize some of the results and to
assesstrends. Less is known about the effectiveness of prevention interventions because they are
generally conducted inthe community, and thus more difficult to assess. The following
summarizes what i s known.

Prevention: The project expandedprevention services significantly through increased
participation of NGOs and partnerships with states and municipalities. The number of NGOs
working inprevention increasedfrom 181to 780 from 1997 to 2002 and the number of projects
they implementedincreasedfrom 130to 350. Of the 350, 110are directed to CSWs, 66 to MSMs,
51to IDU, and 25 to youth. Prevention efforts are also being implemented through projects
executed by state and municipal coordination units, with a total of 132 in 1999 increasing to 276
in2002. The number of condoms sold increasedfrom 70 millionin 1995to 395 million in2001,
i.e. more than 20% annually. Moreover, the average cost per condomdeclined by more than 50
percent since its highof US$0.62 to US$0.26 in 2001.

Results from two population-based surveys suggest that condomuse with regular partner in the
last 12 months increasedamongst women (from 12%to21%) and remained about the same
amongst men (26%) between 1996and 1999 (BEMFAM, 1996;CEBRAP, 1999). Highest
use is reported among those aged less than 25 years of age (at 44 percent). However, part of the
difference can be attributed to the fact that the 1999 sample included only urbanhouseholds.A
third population-based survey conducted in 2003 (DOPE, 2003) indicated20 percent of the
population used a condom in the last sexual relationshipwith regular partner in the last 6 months,
showing no change since 1999. However, use of condom with casual sex increasedfrom 64
percent to 76 percent from 1999to 2003. Condom use with regular partners i s as highas 41
percent among 14-24 year olds, similar to the previous survey.

Some data are also available from a series of annual surveys conducted on entering male recruits
to the armed forces aged 17-19from 1996 to the present. Results indicate that condomuse has
increasedfrom 38% to 50% (use condom in all sexual relationships in the last year) from 1997 to
2000. However, the same surveys note that accurate knowledge about how AIDS i s transmitted
has declined inthe same period. Self-reported prevalence of STDs inthe last year shows an
increase for the South and Southeastfrom 11% to 17% from 1998 to 2000, suggesting some
inconsistencies in reporting.

     Degreeof Knowledgeabout HIV Transmission
                                                 1996           1997           2000
North                                                4           6.6            5.1
Northeast                                          5.1           6.7            5.6
Southeast                                          5.7           7.1            5.7
South                                              5.3           7.5            6.1
CenterWest                                         4.8           6.8            5.6
Brazil                                             5.2             7             5.6
Average knowledge on AIDS transmission (index based on 13 questions).




                                                   58

          Percent of Conscriptsreportingcondom use by year
                                          1997*       1998**     1999**     2000**
North                                            27    30.5***     36         45
Northeast                                        32                43         49
Southeast                                        40     42         52         50
South                                            43     42         54         55
CenterWest                                       36                46         48
Brazil                                          38                 46         50
* Usedcondom in every sexual relationshipin the last year.
** Usedcondom in the last sexual relationshipin the last 12 months
***IncludesNorth and Center West.

Dataon highrisk groups are available for commercial sex workers (CSW)s, and intravenous drug
users (IDUs). The study on CSWs (2001) found higher use of condoms among program
participants than non-participants, with both clients (74% versus 60%) and regular partners (24%
compared with 16%). However, knowledge of STD transmission was not associatedwith
condomuse, and neither was perception of risk.Moreover, prevalence of HIV and syphilis were
higher among programparticipants. Given that it was difficult to establish when infection
occurred, before or after entering the program, nocausality can be established. A study on IDU
behavior (2002) also comparesprogramparticipants with non-participants, and found that
participants were less likely to share needles (41 compared with 51%) than the control group, and
more likely to use a condom (42 versus 31%). However, as was the case with CSWs, participants
were more likely to be HIVpositive (39% versus 30%) and no causality can be inferred.
Although not measured, transmission to partners was prevented through changed behavior inboth
of these cases. Needle exchange programs for IDUsincreasedfrom 12 to 40 between 1996and
2000.

Prevention of Mother-to-Chile Transmission (PMTCT): Analyses conducted in 2001 noted that
40 percent of women delivering that year hadbeentested for HIV, and only 32% of those
infected received ART. Coverage of HIV positive pregnant women varies by region, and i s as
highas 49 percent inthe southeast, and as low as 7 percent inthe northeast.

Testing for HIV: The number of VCT sites doubled from 104 in 1998 to a total of 231 sites in
2002. The total number of tests done annually in the public health system has increased from 2.3
million in 1997to 4.4 for 2002, the last year for which there are complete data. Householdsurvey
data on HIV testing indicates that 20% of 16-65 year olds had been tested (26 percent of men and
15 percent of women) in 1999. Testing was highest amongst 26-40 year olds at 30%. Testing
increasedto 30 percent of the general population(aged 14 and over) in 2003, including26
percent of menand 34 percent of women. The latter reflects the growth of the PMTCTprogram.
Among high-riskgroups, 49 percent of CSWs in the intervention group hadbeen tested for HIV
compared with 36 percent in the control group. IDUsurveys note an increase in the proportion
tested from 44% to 48% from 1998 to 2000.

Treatment and Care: Alternative care options such as day hospitals and specialized ambulatory
facilities were introduced early on to reduce hospitalizationcosts. Specialized ambulatory
facilities (SAEs) increasedfive-fold since 1998, the number of day hospitals nearly doubled, the
50 additional conventional hospitals were accredited to provide treatment and care for a total of
383 (see below). There are a total of 474 drug-dispensing units. In order to adequately monitor
patients on ART, the NSAP established a laboratory network capable of performing lymphocyte
subset counts (CD4 and CD8 cell count units) and plasma viral load testingthroughout the
country. It also established an independent quality control program with international


                                                 59

participation. To date, atotal of 78 laboratories with CD4/8 testing capacity and 66 laboratories
with viral load testing equipment havebeenestablished (MoH, 2002). More recently a network
to assess ART resistancegenotyping is beingintroduced, with 14participating laboratories as of
2002. Due to the costs, the latter is limitedonly to patients reportingtheir first on-treatment viral
failure (Levi & Vitoria, 2002).


Service Deliveryfor STDs and HIV/AIDS by FacilityType and Region
October 2002


                                                Specialized        Day       Therapeutic
                              Conventional      Ambulatory      Hospital Home-based
   Region/FaciIity Type         Hospital          Services                        Care
North                                9                16             4              2
Northeast                           37               42             13              7
Southeast                           25%              221            44             35
South                               56               81             17             19
Center west                         23               25              4              3
Brazil                              383              385            82             66


The use of ART has led to reductions in the incidence of opportunistic infections, and thus to
reduced hospitalization, diagnostic proceduresand overall care for patients. The use alternative
care options has also contributed to reduced hospitalization. The number of hospitalizations per
AIDS patient has declined from 1.6 in 1996, before ART was introduced, to 0.3 in 2001, for a
total of 358,000 hospitalizations prevented between 1997-2001. This has representeda savings in
terms of hospitalizations last year alone (2001) to close to US$360 million. Potential savings
from reduction inTB, the most common opportunistic infection, are evident from a study
conducted in S6o Paul0 where a 54% decline in the number of TB cases in HIV positive patients
was noted inthe first year after introduction of HAART.Total decline since 1996has been as
highas 65%. However, S6oPaul0 is better suited for the provision of HAARTthan most states
and municipalitiesand thus nationallevel declines would be lower. While HAARThas been
successfulinreducing incidence of TB, treatment of those infected with TB needs to be
strengthened.

ART, includingHAART, which was providedto 20,000 individuals in 1996, is currently (2003)
provided to 125,000. ART coverage of AIDS patients i s difficult to estimate as it i s unknown how
many of those treated have not developed AIDS.

The program has also achieved important savings through the localproduction of 7 of the 13
ARV drugs currently utilized. Moreover, price negotiations with internationalmanufacturers for
the other 6 medications employed have also helped lower prices. Thus, from 1997 to 2001, the
cost of ARV drugs was reduced by 54%, from an average per ART patient of US$4860 per year
to US$2223 (Ministry of Health, 2002).




                                                 60

           Annex 2b: Assessmentof the EnvironmentalLegalframeworkfor
                               AlDS/STD Control Project in Brazil

Environmental legislation in Brazil

EnvironmentallegislationinBrazil i s basedon a framework classifiedaccording to federal, state
and municipal competencies.According to the National Council for Environment (CONAMA),
depending on the extent of the environmental impacts and the project's area of influence,
licensingof projects, public or private, will dependon federal, state or municipal responsibility.
Projects with nationwideinterventions, involving neighboring countries, affecting indigenous
lands, are subjected to the federal competence of the Brazilian Institute for Environment and
Natural Renewable Resources(IBAMA). Projects affecting more than one municipality, or
whose impacts would affect the territory are subjected to state competence. Environmental
licensingof those activities or projects with impacts limited to local influence fall in the
competenceof municipalities.

Environmentallegislationdates back to 1954, when Federal Law 2.312 stating that the collection,
transport and disposal of waste should be processedunder conditions that do not cause
inconveniences to health or public well-being". Federal Law No. 6938 of August 1981
established the National Council for the Environment (CONAMA) assigning it the mandateto
formulate national environmental policy. The Environmental legislation has undergone a several
amendments, with the CONAMA Resolution 283 of July 2001 beingthe most recent amendment.

Current EnvironmentalNational Law establishesclear procedures for environmental assessment
of those activities, civil works and services with a significant environmental pollution potential.
Implementationof such works, activities or services depends on norms and regulations defined in
CONAMA resolutions nos. 5/93 and 283/01. Detailed procedures are described inAnnex 1.

Environmental legislation associated with waste management and disposalfrom health
services centers in Brazil

The constitutionof 1988 which formed the Sistema Unico de Sulide (SUS), states in article 23
that the protectionof the environment and the control of pollution are the sharedresponsibility of
the Federal Government, States andMunicipalities. Current legislation (CONAMA resolutions
5/93 and 283/01), specifically addresses health services and solid waste collection, transport,
treatment and disposal. It includes as health care wastes, all wastes derivedfrom clinical and
laboratory procedures, i.e. wastes derived from hospitals, laboratories, clinics, veterinary clinics,
blood banks, medical outpatient services and dentistry.

According to resolution 5/93, each health unit generating medical wastes resultingfrom clinical
and laboratory procedures, is responsiblefor the safe sanitary and environmental managementof
its wastes (from generation to final disposition) including the proper separation, condition, and
identificationof wastes; proper environmentally and sanitary temporary safe storage; and
responsible for adopting clean productionsolutions. Each facility i s also responsible for the
preparation and faithful execution of a Health Services Waste Management Plans (HSWMPs) to
be approved by environmental and health authorities. Resolution 283/01, the most recent bill to
be passedat the federal level (July 2001), improves and complements Resolution5/93. It
specifies that procedures followed in waste management need to be those definedby the National
Sanitary Surveillance Agency (ANVISA) and the National Environmental System, and that the
treatment of wastes needs to be conducted in locations as specified by norms of the said agencies.


                                                 61

With respectto environmental licensingof healthcenters, which becameobligatory through
Federal Law No. 6938/81, they can be carried out at the federal level by IBAMA, or state and
municipal levels, depending on the location and complexity of the facility, but i s generally carried
out at the municipal level. There are six types of environmental licenses: Site, Construction,
Installation, Expansion, Alteration, and Operation License.

0     Site location environmental license. Preliminary license. Approves project location, scope,
      and environmental viability, sets out basic requisites andconditionalitiesto be addressedin
     further stages of project implementation.

0    Construction license. Clears out if project has beenconstructed according to design
      specifications, including environmental control measures.

0    Installation license. Approves project prior to operation to ensure it meets agreed standards.

0    Operations license. Approves duringproject operation if activities are inagreement with
     previous licenses.

0    Modification and Expansion licenses. Ifcurrent operation needs to be altered.
HSWMPs must include all necessary licensingprocesses.

Legislation associated with Sanitary and Environmental Surveillance

The legalframework of Sanitary Surveillance also follows federal, state and municipal
distribution. Federal Constitutionof 1988 institutionalizedthe Sistema Unico de Sulud (or SUS),
a decentralized network of actions and public health services following an integrated approach
with an active participationof communities. At the federal level, the National Sanitary
Surveillance Agency (ANVISA) is responsible for national surveillance. Within the SUS, state
level Sanitary Surveillance includes environmental protectionand sustainable development; basic
sanitation; food and water; drugs; health and the working environment; health services and
assistance; production of toxic andradioactive material, blood and derivatives, amongst others.

At the stateandregional levels, the Directorate for Sanitary Surveillance andControl (DIVISA),
i s responsible for providing planning, coordination, advisory, supervision and assistanceto
municipal and regional sanitary surveillance activities. At the municipal level, municipalities are
responsible for inspection and monitoringof public services (e.g. food, pharmaceuticals, and
health services). Depending on the level of development of municipal health services and the
implementation of the decentralized SUS, municipal sanitary surveillance can be classified in
either low complexity (municipalities implementing the Basic Care Management), or medium to
highcomplexity (municipalities implementingthe FullManagement of the MunicipalSystem).

Norms and standards associated with managementandfinal disposal of wastesfrom health
services.

The managementof bio-hazardous waste i s considered in both federal and state legislation.
Norms and proceduresfor the proper managementand final disposal of health wastes are clearly
defined through the norms of the Brazilian Association of Technical Norms (ABNT).Norms for
classification of solid wastes (NBR 10004), specifications for plastic bags suited for solid waste
conditioning (NBR 9190),classification of health services wastes (NBR 12808and 807),and
managementof health service wastes (NBR 12810), are some of the current norms regulating
most of the activities associated with the management and final disposal of wastes from health
services.




                                                  62

Wastes from health services are classified according to their biological, physicaland chemical
characteristics. By law, all health centers are responsible for the classification of their wastes,
according to the following categories:

Group A: Biological (infective) wastes. Wastes containing biological agents or wastes
contaminated with biological wastes, posing highcontamination risks to the environment and to
public health, such as blood bags, collected organic fluids and secretions, vaccines and culture
dishes, disposable materials in contact with organic fluids, body parts ad pieces, animals, air
condition filters from isolated rooms, wastes from isolated patients, cutting instruments, and
sludge from health centers' wastewater treatment.

Group B: Chemical wastes. Waste with highcontamination risk from their chemical
constituencies, such as corrosive materials, inflammables, expiredpharmaceuticals, bactericides,
mercury and lead, disinfectants, cancer treatment drugs, and alike.

Group C: Radioactive wastes: Radio-nuclide wastes, including those type A, B, and D,
contaminated with radio-nuclides.

Group D: Common wastes; non-high risk wastes, includingpaper, plastic, plants and shrubs,
food wastes non-contaminated with organic fluids or those coming from isolated patients.

Most of the services supported under this project fall under Group A, all sub-classifications A2,
A3, A4 and A5 and Group B, sub-classification B2.

A1: Biological wastes: cultures, inoculations from clinical or researchlaboratory.
A2: Bloodand hemo-derivatives: contaminated blood products.
A3: Surgical, pathological: tissue, organ, fetus, blood infectedresiduals of surgical intervention.
A4: Cutting or perforating: syringes, scalpel blades, pipettes, flasks, vials.
A5: Care to patients: secretions, excretions and other organic liquidsderivedfrom patients and
       any residuescontaminated by those materials.
B2: Pharmaceutical residue: dated medications, contaminated medications, unused medications.

Proper segregation, identification and conditioning of health residues must be done at each health
center. Groups A, B, and C wastes, except cutting wastes, must be separatedand disposedin
standardizedplastic bags, and properly labeled. Cutting wastes must be discarded in rigid
containers, and also properly labeled. Once properly segregatedand labeled, wastes must be
stored externally for collecting.

      Potential Environmental Impacts Associated with the Brazil AIDS & STD
                                       Control Project I11

As the project description inAnnex 2 describes, project activities focus onprevention and
diagnosis of HIV and STDs, and treatment and care for those infected. It also has a component
designed to strengthenthe capacity of researchcenters, laboratories and universities to engage in
scientific and technological (clinical and biological) research anddevelopment (R&D) to improve
the effectiveness of treatment and prevention of HIV/AIDS, and the development of such
research. Project activities will take place primarily inthe 411 municipalities containing98% of
all AIDS cases, most of which are very urbanized. Even though the Project does not have a direct
impact on the environment, the provision of health services, and the implementationof laboratory
and clinical studies, may generate medical wastes which might have direct environmental



                                                  63

implications, since the final disposition of these wastes might have an impact on surrounding
naturalresourceswhich, if are not handledproperly can have negative effects.

The objective of this section is to identify the possible environmental implications of the project
and its components, and from there include the necessaryconsiderations for its preventionand
mitigation in each component to guaranteethe environmentalquality and sustainability of the
decisions of the technical assistance and investment activities intended.

Potentialenvironmentalimpactsassociatedwiththe Project.


As noted above, the project is expectedto generateonly type A andB waste. The followingtable
indicates the types of waste generatedby each source of potential waste:




Inthe areaof prevention, which generally takesplace inthe community, the only type of medical
waste generated is in harmreduction programs for intravenous drugusers which include needle
exchange components. With regards to treatment and care, which takes place inthe home, SAEk,
day hospitals, and accredited conventional hospitals, potential risk arises from unprotected
handling of blood or body fluids of infected individuals (including HIV, Hepatitis B and C, and
other STDs), and from wastes emanating from the treatment in health facilities and from
laboratory work. And, inthe case of clinical andbiomedical research, Group A wastes may be
generated, and possibly some of type B2.With respect to waste derived from treatment and care
in health facilities, it is important to note that the use of ART and the availability of alternative
ambulatory care facilities has led to a substantial reduction in hospitalizations, with most care
being provided in ambulatory units or at home (SAEs, ADTs, Day Hospitals). A study conducted
as part of AIDS I1found that these generateabout 80% less waste materialthan large hospitals,
and with far lower hazard levels. Other than some minor works, no civil works will be financed
by the project.

With respectto the managementof waste inpreventionprograms, the IDUharmreduction
programdeveloped guidelines for the managementof syringes inneedle exchangeprograms. The
project team collects used syringes in suitable containers or boxes for storagebefore sending
them to the local health-service unit. With respect to the management of waste inhome-based
care activities, participatingNGOs and health service staff who perform home visits, guidelines
have been developed on bio-safety precautions inthe handling of blood, secretionsand
excretions, and in contact with contaminated material. Guidelines also specify how to dispose of
solid healthcarewaste, as well as the use of individual protectionequipment, the purpose of
which i s to reducethe exposureof healthcareprofessionals to blood or other body fluids.In
addition, there are recommendations on specific precautions to be taken when handling and
disposing of cuttingand perforation instruments contaminated by organic material. The program
has provided training for these staff on a regular basis.




                                                    64

With regards to the managementof waste in healthfacilities, both federal and state legislation
clearly define proceduresfor the proper managementand final disposal of healthwastes. In
addition, many municipalitiesalso possess clear procedures. Each health unit i s responsible for
the preparation and implementation of a Health Services Waste Management Plans (HSWMPs)
which clearly set out proceduresfor the proper separation, condition, and identification of wastes,
and proper environmentally and sanitary temporary safe storage. Moreover, HSWMPs must be
part of each environmental license. To ensure compliance the programdeveloped a long distance
learningprogram(TELELAB)for laboratory workers and hemotherapy unitsto train them on
health care waste management specific to ADS/STD treatment and care which has been
functioning for at least 6 years. Inaddition, the program provides an average of three one-week
courses for each health care modality (SAE, conventional Hospitals, Day Hospitals and ADTs) on
Care and Treatment Management, including a bio-safety module, and training for family to
provide primary healthcare in STD/HIV/AIDS. Inorder to expand its service delivery network,
the programhas provided training, equipment and supplies to conventional hospitals so that they
can become accredited to provide specialized servicesto patients with HIV/AIDS. Visits to
Bahiaand GoiBs indicated that local sanitary and environmental procedures for proper handling
and disposal of medical wastes are applied. There i s however, a need expand training for health
sector staff and NGOs in the 261 municipalitiesthat will be participating under AIDS I11that
were not working as intensively on AIDS activities before.

Inconclusion, there are no major environmental issues associatedwith the Project. Work on
prevention, which generally takes place inthe community, has if anything, positive
environmental effects given its emphasison health promotion. With regards to treatment and
care, most servicestake place in outpatient facilities which generate 80% less waste than
hospitals. As to disposal of waste in health facilities and laboratories, the program has adequate
procedures in place. No additional technology for managing health care wastes i s neededto inthe
treatment of HIV/AIDS. Training for staff on handlingof blood products and deliveringhealth
care to HIV/AIDS patients i s a regular programactivity. It can therefore be concluded that the
environmental impacts arisingfrom implementation of the AIDS I11project are controllable with
relatively simple measures.

 Project EnvironmentalClassificationandEnvironmentalManagement Plan(EMP)

Considering the scope of the project and the environmental impacts associatedwith each
component, the Brazil AIDS & STD Control I11Project should be considered as Environmental
Category B.

The limited negative environmental impacts that could occur can be significantly attenuatedby
following of guidelines already developed and providing regular training for all new participating
entities. The latter is an integral part of the project. It shouldbe notedthat REFORSUS, a project
financed by IBRD and IDB,developed guidelines for the implementation of HSWMPs which are
being adoptedby the SUS network. Guidelines currently employedby the project will be
reviewedto ensure they incorporate all proceduresrecommended by the REFORSUSguidelines,
and will be included inthe project's Operational Manual. All new participatingfacilities will
have to submit an HSWMPthat adequately addresses the handling of health care wastes
emanating from project activities. None of these activities will imply additional costs to those
already included inthe project.




                                                    65

                                                                                                             Appendix
                                                LegalFramework

IESCRIPTION                        INTERPRETATION

BrazilianConstitutionof
                   1988            1. The issueof solid waste related to health and the environment is a constitutional matter.

                                   2. The following are federal, state and municipal responsibilities:
D Declares health to be the "right
 of each person and the duty of      =    protectionof the environment
 the state".                         =    control of pollution
                                          participation in policy formulation and inexecution of basic sanitation actions.
                                   3. Government (federal, state and municipal) is responsible for inspecting and overseeing
                                   polluting or potentially polluting activities, and for establishing standards, directives and
                                   procedures.

                                   4. Municipalities are responsiblefor the following:
                                          Organizing essential public services at the local level, and providing them directly, or
                                          underconcessionor permit.
                                     =    Provision of public sanitation services, including sweeping, collection, transport and final
                                          disposalof solid waste generated by the local community.

'ederal   Decree     76,973     of This decree regulates and standardizes projects for the construction and installation of
Iecember 31.1975                   buildings destined for the provision of health services, as established by the Ministry of
                                   Health. It also regulates facilities for proper final disposalof excrement.

MINTER          Administrative First federal legislation to deal specifically with hospital waste material; requires compulsory
3rder 53 of 01/03/79              incinerationthereof andprohibits the use of other methods.

Law No. 6938 of 1981               This law establishes the National Environment Policy, setting up the National Environment
                                   System (SISNAMA), together with its consultative and deliberative body, the National
                                  Environment Council (CONAMA), and executive body, the National Institute for the
                                   Environment andRenewable Natural Resources (IBAMA).

2ONAMA Resolution006/91            This decision revokes the exclusive requirement to incinerate solid health-service waste, and
                                   permits the use of other processes for final disposal, including autoclaving, chemical treatment,
                                   radiation, microwave and sanitary landfill (septic trenches). It requires the Environment
                                   Secretariat of the Office of the President of the Republic, in coordination with the Ministry of
                                  Health (MS), the National Sanitation Secretariat and the corresponding state and federal bodies,
                                   to present to CONAMA, within 180 days, a proposal setting out minimum standards for the
                                   treatment of solid waste other than by incineration.




                                                          66

 CONAMA Resolution 05/93     This decision requires the healthestablishment to take responsibility for managingits own waste
                             from the moment of generationuntil final disposal, incompliance with environmental and public
                             healthrequirements. It calls for presentationof a Solid Waste ManagementPlan (PGRS) to be
                             approvedby the environmental andhealthbodies. The plan would include recycling principles
                             and requireentities that generatehealth-servicewaste to appoint a technical officer responsible
I                            for managing the plan, duly registeredinthe ProfessionalCouncil. The Decisionclassifies
                             healthcare waste into the following four groups:

                             Group A: Bio-waste and sharps;

                             Group B: Chemical waste;

                             Group C: Radioactive waste; and
I                            Group D: Common waste materials.

                             It also defines appropriateconditions for containerization, transportation,treatment and final
                             disposalof waste materials.In situations where segregation i s not guaranteed, the Decision
                             requires all waste materialsto beconsideredinfectious except for special (Group B) and
                             radioactive (Group C) waste, which must always be separated.

                             This law makes actions harmfulto the environment acriminal offence, and establishes
~FederalLaw 9605 of February
                             correspondingpenaland administrative sanctions. The dumping of solid, liquidor gaseous waste,
                             detritus, oils or oily substances, contrary to the requirementsestablishedinlaws or regulations i s
                             one of the actions sanctionedinthe law.


                               .
~CONAMA Resolution No. 283 This decision aims to clarify, update and complement procedures contained in CONAMA No. !
                             andestablishesthe following:
                                    The operating procedures to be used should be defined by the bodies comprising thc
                                    National EnvironmentSystem and the National Sanitary Surveillance System.

                                    Liquid effluents from health service establishments should comply with the directive:
                                    established by the competentenvironmental bodies.
                                    Solid health-service waste must be treated in systems, facilities and equipment that arc
                                    duly licensed by the environmental bodies and subject to periodic monitoring. Thc
                                    formation of consortia is supported.

I                              m    Chemical-hazard waste, including those arising from chemotherapy and other medication
                                    that are expired, altered, prohibited, partly used and unsuitable for consumption, should bi
                                    retumed to the manufacturer or importer; these will be jointly responsible for thei
                                    handlingandtransportation.

                             9 NBR 10004/87-Health-service waste- Classification interms of environmental andpublil
                                  health hazard.
                             9 NBR 12807/93-Health-service waste: Terminology.
                             P NBR 12808/93 - Health-service waste: Classification (this is at odds with CONAMi
                                  Decisions05/93 and 283/01, andtherefore should not be used).
                             9 NBR 12809/93-Handlingofhealth-service waste: Procedure.
                             9 NBR 12810/93-Collectionofhealthcarewaste: Procedure.
                             9 NBR 7500/00 - Symbols of hazards and the handling, transportation and storage o
                                  materials.
                             9 NBR 9191/00 -Specification of plastic sacks for containerization of solid waste.
                             b- NBR 9190/85- Classification of plastic sacks for containerization of solid waste.

                             B    NBR 13853/97 - Collectors for healthcare waste: sharps. Testing requirements an1
                                  methods.




                                                     67

                                 Annex 2c. Social Assessment

1.Objectives

This social assessment summarizesthe views of organized civil society (NGOs) regarding the
government strategy to control AIDS/STDtaking into account the experience of the AIDS/STD
Control Projects Iand 11, and the current trends of the epidemic. Consultations with civil society
took place at a meeting heldin Brasflia in December 2002, attendedby representatives of 17 of
the19 NGO/AIDS forums with the objective of contributingto the preparation of the proposed
thirdAIDYSTD Control project.

The purpose of the consultations were to obtain the views of NGOs, key players inthe
implementation of the government's AIDS/STD Control Program, with regards to programmatic
areas that would needto be strengthenedunder AIDS 111, the current mechanisms and processes
inplace for NGOparticipation inthe project, and on issues that needto be addressedto prepare
them to function under the government's decentralized financing of programactivities.
Specifically, the consultation sought to obtain the views of NGOs with respect to:

Programmatic Content. NGOs were invited to examine the activities of the public sector as well
as their own activities with respect to prevention actions, diagnosis and treatment. Questions
pertainingto this theme included: (i)   coveragegaps and quality of services provided to specific
groups, particularly highrisk groups among women, youth, ethnic minorities, groups with of
special sexualorientation, and the poor, with a view to establishing priorities for future actions;
(ii)program adjustments required to bridge the observed service access gaps and increasethe
efficiency of interventions; (iii)assessment of the extent to which some highrisk groups are
inadequately served, and therefore negatively affected by the program and what measures should
be taken to correct this deficiency.

Social Participation Mechanisms. Organized civil society has participatedeffectively in all stages
of preparation, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the AIDS/STD Control projects
carried out thus far. An assessment of this experience from the point of view of the social actors
involved is called for and should focus on: (i) aspects considered the most successful and how
these can be strengthened; (ii) area in which NGOs faced difficulties and measuresto overcome
these difficulties; and (iii)
                            what are the risksand opportunities perceived inparticipating inthe
AIDS/STD I11project.

Program Procedures. Under AIDS/STD I11project, state and municipally-managedactivities will
be financed through a decentralized fund-to-fund transfer from the federal level to states and
municipalities, incoherence with SUS policy. Ten percent of transfers are earmarked for NGO
activities to be managed by the states. Inthis respect, and particularly with respect to financing
of NGO activities, NGOs were invitedto discuss what are the advantagesand difficulties that can
be expectedinthe short, mediumand long term, and to indicate what actions should be taken by
each actor -the National Coordination, the States, the Municipalities, andthe NGOs -to ensure a
smooth transition from the current regular budgetary transfers to the proposed fund-to-fund
model.

2. Organizationof the Consultative Meeting.

The meeting was structured in small working-group discussions and plenary sessions, assistedby
facilitators. All participants inthe working groups expressedtheir views about the three main
themes and preparedreports that were subsequently approved at a plenary session.


                                                 68

Participants comprised 19representatives of AIDS State Forums (one of each); 5 National
Coordination delegates; 1delegatefrom the National HealthCouncil; and 3 facilitators. Invited
observers included two membersof the transition team for the new Administration, 3 members of
the National Technical Coordination, and 2 members of the World Bank. Intotal 35 people
participated inthe consultative meeting.

3. Summary of FindingsandRecommendations

The findings and recommendationsof the consultation meeting are summarized below. There
was a recognition that many of the problems identifiedemanate from existing problems in SUS
implementation, includingthe still incomplete processof decentralization and regionalization,
and the impact these have in increasing regional inequalities, rather than from issues specifically
related to the AIDS/STDprogram. The views includedbelow reflect the views of NGOs
participating inthe project, and are not meant to representa comprehensive assessment of the
program's achievements. Given this representsthe voice of NGOs, transcripts of the meetings
tried to retain part of the language utilized.

                               MainFindingsanc Recommendations

                                                   ent and DesignAdjustments

               ProblemIdentified                                  Recommendations
1.Insufficientcoverageoutsidemajorcities.          1. Seek ways to expand the programin smaller
Program activities are Stillmostly concentrated    cities throughout the country.
in state capitals and major cities.
2. Weakcommitmentto AIDS program                   2. Strengthen institutional integrationby
activitiesby some StateandMunicipal                formalizing partnerships between the AIDS
governments. The interest of some state and        program and other health programs. Promote
municipal authorities in working with              further inter-sectoral coordination in the
AIDS/STD programi s weak and some fail to          formulation of policy and the definition of
recognize the seriousnessof the problem. Some strategies, including schools. The Ministryof
state and municipal governments have failed to     Health should monitor municipal and state
provide the necessary counterpart funds,           secretariatsmore closely to ensure compliance
leadingto shortages of medications for STDs        with agreements reached.
and opportunistic infections, and laboratory
supplies limiting access to testing and resulting
indelayed diagnoses.
3. Insufficientpromotionandpreventionby            3. Center the program and efforts on prevention
governmententities. Government entities            activities in order to guarantee access.
have not really taken on prevention work,          Preventive programs should be implemented by
having limitedtheir activities to social           the SUS health service providers to
communication campaigns and the provision of       complement NGOactivities. Priorities should
condoms. The modest resources of NGOs limit be defined on the basis of the mappingof
coverageand reduce the impact of prevention        providers, their mode of intervention, target
activities. Prevention interventions have yet to   highriskgroup and coverageto define
be systematized, and accumulated knowledge         priorities. Social marketingof condoms should
disseminated. Although the CN provides             be implementedto improve distribution.
sufficient condoms and educational materials,
sometimes they are lacking in municipalities in
the interior.



                                                69

4. Inadequate care to persons livingwith           4. Promote the continuous training for health
AIDS. The services providedto PLWHAare             workers covering technical and human aspects
weak, sometimes lacking adequate supplies, a       of care of AIDS patients. Establish follow-up
better organization of referral services for       for adherence to antiretroviral medications.
accessingmedical treatment of higher
complexity, staff adequately trained inboth
preventionand treatment, and care of adverse
reactions to treatment. These problems are
greater outside of capital cities.

5. Insufficientaccess to prenatal care.            5. Expandand improveprenatal care by SUS
Insufficient access to prenatal care resulted in a providers, including preventionof vertical
large increaseinthe proportion of AIDS cases       AIDS transmission.
infectedthrough vertical transmission.

6. Insufficientattention to human rights.          6. Give priority to protectinghuman rightsin
There i s insufficient accesstojuridical           all activities. Introduceeffective instruments to
services, specially inthe north, and the lack of   guarantee the human rights of PLWHA,
respect for the human rights of PLWHA              especially among stigmatized and excluded
continues to be a problem with some security       groups. Implement affirmative action policies.
forces and health sector staff, particularly with
some populationgroups. Discrimination
against AIDS patients on the part of primary
health service personnel persists due to
insufficient training and social communication.

7. Weak technologicaldevelopment. There is         7. Strengthen and systematize scientific
insufficient research on evaluation of             knowledge and technology aimedat achieving
preventioninterventions carried out by NGOs,       national self-sufficiency inpharmaceuticals,
behavior change, adversereactions of ARVs,         supplies and vaccines, and on addressing
and on preventive vaccines.                        adverse reactions.

8. Deficient epidemiological surveillance.         8. Consolidate and integrate epidemiological
The information systems, reportingtransmittal      surveillance to other information systems and
of data are deficient. Moreover, there is no       decentralize activities. Expand dissemination
feedback to the local level.                       of information, giving more visibility to the
                                                   strengths and weaknesses of the program.

9. Gapsincoverageof highrisk groups                10. Expandactions targeted to highrisk groups
Populations lackingappropriate coverage                currently not adequately served. Priority
include, in order of importance, the                   should be given to prison population, low
incarcerated, the poor, heterosexualmen,               income people, heterosexual men, women,
women, MSM,youth, indigenous peoples,                  men that have sex with men and
sexual minorities and IDU.                             adolescents, inthis order of priority. Seek
                                                       more effective ways to prevent
                                                       transmission among adolescentsby using
                                                       more appropriate language, music, art and
                                                       other means of communication.




                                                 70

10.Regional problems. Region-specific               10. Allocate additionalfunds to provide
programs are not addressed. For example,           services for the populations living inthe
sexual tourism infrontier regions and inthe        frontier areas and create a task-force to address
Northeast.                                         sexual tourism.

                                                   'OrganizedCivilSociety

                     Findings                                     Recommendations

1.Mainrole ofthe NGOS. The NGOshave                 1.Expandpromotionand prevention activities
been instrumental in the prevention of the         of Governmental entities, especially inthe
spreadof HIV, particularly in view of the          smaller cities.
difficulties faced by municipal and state health
entities to focus on preventive care. NGOs
have sensitized the Judiciary with respect to the
human rights of people living with HIV/AIDS.

2. Coordinationdifficulties. The NGOs have 2. Empower the civil society organizations as
haddifficulties incommunicatingwith state          legitimate partners. Expandthe dialogue
and municipal authorities, as several of them      between NGOs and government entities, using
do not recognize NGOs as legitimate partners.      mediator assistancefrom the C N when
                                                   appropriate. Integrate the social AIDS
                                                   movement in the formulation of policy, full
                                                   implementationand monitoring of the SUS.

3. Irregular financing. The financing of NGO 3. Assign financial management
activities has not always been fluid.              responsibilities to the inter-institutional AIDS
                                                   committees, followingthe SUS guidelines.
                                                   Seek ways of making financial transfers more
                                                   opportune and assist NGOs in mobilize other
                                                   sources of funds.

4. Insufficient Accountability. The dialogue       4. Further expand the AIDS NGOForums and
betweenthe Government and NGOs has                 increase the frequency of forum meetings,
expandedand NGOs now have had more                 including state and municipal forums. Create
participation in policy-making through the         inter-sectoral AIDS committees linked to the
AIDS NGO Forums. But, forums, the inter-           healthcouncils and ensure they understand
institutional committees and the health councils   about competitive allocation of funds for NGO
lack a sufficient role in social accountability of projects.
the program.


5. Strengthen the role of NGOs. The                5. ExpandNGO's in the social accountability
functions of NGOs should not be limited to         of the programand reinforce NGOs into social
decentralized implementation of public policy.     accountability processes. Create transparent
NGOs should also be involved in policy-            mechanisms to evaluate NGO projects to
making, consultation, evaluation and especially    prevent potential retaliation against the social
insocial controlto enhanceaccountability.          control functions of NGOs.




                                                  71

                                                  alization of financing mechanisms

                                                   1. Expand participation beyond the health
Decentralization strengthensthe sustainability     sector and promote inter-sector discussions that
of AIDS/STD activities inthe SUS, becauseit        are facilitated by the proximity afforded by the
programmatically insertsthese activities among local context. Generalize the inter-sector
the priority actions implemented by the health     policy of health promotion against
secretariats. Decentralization helps eliminate     AIDS/STDs.
the barriers between AIDS and other health
programs; facilitates the participationof NGOs
inthe healthcouncils; helpsintegrate AIDS
programs with other social policies; and
democratizes information because information
providers are closer to users. Furthermore,
decentralization acceleratesthe mobilizationof
resources and provides incentives for program
expansion inthe interior of the country.


2. Fund-to-Fund Transfers. The                    2. Localmanagers should be trained to
decentralization of financing i s contributing to understand the NGO legislation and its relation
expanding the dialogue with local governments      with Law 8.666.
and bringingAIDS closer to other health
programs and sectors.

3. Local commitment. Insome states and             3. Establishcriteria conducive to the full
municipalities, it is difficult to sustainthe      management of AIDS resources by states and
commitment to AIDSISTD and to protect             municipalities, according to the guidelines of
human rights. There is a lack of social control   SUS, allowingfor a transition phasetowards
over the programmatic processresulting in         decentralized management, if necessary.
annual implementation plans that are not          Expand social control mechanismsthrough
always conducive to effective action.             inter-institutional AIDS committees linked to
                                                  the Health Councils. Strengthen the National
                                                  and Regional AIDS Forums. Strengthen the
                                                  health councils through training on AIDS and
                                                  promote ownership of the programby the
                                                  councils.

4. The eligibility criteria of NGOs' financing    4. Establishclear eligibility criteria for NGO
are still not clearly defined. There appearto     participationand financing.
be instances where NGOs are linkedto
politicians.

5.The role of financial transfers. Federal        5. Maintainthis eligibility conditionality to
transfers strengthenthe programs by requiring     receive federal transfers, since it helps structure
participatingsub-national governments to          local policy with a clear definition of goals and
possess an implementation team of an adequate     activities.
size and qualifications in order to receive
funding.



                                                 72

6. Monitoring ofexpenditures. Current             6. Improve monitoringof NGO expenditures
monitoringof NGOexpenditures i s mostly            by establishing proceduresto ascertain the
quantitative and there is little information about quality of the activities financed.
the activities financed.




                                                73

                Indigenous PeoplesDevelopment Plan: BrazilAIDS I11Project

I AIDSandIndigenousPeoples
  -
Indigenous Peoples: Brazil has an estimated indigenous populationof some 350,000 Indians.
This population is distributedover almost every state in Brazil, comprising 587 officially
recognized Indianreservations (terrus) and some 215 different societies and cultures speaking
180languages. Almost 55% are located inthe Northem Region, with the State of Amazonas
accounting for 26% of Brazil's total indigenous population; 17%are inthe Center-West region,
18% inthe Northeast, 2% in the Southeast, and 8% inthe South.

However, it should be noted that this information does not include those Indians now living inthe
metropolitan areas of Brazil's major cities. This population is estimated at approximately 50,000
Indians, with the greatest concentrations in the cities of Manaus and Manacapuru (Amazonas),
Campo Grande and Dourados (Mato Grosso do Sul), and Aguas Belas (Pernambuco), together
with lesserconcentrations in such metropolitan regions as Sgo Paulo, Port0 Alegre (Rio Grande
do Sul), Brasflia, Chapec6(Santa Catarina), and Londrina (Paranfi). Migrationto and settlement
inmajor urbanareas varies enormously, from temporary movements for health care, work and
education, to relocations rooted inthe individual mores and practices of certain indigenous
cultures resultingin the presenceof sizable Indian populationgroups inurban areas, which
Stephen Baines has described as representing "large temporary villages for paid work.'' It i s also
important to draw attention to the urban areas of Brazilian cities borderingon other countries,
such as the regions of TabatingdBenjamim Constant (Peru and Colombia); Rio Branco (Bolivia);
Boa Vista (the Guianas); Guajarfi-Mirim (Bolivia); Corumbh (Bolivia); and Foz do Iguap
(Paraguay).

The areas with the greatestconcentrations of Indians that are most vulnerable to HIV/AIDS are
listed below, by tribal groups:

                STATE                                            TRIBE        CASES DE
                                                                                 AIDS
        Amazonas:
        URBANAREA                              Manacapuru          Apurin5
                                       Manaus -Conjunto        SaterC-MauC         X
                                            Santos Dumont
        BORDER                                                      Ticuna         X

                                                  Tabatinga
        Roraima:
        URBANAREA                         Boa Vista/Bairro        Guianese         X
                                     Pintoliindiaand Raiar          Indians
        -                                             do Sol
        Acre:
        URBANAREA                               Rio Branco          Various
                                                                    groups
        Mato Grosso do SUI:
        URBANAREA                                 Dourados         Guarani         X
                                            Campo Grande            Terena         X

        BORDER                                     Corumbh          Terena




                                                 74

         Pernambuco:
         URBANAREA                             Aguas Belas          Fulni-6        X
         SHo Paulo:
         URBANAREA                                  Jaraguh        Guarani
                                         Favela Real Parque      Pankararu         X
                                         FavelaParais6polis      Pankaram
         E o Grande do Sul:
         URBAN AREA


Cases of AIDS and STDs:The CN-DST/AIDS (STD/AIDS National CoordinatingOffice -
Coordenugiio Nacional de DST/AIDS)received reports of 52 cases of A I D S among the
indigenous population over the period 1986-2001. The first case of AIDS among indigenous
peoples was reported by FUNAI (NationalFoundation for the Indian -Fundagb Nucional do
indio) and the M S (Ministry of Health-Ministbrio da Sahde) in 1988, in the State of Santa
Catarina, inthe southern region of Brazil.' Since then, additional cases were identifiedin other
regions. The epidemic affected mainly Indians who had regular contacts with the surrounding
society and who traveled relatively frequently to the cities or were incontact with populations
living in border cities.* Currently the indigenous populationthat has been most severely affected
by the epidemic i s that inMato Grosso do Sul. The principal characteristic of this region i s that it
has the largest number of Indians livinginurban areas. Thus, the distribution of cases of AIDS
and of STDs within the indigenous populationcannot be viewed in a uniformmanner, as from an
epidemiologicalpoint of view there are significant differences in vulnerability, since many of
these Indians are in regular contact with the populationliving in villages.

Regional distribution of AIDS cases: The regionaldistribution of AIDS cases among the
indigenous populationconfirms the generaltendency discussedabove, namely that the number of
cases of AIDS i s greatestinthe Center-West and Northern regions and that it i s to be found in
urban areas and in small and mid-sized municipalities. This tendency shows how important it is
to gain a better understanding of the interaction networks that develop from contact with the
surrounding society and associatedriskfactors. The table below shows the number of cases and a
percentagebreakdown by region. The spatial distribution of the indigenous population inthe
South and Southeastregions, where the first cases were reported, i s characterized by the presence
of villages located very close to urban areas and with a highly mobile population, resultingin
more frequent interethnic interactions. The Center-West region has today, the largest number of
cases, and has shown a higher growth incases than other regions. This contrasts with other parts
of the country, since most of the cases being reported in the Center-West involve Indians living in
urban areas, with women being those most affected. The variables that come into play here
includepoverty, prostitution among Indian women, and alcoholism. The first of the graphics
appendedto this report shows the spatial distribution of AIDS cases by DSEI(Special Indigenous
Health District -Distritos Sanita'rios Especiuis Indigenas).




 FlBvio Wiik, Contato.epidemia e corpo como agentesde transformac5o: um estudosobre a AIDS entre
os hdios Xoklkng de Santa Catarina.Cadernos de Sadde Wblica, 17 (2): 397-406, Rio de Janeiro, 2001.
 Leonardi, V.; FronteirasAmazBnicasdo Brasil. Sau'dee HistdriaSocial". Ed. MarcoZero & Paralelo
15. Brasflia, 2000.




                                                75

                              Regional Distribution of AIDS Cases
                             among the Indigenous Population      -2001




Distribution of AIDS cases bv sex and age group:

InTable 1 we show the percentagedistribution of AIDS cases, by age group and sex. The age
group most affected are individuals betweenthe ages of 20 and 34, representing 68.0% of total
cases, or 65.2% for males and 79.2% for females. It should be noted that women are becoming
the most vulnerable group andconsequently those who bear the greatest impact of the socio-
cultural changes affectingtheir group. Ingeneral, the increased frequency of contacts with
individuals outside the group, particularly for male Indians who travel regularly to cities and
towns near their villages and/or who move back and forth between the cities and the villages,
together with increasedprostitution among Indian women, alcohol consumption and the sexual
mores of the group, are all factors responsible for the spread of the epidemic among village
Indians.

As regardsthe reportingof AIDS cases inurbanareas, it should be noted that many cases
involving the indigenous populationare likely to be underreported. A recent study by the Centro
de Referencia Terapkutico in Siio Paulo, basedon a review of patient records, showed a much
larger number of AIDS cases among Indians than had been expected, with 22 patients identifying
themselvesas Indians. SINAN (the Reportable DiseasesInformation System -Sistema de
Informagdes sobreAgravos Notificheis) only started including the race variable in 1996.




                                                 76

                       PercentageDistributionof AIDS Casesamongthe

           AGE GROUP                                                     ----
            (YEARS)                  MALE               FEMALE
              15to 19             01     (4.3%)     01        (4.2%)
              20 to 24            02     (8.7%)     04      (16.6%)
              25 to 29                  (26.1%)      11     (46.0%)                    (34.0%)
     1        30to34           I06
                               II 03
                                  07    (30.4%) I04         (16.6%)                    (22.0%)
          ~


              35 to 39            04    (17.4%)     01        (4.2%)                   (10.0%)
                                                                         cI
              40 to 44                  (13.0%)     01        (4.2%)     04             (8.0%)
              45 to 49                                                                           I
     1        50to 64                               02        (8.2%)                    (4.0%)

           Ageunknown          /Nodata             1No data              03             (6.0%)


              TOTAL              23    (100%)       24       (100%)      50            (100%)




Insum, the major tendencies and characteristics of the AIDS epidemic among the indigenous
population are as follows:

(a) The epidemic is growing and i s expanding among Indians living in urban areas who maintain
    frequent contacts with their villages;
(b) The younger populationis the most vulnerable, with individuals between the ages of 20 and
    34 representing 68.0% of total cases, or 65.2% for males and 79.2% for females;
(c) As a category, young women are the most severely affected group with a sex ratio of 1/1, and
    their vulnerability i s linkedto various factors, such as early sexual initiation, differingsexual
    mores across tribal groups, cross-lactation, school attendance, and the socioeconomic impact
    of major projects.

Butthese factors can only be understood on the basis of existingrisk and vulnerability
differentials within the p~pulation.~The social networks that people form are rather complex,
and require an effort interms of characterizing and identifying them in their anthropological and
political dimensions, and determininghow they operate inthe spread of disease. Thus each
ethnic group needs to be placed within the context of its own particular situation and related to
the broaderdynamics of interethnic contacts, such as:

(a) interethnic contacts resultingfrom the entry into native areas of garimpeiros (unlicensed
    miners), woodcutters, farmers and ranchers, and development projects, e.g. construction of
    hydroelectric power plants and buildingof roads);
(b) interethnic contacts involving indigenous peoples inborder areas;
(c) seasonalmobility and migration of Indiansto urban areas in search of work, education and
    health care;



 MinistCrioda Safide: Povos Indigenas e a prevencdo ds DST. HIV e AIDS. Manual de diretrizes tknicas.
Brasilia, DF, 2000.


                                                  77

  (d) kinshipstructure and sexualcustomsamong sometribal groups that may increaserisks and
       promote vulnerability, such as cross-nursing, scarification rituals, polygamy, and early sexual
       initiation;
  (e) breakdown intraditional structures of community authority;
  (f) conflict between the conceptsoftraditionalmedicine andthe Western conceptofthe
       healthldisease process, as a result of which many health professionals find themselves
       unprepared to cope with these situations and reject traditional beliefs, making preventive
       measures difficult.


  INDICATORSFOR RISK AND VULNERABILITY DIFFERENCESFORINDIGENOUS
                                               PEOPLES

                                         InternalFactors within
   Vulnerabilityof Indigenous          IndigenousCommunities            InstitutionalResponses
            Communities                    IncreasingRiskand
                                              Vulnerability

  1.Exploitation of forest           1.Levelofpurchasing power
 resources                           andschooling
I 2. Authorized and                  2. Level of political power and
  unauthorized mining                capacity to mobilize support
                                                                        frequently
                                     3. Balance inkinshiprelations       3. Presenceof community
                                     and gender issues                  development projects
 4. Leasing of indigenous land       4. Level of knowledge about        4. Existence of special indigenous
                                     health situation and how           health districts and access to
I 5. Power                           diseases are transmitted
             sector projects         5. Permanentresidents from

I                                    of higher-status individuals
                                     within the group
  6. Squatter invasions              6. Inter-group and inter-ethnic     6. STD/AIDS programs
                                     relations                         I established inthe DSEIs          I
  7. Rural centers and land          7. Indigenous presence in
  settlement projects
  8. Presence of regular travelers

  9. Presence of indigenist
 agencies


  Casesof STDs

 InFigure2(seeAnnexes)thecoefficientofincidenceshowsjusthowserioustheSTDproblemis
 in some districts. Ingeneral, innearly all of the DSEIs, cases of STDs are higher than among the
 population in general, with incidence rates usually above double digits. But particularly
 deserving of attention are situations where incidence rates reflect general epidemic conditions, as
 i s the case in Manaus, Altamira, Alto JuruB, Alta Purus, Maranhiio, CearB, Pernambuco, CuiabB,



                                                    78

Xingu, Araguaia, Amaph andnorthern Par& The datado not indicate what type of infectionis
most frequent, as the reporting systemadopted by the DSEIs does not classify cases by etiology.
Nevertheless, it i s important to stress the needto prioritize STD prevention and treatment
measures, as a correlation with HIV infection i s more likely in situations like these where high
STD rates are prevalent. The spatial distribution of STDs also coincides with what the data
reveal about the distributionof AIDS cases. Once again, young people and women are the
segments of the population who are most affected.


I1-The Government's Response

LePalframework governingindigenoushealth: Responsibility for indigenous health currently
resides with the Ministry of Health, which regulates andimplements health actions -both
preventionand treatment -through a care model basedon 34 Special Indigenous Health Districts
(Distritos Sanitdrios EspeciaisIndigenas)or DSEIs. Each DSEIhas centralized @do)care units
which conduct health operations within the villages. Most of this network i s operated by civil
society organizations (NGOs) under agreements with the NationalHealth Foundation(Funda@o
Nacional de Sau'de-FUNASA)for basic care activities. For more complex operations, the
system operatesthrough agreementsand incentives with the SUS (Sistema Unifcada de Sau'de-
Unified Health System). STD/AIDS operations are conducted in the DSEIs, and the CN-
DST/AIDS provides technical assistance inprogramimplementation, training of healthcare
professionals, and standardization of activities inconformity with indigenous health care policy.
Social oversight is exercisedthrough the District Councils and by the Inter-Institutional
Committee for Indigenous Health (Comissh Znteristitucionalde Sau'deZndigena -CIS0 and by
the National Health Council (Conselho Nacional de Sau'de-CNS). The AIDS Committees
(Commiss6e.s)of the states and municipalitiesplay a complementary role inthis social oversight,
as does the Office of the Public Prosecutor (Ministe'rioPu'blico) inthe case of human rights issues
and invasionof Indian lands.

With respectto AIDS/STDs prevention, treatment and care responsibilityfor coverage is shared
between FUNASAand the National AIDS/STD Coordination as established inthe National
Conference on Indigenous Health of 2000. The AIDS/STD programi s responsible for the
development of technical norms and guidelines, educational materials, monitoring and evaluation,
training of local administrators at state andmunicipal levels and the provision of technical
assistanceto DSEIs. Actual basic care and prevention services delivered in indigenous
communities are the responsibility of the DSEUFUNASA, and of the States and Municipalities,
who can contract NGOs. Thus, under AIDS 111, there are three types of financing mechanisms
for indigenous health (AIDS/STD): a) strategic projects with NGOs/civil society; b) fund-to-fund
transfers to states and municipalitieswho include activities directed to indigenous health intheir
PAMs (planos de ag8es e metas); and c) transfers to DSEYFUNASA through an intersectoral
agreementto finance activities agreed inan Action Plan.

History of responseby the National STD/AIDS Program

The STD/AIDSNational CoordinatingOffice (CoordenapZoNacional de DST'AZDS -CN-
DST/AIDS) began its work among indigenous populations in 1989. At that time, its operations
were carried outjointly with the NationalFoundationfor the Indian (Funda@oNacional do fndio
-FUNAI),itsmainobjectivesbeingtotrainhealthsectorprofessionalsandsupportfieldresearch
into STDs and AIDS. These activities were generally not carried out in a continuous fashion and
did not result inthe creation of consolidated structures to support systematic preventionand
treatment measures.


                                                  79

Starting in 1994, with the signingof the AIDS Iloan agreement with the World Bank, under the
umbrella of the PREVINA program, operations targeted at the indigenous populationbecame
more institutionalizedand grew in scale, as awareness grew of the perilous health conditions
afflicting indigenous peoples, together with evidence of localized STDepidemics. These
activities, it should be noted, were conducted on case by case and emergency basis.

Not until the period 1996-98did a concreteproposal emerge targeted at STD/AIDS prevention
and treatment among indigenous peoples. Thus, a national responsewas developed, basedon
strengthening indigenous organizations and Indian support groups, with regularly scheduledand
continued training of indigenous health agents, and the establishment of a specific forum for
discussion of the issue of STDs and AIDS within indigenous communities.

One major problem in implementingthe proposal was the fragmentation of indigenous health
care activities between FUNAIand the National HealthFoundation (FundaqoNacional de
Sacide -FUNASA)4and the lack of communication between the health care systemscoordinated
by the two foundations. FUNAIrespondedwith treatment and social support services, while
FUNASAtook responsibility for preventive measures, primarily control of malariaand other
endemic diseases. This dichotomy gave rise to countless institutionalconflicts and torpedoed the
movement toward the establishment of a health care system gearedto the realities of indigenous
life, which had beenthe aim since the first National Conference on Protectingthe Health of the
Indian(Confergncia Nacional de ProteCa"oa' Sacidedo hdio -ICNPSI) in 1986, the First
National Indigenous Health Forum (IFdrum Nacional de Sacide Indigena) in 1993, and the
SecondNational Health Conference for Indigenous Peoples (IZ Confergncia Nacional de Sau'de
para os Povos Zndigenas -I1CNSPI) in 19935. There was no properly structured and
coordinated system, makingit difficult to gain access to treatment services under the Unified
Health System (SUS). Access was difficult for a number of reasons: (a) longdistancesbetween
SUS treatment centers from the communities; (b) health professionals were poorly preparedto
cope with the indigenous peoples; (c) tardy applicationof the law establishing the DSEIs; (d) the
indigenous health agents were poorly trained; (e) absence of specific programs (e.g. for
STD/AIDS, reproductive health, or tuberculosis) established in the communities. Given the lack
of a formal health structure at the time, the programgave its support to indigenous organizations
and NGOs working in the area of indigenous health care.

Signing of the AIDS I1loan agreement madeit possible to consolidate the proposals envisaged
earlier and gave new impetus to preventive measures. The current approach was changed, and
the concept of vulnerability was adopted as the theoreticaVoperationa1reference point. This
period was marked by the decisive influence of actions undertaken by CN-DST/AIDS inregardto
Brazil's indigenous health policy. Starting with local organization of preventioncampaigns,
awareness was created for the formulation of an indigenous health policy ledby the Ministry of
Health.6 This process was only made possible by two significant steps: (1) publication of the
draft Law 63/1997 authored by SCrgioArouca; (2) ProvisionalMeasure No. 1911-8/1999, which

  Athias, R. & Machado, M.; A sau'de indipena no process0 de implantacdo dos distritos sanitarios:
                                "
discursos antrouoldnicos e mkdicos". Communication presented to the meeting of the AssociaqIo
Brasileirade Sahde Coletiva, S I 0 Paulo, 1999.
  See the technical reports presented at: I ConferCncia Nacional de Proteca"0 h Sau'de do hdio, Relatdrio
Final, Brasflia, Ministe'rio da Sahde, 1986.; II Confer&cia Nacional de Sau'de Para os Povos Indipenas,
Relatdrio Final, Brasilia, 1993; I Fdrum Nacional de Sau'de Indinena, Documento Final, mimeographed
text, Secretariade Estado da Sadde de S5o Paulo, 1993.
  Brasil: "Politica Nacional de Atencdo a' Sau'de dos Povos Indipenas." MinistBrio da Sahde, Brasilia,
December 2000.


                                                    80

transferred responsibility for the health of indigenous peoples to FUNASA. This periodwas
marked by a number of sectoralconflicts, both inside and outside the government apparatus. It
was also a period of direct conflict betweenindigenous peoples and homesteaders(posseiros),
illegal miners (garimpeiros), miningcompanies, dambuilders and with federal and local
government a~thorities.~

The strategy pursued by CN-DST/AIDS changed with the establishment of the Special
Indigenous Health Districts (DSEIs), and began to place priority on coordination with FUNASA
inorder to strengthen localresponse, with the establishment of DSEI-based STD/AIDS
prevention and treatment programs. Support for projects beganto be directed toward issues
regarded as of strategic importance, with priority focus on measures targeted to young people,
Indian women, and groups living inborder areas. Assistance measures are being carried out
jointly with FUNASA.


Access to Preventive, Diagnostic and Treatment Services for Indigenous Peoples:

Prevention: Preventive services are provided by the DSEIorganizations and involve five
strategic lines of action: (1) mobilizationof the community and its leadership on the issueof
HIV/AIDS and other STDs; (2) training of indigenous healthagents and other professionals
working within the DSEIto spreadinformationon reproductive health, sexually transmitted
diseases, and counseling and guidance on HIV antibody testing; (3) training of teachers and
students at indigenous schools in health promotiontechniques, particularly inregard to
reproductive health and prevention of STDs and HIV/ALDS; (4) intersectoral linkages with other
parts of the government involved inindigenous affairs; and (5) support for strategic projects in
areas of increased vulnerability and risk.

With regardto the mobilization of indigenous peoples, special mention should be made of the
work of the District Councils and of the Inter-Institutional Committee on Indigenous Health
(CISI) within the National Health Council (CNS). These social monitoring bodies have been the
designated address for requestsand complaints from the sector, while also serving as important
actors informulating policy proposals for the health sector. The AIDS committees of the states
and municipalities have also playedan important role in representingthe social monitoring
function. Proper linkages between decision-making bodies and programs inthe area of
indigenous health are needed to avoid duplication of effort and overlappingdecision-making in
STD/AIDSmatters. This segmentof the populationis also servedby the NationalConference on
Indigenous Health (Confergncia Nucional de Sau'deZndigena), a strategic body for defining
national policy guidelines. The ThirdNational Conference on Indigenous Health i s to be held in
May, and for the first time STD/AIDSwill be included on its agenda.

With strategic projects, the object is to linktogether a network of stakeholders and institutions
with the aim to reducethe epidemic's impact on the most vulnerable andendangeredgroups,
namely: (a) indigenous reservesthat have been invadedby outsiders or are close to where mining
operations are taking place, including informal miningoperations (garimpos), together with
woodcutting operations, large-scale farming and livestock projects, and dam and highway
construction sites; (b) indigenous communities within urban areas; (c) indigenous communities
located inborder areas; and (d) impoverished communities.


  Varga Van Deursen, I& Adorno, R.C.F; "Terceirizando a indianidade? Sobre a uolitica nacional de
salide Para os uovos indigenas,aos 500 anos." Mimeographedtext, Universidade SHo Paulo, Faculdadede
Saiide Phblica, 2001.


                                                  81

Strategic projects are those more especially designedto improve the situation of populations not
covered by ongoing prevention and treatment campaigns and who also find themselves at a
social, cultural and epidemiological disadvantage incoping with the HIV/AIDS epidemic and
other STDs. Also classified as strategic are those projects designed to encouragethe
development of soundpractices and innovative technologies inthe areas of prevention and
treatment. The partners indeveloping these projects are indigenous organizations, non-
governmental organizations active in indigenous affairs, state and municipal level STD/AIDS
coordinatingoffices, and the DSEIs.

Projects supported andresources deployed: Twelve projects, representing an investment of
BRL 338,000 for indigenous peoples, were supportedin2002. Theseprojects are viewed as
strategic by the CN as they are designedto subsidizethe implementation of specific STD/AIDS
programs. The decline inthe number of projects for this segment of the population is justified by
the fact that programs of this type are beingincorporated into the DSEIs, as recommended by the
NationalConference on Indigenous Health.

All of the projects listedbelow are preventive innature, encompassingthe training of indigenous
health agents incommunity interventionactivities, promotingawarenessamong community
leaders and traditional healers, organizing youngpeople and women, and guaranteeing access to
condoms. The projects include direct representation of community leaders. The C N does not
give the project its final approval until it has beenendorsedby the indigenous community.

       Support for STD/HIV/AIDS Prevention within the Indigenous HealthProgram,

Product        1998199     Coverage    2000         Coverage     2001/2002 Estimated      Major results
                                                                 January to  :overage     ichieved -
                                                                 July        for the      STD/HIV/
                                                                             Year         41Ds
                                                                             2001/2002
1-Project      1998 - 27     97,702     10          N=323,000    15 projects N=           See situation
support       projects       Indians   projects     193,800                  350,000      :eport
               1999 - 17     (30.2%)                (60.0%)                  258,400
              projects                                                       (74.0%)

2 -Educa-      1video      32 DSEIs    1direc-      100%DSEI 1textbook
tional        (02          (100%)      tives
materials     tapes)       27 CE-      docu-        100% NGO
               1 STD/      AIDS        ment
              AIDS         (100%)                   100% CE
              manual       100%of
               1serial     coopera-
              album        tingNGOs

3 -Working                                                       3 regional   1regional
offices for                                                      offices     office
zstablish-
ment of
STD/AIDS
programs in
the DSEIs


                                                   82

HIVtesting: Under the AIDS I1project, aproposal to monitor the courseof the AIDS epidemic
and other STDs among indigenous peoples was developed inconjunction with FUNASA, based
on an analysis of areas of greatest vulnerability and highest risk, on the basis of the indicators
mentioned earlier. A surveillance model was drawn up that took account of the cultural
characteristics and differences among each of the tribal groups. It was agreedthat measures
would be taken to monitor the HIV situation among pregnant women, and patients diagnosed
with STDs and with tuberculosis. Implementation of this project was dependent on approval of
the use of quick tests by ANVISA. Access to testing for indigenous peoples i s guaranteed
through the CTAs (testing and counseling centers- centrosde testagem e aconselhamento),but
testing is still inan early phase and is not yet beingconducted on a regular basis. There is a
proposal to train the DSEI teams to enablethem to guarantee and expand access to these quick
tests as a diagnostic tool.

Access to Treatment and Care. As regards access to treatment for individuals suffering from
STDs and living with HIV/AIDS, we should like to stress two points: (1) basic care and
prevention services are provided by the DSEIunits, inthe form of training for health care
professionals in setting up programs usingthe syndromic approach, and also inthe form of
training for indigenous health agents, teachers and community leaders inthe areas of education
and community health promotion; (2) as regards secondary and tertiary care, referrals are made to
the SUS (Unitary Health System), via SAE (Specialized Outpatient Services -Sewigos
Ambulatoriais Especializados),ADT (Home Therapeutical Care -Assist6nciaDomiciliar
Terapeutica),and the credentialed hospital network. These services receive specially earmarked
funds for treating the indigenous population.

Responsibility for basic care and treatment rests with FUNASA, while CN-DST/AIDS is charged
with providing guidelines with regards to the establishment of services and standardizing
proceduresand routines. The CNprovides training of health care professionals in the syndromic
approachto STDs, together with training in counseling, training of indigenous health agents in
developing prevention campaigns and specific educational materials. With regard to access to
anti-retrovirals and monitoringof pregnant women, the DSEIs sendtheir requests to the SAEs,
which in turn register the patients and continue to monitor them inconjunction with the technical
staff of FUNASA. Inregions where distancesbetween the community and available services
make access difficult, the NationalCoordinatingOffice has been mobilizing other sectors, such as
the Armed Forces medical services.

M a i o r challenges and lessons learned: The programfaces the following challenges: (1) to
reducethe current levels of rotation of health professionals within the DSEIs; (2) finalize the
processof coordination of state and/or municipal programs with the DSEIs in order to implement
specific actions targeting indigenous peoples on the basis of criteria established by the National
CoordinatingOffice (CN) and FUNASA; (3) reducebarriers relating to access to services, testing
and treatment inconformity with cultural and tribal differences; and (4) guaranteeadditional
resourcesto keep strategic projects going.

We would list the following successes: (1) integration at the national level of the work agendas
of FUNASA and CN-DST/AIDS; (2) development of culturally appropriate educational materials
invarious indigenous languages; 3) progressinthe process of creatingprograms within the
DSEIs; (4) monitoring of major trends inthe epidemic among the indigenous segmentof the
population; and (5) coverage basedon enhanced vulnerability and risk as the relevant criteria.

As regardsNGOscarryingout direct activities among indigenous peoples, it is importantto note
that many of these organizations have no experience working with STD/AIDS, making it



                                                  83

necessary for them to strengthen the capacity of their teams; in addition, the NGOs have
frequently come into conflict with the communities, with resultant interruptions in work
programs. For these reasons, the National CoordinatingOffice has preferred to work with
recognized indigenous organizations and Indian support groups and to strengthen the response
capability of the Indians' own organizations.


I11-Planof Action:

Objectives:

1-Improve the local managementprocessand encourage the programming ofjoint actions by
the DSEIs and local STD/AIDS administrators;

2 -Mobilize additional humanand technical resources to train DSEIhealth teams;

3 - Strengthen the task force to monitor the establishment of STD/AIDS programs within the
DSEIs;

4 -Prioritize prevention and treatment measures aimed at members of the indigenous population
living in urban areas, through strategic measures coordinated with state and municipal authorities
and non-governmental organizations;

5 - Establish ajoint plan of action for assistance measures between FUNASA and the National
Coordinating Office, by defining guidelines, priorities, flows and counter-reference for STDs and
HIV/AIDS; and

6 -Establish instruments to match, at the local level, information collectedby the Indigenous
Health Care InformationSystem(Sistemade Informa@es daAten@o d SaLide Zndigena-SIASI)
and the Reportable Diseases Information System (Sistemade Znfurma@es subre Agravos
Notifica'veis -SINAN), in order to reduce the underreportingof STD and HIV/AIDS cases
among the indigenous population.

Indigenous Development Plan:

9 Support for behavioral modificationprojects andhealthcampaigns beingexecutedjointly
    with non-governmental organizations, indigenous organizations, and Indian support groups,
    to train indigenous health agents and teachers as disseminators of information;

34 projectdyear (at least one project ineach DSEI) = BRL 5,100,000.00 for the three years
covered by the AIDS I11Project

9 Organization of macroregional meetingsto define STD/AIDS prevention strategies,promote
    social monitoring in the health area, and mobilize the indigenous peoples, by bringing
    together the health care institutions makingup the UnifiedHealth System (SUS), FUNAI,
    non-governmental organizations, and institutions representing the indigenous communities;

7 meetingdyear (21 meetings over the 3 years of the project) = BRL630,000.00

9 Basic andadvancedtraining of indigenous agentsandIndianschoolteachersas information
    disseminators to help develop preventionprograms in indigenous communities;



                                                84

12training courses (4 in each year of the project) = BRL 600,000.00

'P Guaranteed supply of neededinputs (condoms and quick tests) to develop preventive
     measures for health in generaland STD/AIDS in particular;

Included in the generalproject total

'P Conducting of seroprevalence studies in selected(sentinel) sites to identify the risksituation
     and exposure to HIV/AIDSand syphilis among segments of the indigenous population at
     greater risk and/or with heightened vulnerability;

1seroprevalencestudy = BRL 120,000.00

'P Productionof technical documentation and instructionalmaterialto assist in intervention
     measures among the indigenous community;

Included inthe generalproject total for Information, Educationand Communication(IEC)

k Reduction inthe prevalenceof STDswithin indigenouscommunitiesby providingsupport to
     DSEItechnical staff andtrainingphysicians andnursingstaff ina syndromic approachto
     STDs.

30 courseson the syndromic approachover the 3 years of the project = BRL900,000.00

'P Sustainability of preventive measures and of the civil society institutions carrying out the
     interventionprojects. For this component, meetings will be held with the administrative
     agencies (Coordinating Offices at the national, state and municipal levels, together with
     FUNASA)to discussthe inclusionof ``additional funds" to finance the preventioncampaigns
     for indigenous peoples at PAM medical posts, and to guaranteefinancing through indigenous
     health care.

It is important to emphasize that, inevery stage of preparingthis planof action and the strategies
to be employed, the CN-DSTIAIDS has included representative organizations of the Indians
themselves, both in the social monitoringbodies mentioned earlier, and incommittees and
advisory groups. The resources should include counterpart funds from FUNASA for training
activities and administration of STD/AIDS programs within the DSEIs.

Potential Monitoring Indicators:

     0   Numberof NGOs working with Indigenous Peoples.
     0   Number of indigenous people covered.
     0   Amount of financing allocated to Indigenous services.
     0   % of those municipalities with indigenous populations that includedactivities for
         indigenous health in their PAMs.
     0   No. of indigenous health agents trained.
     0   Prevalence of AIDS amongst indigenous people.
     0   Prevalenceof STDs amongst indigenous people.




                                                85

SITUACAO DASDSTNOSDSEIs EM2001




    DSEls COM CASOS DE HIV/AIDS    1.  1 Alto RioJUNE AC
                                         --                        ~



     NOTIFICADOS - 1998a 2001      2.  2 Alto Rio Purris AC IAM
                                   3.  3 Alto Rio Negro AM          --
                                          ~

                                   4.  4 -Alto Rio Solimdes AM            ~           02
                                   5.  5 . Manaus. AM                                 02
                                   6.  6 M6dioRlo Purris AM
                                          -                           -
                                   7.  7 MMio RioSolim6es AM                   -
                                   8.  8 Parintins     - AM /        PA
                                   9.  9 Vale do Rio Javari AM
                                   $0. 10 LestedeRoraima RR
                                         --- -                            --          03
                                   11. 11-Yanomami-RRIAM
                                   12. 12-PortoVelho-ROIAM
                                   13. 13-Viiehna-ROlMT
                                   14. 14 Altamira PA      ~
                                   15. 15 GuamaTocantins PA                -
                                   16. 16 Kaiap6- PA                                  01
                                   17. 17 RioTapajos PA         -
                                   18. 18 Amapa e Nortede Para AP/ PA            -    02
                                   19. 19 Tocantins
                                            ------
                                   20. 20 Maranhio MA        -- TO
                                             ~
                                   21. 21 Ceara -CE
                                   22. 22 Patiguara. PB                               01
                                   23. 23 Pcrnambuco PE          -                    01
                                   24. 24 Alagoas e Sergipe AL / SE
                                             ----
                                                                              ~       01
                                   25. 25 -Bahia BA   ~                               01
                                   26. 26 M. Geraise Esp. Santo"MG/ ES
                                             -                                        01
                                   27. 27. LitorolSUI RJ/ SP/ PR ISC / RS 01
                                                             .
                                   28. 28 InteriorSUI SPIPR/ SC/ RS
                                                                -
                                   29, 29 Araguaia GOIMT    -                         03
                                   30. 30 Cuiabl- MT
                                             ---
                                   31. 31 Kaiap4 MT
                                             -
                                   32. 32 Xavante MT   --
                                             ~
                                   33. 33 Parquelndigenado Xingri. MT
                                             -
                                   34. 34 MatoGross0do SUI. MS
                                             ~                                        24




                                 86

                              Annex 2d: Monitoringand Evaluation

Improved effectiveness through the implementation of targeted, effective interventions requires
the existence of a solid monitoringsystemto follow up on programprogress, and studies to
evaluate the effectiveness of the various activities implemented. This is even more important in a
decentralized setting where the central level is responsible for policy formulation and steering the
programto ensure an adequate responseto the epidemic and where compliance with agreedPAM
targets needs to be monitored. Throughout the last 8 years, the project has conducted some
studies to assessthe impact of its interventions. However, studies conducted have employed
different methodologies and definitions and were not conducted on a regular basis, making it
difficult to compare information across time or regions. Monitoringand evaluation processes
needto be systematized and linkedto a framework for analysis.

Some important progresshas been made with regardsto setting up an M&Eunit anddeveloping
an operational plan for M&E. As part of the agreement to provide a 6-month extension to the
closing date of AIDS 11, an M&EOperational Plan was drafted and i s inthe process of being
finalized. A Monitoring and EvaluationUnit will be established at the federal level, including at
least three full time staff membersinitially. The coordinator for the M&Eunit and the primary
data manager/epidemiologist have already been selected. Proposed initial staff will include, in
addition to the full-time director, and the full-time data manager/epidemiologist, one full-time
field coordinator, and one full-time administrative assistant. Duringpreparation, discussions were
heldregardingthe impact, outcome and output indicators that would likely be employed to assess
programperformance and impact. This was followed by a review of all available studies and their
methodology to identify gaps and informationneeds for the near future. Site visits were made to
assess capacity at the state and municipal levels and examine information flows and usage. The
analysis also benefited from the results of meetings organized by the CN with the CDC,
NASTAD,HRSA andUCSFto outlinethe programof work for acooperation agreement with the
CDC and its partners on M&E.The C Nhas requestedthe CDC to provide technical assistance in
the implementation of its M&EOperational Plan. CDC has assignedtwo of its staff to work at the
C N with the team. Additional inputs will be provided by CDC's partners as needs arise.

The site visits noteda varying degree of capacity for M&Eacross facility, municipal, and state
jurisdictions. Staffing i s limited and even when capacity i s adequate, staff are too overburdened
with other tasks to adequately monitor and evaluate performance. Not all data systemsavailable
were employed, and some systems, like SICLOM and SISCEL were often not accessibledue to
failure of data systems, or shortageof personnel capacity. And, some available systemsdo not
permit the productionof aggregatereports at the facility, municipality nor state level, nor
manipulationto respond to specify queries, makingthe reports produced of little value for state
and municipal follow-up. The data are sent to Brasilia and reports are seldom sent back. Thus, in
most places visited, facilities had developed their own databases to be able to have an internal
feedback systemto be able to monitor the program locally. Lack of data management staff both at
the federal level and at local levels, to reanalyze existingdata, or to simply access data and
produce reports also limits the use of available information.

With regardsto data utility for local managers, AIDS case surveillance data were considered the
most useful in local decision-making basedon their perceived completeness and consistency from
year to year. HIV case surveillance data were considered to be potentially useful, if the data were
more complete and consistent. Data from nationally coordinated epidemiological surveys (e.g.,
delivery room survey, conscript survey) were considered useful at the national level but were not



                                                   87

used locally. The lack of use was based primarily on the perception that local sample sizes are not
large enough to draw meaningful inference. Inany case, the data are not made available locally.
SISCEL and SICLOM were rarely used, and then, only to senddata to Brasilia. STD case
surveillance data were recognized as theoretically useful intracking the HIV/AIDS epidemic, but
were considered uninterpretable in their present state. Other potentially useful and available data
sources were not exploited. These include SI-CTA and risk behavior data collectedat VCT sites
and routine ANC clinic data collected at health posts.

Thus, there is a needto strengthencapacity at the state levelboth in terms of training and staffing
for M&Edata management, analysis, interpretation, and use inlocal programmatic decision-
making and health policy formation. And, adequate monitoringtools that can be employed at the
local level need to be developed.This processcannot be completed ovemight, and given that this
project is to be implemented in 3 years, a fully established M&Esystem will likely not be
possible by project completion. Nonetheless, there are several sources of useful data and strong
local interest inconducting MEactivities pointing to the potentialfor substantial success over the
next few years.

The overall approachto M&Ewill be gradual and incremental. It will include in-depth analysis of
data already available, the collection of additional information, capacity buildingfor M&E staff
centrally and at the state level, and the improvement of available instruments. State level staff
will have one full time epidemiologist to manageM&E activities. A subset of states will be
selectedearly on to function as sentinel M&Esites where different decentralized monitoring and
evaluation initiatives will be pilotedto be disseminated to other states once the mechanisms are
specified and tested. There will be at least one sentinel site per region. Potential site selection
criteria discussed included: representation of the 5 regions either as states, municipalities, or
facilities; the strength of current collaborative relationships; large enough HIV/AIDS case
burden; and mediumlogistical capacity (sites with too few resources would be infeasible, sites
with too many resources would not provide information on needs for expansion). The process and
other criteria for sentinel site selection will be developed inconsultation with states and
municipalities. Relevant staff in states and large city municipalities will be trained on the use of
information for decision-making. CDC and its partners will be involved inthe development of the
training programwith the CN and the University of Brasilia. Some basic monitoring instruments
will be preparedfor use at the local level, in partnership with state and municipal level M&E data
users. As M&Eactivities and studies expand, more staff will be neededfor the C N M&EUnit
and selected state and municipal M&Eunits.Ideally, local M&Eunits should mirror the capacity
of the C N M&EUnit, including persons with data management/epidemiologicalskills and
persons with field project coordination experience. Substantial commitment of supervision by the
local HIV/AIDS/STD coordinator i s also required.

The following outlines the steps that needto be taken to finalize the gap analysis:

     1.  Cataloguing of existing data potentially useful for M&E.Where possible, obtaining an
         electronic, line listed complete database covering several years.
    2. Conducting baseline analysis of existingdata, makingbestuse of existing data, and
         startingas soon as possible. The initialphaseshouldfocus on developing feasible
         methodologies, characterizing baseline trends, and identifying interpretable measures of
         key indicators. Analyses should array data regionally and, when possible, by state and
         municipality. Where possible, analyses should include 2 to 3 years of data to assess
         recent trends.
    3. Conducting sub-analysesof existingdata to identify clusters and trends in "emerging
         populations" (e.g., highrisk sub-populations of women, poor, and persons living in


                                                   88

        smaller towns and the interior). The exercise may require additional Geographic
        Information System (GIS) software andtraining.
   4. Reanalyzingand conducting in-depth analyses of several existing datasets, including:
        IBOPE-HSH (three waves), DHS(BEMFAM),CEBRAP (national survey of human
        sexuality), the controlled study of commercial sex workers conducted in7 cities, Projeto
        Ajude, and potentially others.
   5. Continuing the gap analysis to prioritize studies neededto complete the M&Eplan.
        Reviewing the catalogue of existingdatasets, baseline analysis of existingdata, and
        reanalysis of existing studies should reveal needed modifications to specific questions,
        study design, recruitment methods, or coverage of target populations.
   6. Systematic evaluation of the AIDS surveillance system (SINAN) with potentialinclusion
        of related nationaldatabases (e.g., SIM, SISCEL, SICLOM) incollaboration with the
        CDC and its partnered institutions.
   7. Consultation on methods to sample MSMand other hardto reach populations; evaluation
        of the methods, rigor, representation,andfindings of the IBOPE-HSH surveys


The following presents a proposedphasingof activities per year of implementation:


M&EPlanPhases
PhaseI
   1.   BuildM&Eunit capacity, hire, equipment, training, consultation
   2. Catalog and collect existing data into aunified data system at the M&EUnit
   3. Beginanalysis of existing data at the national and regional levels; identify and prioritize
        data gaps; establish baselinetrends; re-analyze past studies; conduct sub-analysesto
        identify emerging populations (small citiedinterior, women, youth, poor) with geographic
        characterization; review indicatorfeasibility, interpretability, usefulness
   4. Continue routine M&Estudies conducted inthe past (e.g., conscript survey, delivery
        room survey) as scheduled
   5. Plan, develop, andbegin implementation of M&Ecourse, select CN, state, municipal,
        facility, NGOparticipants
   6. Evaluation of SINAN, SISCEL, and SICLOM incollaboration with CDC
   7. Evaluationof rapid testing algorithms, phase Iusingwhole blood from VCT clients and
        other sources
   8. Begin planning M&E for states/municipalities/facilities including the selection process of
        reference sites states/municipalities/facilities
   9. Meeting with international advisory committee on M&E
   10. PhaseI1planning

PhaseI1
   1. Continue PhaseIactivities
   2. Continue implementation of M&Ecourse
   3. Select sentinel M&E sites; build site capacity with training, equipment, and other support
  4. Conduct 2 to 5 "new routine" and/or one-time "special" priority M&Estudies with
        referencesites as feasible to fill data gaps
  5. Evaluationof rapid testing algorithms, phaseI1with prospective clients
  6. Dissemination of M&Edata
  7. Meetingwith internationaladvisory committee on M&E
  8. Phase I11planning



                                                  89

  Phase I11
       1. Continue PhaseIandI1activities
       2. Analyze 3 year trends in indicators, as available
       3. Evaluation of rapid testingalgorithms, phase I11use in field
       4. Conduct 2 or 3 "new routine" or "special" priority M&Estudies
       5. Expandreferencesites to other states, municipalities, facilities, NGOs; transfer M&E
           technology to sites with high capacity; plan for strengthening low capacity sites
       6. Incorporate indicators in national and local M&E plans
       7. Dissemination of M&Edata
       8. Meeting with international advisory committee on M&E


  Monitoring and Evaluationof Fund-to-Fund Transfers.

  Given that financing under fund-to-fund mechanism i s new for HIV/AIDS/STD activities, the
  monitoring of its application will be adjusted as more experience is acquired. As of March 2003,
  3 states and 39 municipalities had beencertified (qual$cados). It i s expected that by the end of
  2003, 80 percent of states and municipalitieswill have "qualified".

  PAMMonitoring: MonitoringPAM-financedactivities is the responsibilityof each state and
  municipality. Monitoring will be carried outjointly with the CN, states and municipalities. C N
' will provide guidelines and instruments to help implementers to follow up proposed activities
  within the PAMs. The C N will be directly responsible for the supervision of stateperformance,
  and the states will supervise municipalities. Supervision will be carried out through a review of
  data input into the PAMMIS which will contain information on the transfers made every month
  and on the monthly balancesof the municipal and state fund accounts, the actions agreed, and the
  indicators defined to monitor such actions. Inaddition, visits to the field will be made every 6
  months. States and municipalities with lower capacity will receive closer supervision. At the end
  of the 10" month, states and municipalities will submit a detailed report on its first 10months of
  implementation, including principal results, compliance with agreedtargets, problems
  encountered, and the definition of new priorities and actions to be included inthe PAMfor the
  next 12-month period.

  Evaluation of PAMCompliance: As noted before, this i s the first time this HIV/AIDS/STD fund-
  to-fund transfer i s implemented and several aspects will need to be fine-tuned. Each municipality
  and state has developed a set of indicators/targets it has agreedto meet by the endof the year.
  None of these have been standardized, and need to be reassessedto ensure they are feasible and
  measurable. The C N will work with the states and municipalities to reach agreementon a subset
  of indicators that will be common to all PAMs to permit sub-national comparisons. These will be
  included inPAMs for 2004. Baseline information on indicators will be available at the end of the
  first year of PAM implementation. Instruments to be employed in the evaluation of PAMs include
  the data inthe PAM MIS, available information systems including SINAN, SICLOM, SISCEL,
  SI-CTA, SIM, and SIS-Prenatal.The data will be gathered and organized by M&Estaff at the
  municipal and state levels.

  The evaluation is done intwo phases: a) an institutional evaluation that assesses compliance in
  terms of qualified personnel, financial management, counterpart financing, the procurement and
  distribution of medications for treatment of STDs and opportunistic infections, and installation
  and use of the necessary information systems; b) assessment of compliance with agreed targets.




                                                   90

Certified states and municipalitieshave a twelve month period to implementthe agreed actions
and meet agreedtargets includedinPAMs. On the 10" month of implementation, they will
performance will be assessedand a new PAM which includes adjustments basedon their
implementationcapacity will be prepared. Targets are measuredevery 6 months. A failure by
municipalities to meet targets or institutionalrequirements at the end of the 6 month period must
be assessedandconfirmed by the Municipal Health Council. Said municipalities must present
corrective action plans to the Council. Suspensionof fund transfers will be determined by the
respective CIB and CIT. When municipal fund transfers are suspended, the municipality must re-
certify to receive federal funds once again.

Some initialperformance indicators are beingdeveloped to assess compliance with PAM
agreements. These will be discussedwith the Bank prior to the secondcycle of PAMs in late
2003. Some proposed indicators for states andmunicipalitiesinclude:

Increase in number of HIV tests conducted.
% of VCT (CTA) centers returningtest results within one week.
Number of individuals of the following groups covered by preventioninterventions: (UDI,CSW,
MSM,PLWHA)
Number of NGOs receiving PAM funds.
Proportion of PAMfunds going to NGOactivities.
Number and percentage of public primary and secondary schools providing access to condoms.
Number of pregnant women tested for HIV and syphilis of all pregnant women in prenatal care.

Andfor States specifically,
Number of labs accredited for HIV testing, CD4 and viral load
Number of SAEs assessedas complying with standardsfor patient care.




                                                91

              Annex 2e: Ministryof HealthStatement on ARV development
                                      and production Policy


Freeand universal access to antiretroviraltherapy has been for several years a major feature of
the Brazilian responseto the AIDS epidemic, and, as such, presentschallenges that needto be
timely confrontedin order to guaranteeis long-term sustainability. Inthis regard, meetingthe
growth indemand, planning and forecasting manufacturing processes, monitoringquality and
managing logistics and supply chain problems are key issuesthat need to be addressed.

Clearly, domestic drugdevelopment is among the answers to these challenges. Much needs to be
done, however, to expand and adapt our current activities indrugdevelopment to our medium
and long term requirements. Infact, the results that have already been madepossible by a limited
and imperfect implementation of this strategy suggests that strengthening our capabilities inthis
field may spark various significant positive outcomes. Inthis context, such a strengthening relates
particularly to capacity buildingin the field of active principle ingredients (HI'S) -products
usedto manufacture and formulate drugs -with a view at diversifying market sources,
stimulatingcompetition, price reductions and assuring long-term sustainability. A similar strategy
has allowed the Brazilian Government to procure antiretroviral drugs at considerably lower prices
throughout 2001 and 2002. Experience suggests, however, that the efficacy of this strategy rests
upon the possibility of credibly usingthe mechanism of compulsory licensing, which on turn
depends on domestic (both public and private) production capacity. This policy has allowed both
for profit makingby patent holders andfor increasedaccess to key products by those in need.

Infact, thedevelopment oftools for improvedmarketregulationandcompetitionisalso
fundamental to a sustained, consistent long-term strategy. It i s obvious that the knowledge of
productionprocesses empowers the State to engage infruitful price negotiation initiatives.
Domestic productioncapacity must be seen, however, more as a strategic asset to correct market
imperfections, and not so much as a way to supply market demand. As long as there are other
highquality, low cost suppliers, Stateproductionmay turn to other areas.

Nowadays, Brazilian manufacturing capacity i s concentrated inthe public sector, especially at the
largest federal health researchinstitution, Oswaldo Cruz Foundation (FIOCRUZ), and at other
state-level institutions, such as Butantan and Tecpar. Local laboratories and universities have
some involvement with ARV productionand their involvement would probably increaseif a
favourable environment were fostered.

The private sector, dominated by large pharmaceutical multinational conglomerates, restrain their
activities inBrazil to the formulation, packingand distribution of medicines fully developed
abroad. Local productioni s limitedand very few private pharmaceutical researchis done in
Brazil. Some small Brazilian companies invest in drugdevelopment, such as Hebromcompany in
Caruaru, Pernambuco, which does researchin partnership with universities, mostly on
phytotherapeutical products. Nevertheless, strategic alliances with some companies are already in
place, as the one of Glaxo-Smith Kline and Bio-Manguinhos (Fiocruz) inthe field of vaccines,
which involves transfer of technology and thejoint development of some products. There are also
some examples of agreements with local companies, such as the one which involves the transfer
of patent rightsfrom Fiocruz to thirteen suppliers and the payback of royalties to the State
Institute. Cooperative arrangements are also underway, such as voluntary licences issuedby
Chembio Diagnostic Systems, an American company, to Fiocruz in the case of development and
production of a rapid HIV diagnostic test.




                                                 92

Brazil recognizes that efforts to improve drugdevelopment capabilities should stimulate the
participation of the private sector, allowing for its integration both with official State-led planning
and with the international market. Indeed, a growing number of privateuniversities have
demonstrated interest inthis agenda, and these institutions are fully able get involved indrug
development initiatives through their researchdepartments. Possibilities of financial returns may
attract these and other private partners throughout the country. This engagement, however, can
improve enormously from public incentives.

Stronger capabilities to produce and develop new medicines also improve the role Brazil can play
as a partner of other developing countries inthis area. Missions sent to Angola, Mozambique,
Morocco, South Africa, among others, have laid down co-operation policy frameworks that
include the support for local production of medicines, enabling programs that will support the
struggle of these countries to provide treatment to people living with HIV/AIDS.

The current limiteddevelopment may be boosted through the support of pre-existing unitsand
through the involvement of new potential institutions. Currently, there are 5 public laboratories
and 2 private institutions involved in ARV production in Brazil. While the manufacturingof
medicines i s still largely limitedto State-ownedunits, many chemical products inthe earlier
production phase come from the local private sector. This only reinforces the vocation of an
interactivepartnership. For instance, many API's are produced locally by either nationalor
foreign companies and out of the 28 presentations(of 14different medicines) distributedby the
Federal Government, 11are supplied by public laboratories, 4 by nationalprivate laboratories and
13 by foreign laboratories.

Quality control of the pharmaceutical products is a priority. Tests of bioequivalence, among
others, will be required from July 2003 for all products distributedinthe country, including
"post-marketing control". ANVISA, the National DrugRegulatoryAgency, i s the institution
responsible for issuingappropriate certification and any company may submit their product to get
this certification. Certifiedproducts may participate ingovernment procurement, and products
today are originated from both local and foreign laboratories.

Far-Manguinhos (FIOCRUZ) is the major and most advanced laboratory involved in ARV drug
development. Other minor partnersas ButantiiInstitute and Tecpar may be involved. While
indigenous local productionand drug development capability are taken seriously, it's crucial not
to loose sight of the relevanceof relationships with external partners, including traditional
partners (e.g. ANRS in France, London University inEngland) and new partners as Thailand,
China and India, to catalyze and reinforce public scarce resources.

It i s clear, therefore, that the public sector i s central to any effort aimed at capacity building for
drugdevelopment. As is the case inother country settings, issuesrelated to basic development
researchmust be covered by State-sponsoredinitiatives in order to attract and stimulate the
private sector, making it profitable and economically sound. The planlimits the public sector to
act in areas where researchand development are neither a priority nor feasible for the private
sector to pursue, as drugcombinations and new formulations that may be easier to administer in
resource-poor settings. This i s a reality incertain areas of the country and surely will be useful for
many regions affected by the pandemic.

Intellectual property rightsare a key issue inthis discussion. Brazil has brought to international
forum the needto improve access to the benefits of technology for a larger proportion of the
population, especially those affected and most in need. Brazil has a tradition of working through
diplomatic channels and to respect internationalagreements. The TRIPS Agreement and other


                                                      93

commercial mechanismsare moving in the direction of a more equitative sharing of technology
discoveries, and Brazil believes this is a long-term trend, making mechanismsas compulsory
licensing, for example, less necessary to be usedas market and commercial interests evolve in the
same way.


Brazil, 04/04/2003




                                                 94

                            Annex 3: Estimated ProjectCosts




                              Front-endfee

                 Total FinancingRequired




                                           Local         Foreign     Total
ProjectCost By Category                     US $million US $million US $million
Goods                                           8.78        42.96       51.74
Consultant Services                             22.18            0      22.18
Training                                        8.15         0.00        8.15
PAhUNGOFund-To-Fund Transfers                   72.00        0.00       72.00
Subprojects A                                   16.07        0.00       16.07
Subprojects B                                   14.16        0.00       14.16
Project Incremental Operating Costs             14.70            0      14.70
                       Total Proiect Costs     156.04       42.96       199.0

                              Front-endfee      0.00         1.oo        1.oo
                Total Financina Reauired       156.04       43.96      200.00




                                           95

                       Annex 4: Cost EffectivenessAnalysis Summary

As Brazil nears the completion of its secondproject for the control of HIV/AIDS, the epidemic
presents a significantly differentlandscapefrom the past. A larger number of women are infected
as heterosexual transmission grows in importance, the poor are disproportionately affected by the
disease, and regions besidethe Southeastand large urban centers are increasingly involved. The
response to the epidemic has also evolved interms of reach, sophistication, andcontent. This
includes the implementation of universal antiretroviraltherapy financed by the government.

Given the large scale of past and future investments inthe control of HIV/AIDS, it is essentialto
have an understanding of the health-related and financial benefits of control efforts. In
preparation for the third AIDS project (AIDS-III), the objective of this study i s to provide
estimates of (1) project economic impact for different levels of preventive effectiveness, and (2)
economic impact of ARV treatment. Similar to a previous study done for AIDS-11, the estimates
are usedto anive at the overall cost-effectiveness of the project.

This analysis aims to describe the economic impact of HIV/AIDS control inthe country. A
model (Sparse InputAIDS Model, SIAM) has been developed to approximate the scale and
momentumof the epidemic, usingincidence and mortality data corrected for underreporting,
probability distribution of the length of incubation, and asymmetric risk distribution among the
population.

DataConsiderations:

Correction for Underreporting inboth observed mortality and observed AIDS incidence are the
corrections which most affects the final output of the model; they are also very difficult to
estimate. There i s consensus that there exists a significant degree of underreporting for both
mortality and incidence. This may be due to incorrect diagnosis, operational delays, or simple
omission. Inthe case of incidence, the majority of cases that are ultimately reported take less
than 4 years to do so (Barbosa & Struchiner 1997, 1998,2002). This i s further supported by a
comparison of official incidence data for 1990-97 collected in 1998 done for the economic
analysis of AIDS 11, and re-examined in 2002; reporting delays could be demonstrated only up to
3 years. Thus, for calibrating the model, only reported incidencefigures up to 1998 are used.

There is also a proportion of cases that due to misdiagnosis, loss, omission, or many other
reasons, never get reported. To obtain estimates and corrections for these, studies involving
comparisons of death certificates with registries of AIDS incidence, and studies involving
hospitalized AIDS patients were examined. Based on these studies, the more conservative result
of 34.8% underreporting has beenadopted. This figure may be too highfor some regions such as
the South, and too low for other regions such as the Northand Northeast. However, this cannot
be supported or rejected without robust field studies covering different regions of Brazil. As a
general guideline, a few estimates of case underreporting from other countries are presentedin
Table 1.




                                                  96

                                Table 1:Estimates of Underreporting
                               of AIDS Incidence inVarious Countries




Estimating the effects of prevention. Data indicating changes inthe HIV transmission rate can
be usedto estimate the effectiveness of preventive activities. It is quite uncommon to find field
data showing transmission rates, much less changes in such rates. Therefore, behaviouraldata i s
usually used as aproxy. Data on behaviour relevant to HIV/AIDS, similarly, has to be seen in
historic series, or at least with two points intime. However, significant problems are encountered
intranslating results of available studies into specific percentagesof effectiveness and absolute
numbers of infections prevented. The changedbehaviour shown in most studies i s often too
narrowly defined to be extrapolated to other geographic regions, risk groups, or time frames. The
reliability of specific numerical results i s also often inconsistent with other indicators in the same
surveys. After prolonged and exhaustive research, it has beenconcluded that despite patterns
from longitudinal data which strongly suggestivea definite and sustaineddecrease inrisk
behavior, there are no data that permit reasonablequantification of the effectiveness of
HIV/AIDS control efforts inthe past 4 years. Usingseroprevalencefrom sentinel sites to
quantify effectiveness is HIV was not employed as variations of prevalence from one year to
another are far higher than could be explained by even dramatic changes inprevention. Other
more indirect approaches were attempted but did not yield clear and reliable patterns. Given the
exhaustion of practical possibilities for estimating effectiveness, the impact of AIDS-I11has to be
illustratedfor different assumed levels of effectiveness, and not a measuredlevel of effectiveness
per se.

Effectiveness of antiretroviral therapy      -In  the model, mortality is basedon the number of
observeddeaths (available until 2000) and corrected for underreportingand misdiagnosis of
mortality. It is assumed that underreporting and misdiagnosis of AIDS deaths i s equal to that of
other causes of mortality. The first correction is basedon government estimates of
underreporting per region. Subsequently, usingthe number of reported deaths per 100,000
inhabitants, and the percentageof deaths attributed to ICD-10 Chapter XVII, corrections are
made for misdiagnosis for each region (see Table 2).

                                Table 2: Estimates of Underreporting
                          1 Region       of AIDS Mortality
                                            I % of AIDS Deaths Not Reported      I
                               Northeast
                               Southeast
                                South                       90%
                              Centerwest                     81%

Havingdefined the increasedsurvival with ARV, the next step is to quantify the quality of life of
patients undergoing treatment. This has been done utilizingthe Global Burden of Disease



                                                   97

methodology for calculating YLDs (Murray & Lopez 1996). Inthe YLD methodology, DALYs
(Disability-Adjusted Life Years) are a sum of YLDs (Year Lived with Disability) due to
disability, and YLLs (Years of Life Lost) due to mortality. Usinga set of indicatorconditions, a
small group of health professionals estimated adisability weight for patients undergoing ARV
therapy inBrazil. Whereas the disability weight for asymptomatic HIV infection is 0.136 (a
weighted averagefor different age groups), and for AIDS i s 0.505, the disability weight for
patients meetingthe criteria for ARV therapy and undergoing treatment is evaluated to be 0.160.
Basedon results so far, the impact of ARV treatment in DALYs and its cost-utility will be
calculated later.

EpidemiologyofHIV/AIDS. Results suggest incidence reacheda peak in 2001 and 2002, and i s
expectedto begina slow decline thereafter. This is a sumof different regional patterns, and a
geographic breakdown i s necessary to better understandthe dynamics of the epidemic. Inthe
Southeastand Centerwest, where HIV/AIDS was first detected, incidence attained maximum
levels in the late 1990s; it has now begun a significant decline which will continue over the
coming years. A concerning pattern is seen inthe South, where incidence has continued to
increasesignificantly, and although the rise in incidence i s probably now in a decelerating
pattern*, it may reach a maximum of over 10,000 cases (total, registered and unregistered)
peaking sometime after 2005 (Figure 10). The North and Northeast are also in a pattern of
increasing but decelerating incidence, the number of cases probably reaching a maximum
approximately around 2005.

Each region has its own dynamic pattern of rise and fall intransmission. The Southeastand
Centerwest had an early and highpeak in the 1980sand early 1990swhich steadily declined to a
relatively low rate at present. Clearly, a large part of the damage had already been incurredin
this regionbefore large-scaleefforts came about. The South, and the Northand Northeast have
also passedtheir peak, however, they are still at a relatively high level of transmission. Relative
to their regional population(and possibly even in absolute numbers), their transmission rates are
higher than in the Southeastand Centerwest. Thus, while the latter region continues to be of
great importance inpreventive efforts, many of the valuable opportunities for prevention lie inthe
South, North, and Northeast of the country. Interms of the evolution of the epidemic, these
regions are today where the Southeast and Centerwest were inthe early 1990s.

The number of HIV-positive individuals has grown continuously at the national level. This
growth has somewhat slowed as the Southeast and Centerwest have approached aplateau,
however other regions continue to contribute to a risingnational total (Figure 13).
Seroprevalencenationwidei s estimated at about 0.5%, levelling off along with the Southeastand
Centerwest (at about 0.6%) and the North and Northeast (at about 0.2%); the South continues to
rise sharply passinga prevalence of 0.9% and possibly approaching 1% over the coming years
(Figure 14). Once again, this region has great strategic importance in plans for prevention.
Under the lower assumption of 15%underreporting, prevalence at the national level would be
0.38% inmid-2002.

According to model output, which should be understood as an approximation of the real situation,
in mid-2002, there were between 620,000 to 840,000 HIV-positive individuals inthe 15-49year
age group. Table 3 compares model output and official estimates from the National Coordination
for AIDS/STDs for the 15 to 49 year age group which includes about 93% of all cases.
Considering the approximate nature of estimatesfrom both sources, these estimates are



 Meaning the incidence is increasing by smaller increments each year.


                                                   98

compatible and mutually reinforcing. For purposes of planning and official estimates, of course,
the approach usedby the NationalCoordination is preferable as it i s based on a real population.

                                   Table 3: EstimatesofPopulationof


          I            Oflcial Estimates*
             Lower      I  Upper     I                                     ModelOutput
                                        Intermediate                  15%                      34.8%




*Source: MinistCrio da Sadde 1999,2001; and estimates of C N DST/AIDS.
Note: The limits of the official estimates indicate the 68% confidence interval.

The last parameterto be discussedis mortality. The provision of ARV therapy i s of central
importance inprojections of mortality. While ARV prolongs life, it does not cure the disease. It
essentially brings about a dramatic improvement inquality of life and delays death, which
initially lowers mortality (Figure 15). As the number of surviving AIDS patients rises, it is
possible to see a future increasein mortality. It i s important to emphasizethat a future rise in
mortality does not meanthat the AIDS Project has not been effective. Infact, the years of
lowered mortality are years of life that thousands of individuals have gained. The fact remains,
however, that currently available treatments for HIV/AIDS merely prolonglife, and even with
very well administered programs, the rebound in mortality could be seen.




                                               Present Value of Flows                            Fiscal Impact
                                             Economic                  Financial
                                               Analysis               Analysis'              Taxes        Subsidies
 Project Costs




       Ifthe difference between the presentvalue offinancial and economic flows is large andcannot be
     explained by taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g. "The
     difference between financial and economic costs arises from price controls on the inputs."

Summary of benefitsandcosts:

MarginalCost-UtilityofAIDS-I11Although the rationalefor government involvement in
prevention, treatment and care activities supported by the project i s clear, quantifying the benefits
of the project i s a difficult task. Brazil has come a long way in combating the epidemic inthe last
10years. And, through the years, a large quantity of epidemiological andbehavioural data have
beengathered. Collectively, the data suggest there has been a maintainedand significant
decrease inhigh-riskbehaviours. However, despite exhaustive efforts, the segmentedand largely
non-systematic nature of these data did not permit an exact quantification of the impact of
preventive activities. For these reasons, the marginal cost-utility of project preventionhas been
calculated usingdifferent assumptions of effectiveness, as illustrated in the table below. In


                                                      99

contrast, with a total annual cost of about US$5,300 per patient, ARV treatment has a cost-utility
estimated at US$5,069/DALY.




     Percentage of            Number of Cases          DALYsAverted         Marginal Cost-Utility,
  Infections Prevented            Prevented                                      US$/DALY
           10%                      5,205                  97,247                    2,02 1
           20%                     10,410                  194,493                   1,011
           30%                     15,614                 291,740                     674
          40%                      20,819                 388,986                     505
           50%                     26,024                 486,233                     404



ARV Therapy. To estimatetreatment costs, it has beenestimated that 95% of HIV/AIDS
ambulatory costs relate to ARV therapy. This implies an annual cost of US$3,300 per patient in
constant 2003 US Dollars. Basedon an optimistic scenario, assuming that this real cost remains
constant, and that the real cost of the acquisition of ARV medications lowers to US$2,000 per
year by 2003 (using a future discount rate of 3% per year) the net present value of 11.4 years of
treatment for a patient totals US$52,295. This translates into a cost-utility of US$5,069 per
DALY averted. Inother words, for every five thousand Dollars spent ontreatment, the
equivalent of one year of life is gained. A comparison of this figure with the cost-utility of
preventive interventions presented in Table 4 i s an essentialinputfor future planning. It i s
important to note that if increasedclinical skill, higher compliance with treatment, or other factors
increasethe survival of patients on ARV treatment, the cost-utility figure above would not change
greatly since the additional DALYs and additional costs of treatment would offset each other in a
roughly equal manner.

MainAssumptions:

This result of the cost-utility of ARV is possibly an overestimate. Inthe model, it is assumedthat
the infectivity of individuals under treatment is zero. While this is of minimal influence inthe
calculations of incidence, the implications for ARV treatment specifically are great. While it i s
suspectedthat ARV reduces infectivity significantly, the individual i s still considered to have
infective potential (Quinn et al. 2000 ;Vemazza et al. 1997). Without treatment, individuals
would generally be too illto have sexual contact and infect others; furthermore, they would have
a short period of survival. Therefore, the treatment essentially bringsthe individual back into the
infective pool. Other authors have also pointedto this possibility (Medeiros 2001). The
possibility of increasing drug resistancehas also not been taken into account. Given that this i s a
frequently observedphenomenon (Cohen & Fauci 1998, Hecht et al. 1998), its exclusion from the
model would tend to cause an overestimation of cost-utility.

Another vital consideration with regards to the provision of universal ARV therapy is that of its
financial impact. The reductionof mortality due to treatment naturally leads to an increaseinthe
number of livingpatients, with far-reaching implicationsfor healthcare and medication costs.
This is a question of simple mathematics andnot of sophisticated modelling. The model
estimates that, all being equal, by 2005 the number of people receiving treatment could approach
157,000. To illustrate possible implications for future costs of this intervention, three scenarios




                                                  100

have beenused in our study.' The costs of ARV have dropped from close to five thousand
Dollars per patient per year in 1997 to about half of that figure in2001 (Figure 16). This i s in
large part due to Brazil's own initiative in becoming more self-sufficient inproduction. The
optimistic scenario assumes that this cost will further drop to two thousand Dollars by 2003. The
intermediate scenario holds the price constant, and the pessimistic scenarioassumes that the
introduction of new classesof patentedmedications causes Brazilto lose its cost advantage,
driving costs back upto 1996 levels when ARV drugs were first introducedin Brazil."

Calculations based on government expenditure data indicate that, taken together with ambulatory
treatment and hospitalization costs, close to US$700 million were spent in Brazil in 2001. This
could rise to anywhere from 960 million to 1.25 billion US Dollars by the year 2005 (Figure 17).
Obviously, the financial implications are enormous, more so because this intervention would be
very difficult to ration or withhold as may happen with other components of health care. These
concerns, and the possibility that some sort of pessimistic scenario might prevail, are echoed
elsewhere. One, for example, states that, "it is unclear whether the government will be able to
continue its bargaining strategies as new drugs amve on the market and as the number of people
needing antiretroviral treatment continues to rise." (Kaisemetwork.org 2002)

Cost-effectivenessindicators:2



      These indicators should compare the project with a suitable comparator, e.g. unit project costs of
    alternative project designs or international standards.




 A thorough analysis of drug research and possible future price trends is beyond the scope of this study.
The three scenarios serve as examples of possible trends, not as predictions.
IoPer capita costs are assumed to stay constant from the last year with available data, for ambulatory care
(2000), and for hospital care (2002).



                                                    101

                   Annex 5: FinancialSummary

                           Years Ending


                      IMPLEMENTATIONPERIOD




Mainassumptions:




                               102

FiscalImpactand Sustainability

Federal expenditure on health over 2000 and 2001 has been an average of 3.25% of GDP.
Assuming that this pattern continues, the health expenditure in2003 would be close to US$17.0
billion." Expenditure for HIV/AIDS i s also assumed to hold constant at US$437 million; this i s
the value calculated for 2000 and is a conservative estimate. Government investment for the
AIDS-I11Project represents0.35-0.41% of annual federal healthexpenditure. The Project is also
estimated to generaterecurrent costs of about US$29 million from 2006 onward. This would
represent0.17% of federal health expenditure, and 6.6% of HIV/AIDS expenditure. Under the
assumption of a constant HIV/AIDS budget, the incremental recurrent costs would be relatively
easy to accommodate. However, given the probability that government expenditure for ARV
treatment of AIDS patients may increasesubstantially inthe near future, other increments in costs
may meet varying degrees of resistance. To assure project sustainability, it i s essential to
maintainpolitical support and informdecision-makers of the continued importance of controlling
the epidemic.

                         AIDS-I11ProjectInvestmentand RecurrentCosts
                           as Proportionof FederalHealthExpenditure




HIV/AIDS
Project Investment
costs                     70         68        59        0        0            0           0      0
Project Recurrent
costs                      0         0          0       29       29           29          29     29
Investment as
Proportion of
Federal Health
Expenditure             0.41%      0.40%     0.35%    0.00%    0.00%       0.00%        0.00%  0.00%
Recurrent Costs as
Proportion of
Federal Health
Expenditure             0.00%      0.00%     0.00%    0.17%    0.17%       0.17%        0.17%  0.17%
Recurrent Costs as
Proportion of
HIV/AIDS
Expenditure              0.0%      0.0%       0.0%     6.6%     6.6%        6.6%        6.6%    6.6%




  All values are given inconstant 2003 US Dollars.


                                                  103

                 Annex 6: ProcurementandDisbursementArrangements

Procurement Arrangements

Procurement for the proposedproject would be carried out inaccordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published inJanuary 1995
(revised JanuaryIAugust 1996, September 1997and January 1999); and "Guidelines:Selection
and Employment of Consultantsby WorldBank Borrowers" publishedinJanuary 1997 (revised in
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002); and the provisions stipulated inthe Loan
Agreement. The Bank's StandardBiddingDocuments and Standard Request for Proposals will be
usedfor the Bank-financed ICB goods and consultant services, respectively. For NCB
procurement of goods, UGPand the participant state and municipalities will use the model
standardbiddingdocument issuedby SEAIN. The pregco and the electronic pregzo established
by the federal government may be usedas an alternative to shopping of off-the-shelf items. In
addition, the national procurement law will be usedunder the fund-to-fund mechanism.

ProcurementResponsibility.The Project implementation will require procurement of goods,
hiringof consultants, training activities and subprojects to strengthen the capacity of the state and
municipal agencies of deliver preventive actions effectively combat the disease. There arefour
types of implementing agenciesunder the proposed Project:

    at the central level, the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will carry out hiringof individual
    consultants andconsultant firms, and procurement of preservatives, lab equipment and kits,
    computer and software, printingservices, educational material and supplies;

    the participant state and municipalagencies will hire training activities, small purchasesof
    equipment, hiringof individuals and consultant firms, and other activities under the fund-to-
    fundcomponent necessary to achieve the objectives established inthe PlunosdeA@es e
    Metas (PAM);

    specialized institutions will carry out studies, training, prevention, care, and human rights
    activities;

    NGOs inthe states and participatingmunicipalities that will carry activities of prevention,
    care, human rightsandtraining. The NGOs will be financed by the project through (i)
    supply-driven subprojects, (ii)  demand-driven subprojects and (iii) part of state PAMs. In
                                                                           as
    the latter (iii) Bank financing will be delivered to these implementing entities under a
                   the
    fund-to-fund pooling mechanism with resources of the Ministry of Health usingfund-to-fund
    transfers from the federal govemment to states.

The PCU will be responsible for the overall project procurement activity, including compliance
with proceduresand timetables agreed with the Bank. The PCUwill strengthen the administrative
and supervision arrangements and to assist the other implementingunits.




                                                 104

Procurement Plan. The PCUprepareda procurement plan for the tasks to be carriedout during
project implementation, which was approvedby the RPA's office and is inthe project files. The
procurement plans consist o f (i)procurement plan for the project's goods, including contract
packaging, applicable procedures and processscheduling; (ii)                      a consultant selection processplan
for the project's consultant services, including contract packaging, applicable procedures,
selection criteria; and (iii)procurement plan for subprojectstype A (described below). The
procurement plans and consultant selection processplan will be updated periodically, and shall be
submitted to the Bank inJanuary of each year. Such updating shall include the (i)                       list of contracts
completed, under execution, under procurement, to be procured in the upcomingcalendar
semester and, tentatively inthe subsequent semester; (ii)                 costs of completed and under execution
contracts, estimated costs for upcomingcontracts; (iii)                 schedule of bidding; and (iv) particular
methods of procurement of goods or selection of consultants.

ProcurementArrangements.The project's procurement arrangements for eachcomponent are
summarized in Table A.

                     Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by ProcurementArrangements
                                            (inUS$thousand equivalent)




                                       I     (38.25)   I       (3.77)    I        (7.89)                          (49.92)
2. Consultants' Services                                                           4.38    II      17.80 I         22.18




   Total                                      38.81             4.72              138.67           17.80         (200.00)
                                             (38.25)           (3.77)            (57.98)                         (100.00)
Figuresin parenthesisare the amounts to befinancedby the Bank loan. All costs includecontingencies.
Footnotes:-
ICB: InternationalCompetitive Bidding; NCB: NationalCompetitiveBidding;
Other: includesConsultants,Subprojects, Fund-to-FundTransfers, Nationaland IntemationalShopping, andcommercial and
administrative practices.

Bank- Financed Goods, Works, Services and Associated Procedures. The proposed project
would finance goods consisting of female and male condoms, testing kits, laboratory equipment
and laboratory supplies, computers and peripherals. Technical services will consist of hiringof
firms specialized in(a) organization anddelivery of events and seminars/workshops (hotel,
logistics); (b) travel arrangementsfor training and supervision; and (c) printingservices. For the
centrally implemented activities, there are no civil works. Under the subprojects carried out by
the NGOs and other implementingentities there may be small rehabilitation works, which will
procuredusingcommercial practices of the NGOs -generally consistingof multiple quotations



                                                           105

from known contractors or local rules acceptableto the Bank. Under the Subprojects, goods and
works shall be procured following the selections proceduresof the Procurement Law 8.666/93
including (a) the invitation to bid by previously registered bidders or any interested supplier or
contractor demonstrating to be qualified within 15 days usingthe two envelope system ("tomada
de preqos"), (b) the similar method of "convite" consisting of an invitation to bid within 5 days
suppliers or contractors not previously registered in individual contracts not to exceed US$50,000
equivalent, (c) market inquiries("dispensa de licita@o") up to US$5,000 for works and US$3,000
for goods; (d) direct contracting of utilities (including phone, energy, water) and services
(including, meals, rental of space and transport by road) when there i s only one supplier; (e)
adhesion to contracts of pharmaceuticalsprocured by other governmental entities through public
biddingthrough "registro de preqos"; and(f) pregiio. The thresholds usedto define the
procurement methods and review thresholds are defined intable A.1.

Bank-Financed ConsultantServices, Trainingand Associated Procedures. The proposed
project would finance consultant services by firms and individuals and training activities. It is
expected that the project will finance studies and researchactivities through a variety of
interventions, includingconsultingservices, subprojects type A, and subprojects type B.
Individual consultants within the PCU, inan aggregatenot to exceed US$2,900,000, will be
hiredby the Ministryof Healthusingadministrative proceduresconsistent with Par. 5.1-5.4 of the
Guidelines. Training activities consist of trainers, hiringof institutions, logistics and materials
neededfor such training.

TABLE A.1: Thresholdsfor Procurement MethodsandPrior Review of Goods andWorks
                                        (in US$ thousandequivalent)



 Goods for                                                                             No procurement
 PCU                                                                First two NCBs;    reviews; regular
                                                                    N o Shopping        supervision
 Works under      N o    works    No works      National            No.                 Independent
 Subprojects      expected        expected      Procurement                             procurement reviews
                  above 500k      ranging       Regulations<                            and regular supervision;
                                  100k-500k     US$100k                                 technical prior review
                                                Commercial                              of subprojects type A
                                                practices of NGOs                       above US$350k
                                                Par.
                                                3.15<US$100k
 Goods under      Goods           Goods 100-    National            All ICB only        Independent
 Subprojects      >250k           250k          procurement                             procurement reviews
                                                regulations<
                                                US$100k                                 and regular supervision;

                                                Commercial                              technical prior review
                                                practicesof NGOs                        of subprojects type A
                                                par. 3.15<US$100k                       above US$350k
 Goods, works                                   National            N o prior review    Independent
 and services                                   procurement                             procurement reviews
 under Fund-                                    regulations,
 to-Fund                                        commercialpractices
 transfers                                      of NGOs par.
                                                3.15<US$100k

Preg5o maybe usedas an altemativeto shoppingfor off-the-shelfitems




                                                    106

Procurement underfund tofund transfers. The procurement under the fund-to-fund transfer
mechanism will be carried out usingthe national regulations which the Bank has reviewedunder
the Brazil Operational Procurement Review (OPR) and found acceptable for smaller
procurement. Eligible states and municipalities benefitingfrom fund-to-fund transfers will carry
out procurement usingthe national regulations, includingconcorre^ncia,tomadadepreqos,
convite,pregiio, registro depreqos, and hiringof staff. Bank financing under this component will
be dimensioned taking into account the resourcesto betransferred to NGO, basedon an
Agreement to be signed betweenthe NGOs and the States, which will include works, goods and
services and identify the selectedprocurement procedures.The purchasesof goods and works
expected to be carried out by the NGOs are of small value andwill be procuredin accordance
with commercial practices applicable to the NGOs andthe followingprovisions: (a) NGOto have
issued procurement regulations inaccordance with Article 14of Law 9790199 and Article 21 of
Decree 3100/99; (b) procurement practices of the NGOunder the assignment adhere to such
regulations; (c) independentreviewers are given accessto documentation to ascertaineligibility
pursuant to the agreed plans, economy and efficiency on the procurement; and (d) the Ministry of
Health will cause reimbursement of the loan proceedsfor purchases for which the independent
reviewers determine not compliance with (a), (b) and (c) above. Seemingly, services may be
procuredin accordance with commercial practices acceptableto the Bank andthe following
provisions (a) NGOto have issuedhiringregulations inaccordance with Article 14of Law
9790/99 and Article 21 of Decree 3100/99;(b) all hiringpractices of the NGO under the
assignmentadhereto such regulations; (c) independent reviewers are given access to
documentation to ascertaineligibility pursuant to the agreedplans, economy and efficiency on the
hiring; and (d)the Ministry of Healthwill causereimbursement of the loanproceedsfor
purchases for which the independentreviewers determine not compliance with (a), (b) and (c)
above.


Procurement under Subprojects. The project would include two types of subprojects:

Subprojects A are strategic supply-driven subprojects which include research, studies, surveys,
training and procurement of equipment, estimated to cost about US$16.0 million and ranging
from a few thousand dollars to US$2.0 million. The Type A Subprojects have the following
characteristics: (a) the scope and timing of the subprojects are generally defined by the CN; (b)
the selection of the implementingentities respond to technical priorities established on the basis
of their strategic impact on the epidemic; (c) the implementingentities -consisting of national
researchinstitutes, universities, nationallaboratories, NGOs, specialized researchcenters and key
governmental entities - will employ the procurement arrangementsfor goods, works and services
as establishedin the loan agreement; (d) the applicationwill include a technical proposal
accompanied by a detailed procurement plan, to be submitted by one ore more applicants, to be
reviewedby PCU, and postedby the CN in a webpage; and (e) subprojects above US$350,000
will be subject to technical prior review by the Bank. Such a procurement plan shall be
incorporated inthe Agreement to be signed between the CN and the implementingagency,
identifying the prior review thresholds. Details of what the proposals shouldentail will be
included inthe Operational Manual.




                                                 107

Subprojects B are demand-driven subprojects, consisting of studies, training, prevention, care
and human rightsactivities, and capacity building, generally carried out by governmental
decentralized health entities, NGOs, universities, laboratories and researchcenters, in individual
subprojects not to exceed US$350,000 and in an aggregate amount of US$14.2 million
equivalent. These subprojects consist of grants to be awarded on the basisof criteriadefined in
the Operational Manual, acceptableto the Bank, in responseto an annual or bi-annual open
invitation (the "Edital"). Type B Subprojects have the following characteristics: (a) the scope of
the subprojects is defined by the implementingentities inresponseto an invitation listing pre-
determined areas of interest by CN (to be available at website); (b) the selection of the
implementingentities will be made on the basis of the merits and quality of the proposals on the
basis of pre-defined criteria; (c) if the implementingentities are NGOs, they will use commercial
practices for their procurement of goods, services and small rehabilitation works andfor the
hiringof personnel; ifthe implementing entities are fromthe public sector, they will follow the
model standard biddingdocument issuedby SEAIN for NCB, and the nationalprocurement
regulations for small procurement, and ICB or QCBS for large contracts -and are subject to
misprocurement actions inaccordanceto the Guidelines as a remedy; and (d) since the expected
beneficiary NGOs are generally institutionally weak, these would not be able to submit a
procurement plan as such; the nature of the goods and services will be assessedthrough the
description of the scope of tasks inthe subproject; the eligibility will be determined on ex-post
reviews to be conducted by the C N and, to the extent possible, by the Bank duringnormal
supervision. If misuse or mismanagementi s detected duringsuch reviews, the Ministry of Health
will cause the reimbursement to the loan account. All subprojects will be listed in the AIDS
Programwebsite ina format acceptable to the Bank.

Participation of UNAgencies. The Borrower requestedthe Bank's accord to carry out some of
the activities, particularly under C N and the Subprojects, through UNAgencies acceptableto the
Bank. The fees involved for these intermediation services are not eligible for Bank-financing.

Non-bank financed Services. The Project costs includes the hiringof public relations, publicity
and awareness campaigns and services totaling US$17.8 million that the Ministry of Health will
hire usingits own proceduresand consequently, are reserved procurement, not subject to Bank-
financing.




                                                108

                Annex 6, Table A2: Consultant Selectionand Training Arrangements




                                                                                 CQ
 Firms                       1.17           Prior review: all      0.37     Prior review: none         8.15       All      17.80
                                            above US$250k
 Services under             No services expected above US$200,000,thus no prior review
 Fund-to-Fund
 Transfers
 Services under             No              Prior review: all
 Subprojects A and          aggregate       above US$250k
 B
 Individuals                Aggregate US$l1.0 million. Prior review: All above US$50,000
  Note:    QCBS = Quality- and Cost-BasedSelection
           QBS =Quality-based Selection
           SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
           LCS = Least-Cost Selection
           CQ = Selection Basedon Consultants' Qualifications
           Other = Selectionof individual consultants (per SectionV of Consultants Guidelines), Cominercial Practices, etc.
           N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
           Figures in parenthesisare the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.



The project's selection andemployment of consultants will be carriedout under arrangements
acceptableto the Bank (Table A2), usingthe Bank's StandardForms and Contracts. Most of the
project's studies, implementation, supervision, financial and procurement audits would be carried
out following Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) and Consultants' Qualifications (CQ)
methods, and individual consultants. Duringproject preparation, at least the following studies
were identifiedas potentialstudies to be contracted following the CQ method: institutionalization
of strategic planning; policy for distribution of male and female condoms; SISCEL and SICLOM
validation; study on the quality of ambulatory care; assessment of Projeto Nascer; assessment of
Projeto Universiaids; and study on sexual behavior. No other exceptional methods were identified
inthe initial procurement plan. The aggregateamount for hiringindividual consultants i s
established at US$l1.O million.

Procurement Review and Methods. The Bank's procurement review will be outlined inthe Loan
Agreement as per tables A.1andA.2 above and inaccordancewith Appendix 1of the Guidelines
for Procurement.

The prior review by the Bank of individual items to be procuredby NGOs and beneficiary
entities, underthe fund-to-fund transfers and subprojects' components will be inaccordance to
Tables A.1and A.2. Underthe Subprojects and transfers, the PCU will provide the Bank, no later
than six months after the end of each year, the reports of independent procurement reviews
carried out by procurement experts, acceptable to the Bank. The terms of reference for the
procurement reviews should be based on internationally accepted standards.




                                                              109

Under the type A Subprojects, the exact prior review process will be confirmed duringthe review
of the procurement planpreparedby each entity and reviewed by the PCU. The review levels
should not differ substantially from those establishedin the Loan Agreement but clearlyjustified
variations will be considered duringimplementation, inagreement with the Bank. The
procurement documents for all ICB will be subjectto Bank's prior review, irrespective of the
estimated amount of contract.

 The Bank's review of selection of consultants will be inaccordancewith Appendix 1of the
Guidelinesfor Selection and Employment of Consultants and the provisions stipulated inthe Loan
Agreement. Consultant contract documentsto be reviewed will includeTORS,shortlists,
evaluation reports, and contract forms. A review process similar to individual consultants, will
apply to training and workshops. Since the beneficiary entities under the Subprojects are not
identified and its selection would depend upon the applicationof the selection criteria, there are
no aggregateamounts for less competitive proceduresto be used by the implementing entities
underthe Subprojects.

Project Incremental Operational Costs. Incremental operational costs refers to the management
and supervision of the Project, including PCU staff (estimated amount US$8,120,000),
maintenance and supplies, communication services, office equipment and vehicles, procurement
of small items, printingmaterials and sundry items, per diem, and travel expenses. These services
will be financed on a declining basis, and are estimated to include Bank's financing of US$
7,350,000 million equivalent, to be financed inaccordanceto bi-annual plans approved by the
Bank. Identificationof suppliers of sundry items and minor services will be made through market
inquiries inthe local market as in shopping. Once the suppliers are established, who will be
generally the suppliers offering the lowest cost of lists of items, a purchase order will be issued
usingregular administrative procedures.The market inquiries will be updatedperiodically.
Internal travel will be procured through NCB usingbiddingdocuments acceptableto the Bank.

Advertising. A General Procurement Notice for hiringof consultant services, and the ICB goods
should be published in the UnitedNations Development Business, no later than September 2003.
The Notice will be updated annually for outstanding consultant services and ICB goods. In
addition, detailed consultant services and assignments will be advertised, as they become
available, in at least one national newspaperof alarge circulation. Furthermore, the implementing
agencies may also advertise some of the project's studies in an international newspaper or a
technical magazine. The agenciesmay also seek "expressions of interest" by contacting
embassies, professional organizations, or firms that it knows or that are registered in DACON
(paragraph 1.15 of the Guidelinesfor Selection and Employment of Consultants). In this case, the
informationrequired would be minimum, limited to make ajudgment on the firm's suitability.
Sufficient time will be provided for responses, before preparingthe short lists.

ProcurementRecords. Detailedprocurement records, reflecting the project's supply of goods
and consultant services, including records of time taken to complete key steps inthe processand
procurement activities related to supervision, review and audits, will be maintainedby PCU.
These records will be maintained for at least two years after the project's closing date. The
records for goods will include public notices, biddingdocuments and addenda, bidopening
information, bidevaluation reports, formal appealsby bidders and outcomes, signed contracts
with related addendaand amendments, records on claims and dispute resolution, and any other
usefulinformation. The records for consultant services will include public notices for expression
of interest, request for proposals and addenda, technical and financial reports, formal appealsby
consultants and outcomes, signed contracts, addenda and amendments, records on claims and
dispute resolution and any other useful information.


                                                110

Procurement Risk Assessment. There i s Country Procurement Assessment(CPAR)for Brazil
dated 1993.A federal review as an OPR was presentedto Govemment inMarch 2003             .The
preliminary results of this review indicate that thejudicial protestsor recurs's0continue to be a
major difficulty inthe government procurement. Another findingindicate that the use ofpreg&
and other modem procurement methods will add efficiency and transparency to the government
procurement   .

The overall riskassessment of the Project is highas presentedinthe Capacity Assessment
approved by the RPA on March 27, 2003, due to the highly decentralized nature of the
implementing actions.

The risk of the participant entities is not possible to be establishedon a case-by case basis due to
variety and the number of participant entities. Some of the participant municipalities will be
assessedfrom procurement and financial management viewpoints under the on-going Family
Health ExtensionProgram. A capacity assessment of the implementingentities of the project
prepared inNovember 2002, revealedthat procurement riskof the NGOs, state and municipal
agencies varies greatly as presentedinthe summary table below. The riskassessment, selection of
thresholds for prior review, use of independentreviews and the supervision plan arejustified in
the agency's capacity assessment presentedand approved to the RPA concurrently. The capacity
assessment developed an action plan for the improvement of the implementingcapacity. The plan
includes: gaining autonomy for procurement actions and the C N and state and municipal entities,
filing and supervision improvement, development of agreement forms, updating of the
procurement plan, development of manuals, etc. These actions were discussedwith the C N and
were confirmed duringnegotiations, taking into account the adjustments on the project design
and administrative measures adoptedby the M O H since the assessment.




Frequency of procurement supervisionmissions:The Bank will carry ex-post and supervision
mission on procurement twice a year.




                                                 111

FinancialManagementand DisbursementArrangements

FinancialManagementAssessment

A FinancialManagement assessment was madeinaccordancewith OP/BP 10.02 andthe
Guidelines for Assessmentof FinancialManagement Arrangements inWorld Bank-Financed
Projects issuedby the Financial Management Sector Board onJune 2001. The objectives of the
assessment were to determine if the PCUhas the capacity to: i)properly manage and account for
all project proceeds, costs and transactions, ii)produce timely, accurate and reliable financial
statementsand reports for general andBank special purposes, iii)engagereliable independent
auditors acceptableto the Bank, iv) disburse Bank's funds in the most efficient way and
following applicable Bank's rules and procedures.

The assessment was carried out on site following numerous meetings and work sessions with the
PCU staff and includedfield visits to selectedStates andMunicipalities implementingagencies
and NGOs which can eventually participate inthe Project's implementation. These visits were
donejointly with the Bank's procurement specialist assignedto the Project and staff of the PCU.
The overall assessment work included: a) discussions with the PCU's Financial staff and other
members as deemed necessary, b) assessment of the FinancialManagement Systems to be used
for project's accounting, financial administration, controlling and reporting, c) analysis of the
financial staff manpower and structure, d) review of funds flow mechanisms, e) review of internal
controls and administration procedures to control and monitor project execution, f> review
disbursement methodology to be used, g) agree on reportingrequirements, h) review internal and
external audit arrangements.

The review was carried out inthree States including their capital cities and five prospective
participant NGOs, which gave an opportunity to classify these decentralized participants interms
of financial managementrisk.The risk classification was madejointly with the Procurement
Specialist and with PCU staff. The review showed that from a universe of decentralized
implementingagencies, 50% are rated from low to moderate risk while 50% are rated from
substantial to highrisk.When considering only NGOs the risk rated from substantial to high
increasesto 60% of the Implementingentities, remaining40% as rated from low to moderate.
Thus the PCUwill haveto establishawell-staffed SupervisionUnitable to supervisefield
activities (action # 1).The SIS Incentivo or P A M information system currently being developed
will control and monitor the transfers of the PAM Fund-to-Fund transfers, thus reducingthe
necessityfor field visits, since a great part of the supervision could be done through this system.

Ingeneralthefindings ofthe FinancialManagementAssessmentwere satisfactory inrelation
to Bank's requirements, and it included agreementson standards and formats for audited financial
statements, a timetable for their submission and an action planto improve some aspects of the
overall financial managementsystems inplace.

The financialmanagementriskassociatedto the PCUis ratedas moderatealthough the
overallriskinrelationto the Projectisconsideredas substantialdue to the highdegree of
decentralization to States, Municipalities and participant CSOs. No major risks were identified
which would require special recommendations or actions, else than those already in place and/or
includedinthe action plan.




                                                  112

The conclusionreachedis that the financial managementarrangements of the PCUsatisfy the
Bank's minimumrequirements and it has inplace a financial managementsystem that can
provide with reasonableassurance, accurateand timely information on the status of the project.

Project Risk analysis

A detailed riskassessment questionnaire has beenfilled inon basis of the observations made and
is filed together with the financial managementassessment work papers. The Risk Assessment
Matrix below summarizesthe degreeof riskof each of the items related to the Financial
Management of the Project.

RiskAssessment Matrix




H-High        S - Substantial     M-Moderate       L- Low or negligible



The PCUand its financial staff form a well structured entity with adequate manpower to
implement and managethe project and has had past experience in managing the AIDS Iand
AIDS I1Projects. The systems to be usedfor accounting, reporting and monitoring as described
inV, are tailor madefor the Project.

The potential weaknesses identifiedfor this project are mostly relatedto the highdegreeof
decentralization inthe subprojects and fund-to-fund categories, and the identificationof eligible
expenditures for the portion financed by the Bank inthe fund- to-Fund transfers.

The subprojects category will be implemented directly by the PCU, in some cases, and through
Bank-approved UNagencies. Inthe latter case, funds will be transferred to said agenciesand
from there to implementingentities (NGOs, ResearchInstitutes, Universities, Laboratories,
specialized ResearchCenters and key governmental entities) on basis of Technical Cooperation
Agreements. There i s a potential risk inthis category given that initial monitoring and control will
be conducted by the international organizations incharge of administering project funds, and only
subsequently by the PCU. However, the PCUhas developed a sound system (SIMOP) to monitor
and control the execution of these subprojects.

The major risks identified are relatedto the highdegree of decentralization inthe fund-to-fund
(PAMtransfer) category with the involvement of more than 1200entities altogether between
States, Municipalities and CSOs. Bank resources will be channeled from the States to CSOs


                                                113

through existing legal framework - convenios, or through new legal instruments yet to be
developed in some of the States. By Project maturity, some 1200entities will be involved inthis
Project. Bank resources will be mingledwith Govemment funds and transferred to the 26 States
and the Federal District, for subsequent transfer to qualified CSOs to carry out specific activities
includedinthe States PAMs.

Although the activities to be implemented by CSOs will be a primary responsibility of the States
to follow up, the process will require close monitoring and follow upby the PCU. The
mechanism to monitor actual expenditures has yet to be developed in some States and this
situation poses some risk. This risk will be mitigated by the implementation of a new information
system designed to monitor the "fund-to-fund" transfer mechanism. (SIS Incentivo system and its
monitoring module. This systemwill interface with SIAIDS operatedby the PCUto control and
monitor the other Project componentsto be executed directly by PCU. Also the PCU will
cooperate with the States to develop the legal framework to support CSO funding(action # 3). A
specific procedure will be included in the Auditors TOR to provide certification that Bank's funds
were dully applied in eligible expenditures at least in the same proportion of Bank`s fundingto
this Component (80%).

Consideringall the variables (strengths and weaknesses) of the risk assessment, the overall
financial management risk associatedto this Project is rated as substantialdue to the highdegree
of decentralization inthe subprojects andfund-to-fund (PAMtransfers) categories as explained
above.




Weaknesses                                         Resolution
Highdegree of decentralization inSub Projects      0     Implementation of a Supervision Team for
and Fundto Fund(PAMTransfers) Categories                 field supervision missions.
                                                         PAMMonitoring System (SIS Incentivo)
                                                         to control funds transfers to participating
                                                         States, Municipalities and CSOs.
                                                         SIMOP to control Subprojects
                                                         AuditbyFNS
                                                         Independent audit by SFC
Commingling of funds in the Fundto Fund                  States to develop mechanisms to control
(PAM Transfers) Category                                 and monitor CSOs
                                                   0     Independent Audit
Misuse of funds by participants CSOs                     Reportingsystem
                                                         Supervision Missions
                                                         Independent audit
Conflicts betweenparticipatingNGOs and             PCUto set a highlevel Conflict Resolution
Health Secretariats in slow moving                 Board, formed by State NGOs Fora, and
bureaucraciesand in defining priorities            representatives from States, Municipalities and
                                                   Ministry of Health. (action # 2)

As to strengthsfor the Project, the experience andprofessional background of the PCUteam with
a success story in implementingthe AIDS Iand I1Projects, certainly counts as one of the most
important. Another important strong point to emphasize i s the availability of SIAIDS, which i s




                                                114

the financial managementsystemdeveloped for the AIDS I1programand has beenupgraded for
the AIDS I11and the other systems to beusedby PCU as described inparagraphXIV.

FinancialManagementOrganization& Staff

The FinancialManagement responsibilities are divided within the PCUbetween the Planning &
Monitoring Unit, the Budget and FinancialUnit, the Monitoring and Preventive Audit Unit and
the InformationTechnology Unit, as follows:

Planning& MonitoringUnit: provides direct support to the NationalCoordinator inthe provision
of data and information for the decision makingprocess, coordinates with the other Units inthe
processto prepare the annual budget, controls and monitors budget execution, physical and
financial performance, preparesand submits the SOTs/SOEs, prepares disbursements and
payments processesliaising with STN. It elaborates the Operational Manual of the PCU-
DST/AIDS, establishing procedures and instructions related to financiaVadministrative areas in
line with the Federal Govemment, World Bank guidelines. It i s also responsible for the
implementation and coordinationof the FinancialMonitoringReporting system- SIAIDS, the
PAMInformationSystem and other systems, also providing support to all executing Agencies. It
i s also responsible to preparethe Project's Financial Statementsand FMRs.

Budget and Financial Unit: Controls and executes all actions related to Internationaland UN
Organizations. It controls and monitors the budget execution of all InternationalTechnical
Cooperation Projects.

Monitoring; and Preventive Audit Unit: elaborates the Financial Manual containingprocedures
and instructions regarding coordination with the Internationaland UNOrganizations. It controls,
monitors and follows upthe execution of the sub projects implementedby the decentralized
Implementation Units.It reviews expenseaccounts and reports, and performs internal audits and
collaborates closely with SFC inthe external independent audit.

InformationTechnology Unit:provides support for information technology and data processing
matters. It i s responsible for the planning, development and implementation of all technology
information systems usedby the Project, including also the Internet, Home Page, national
coordination of SIAIDS network. Provides training of the SIAIDS system for all decentralized
implementation units.

Key financial staff include four Coordinators, one for each of the Financial Management Units
described above. A staff of 21professionals supports these Coordinators, a majority of which are
college graduates. Financial staff will have to be reinforced by a Supervision Unitto follow up
and control field activities of the decentralized sub programs. The key staff i s already inplace and
has a soundbackground infinancial matters and on the Bank's procedures.

Flow of Funds

The following flow chart illustrates how the funds will be channeled starting from the Loan
Account up to the end implementing entities:




                                                 115

             IBRD        i                                               I
                                                                              Loan
         Washington                                                         Account
             ?
         Brazil CMU                                                         AIDS III
                                                                     II        < A




                                                                       Special Account
                                                                       Banco do Brasil


                                                                       STN -National
                                                                       Treasury Secretariat


a) Request initial allocation to the Special                                   + 5 -
                                                                     ~




Account;                                                               MS/CGOF/FNS
b) Informs monthly cash requirements                          a) Requests initialallocation to
sources IBRDand Federal Government;                           the Special Account;
c) Request cash advances to STN                               b)Informs STN monthly cash
(Bank's andFederal Funds);                                    requirements;
d) Recommend payments and transfers of                        c) Requests advances to STN
cash to Executing Agencies                                    d) Transfer Fundsto Executing
e) Prepares SOT/SOE in SIAIDS               I                 Agencies, sources IRDB and


                                                                           J L

                                                  CN/FNS/MS            UN           States      and
                                                   Centralized     International    Municipalities
                                                  Procurement     Organizations     Incentive     -
                                                                 CSO/Scientific     Fundto Fund
                                                                 InstitutiondOG     FES and FMS
                                                                  Sub Projects


                                                                                             -
                                                                                          osc     -

                                                                                       PAMFund
                                                                                        Transfers
                                                                                       from States




                                              116

 The sequence of the funds flow events and documentation processwill be the following:
     01. PCUpreparesthe annual budget andrecords it inBudget Federal System SIDOR;
     02. After the budget is approved and recorded in the FederalAccounting System SIAFI, the
         relevant commitment bills can be emitted for: i)transfersto Intemational/UN
         Organizations for the sub projects, ii)payments of items under the direct execution of
         Ministry of HealtWCU, iii)Fundto Fundtransfers.
     03. Up to the 8" of each month PCUrequestsfunds to STN to be advancedto meet cash
         requirements for the current month. STN will make funds available up to the 20" of the
         same month.
     04. STN transfers funds to the FNS operational account.
     05. PCU authorizes transfersto be madefrom FNS to the ExecutingAgencies
     06. PCUconducts all budget andfinancial controls inthe SIAIDS'*
     07. PCUrecords in SIAIDS (commitments andpayments) all expenses incurredfor the
         Project: a) directly by PCU, b) through UNOrganizations, c) transfers to sub projects
     08. PCU informs their own costs and expenses to be paidby UNOrganizations, and
         transfers to be made to the sub projects executing agencies.
     09. PCUprepares SOEs and SOTSthrough SIAIDS.
     10. PCUpreparesthe FinancialReports inFMRformat, includingFinancial, Procurement
         and PhysicalProgressReports.

 Accounting Policiesand Procedures, Internal Controls

The PCUand the Project will follow the accounting policies and procedures of the accounting
system prevailingfor public entities in Brazil (Law 432064). The main tool for public accounting
i s SIAFI, described in more detail below. All Public Entities have to prepare a budget for the
coming year that i s consolidated with all spending Ministries and the final consolidated budget i s
recorded in SIAFI. Duringthe execution inthe following year, only expenses and costs that had
been previously budgeted can be committed in SIAFI. SIAFI controls all expenditures by
spending Units.It i s beingproposed that the AIDS I11Project becomes a specific spending unit
and therefore its execution could be controlled also by SIAFI. The AIDS Iand I1Projects were
not specific spendingunits, their budgets and costs were included inthe overall budget of the
Ministry of Health. Similarly to SIAFI, the Financial Management system of AIDS I11Project-
the SIAIDS will also record budgets and actual expenditures.

Financial Statements, both the quarterly and year-end FMRs will be prepared on actual cash
basis.
As part of the overall financial managementarrangements, a Financial Management Manual will
be prepared which will contain all financial managementprocedures, instructions andpolicies
orienting and defining the financial managementteam responsibilities. It can be a separate
Manual or an Annex of the Operational Manual. Among other procedures, the Manual will
contain detailed instructions and requirements for filling documents which will have to be
available for field supervisions, audits and Bank's supervision Missions - (action 5).

InternalAudit

There i s no formal Internal Audit Department as such, although there are two instancesin which
internal audits are performed for the AIDS 111Project by other Departments involved inthe
processes, or by cross checking transactions as follows: a) intemally by PCUown auditing and
checkingproceduresand/or by other entities like CGOF andSTN, and b) by the FNS inthe
'*Similar inputs are done in SIAFIby STN.


                                                117

utilization of funds transferred via the Fundto Fundmechanism. Ina), duringthe funds flow and
paymendtransfers processes, all transactionsare checked at least by one instance besidesthe one
that originatedthe commitment or payment request. For example, STNreviews advances requests
made by PCUNinistry of Health, CGOF reviews all payments processes prepared by PCU, etc.
Furthermore, the supervision team reviews periodically the sub programs executions done by the
decentralized implementingAgencies. Inb), FNS reviews and audits all PAMFund-to-Fund
transfers.

Externalaudit

Audit TOR will be issuedon basis of the "Guidelines andTerms of Referencefor auditing of
Projects financed by World Bank in Latin America and Caribbean Countries". According to a
Protocol of understanding signed between the Bank and the Federal Government, the Federal
Control Secretariat (SFC) audits all Projects financed to the Federal Government. SFC is an
independent audit entity reportingdirectly to the Federal Controller General who reports directly
to the President. SFC follows InternationalAudit Standards for Public Entities as specified by the
InternationalOrganization of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI) and the International
Federation of Accountants, as well as Bank's guidelines providedby FARAH. SFC has a well-
trained staff and their audit standards and quality of work have been considered satisfactory by
the Bank. SFC will expressopinions on the year-end Financial Statements according to the table
below.

A specific itemwill be includedinthe TOR inrelationto audits to be performedinthe
decentralized ExecutingAgencies inthe Fundto FundCategory like the participatingCSOs. The
CSOs carrying the major sub Projects will be audited plus a random selection of CSOs carrying
minor sub Projects (action ## 4). Inthe Fundto Fundcategory, the auditors will certify that at
least 80% (according to the Loan Agreement) of the amounts transferred from Bank's resources
were usedto finance eligible expenditures.

The following audit reports will be required:




Reportingandmonitoring

Monitoring andreporting will be done through the Financial Management System-SIAIDS,
which i s described inmore detail in paragraph XIV. The control and monitoring of the
decentralized sub projects inthe Fund-to-Fund Category will be done by the PAMInformation
System-SIS Incentivo which will interface with SIAIDS exporting all relevant data for the
preparation of SOT/SOE and FMRs.Each State and Municipal Coordination Unit in their
relevant Health Secretariatswill access PAM System through the Internet.




                                                118

 The project will report inthe format of FMRFinancial Statements inthe periodicity shown inthe
 table below. The reports will be generateddirectly from SIAIDS and will contain data comparing
 planned figures as per POA with actual figures and variances both inUS$ and R$. Eachreport
 will contain the figures for the quarter, accumulatedfor year, accumulated for the Project.
 PhysicalProgressand ProcurementReports will also be prepared.The year-endFinancial
 Statements will be issued also in the same FMR format and will serve for independent audit
 purposes.The AIDS I11Project intends to disburse via SOE/SOT arrangements, however due to
 the adequacy of the Financial Management Systems in place, the FMRs could also be used for
 disbursement purposesif the project decides in the future for this methodology.




  Report                                                                         Frequency
   1.Annual Programming-Budget (POA) by Component, sub components,               Yearly
  activity and expensecategory. This report will be preparedby each
  executing Agency and consolidated by PCU
  2. Sources and uses of funds by Component FMR- 1A (Grand totals)               Quarterly
  3. Sources and uses of funds by Categories FMR- 1B(Grand totals)               Quarterly
  4. Procurement FMR-Acquisitions of Goods, Services and Consulting              Quarterly
  5. Special Account Statement                                                   Quarterly


Information Systems

The NASCP has a managementinformation systemwhich encompassesdata collection and
processing and the preparation of managementreports for an effective monitoring and control of
Project implementation. The systemwill consolidate all information of Project's actions,
centralized procurement done by the Ministry of Health and results achieved inrelation to
established goals. The systemwill have several modules and will interface with other existing
systems at Federal and Ministry of Health levels as SIAIDS, SIMOP, SIS Incentivo, SICLOM,
SISCEL, SISFAF, SIAFI and SIDOR.

The Financial Management will be executedusingthe SIAIDS module as the main tool for
monitoring, accounting and reportingof the AIDS I11Project. This module i s an evolution and
upgrade of the SIAIDS usedwith good results in the AIDS I1Project. Additionally, two other
modules specially designedto control and monitor the implementation of decentralized sub
projects will be used-SIMOP and SIS Incentivo.

Furthermore, considering that this i s a Federal Government Project, its transactions will have to
flow and be recorded by two other systemspertainingto the overall Country's Financial
Management System: SIDOR for budgeting and SIAFIfor accounting and payments.

SIAIDS: InAIDS 11,SIAIDS has terminals that operate via Internet installedinmost of the
participatingStates and Municipalities. InAIDS I11Project the SIAIDS will be operatedonly at
the central level by PCUconsidering that the States and Municipalities will not receive funds
directly via "Convenios" but via the PAMFundto Fundtransfers. SIAIDS records the POA wich
i s the Project's programmingbudgeting tool. After the POA i s approved and recorded in SIAIDS
it can only be altered if a reprogramming takes place and is approved for a certain activity.

The Financial and Physical execution section records all expenses and transfers madeboth by the
PCUand by the decentralized ExecutingAgencies. Also, the physical execution is recorded by


                                                 119

quantities and units, and explanations of eventual deviations from planned figures are provided
and recorded. On basis of the expenses recorded, the relevant SOE/SOT are issued by the system.
An important feature of the system is that it is only possible to issuea SOE or SOT, ifthe
relevant cost has beenincluded in the POA (programming). The systemfinally captures all the
data from the various other pertinent modulesto issuethe quarterly FMRsas explained in
paragraph XI11above.

Other functions of SIAIDS are: i)preparation of annual procurement plan and control of
procurement of goods, services and hiring of consultants; ii)interface with SLMOPfor collection
of data relevant to the sub projects execution; iii)interface with SIAFIto extract data of transfers
to UNOrganizations and direct payments made by Ministry of Health; iv) interface with SIS
Incentivo module to controlcounterpart and Bank's fund to fundtransfers

SIMOP: System developed and operatedby PCUto control and monitor subprojects
implementationthrough the decentralized Implementing Agencies. Its main functions are: i)
control of subprojects implementation within the coordinationof the PCU; ii)control of funds
transfers to CSOs from UNOrganizations; iii)control and checking of expensereports received
from the executing CSOs. This last function will be integrated with SIAIDS module to allow for
the documentation of eligible expenditures vis a vis the fundto fundtransfers via SOT.

SIS Incentivo: This systemwill contain the PAMs of the participating States and Municipalities
inthe Fund-to-Fund program. It will monitor andcontrol all information flow for the
qualification process, includingtechnical analysis and forwarding to the approvingCommissions
at Federal, State and Municipal levels. Once the PAMs are approved it will issuethe
"Qualification Ordinance" to be signedby the Minister, and will processpayment requeststo
FNSfor transfer to the relevant FES or FMS providingdata inputto SIAIDS of the amounts
transferred to the States and Municipalities.

SIDOR: i s the Federal Government systemfor budgeting. This i s the system whereby the MP
collects datafrom all Ministries and other Government Entitiesto prepare the annual consolidated
federal budget. After its approval by Congress it i s recorded in SIAFIand becomes the official
and formal financial execution/spending parameter of the Federal Government. As part of the
federal system, the PCU will preparethe AIDS I11budget that will be incorporated into the
Ministry of Healthbudget.

SIAFI: i s the Federal Government accounting and treasury system operated by STN.
Immediately after the Budget's approval by the Congress, it i s recorded in SIAFI, and from then
on it will automatically reject any commitment or payment entry that has not been previously
recorded from the Budget. SIAFI is also a tool for the PCUto follow upthe balance of the funds
that were allocated to the AIDS 111Project, both from Government Counterpart funds and Bank's
financing.




                                                 120

                                   Disbursement Arrangements

The regular procedurescurrently in place inthe Federal Government are that after the initial
allocation i s made to the Special Account by the Bank, no moneys are withdrawn immediately to
pay for eligible expenditures incurred. This i s the main reason also why the Project will not
disburse usingthe Report based methodology (FMR).As described inthe Flow of Funds
paragraph, the PCU has to prepareestimatesof the funds required on a monthly basis, submit to
STN which will than make cash advances. Subsequently, PCUdocuments the expenditures
through regular SOE, submits to STNthat will withdraw from the Special Account and request
from the Bank the relevant replenishment.

IntheAIDSI11Projecttwotypesofdisbursementarebeingproposed:

For categories Goods, Consultants' Services, Incremental Operating Costs, Subprojects type A
and B and Training the disbursement will be through SOE, followingcurrent
payment/documentation procedures. For subprojects type A and B carried out through Bank-
approved UNagencies, disbursement will have to be report-based, since these Organizations
require advances to start implementation. Inthese cases, initial advances will be basedon
subproject proposals, and Technical Cooperation Agreements signed between the CN and the
relevant Entity. An initialtransfer will be made dully supported by implementationplans and
subsequenttransfers will be made on the basis of expense accounts with supporting
documentation.

For the PAMFundto Fundcategory with transfers to the States andMunicipalities, the
disbursement will be on basis of SOTSissued when the transfers are made from the FNS to the
FES. The documentation process i s more complex, since the responsibility of activities' execution
by the CSOs are of the States, and the monitoring will be done by the Ministry of Health on basis
of results and goals achievement as established each PAM. Inthis case, independent Audits will
be conducted by SFC in all States and in selectedparticipating CSOs to certify that the amount
financed by the Bank inthis category corresponds to eligible expenditures inthe total cost
executed by the relevant CSO. All the major activities and a reasonablenumber of smaller
interventions chosen on a random basis will the selectedto be audited inthe CSOs. If it is not
demonstratedthe minimumestablished amount of eligible expenses, remedial actions will apply,
including the return to the Special Account, by the Ministryof Health, of the amounts not
demonstratedas eligible.

Special Account: The minimumapplication size for payments directly from the loan account or
for issuanceof Special Commitments i s 20 percent of the amount deposited in the Special
Account. The initial allocationto the Special Account will be basedon a 4-month estimated
expenditure. As agreedduringnegotiations, the Authorized Allocation for the Special Account
will be US$lO.O million.

Retroactive Financing: Retroactive financing inthe amount of US$ 10.0 million for eligible
expenditures incurredas the Appraisal Mission on April 4,2003 up to when the signature of the
Loan Agreement takes place was agreed at negotiations.

Use of SOEs: The project, with the exception of disbursements made to acceptable UNagencies,
will use traditional disbursement mechanisms, i.e. direct payments, replenishment of the Special
Account, reimbursement of pre-financed expenditures and special commitments. The SOE
methodology will be usedfor: (i)goods under contracts not exceeding US$350,000 equivalent
per contract; (ii)services of consulting firms under contracts not exceeding US$250,000


                                                 121

equivalent per contract; (iii)  services for individualconsultants under contracts not exceeding
$50,000 equivalent per contract; (iv) training, excludingtrainers and training institutions' fees, to
which consultant services will apply, and incremental operating costs; (v) incentivo/OSC-
executed activity transfers. Expenditures under contracts above such SOEthresholds will require
full documentation andno-objection fromthe Bank.

Action Plan

  Action Number                                                     Time Frame
      1                 PCUto strengthenthe supervision of          6 months after the
                        field financial managementissuesat          effectiveness date, the
                        decentralized ImplementingEntities          FMstaff requirements
                                                                    will be reviewed by the
                                                                    Bank and staff will be
                                                                    strengthened if
                                                                    necessary, after such
                                                                    review
      2                 PCUto set a conflict resolution board       Guidelines by Project
                        for the NGO's program                       launch; Appointment
                                                                    within the first year of
                                                                    Project implementation.

      3                 PCUto elaborate models of legal             By Loan agreement
                        agreements for transfer of funds from       effectiveness
                        States and MuniciDalities to NGOs
     4                  PrepareFMR samples                          By negotiation
      5                 Write upfinal TOR for Auditing,             By effectiveness
                        includingAudits to be performedin
                        j
      6                 PrepareOperational Manual, including        By effectiveness
                        financial asDects


FinancialManagement SupervisionPlan

The AIDS I11Project requires special supervision, considering that the capacity of the PCUi s
good, but the Financial Management riskinvolved i s substantial due to the highdegreeof
decentralization in the Sub Projects and Fundto FundCategories. On the other hand, there are
sufficient and adequate internalcontrols in place which reinforce the FinancialManagement of
the Project as: a) the implementation of a Supervision Team who will review the sub projects
transactions in the field; b) independent audit to be performed on a sample basis to the
decentralized ImplementingAgencies; c) internal reviewdaudits made by FNS.

Bi-annual financial management supervision missions are proposed. One would focus on PCU
activities and the second would focus on field activities, with visits to States, Municipalities and
CSOs. Each year not less than two States, two Municipalities and three CSOs would be visited.
The mission focusingonthe PCUwould include a review, through SIAIDS, SIMOP and SIS
Incentivo (PAMInformation System), of the monitoring and reporting of a sample of
decentralized ImplementingAgencies.




                                                   122

                      Annex 6, Table B: Allocationof LoanProceeds


          Expenditure Category          Amount in US$million       FinancingPercentage
  1. Goods                                      49.0         100%of foreign expenditures and
                                                                80% of local expenditures
E.Consultants' Services                I        3.5                       80%
  3. Training                                   6.1                       80%
  4. PAMNGO transfers                            12          80% of goods, works and services
                                                                   executed by NGOs
  5. Subprojects A                              11.2                      70%
  6. Subprojects B                              9.9                       70%
  7. Project Incremental Operational            7.3             70% untilan aggregateof
 costs                                                       $3,500,000 is reached, thereafter
                                                                50% untilan aggregateof
                                                               $6,000,000 i s reached; and
                                                                 30% for the remainder.




I Total Loan                                   100.00




                                           123

                            Annex 7: Project ProcessingSchedule


Project Schedule                                             Planned      Actual

Time takento preparethe project (months)                                   8 months
First Bank mission fidentification)                        09/09/2002      09/09/2002
Appraisal mission departure                                03/3112003      03/29/2003
Negotiations                                               04/21/2003      06/04/2003
PlannedDateof Effectiveness                                09/01/2003


   Preparedby: Sandra Rosenhouse


   Preparationassistance:


   Bankstaff who worked on the project included:
        Name                                               Speciality
SandraRosenhouse                            Task Team Leader, LCSHH
Madalena Dos Santos                         Sector Leader, LCCSC
William McFarland                           Consultant, HIV/AIDS M&E
DariushAkhavan                              PAHO, Economist
Juan Rovira                                 Pharmaceuticals Economist
KimPageShafer                               Consultant. Epidemiolonist
Theresa Diaz                                CDC, Epidemiologist
EfraimJimenez                               Procurement
Suzana Abbott                               Operations
DanielaMarques                              Operations
Claudio Mittelstaedt                     II FinancialManagement
Christian Hurtado                          Consultant, Implementation
JosC Janeiro/Regis Cunningham              Disbursement
MartaMolares-Halberg                        Lena1Counsel
Martin OchoaFemandoMonteiro                 Environment
Zeze Weiss                               II Civil Societv
Anna Sant' Ana                             Social Development
Debrework Zewdie                           Peer Reviewer, HDNVP
Olusoji Adeyi                              Peer Reviewer, ECSHDT
Martha Ainsworth                           Peer Reviewer, OEDST
PatriciaBemedo                             ProgramAssistant
Carolvn Shelton                            JPA




                                            124

                        Annex 8: Documentsin the Project File*


A. Project ImplementationPlan
8. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other

Bastos, Francisco I. Szwarcwald, Celia L.2000. "AIDS e pauperizaqiio: principais
                      and
conceitos e evidencias empiricas". Cademos de Safide Nblica, 16( suppl 1):pages.

BEMFAM,Macro Systems International, 1996. PessuisaNacionalsobre Demografiae
Safide.

BEMFAM,Macro Systems International, 1997.DST/AIDSe aPesquisaNacionalsobre
Demografiae Safide: uma anhlisedo nivel de conhecimento e comportamentos de
vulnerabiliza@o.

CEBRAP, 1999. PesquisaNacionalde ReproduqgoHumana. Siio Paulo, B r a d

Galviio, Jane, 2002. "A politica brasileira de distribuqiio e produqiio de medicamentos anti-
retrovirais: privilkgio o direito?Cadernosde Safide Pliblica, 18(1): 213-219, Jan-Feb. 2002.

Heise, Lori and Elias, Christopher. 1995. "Transforming AIDS prevention to meet womenk
needs: A focus on developing countries". Social Science and Medicine, 40:93 1-943.

Jha, P., Nagelkerke, N.J.D, Ngugi, E.N.,PrasadaRao, J.V.R., Willbond, B., Moses, S., and
Plummer, F.A.2001. "Reducing HIV transmission indeveloping countries". Science, April
13,2001, 292:5515:224.

Levi, Guido Carlos, and Vitoria, Marco Antonio. 2002 ."Fightingagainst AIDS: the
Brazilian Experience". 2002. Editorial Review. AIDS 2002, 16: 2373-2383.

Marseille, Elliot, Morin, Steve, Collins, Chris, Summers, Todd, Coates, Thomas. 2001, The
Cost-Effectiveness of HIVPrevention in Developing Countries. Background material
prepared for the Leadership Forum on HIV Prevention, June 22,2001, Henry Kaiser Family
Foundation.

Merson, M.H,Dayton, J., O'Reilly, K. 2000. "Effectiveness of HNpreventioninterventions
indeveloping countries". AIDS 2000, 14(suppl. 2): S68-84.

Ministry of Health, 2002. Boletim Epidemiol6gico-AIDS. July-Sept 2001, XV no. 1.

Ministry of Health, 2002. Boletim Epidemiol6gico-AIDS. Oct 2001-March 2002, XV no. 2.

Ministry of Health, 2002. National AIDS DrugPolicy. June, 2002. Secretariat of Health
Policy, National STD/AIDS Program.

Ministry of Health. 2002. Relat6rio de Implementagio e Avalia@o-1998-2002. Acordo de
Emprkstimo BIRD4392/BR Projeto AIDS 11.Brasilia, August 2002.



                                            125

Palocci Filho, A. 2002. "Saude paraa Familia Brasileira: Programado Govemo do Luiz
Inacio Lulada Silva".

Pan American Health Organization, 2002. "Vigilancia del SIDA en las AmCricas". Informe
Bianual, Sept.

Parker, Richardand CamargoJr., Kenneth Roche1de. "Poverty and HIVIAIDS:
anthropological and sociological aspects". Cadernos de SacdeEiblica, 2000, 16 suppl. 1: 89-
102.

Piola, SCrgio, Teixeira, Luciana, Sadi Dutra, Joel, 2001 Cuentas Nacionales en VIWSIDA:
Estimaci6n de flujos de financiamiento y gasto en VWSIDA: Brasil 1999/2000. SIDALAC,
ONUSIDA, Fundaci6n Mexicanapara la Salud.

World Bank. 2002. Brazil Health Policy Transition Notes: Summary Of Major Messages,
Issues and Policy Choices. Internal Bank Document. September 2002.

World Bank. 2002. Country Assistance Strategy ProgressReport for the Federative Republic
of Brazil. May, 2002. Report 24182-BR.

World Bank. 2000. Country Assistance Strategy for the Federative Republic of Brazil.
Report 20160-BR

World Bank. 1998. Project Appraisal Document: Brazil Second AIDS & STD Control
Project. Report No. 18338-BR.

Johnston, Timothy and Susan Stout. 1999. OED Report. Investing inHealth: Development
Effectiveness inthe Health, Nutrition, and Population Sector. Report No. 21392.

World Bank. 1998. Impact EvaluationReport. The Brazil Health System. OED Report No.
18142.

World Bank. 1998. Implementation Completion Report: BrazilAIDS & STD Control
Project (Loan 3659-BR). Report No. 18730.

World Bank. 1998. Implementation Completion Report. SecondNortheast Basic Health
Services. Report No. 18046.

World Bank. 1997. Implementation Completion Report. Northeast Endemic DiseaseControl
Project. Report No. 16694.

World Bank. 1993. Staff Appraisal Report: Brazil AIDS & STD Control Project. Report
NO.11734-BR.


*Includingelectronic files




                                           126

                                      Annex 9: Statement of Loansand Credits
                                     OperationsPortfolio(IBRDADA and Grants)



 Active Proiects                                                                                Difference Between
                                                                                               Expectedand Actual
                                                     OriqinalAmount in US$ Millions              Disbursements

Project ID ProjectName                                  IBRD IDA GRANT Cancel.         Undisb.       Orig. FrmRev'd

PO06559                                                    45
           ~(BF-R)SP.TSP                                                            4.7041535 4.70415349
PO43873     AG TECH DEV.                                   60                       27.352232 27.3522316 27.352232
PO06562     BAHIA MUN.DV                                  100                       37.251227 37.2512268 30.052294
P035728     BAHiAWTR RESOURCES                             51                       22.413577 22.4135766 0.8378589
P006564     BEL0 H M.TSP                                   99                        12,703649 12.7036486
PO37828     BR (PR)R.POVERTY                              175                       64.099968 64.0999681 64.099968
PO06449     BR CEARA WTR MGT PROGERIRHSIM                 136                        101.09254 50.5092071
PO58129     BR EMER. FIRE PREVENTION(ERL)                   15                      7.2175792 7.21757922 1.2221558
PO47309     BR ENERGY EFFICIENCY(GEF)                                   15           14.634311 11.1509133
PO06522     BR ESP.SANT0WATER                             154                   41.5 2.9432373 44.4432373 -9.5567627
PO73294     BR Fiscal& Fin. Mgmt.TAL                      8.88                       7.2330925 4.53975914
PO62619     BR INSSREF LIL                                5.05                       0.3585304 -0.1364696 0.3585304
PO06474     BR LAND MGT3 (SA0 PAULO)                        55                       50.188211 41.8582111 29.854878
PO57910     BR PENSIONREFORMLIL                              5                       3.0578051 3.05780509 2.5210718
PO39199     BR PROSANEAR 2                                30.3                       29.393583 -0.9063982
PO43869     BR SANTA CATARINA NATURAL RESOURC& POV.       62.8                       61.455345 4.84684523
PO73192     BR TA FinancialSector                       14.46                        9.3005235 -4.2144766
PO43420     BR WATER S.MOD.2                              225                   125   96.30415  146.27415 139.53415
PO54120     BR- AiDS & STD ControlII                      165               3.5004 7.4633421    10.963741
PO43874     BR- DISEASESURVEILLANCE- VlGlSUS              100                    25 34.889223 59.8892233
PO50763     BR- Fundescola2                            202.03                        22.871273   4.541273
PO06554     BR- HEALTHSECTOR REFORM- REFORSUS             300                    10 65.955936 75.9559361
PO38947     BR- SC. & TECH 3                              155                        105.66788 105.66788
PO59565     BR- BA BASICEDU PROJECT(PHASEI)               69.6                        12,90292 5.63625329
PO59566     BR-CEARA BASIC EDUCATION                        90                       83.953136 -6.0468093
PO57653     BR- FUNDESCOLA IllA                           160                         179.5586 -11.632702
PO57665     BR-FAMILYHEALTH EXTENSION PROJECT               68                           67.32       26.52
PO74777     BR-MunicipalPensionTAL                           5                               5        0.66
PO49265     BR-RECIFEURBAN UPGRADINGPROJECT                 46                              46
PO66170     BR-RGN2ND RuralPovertyReduction               22.5                          21.025       2.025
PO57649     BahiaRuralPoverty ReductionProject          54.35                        38.615003 9.76500322
PO50875     CearaRural Poverty Reduction Project          37.5                        27.32681 7.76014333
PO06436     CearaUrban Development& Water Resource        140                      3 14.973313 17.9733126 17.973313
PO39200     ENERGY EFFICIENCY(ELETROBRAS)                 43.4                        42.96598   33.56598
PO06532     FED HWY DECENTR                               300                        143.08559 143.085593 41.73858
PO38895     FED.WTRMGT                                    198                        108.24769 106.847694 98.247894
PO60221     FORTALEZAMETROPOLITANTRANSPORTPROJE             85                       95.700766 23.6834768
PO70552     GEF BR PARANA BIODIVERSITY PROJECT                           8           8.2272744  0.0333333
PO06210     GEF BR-NATL BIODIVERSITY                                    10            2.481377 3.41556618 4.0355662
PO55954     GOlASSTATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT                   65                       55.395482 24.8288151
PO50772     LAND-BASEDPOVERTYALLEVIATIONI(SIM)          202.1                        209.20713 149.617061
PO51701     MARANHAOR.POVERTY                              80                        2.7703805 2.77038051
PO35741     NATLENV 2                                       15                       10.695833 9.19583348 7.4666047
PO50776     NE MicrofinanceDevelopment                     50                        33.114499 -16.885484
PO42565     PARAIBA R.POVERTY                              60                        21.438789 21.4387886
PO50881     PlAUl RURAL POVERTY REDUCTIONPROJECT          22.5                       17.544092 7.21075859
PO50880     PernambucoRural PovertyReduction              30.1                       26.161335 9.97800169
PO38882     RECIFEM.TSP                                   102                        9.2283691 9.22836912
PO34578    RGS HWY MGT                                     70                        49.338228  49.338228 48.008228
PO43868    RGS LAND MGTIPOVERTY                           100                        45.409395 43.1093945 39.576061
PO43421    RJ M.TRANSITPRJ.                               186              17.1721 128.94655    146.11864
PO48869    SALVADOR URBANTRANS                            150                         100.7142 92.3842031
PO74085    Sergipe RuralPovertyReduction                 20.8                        18.194048 4.32738133
PO51696    SA0 PAULOMETROLINE 4 PROJECT                   209                           206.91       68.61
OverallResult                                         4845.37           33 225.172 2621.0034 1718.74564 543.32262




                                                        127

                               Brazil
                         Statementof IFC's
                  HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                          As of 6/30/2002
                    (In US DollarsMillions)



FY Approval             Company         Loan   Equity   Quasi Partic Loan   Equity Quasi Partic
                  1998 Fosfertil             20        0   0 33.75       20      0    0 33.75
                  1998 Fras-le             9.33        0  10        0  9.33      0   6.7       0
                  1994 GAVEA               5.63        0  5.5       0  5.63      0   5.5       0
                      0 GP Cptl Rsuctd        0     9.67    0       0      0  9.35     0       0
                  2001 GFC                    9        0   0        0     9      0     0       0
                  1997 Guilman-Amorim     25.78        0    0  17.47  25.78      0     0  57.47
                  1998 lcatu Equity           0       20    0       0      0 12.44     0       0
                  1999 InnovaSA           18.75        5    0      55  18.75      5    0      55
1980187197              lpiranga          29.33        0    0  57.27  29.33      0     0  57.27
                  1999 ltaberaba              0     5.34    0       0      0  5.34     0       0
                  1999 JOSAPAR                8        0    7       0     3      0     7       0
                  1995 LATASA - Brazil        0        0    5       0      0      0    5       0
                  1995 Lojas Americana       12        0    5       0     12      0    5       0
1987192196199           MBR                  20        0    0       0    20       0    0       0
                      0 MacedoNordeste     4.75        0    5       0  4.75       0    5       0
                  1996 Mallory             4.36        0    0       0  4.36       0    0       0
1975196                 Oxiteno NE          7.5        5    0       0   7.5       0    0       0
                  1994 ParaPigmentos      19.35        0    9   8.21   19.35      0    9   8.21
1987196                 Perdigao          15.31        0    0       2  15.31      0    0       2
1989195                 PolitenoInd.       4.38        0    0       0  4.38       0    0       0
l994/00102              Portobello            0     1.15    0       0      0  1.15     0       0
                  2000 Puras               4.33        0    0       0  4.33       0    0       0
                  1998 Randon              6.07        0    3       0  6.07       0    3       0
                  1991 Rhcdia-Ster            0     5.95    0       0      0  5.95     0       0
                  1995 RhcdiacolPTA           5        0    0       0      5      0    0       0
                  1990 Ripasa                 0        5    0       0      0      5    0       0
                  1997 Rodovia            25.28        0    0 39.75    25.28      0    0 39.75
                 1994/9(S.A.I.C.C.            0        0    0       0      0      0    0       0
I987197                 SP Alpargatas        15        0    5       0     15      0    5       0
I994195197              Sadia              19.5        0  6.5     104   19.5      0  6.5     104
                  1997 Samarco             10.8        0    0   5.33    10.8      0    0   5.33
                  2000 samaritan0            20        0    0       0      0      0    0       0
                  1998 Saraiva             9.23        3    0       0   9.23      3    0       0
                      0 Seara Alimentos       0     3.88    0       0      0  3.88     0       0
                  2001 Sepetiba              27        0    5       8     12      0    5        8
                  1997 Sucomco                6        0    0       0      6      0    0       0
                  1999 Sudamerica             0       15    0       0      0     15    0        0
                  2001 Synteko               18        0    0       0     18      0    0       0
                  I996 TlGRE              11.54        0    5   4.27   11.54      0    5   4.27
1992/93                 TRIKEM                0        0    0       0      0       0   0        0
                  1998 Tecon Rio Grande    6.38        0  5.5    13.6   6.38      0  5.5    13.6
                  2001 Tecon Salvador       3.5        1    0       5    3.5  0.77     0        5
1988194102              Unibanco            150        0    0       0      0       0   0        0
                  1999 Vulcabras          15.01        0    0       0  15.01      0    0        0
                  1997 Wembley                0       10    0       0      0     I O   0        0
                  1999 Wiest                  0        0    8       0      0      0    8        0
                  2001 AG Concession          0       15   15       0      0  4.29     0        0
1996197                 Algar Telecom         0     8.17    0       0      0  8.17     0        0
                  2001 Apolo                  8        0    0       0    5.5      0    0        0
                  1998 Arteb                 20        7    0  18.33      20       7   0  18.33
                  1999 AutoBAn               35        0    0      31  29.22      0    0 25.88
                  1993 BACELL               4.9     15.7    0      5.4   4.9  15.7     0      5.4
0/00                   BBA                   40        0    0       0     30      0    0        0
                  1998 BSC                 9.06        0    0   4.85    9.06      0    0    4.85
I993196                BUNGHCEVAL             0     8.06    0       0      0  8.06     0       0
1990191/92             BahiaSUI               0        0    0       0      0       0   0        0
                  1996 BancoBradesco       3.72        0    0  13.89    3.72      0    0  13.89




                                 128

1988102                                        BancoItau           100        0     0       0
                                          1997 Bompreco           14.58       0     5       0
                                          1991 Bradesco-Eucatex    1.25        0    0       0
                                          1995 Bradesco-Hering      7.5        0    0       0
                                          1991 Bradesco-Petrofl     7.5        0    0       0
                                          1991 Bradesco-Romi          0     0.4     0       0
                                          1995 Brahma- BRA            5        0    0       0
1994196                                       CHAPECO             17.85    3.77     0    5.51
                                          2002 CN Odebrecht          80        0    0    165
1973fl8183                                     CODEMIN                0      0.4    0       0
                                          1992 CRP-Caderi             0    0.65     0       0
                                          1995 Cambuhy/MC          5.63        0    0       0
                                          1997 Copesul             22.5        0    0      90
1993197100                                     Coteminas              0    0.53     0       0
1980192                                        DENPASA                0     0.12    0       0
1995196198102                                  Distel Holding         0    4.19     0       0
                                          1998 Dixie Toga             0       15    0       0
1987196197                                     Duratex            15.21        0    0   34.31
                                          1999 Eliane                32        0   13       0
                                          1998 Empesca                5        0   10       0
2001102                                        Escol@                 0     0.28    0       0
                                          2000 Fleury                 9        0     6      0

                       Total Portfolio:                         1009.81   169.26 133.5 761.94


                           ApprovalsPendingCommitment
                                                                Loan   Equity   Quasi Partic
                                            0 Net                     0 19964.14     0      0
                                          2002 Suape ICT          6000         0     0      0
                                          2002 Microinvest            0    1250      0      0
                                          2002 Net Servicos       50000    5000      0      0
                                          2002 Macae             65000         0 10000 275000
                                          2002 Amaggi             30000        0     0      0
                                          2002 UP Offshore        16800   10000      0 25200
                                          2002 Andrade            30000        0 10000 120000
                                          1999 Cibrasec               0    7500      0      0
                                          2000 BBA                10000        0     0 50000
                                          2001 Satipel            15000        0 15000      0
                                          2001 Unisul             15000        0     0      0
                                          2001 BradTempleton          0   20000      0      0
                                          2001 Cataguazes         45000        0     0 40000
                                          2002 Univali            10000        0     0      0
                                          2002 Unibanco-CL            0        0     0 150000
                                          2002 BancoItau              0        0     0 100000

                 Total PendingCommitment:                        292800 63714.14 35000 760200




                                         129

                                               Annex 10: Countryat a Glance
                                           Brazil at a glance                                                              9112/02


                                                                 Latin    Upper-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                               America middle-
                                                         Brazil &Carib.  income        Developmentdiamond'
2001
Population,midyear (millions)                             1726     524       504                     Lifeexpectancy
GNIper capita (Atlasmethod, US51                          3,060  3,560     4,460
GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                           5287   1,862     2,248

Average annual growth, 1995-01                                                                             T
Population(%)                                               1 3     1 5      1 3
Laborforce (%)                                              1 8    2 2       1 8       GNI                                Gross
                                                                                       per                               primary
Most recentestimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                                   capita                          nrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulationbelownationalpovertyline)             22
Urbanpopulation(% of totalpopulation)                        82      76       7-7
Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                               68      70       71                           i
Infantmortality (per 7,000livebirths)                        30     29       24
Child malnutrition(% of childrenunder5)                       6       9        9             Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)           87     85       87                                                   I
Illiteracy (% ofpopulationage 75+)                           14      11       10           -
Gross primaryenrollment (% of school-agepopulation)        154     130       127                 Brml
    Male                                                   156     131       128            -    Upper-middle-incomegroup
    Female                                                  152    128       126

KEY ECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                  1981    1991    2000     2001        Economicratios'
GDP (US5 billions)                                263 6   407 7  593 8     5020
Gross domesticInvestmenffGDP                       23 1    196    21 7      21 0
Exportsof qoods and ServicedGDP                     9 4     8 7   108       134                          Trade
GrossdomesticsavingsIGDP                           22 7    20 5   20 1      199
Gross nationalsavtngsiGDP                          166     186    172       164                            i
Current account balanceIGDP                         -45    -03    -4 1      -4 6
interestpaymentdGDP                                 3 1     0 5    2 2       2 1
Total debffGDP                                     30 9    29 7   39 8      45 0
Total debt sewadexports                            66 4    23 3   92 0      60 5
Presentvalue of debffGDP                                          37 7
Presentvalue of debffexports                                     3274
                                                                                                      Indebtedness
                                      1981-91 1991-01     2000    2001  2001-05
(averageannualgrowth)
GDP                                       2 9       2 9     4 4     1 5      2 6            -Brazil
GDP percapita                             0 9        1 5    3 1    0 2       1 6            . Upper-middle-incomegroup
~xportsof goods and services              6 8       6 4    114    12 1       3 7


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY

                                                                                                                                  I
PA of GDP)
Agriculture                                        10.7     7.8    7.4       9.3       2o T
industry                                           43.7    36.2   28.3      33.9       i o
   Manufacturing                                   32.9    25.3   17.4      21.0
Services                                           45.5    56.1   64.3      56.8        0

Privateconsumption                                 68.0    61.6   60.6      60.1
Generalgovernment consumption                       9.3    17.9   19.3      19.9
Importsof goodsand services                         9.8     7.9   12.4      14.4


                                               1981-91  1991-01  2000      2001      1 Growth
(averageannualgrowth)                                                                         of exportsand imports(%)            1
Agriculture                                         2.5     3.4    3.0       5.1      40

Industry                                            2.2     2.5    4.9      -0.6
  Manufacturing                                     1.4     1.9    6.1       0.6      20

Services                                            3.5     2.9    3.7       1.5
                                                                                       0
Privateconsumption                                  1.2     5.0    3.7       2.6
Generalgovernmentconsumption                        7.5    -1.0    0.0       4.8     -20
Gross domesticinvestment                            3.9     3.5   11.2      -2.0
Importsof goodsand services                         2.9    10.0   12.4       0.7


Note:2001 data are preliminaryestimates.
'Thediamondsshowfourkeyindicatorsinthecountry(inbold)comparedwithitsincome-groupaverage.Ifdataaremissing,thediamondwill
   be incomplete.




                                                               130

                                                                                                                                    B r a d

PRICESand GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                          1981                  1991    2000    2001
Domesticprices                                                                           l Inflation(y                                    I
(% change)
Consumer prices                           101.7                432.8      6.0     7.7
Implicit GDP deflator                     107.2                415.3      8.0     7.4

Governmentfinance/a
(% of GDP,includescurrentgrants)
Current revenue                                                         21.9    23.0                96     97      99      99     w      01
Current budget balance                                                    1.8     1.8               -GDP      deflator b C P I
Overallsurpkddeficit                                                      3.2     3.8


TRADE
                                          1981                  1991    2000    2001
(US$millions)                                                                              Exportand importlevels(US$ mill.)

Total exports(fob)                                            31,620   55.086 58,223
 Coffee                                                        2,870   3,048   2,932
 Soybeans                                                      2,031   2,188   2,726      9o.ow
 Manufactures                                                 20,483   41,027 41,144
Totalimports(cif)                                             21,041   55,783 55,581      40,OW

 Food                                                           1,275   1,507   1,169     20 000
 Fueland energy                                                3,371    6,362  6,276
 Capitalgoods                                ................  5,966   13,591 14,803           0
                                                                                                   95   96    97     99    99     00   01
Expolt priceindex (1995=100)                 81                   81       97     94
Import priceindex (1995=100)                 70                    68     118    114      I             BExports         .Imports          I
Terms of trade (1995=100)                   116                   120      82     82

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                          1981                  1991    2000    2001      1
(US$mil/ionsi                                                                              Currentaccountbalance to GDP (%)

~xportsof goods and services             25,522               34,333   64,584 67.545
Importsof goodsand services              27,200               26,142   72,443 72,652
Resourcebalance                          -1,678                 8,191  -7.859  -5,107

Net income                              -10,272               -11,154 -17,886 -19,743
Netcurrent transfers                         10                 1,556   1,521   1,638

Current account balance                 -11,940                -1,407 -24,224 -23,212

Financingitems (net)                     12,286                -3,272  31,904  19,468
Changesin net reserves                     -346                 4,679  -7,680   3,744

Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$millions)       6,693                 8,763  33,011 35,866
Conversion rate (DEC,locaVUS$)         3.38E-11               1.48E-4     1.8     2.4

EXTERNALDEBTand RESOURCEFLOWS
                                          1981                  1991    2000    2001
(US$ millions)                                                                              Compositionof 2001debt (US$mill.)
Totaldebt outstandingand disbursed       81,454 121,020               236,157 226,067                           A. 7 9RR
   IBRD                                   2,286                 8,165   7,377   7,963
   IDA                                        0                     0       0       0

Total debt Service                       17,874                 8,340  62,891  42,977
   IBRD                                     317                 1,917   1,351   1,362
   IDA                                        0                     0       0       0

Compositionof net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                              8                    50      54
  Officialcreditors                       1,230                -1,062  -1,780     786
   Privatecreditors                       7,512                 1,701   7,936   3,615
   Foreigndirect investment               2,520                 1,103  32,779  22,457
   PoMolioequity                              0                   803   3,076   2.481
                                                                                                          F 152.416
World Bank program
   Commitments                            1,039                 1,348   1,290   1,609       A IBRD
                                                                                             -                               E Bilateral
   Disbursements                            387                   840   1,692   1,639       B .IDA     D -Othermultilateral  F Private
                                                                                                                                --
   Principal repayments                     136                 1,248     887     828       C IMF
                                                                                              -                              G -Short-term
   Netflows                                251                  -408      805     810
   Interestpayments                         181                   669     464     533
  Nettransfers                               70                -1,077     341     277


Development Economics                                                                                                               9/12/02

a. Datareferto central government.




                                                                     131


