                                  Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR 0000783




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  (IBRD-47130)




                                      ON A

                                     LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$100.0 MILLION

                                    TO THE

                      FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL

                                     FOR A

                  THIRD AIDS AND STD CONTROL PROJECT




                                December 18, 2008




Human Development Department
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and The Caribbean Region

                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
       (Exchange Rate Effective as of December 18, 2008)
                         Currency Unit = Real
                           R$ 1.00 = US$0.42
                          US$1.00 = R$ 2.38

                            FISCAL YEAR
                       January 1 - December 31

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AIDS   Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
ART    Anti Retroviral Therapy
ARV    Anti Retroviral Drugs
AZT    Azido-Deoxy Thymidine
BCC    Behavior Change Communication
BR     Brazil
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CD4    Cluster of differentiation 4
CDC    Centers for Disease Control
CPS    Country Partnership Strategy
CSO    Civil Society Organization
CTA    Centers of Testing and Counseling
CVD    Cardiovascular Disease
DALY   Disability-Adjusted Life Years
DF     Distrito Federal (Federal District)
DSEI   Distritos Sanitários Especiais Indígenas (Indigenous Health Districts)
DST    Doenças Sexualmente Transmissíveis (Sexually Transmitted Diseases)
FHP    Family Health Program
FM     Financial Management
FUNASA Fundação Nacional de Saúde (National Health Fund)
GCP    Good clinical practices
GMP    Good manufacturing practices
GOB    Government of Brazil
HD     Human Development
HIV    Human Immuno-deficiency Virus
IBRD   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB    International Competitive Bidding
ICR    Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDU    Intravenous Drug User
IEC    Information Education and Communication
ISR    Implementation Status Report
IV     Intravenous drug users
LAC    Latin America and the Caribbean
LGBT   Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender
M&E    Monitoring and Evaluation
MCT    Mother to Child Transmission
MDG    Millennium Development Goals
MOH    Ministry of Health
MSM    Men who Have Sex with Men
MTR    Mid-Term Review
NEP    National Evaluation Plan

NGO    Non-Governmental Organization
OECD   Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development
OI     Opportunistic Infection
OMS    Organização Mundial da Saúde (World Health Organization)
PAD    Project Appraisal Document
PAM    Planos de Ações e Metas (Action Plans of States and Municipalities)
PCAP   Pesquisa de Conhecimentos, Atitudes e Práticas Sexuais (Behavior, Attitudes
       and Sexual Practices Survey)
PCU    Project Coordination Unit
PDI    Project Development Indicators
PDO    Project Development Objectives
PLHIV  People Living with HIV
PMTCT  Prevention of Mother to Child Transmission
PN     Programa Nacional (Brazilian National AIDS Program)
PYLL   Potential Years of Life Lost
QAG    Quality Assurance Group
QEA    Quality at Entry
QSA    Quality of Supervision
RBM    Results-Based Management
SIAFI  Sistema Integrado de Administração Financeira (Federal Financial Management
       Integrated System)
SIAIDS AIDS Information System
SICLOM Sistema de Controle Logístico de Medicamentos (Control of Pharmaceutical
       Procurement, Stock and Distribution Information System)
SIL    Single Investment Loan
SIMOP  Sistema de Monitoramento do Subprojeto (Subproject Monitoring System)
SINAN  Sistema de Informações de Agravos de Notificação (National Notification
       System for Communicable Diseases)
SISCEL Sistema de Controle de Exames Laboratoriais (Control System of Laboratory
       tests and examinations of the AID/STD program)
SOE    Statement of Expenditures
SPE    Saúde e Prevenção nas Escolas (Program Health and Prevention in Schools)
STD    Sexually Transmitted Diseases
SUS    Sistema Unico de Saúde (Brazil's Unified Health System)
SW     Sex Worker
TA     Technical Assistance
TARV   Tratamento Anti-Retroviral (Anti Retroviral Therapy)
TTL    Task Team Leader
UDM    Pharmaceutical Drugs Dispensing Unit
UNAIDS United Nations AIDS Program
UNESCO United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization
UNODC  United Nations International Drug Control Program
UWB TF UNAIDS-World Bank Trust Fund
VCT    Voluntary Counseling and Testing
WHO    World Health Organization


                   Vice President:     Pamela Cox

                Country Director:      John Briscoe

                  Sector Director:     Evangeline Javier

                  Sector Manager:      Keith Hansen

               Task Team Leader:       Joana Godinho

                                               BRAZIL
                    THIRD AIDS AND STD CONTROL PROJECT




                                            CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph


 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design...............................................1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes...............................................8
 3. Assessment of Outcomes ..........................................................................................13
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.........................................................21
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance......................................................22
 6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................24
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners...........26
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing..........................................................................28
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component..................................................................................29
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis .................................................................46
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.............48
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ...........................................................................49
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results...................................................49
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .....................50
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .......................52
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents.......................................................................53
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                      BR-AIDS & STD
Country:                Brazil                  Project Name:
                                                                      Control 3
Project ID:             P080400                 L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-47130
ICR Date:               12/19/2008              ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                      FEDERATIVE
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:             REPUBLIC OF
                                                                      BRAZIL
Original Total
                        USD 100.0M              Disbursed Amount:     USD 100.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Federative Republic of Brazil - Ministry of Health
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date              Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        01/24/2002     Effectiveness:        04/08/2003         04/08/2003
Appraisal:             03/25/2002     Restructuring(s):
Approval:              05/30/2002     Mid-term Review:      11/28/2005         11/07/2005
                                      Closing:              12/31/2006         12/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings                Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory            Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory            Implementing
                                                Agency/Agencies:      Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory            Performance:          Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                            QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators          (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                 Quality at Entry
                                                                  None
at any time (Yes/No):                        (QEA):
Problem Project at any                       Quality of
                          No                                      None
time (Yes/No):                               Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                            Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Health                                                       100               100


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
HIV/AIDS                                                     Primary         Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                    At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:           Pamela Cox                      David de Ferranti
Country Director:         John Briscoe                    Vinod Thomas
Sector Manager:           Keith E. Hansen                 Evangeline Javier
Project Team Leader:      Joana Godinho                   Sandra Rosenhouse
ICR Team Leader:          Joana Godinho
ICR Primary Author:      Michele Tarsilla



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objectives of the Brazil STD & AIDS Control III Project were to
reduce the incidence of STDs and HIV and improve the quality of life for people living
with HIV/AIDS by strengthening the effectiveness and efficiency of the national
response and ensuring its sustainability in the medium and long-term. These objectives
would be reached by: (a) expanding the coverage and quality of interventions; (b)
decentralizing the financing and management of program activities to states and
municipalities in accordance with current national health policy; (c) strengthening
program management by establishing an effective M&E capacity and instituting the use
of management tools, including performance-based management, focusing on more cost-
effective interventions and improving their targeting; (d) introducing technological



                                            ii

innovation and upgrading existing technology in treatment and prevention; and (e)
reducing discrimination and stigma associated with HIV/AIDS.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
NA

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target      Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value        Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
                                              approval           Target        Completion or
                                            documents)           Values         Target Years

Indicator 1 :  Maintain HIV prevalence among pregnant young women aged 15-24 at 0.6% in
               2000-2006.
Value
quantitative or            0.6                      0.6                                  0.26
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                 12/31/2006                         12/31/2007

Comments       Target achieved. HIV prevalence among pregnant women is used as a proxy for

(incl. %       prevalence among pregnant young women 15-24 years. The new program target

achievement)   is to maintain prevalence among pregnant women at 0.3% which is in line with
               the respective MDG indicator

Indicator 2 :  Reduce prevalence of syphilis in males aged 17-19 from 1.3% in 2003 to 1.0% in
               2006.
Value
quantitative or            0.85                     1                                    0.53
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2003                 12/31/2006                         12/31/2007
Comments       Target achieved. Syphilis prevalence among conscripts used as a proxy for
(incl. %       prevalence among males 17-19. The baseline value was revised down to 0.85%,
achievement)   but even so there was a 40% decrease in this rate during the project period.
Indicator 3 :  Reduce prevalence of syphilis among MSM from 7.7% in 2002 to 4% in 2006.
Value
quantitative or            3.4                      4                                    2.7
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2002                 12/31/2006                         12/31/2007
Comments       Target achieved. Syphilis prevalence among conscripts used as a proxy for
(incl. %       prevalence among MSM. The baseline value was revised down to 3.4%, but
achievement)   even so there was a 20% decrease in this rate during the project period.

Indicator 4 :  Reduce HIV incidence related to vertical transmission from 16 in 1998 to 8% in
               2006.
Value
quantitative or            16                       8                                    6.8
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                 12/31/2006                         12/31/2004
Comments
(incl. %       Target achieved in 2004.
achievement)



                                              iii

Indicator 5 :  Increase survival of adult AIDS patients from 58 months in 1996 to 72 months in
               2006.
Value
quantitative or            58                          72                                 108
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1996                   12/31/2006                        12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       Target achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :  Reduce incidence of AIDS from 14.2 in 2000 to 10.0 in 2006.
Value
quantitative or            14.2                        10                                 12.1
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                   12/31/2006                        12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %       This target refers only to AIDS cases, not to HIV cases. Target not achieved due

achievement)   to increased survival as a result of ART, which is a very positive outcome.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value           Values (from                        Achieved at
                                                approval          Revised       Completion or
                                              documents)      Target Values     Target Years

Indicator 1 :  Increase coverage of treatment of HIV positive women in childbirth from 34% in
               2002 to 95% in 2006
Value
(quantitative              41.6                        95                                 51.2*

or Qualitative)                                                                           81.8**

Date achieved 12/31/2002                   12/31/2007                        12/31/2006
Comments       The baseline value was revised from 34% to 41.6%. Target not achieved: * based
(incl. %       on estimate of total number of infected pregnant women; ** based on actual
achievement)   number of pregnant women identified as infected.

Indicator 2 :  Increase testing of sexually active population aged 14+ from 30% in 2003 to
               50% in 2006.
Value
(quantitative              30                          50                                 40.1*
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2003                   12/31/2007                        12/16/2008
Comments       Target not achieved, but testing rate is above that of developed countries. The
(incl. %       new program target is to maintain the rate at 35%, a rate similar to that of
achievement)   developed countries. *Source: PCAP 2008.

Indicator 3 :  Increase percentage of SW who used condom in last sexual encounter with
               irregular partner from 68% in 2002 to 75% in 2006.
Value
(quantitative              67.3                        75                                 70
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2002                   12/31/2006                        12/31/2007



                                                iv

Comments
(incl. %       The baseline value was revised down from 68% to 67.3. Target not achieved but

achievement)   studies show an increase in the percentage of SW using condoms.

Indicator 4 :  Increase % of population spontaneously indicating sexual relations are a source
               of HIV transmission from 86% in 2003 to 95% in 2006.
Value
(quantitative             86                          95                                97*
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2004                  12/31/2006                        11/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %       Target achieved. * Source: PCAP 2008.
achievement)

Indicator 5 :  Increase % of AIDS patients who report having taken 100% of their medications
               from 68% in 2002 to 75% in 2006.
Value
(quantitative             68                          75                                86
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2002                  12/31/2006                        11/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %       Target achieved. 2008 study refers to patients who report having taken 95% of

achievement)   their medications in the last three days.

Indicator 6 :  Increase average initial CD4 in people without ART from 387 to 425 in the
               period 2002-2006.
Value
(quantitative             387                         425                               432
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2002                  12/31/2006                        12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       Target achieved. Source: SISCEL.
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                          IP               Disbursements
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     11/07/2003          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     05/17/2004          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     5.00
  3     06/25/2004          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     5.00
  4     12/10/2004          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     8.15
  5     04/28/2005          Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory               8.12
  6     09/20/2005          Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory              25.61
  7     01/18/2006          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    41.38
  8     12/08/2006          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    64.93
  9     01/13/2007          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    64.93
  10    06/25/2007          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    77.39
  11    07/31/2007          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    84.12



                                                v

  12  01/09/2008        Satisfactory      Satisfactory    84.12



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                      vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The first case of AIDS was detected in Brazil in 1983, and over the next two decades the
number of cases grew dramatically. Early estimates projected that Brazil would have
1.2 million people living with HIV/AIDS in 2000. At the beginning of the 1990s, the
epidemic appeared to be on a similar trajectory as that observed in many countries in sub-
Saharan Africa at the time.

The Government of Brazil (GOB) responded quickly to contain the epidemic. A National
AIDS Committee was established in 1986, leading to the establishment of the National
AIDS/STD Control Program (PN) later that year. The GOB developed an aggressive and
innovative program focused on both prevention and treatment. In 1996, Brazil became
the first country to offer universal, free antiretroviral treatment (ART) to HIV/AIDS
patients, which contributed to a dramatic decline in mortality, morbidity and
hospitalizations. Sexually-transmitted diseases (STDs) other than HIV were also a focus
of the program, given the connection between such diseases and a higher risk of HIV
infection. Finally, Brazil's program was unique in the high level of participation by civil
society organizations (CSOs) and non-governmental organizations (NGOs).

By 2003, the Brazil HIV/AIDS Program was considered among the best in the world.
Some challenges remained, however. The Program recognized the longstanding need for
better monitoring and evaluation (M&E), and for better supervision of activities that were
contracted to third parties. In addition, by 2003 the epidemiology had begun to change,
with an increasing number of women at risk or infected, and with HIV/AIDS spreading to
poorer and more remote populations. These changes demanded a response comprising a
complex combination of activities that would not only continue to target known
vulnerable groups, but would also reach out to women in general and newly-affected
populations. A wide range of new activities had to be designed, some of which were
more specifically targeted, as well as some that had a broader reach and included the
integration of prevention activities into care and treatment settings of other health
services, and other sectors. More also needed to be done with regards to improving the
sustainability of the program, including decentralizing a large share of program
management and financing to states and municipalities. In addition, new technologies
were needed that could improve on existing successes and reduce costs in the future.

The Third AIDS and STD Control Project was designed in 2003 as the third Bank loan to
Brazil to support the fight against HIV/AIDS. The first loan (1994-1998) sought to
prepare and strengthen public and private institutions working in prevention and care,
leaving in place a solid institutional framework for HIV/AIDS & STD control. The
second loan (1998-2003) sought to extend coverage of prevention activities, strengthen
institutional capacity for the delivery of ART, and to decentralize some project activities.
The third operation was designed to improve the effectiveness and sustainability of the
program's response by decentralizing more financial and management responsibility to
states and municipalities, and strengthening the national program.



                                             1

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The development objectives of the Brazil STD & AIDS Control III Project were to
reduce the incidence of STDs and HIV and improve the quality of life for people living
with HIV/AIDS by strengthening the effectiveness and efficiency of the national
response and ensuring its sustainability in the medium and long-term. These objectives
would be reached by: (a) expanding the coverage and quality of interventions; (b)
decentralizing the financing and management of program activities to states and
municipalities in accordance with current national health policy; (c) strengthening
program management by establishing an effective M&E capacity and instituting the use
of management tools, including performance-based management, focusing on more cost-
effective interventions and improving their targeting; (d) introducing technological
innovation and upgrading existing technology in treatment and prevention; and (e)
reducing discrimination and stigma associated with HIV/AIDS.

                                     Outcome Indicators
  · Maintain HIV prevalence among pregnant young women aged 15-24 at 0.6% in 2000-
    2006.
  · Reduce prevalence of syphilis in males aged 17-19 from 1.3% in 2003 to 1% in 2006.
  · Reduce prevalence of syphilis among MSM from 7.7% in 2003 to 4.0% in 2006.
  · Reduce HIV incidence related to vertical transmission from 16% in 1998 to 8% in 2006.
  · Increase survival of adult AIDS patients from 58 months in 1996 to 72 months in 2006.
  · Reduce AIDS incidence from 14.2 in 2000 to 10.0 in 2006.
                                      Output Indicators
  · Increase coverage of treatment of HIV positive women in childbirth from 34% in 2002 to
    95% in 2006.
  · Increase testing of sexually active population aged 14+ from 30% in 2003 to 50% in
    2006.
  · Increase percentage of SW who used condom on last sex with irregular partner from 68%
    in 2002 to 75% in 2006.
  · Increase percentage of population spontaneously indicating sexual relations are a source
    of HIV transmission from 86% in 2003 to 95% in 2006.
  · Increase the percentage of AIDS patients who report they have taken 100% of their
    medications from 68% in 2002 to 75% in 2006.
  · Increase mean first CD4 cell count in people not on ART from 387 cells in 2002 to
    425/mm in 2006.
                                      Process Indicators
  · Increase the number of condoms sold in Brazil from 420 million in 2002 to 550 million in
    2006.
  · Number of laboratory supplies for diagnosis and ARV patient follow-up developed.
  · Increase percentage of CTA that received at least 50% of test results in the last 6 months
    within one week from 32% 2002 to 65% 2006.
  · Increase the percentage of states who are subcontracting NGO subprojects through fund-
    to-fund transfer.
  · Increase the percentage of states that are meeting 75% of the agreed targets.




                                               2

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification


The PDOs were not revised. In some cases, as indicated in the PDI section, baseline and
target values were revised based on changes in the epidemic, review of baseline data,
results from new, more robust studies, or new evidence.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The project was designed to benefit the Brazilian population as a whole, with a special
focus on highly vulnerable groups. These groups included men who have sex with men
(MSM), sex workers (SWs), pregnant women and their infants, people living with HIV
(PLHIV) and emerging populations newly affected by HIV. NGOs and CSOs working
on HIV/AIDS prevention and care would benefit from training and funding. The number
of such organizations supported by the project was smaller than in the prior project, but
those selected were better targeted in terms of integration with Brazil's National AIDS
Program (Programa Nacional ­ PN) and their focus on primary health care. HIV/AIDS
units in states and municipalities were also designated as main beneficiaries of the
Project, since decentralization of activities was a main focus.

1.5 Original Components


Component 1: Improving the Quality and Coverage of Prevention, Treatment and
Care. (US$166 million). Component 1 had four subcomponents, the first three of which
included centrally financed initiatives. These included investments that were for federally
mandated activities; were regional in nature, i.e. involving more than one municipality or
state; were of a strategic nature designed to address emerging issues; and, in cases where
municipalities lacked the capacity to address the issue adequately. The last subcomponent
included municipal and state-managed initiatives funded through direct transfers from the
federal level to the state or municipal levels.

Subcomponent 1.1: Prevention of STDs and HIV. The activities financed under this
subcomponent included promotion of behavior change to prevent STDs and HIV with a
strong focus on high risk groups, mother to child transmission, condom promotion, risk
reduction among IV drug users (needle exchange programs), expansion of voluntary
counseling and testing services and IEC (information, education and communication).
The project financed strategic supply driven subprojects (type A) and demand-driven
subprojects (type B) to finance NGOs and other strategic partners to expand prevention
activities, including voluntary testing and counseling and mother to child transmission;
goods including educational materials, male and female condoms, lubricant gels, rapid
test kits, laboratory equipment; consulting services including development of IEC
materials, mass media campaigns, design of prevention strategies and training to
strengthen prevention services and logistics of supplies.

Subcomponent 1.2: Treatment and Care. This subcomponent financed expanded
diagnosis and treatment for STDs, treatment of opportunistic infections and HIV/AIDS
(although ARV drugs were not supported by the project, the project financed activities to


                                               3

improve logistics, expand dispensing units, training staff to foster adherence, and
increasing access to diagnostic and treatment follow-up laboratory tests), home-based
social and psychologica1 care and palliative care. The laboratory network was
strengthened and some facilities were upgraded. The project financed subprojects to
establish medication dispensing units and improve distribution logistics; increase
adherence to treatment; expand laboratory services; introduce certification of service
facilities; finance care activities; goods including educational materials, computer
software and hardware, laboratory equipment, reagents; consultant services to improve
treatment and care; and training for health care staff on treatment and care, encouraging
adherence, patient follow-up, and dispensing unit operation.

Subcomponent 1.3: Human Rights. This subcomponent financed activities to further
foster the protection of fundamental rights of PLHIV and vulnerable populations,
including the rights to employment, education and health; workshops to minimize
situations of social and individual vulnerability of PLHIV, reduce stigma and
discrimination, strengthening of the human rights network; consultancies for the
formulation of laws to protect rights; training for lawyers and judges on the rights of
PLHIV, and training for health professionals and managers on ethics and human rights.
The subcomponent financed subprojects to finance NGO and other partner activities in
human rights including provision of legal advice, awareness of rights; and goods
including educational materials.

Subcomponent 1.4: Municipal, State and NGO-managed Initiatives in Prevention,
Treatment, Care, and Institutional Development. This subcomponent financed
activities that were managed by the state and municipal coordination units through funds
transferred directly from the federal government. A total of 411 municipalities and 27
states were eligible to receive fund-to-fund transfers from the federal government on the
basis of agreed annual action and target plans (PAMs). States and municipalities with
adequate PAMs qualified to receive federal transfers. Ten percent of federal funds
transferred were earmarked for NGO-executed activities. An additional amount of
US$12.0 million from the loan was allocated to NGO activities. Funds for NGOs were
transferred through state PAMs, and activities were executed by NGOs under agreements
with the States. Eligible activities to be financed included: (a) prevention interventions;
(b) diagnosis, counseling and tests; (c) treatment of PLHIV; (d) diagnosis and treatment
of STD and common complications of STD/AIDS; and e) epidemiological surveillance of
HIV/AIDS and STD.

Component 2: Scientific and Technological Development (US$9.5 million). This
component financed strengthening the capacity of research centers, laboratories and
universities to engage in scientific and technological research and development (R&D),
and R&D studies and activities to improve the effectiveness of treatment and prevention
of HIV/AIDS. The R&D activities were undertaken by public entities, several of which
have international credibility. Partnerships with international agencies specializing in the
issues addressed were formed in order to standardize methodologies and facilitate
technological transfer.




                                              4

Subcomponent 2.1: Strengthening capacity for scientific and technological research
and development. This component financed the development of good clinical practices
(GCP) in public clinical sites to provide clinical support for participation in phase I, II
and III clinical trials, and to test preventive and therapeutic AIDS vaccine candidates and
microbicides; bio-informatics support for surveillance and clinical trials; and activities to
prepare and promote civil society participation in clinical trials. It developed capacity for
good manufacturing practices (GMP) centers of excellence, and for the establishment of
methods and infrastructure to ensure quality control of medications and biological
supplies produced. The project financed subprojects for the activities mentioned above,
as well as subprojects to finance small innovative studies to expand scientific knowledge,
general technological issues on AIDS prevention and treatment, feasibility studies for test
sites for vaccines and microbicides and consultancies for applied research.

Subcomponent 2.2: Technological research and development. This subcomponent
financed: development of combinations of two or three ARVs into a single presentation
to increase adherence to treatment; studies on the molecular structure of pharmaceuticals
with antiretroviral effects to identify possible effects of new synthetic molecules; testing
the potential antiretroviral effects and anti-STD effects of potential candidates; clinical
trials to assess microbicide effects of an indigenous plant and pre-clinical evaluation of
other products with potential microbicide effects; development or transfer of technology
to develop reagents for confirmatory diagnostic tests for HIV while at the same time
build local capacity; research to develop reagents for CD4 cell count, viral load and other
tests to diagnose and monitor HIV infection; and studies to develop products that can be
employed in vaccine, reagent and microbicide trials. The project financed subprojects for
the development of vaccine and microbicide products.

Component 3: Strengthening Program Management (US$24.5 million): This
component financed the overall management of the program, steering it towards results-
based management practices. The project supported the establishment of an M&E unit at
the national level, strengthening of capacity for monitoring at the state and municipal
level, a series of evaluation studies incorporated in an M&E Operational Plan, a system to
monitor compliance with PAMs agreed with municipalities and states to receive federal
transfers, and activities to develop a culture of performance-based management. It
supported the development of software to improve logistics and management systems
necessary for the improved operation of the project.

Subcomponent 3.1: Monitoring, Evaluation and Epidemiological Surveillance. This
subcomponent included the establishment and operation of a Monitoring, Evaluation and
Planning Unit at the federal level, and reference M&E units at the state level, with a
minimum of one per region. A draft M&E Operational Plan prepared during project
preparation was finalized and served as a guide for the implementation of M&E
activities. A subset of states was to be selected early on to function as reference M&E
sites where different decentralized monitoring initiatives would be piloted to be
disseminated to other states once the mechanisms were specified and tested. Relevant
staff in states and large city municipalities were trained on the use of information for
decision-making. The component was expected to finance a series of evaluation and



                                                5

operational research studies to assess program effectiveness. Activities designed to
strengthen HIV/AIDS and STD surveillance at all three levels of government were
included. The project financed subprojects to provide support in the establishment of
M&E systems at the state and municipal levels; goods including computer software and
hardware, educational materials, epidemiological and survey result reports and manuals
to orient on the use of the various information systems; consultant services for evaluation
studies and the development of software for improved management; and training on
monitoring and evaluation at federal, state and municipal levels.

Subcomponent 3.2: Fostering Performance-Based Management. This subcomponent
financed use of information for management at the federal, state and municipal levels
through training on the use of information for decision-making for PCU staff, managers
at the national and state levels, and key project coordinators; training for municipalities
and states to improve their planning and management skills, for the preparation of PAMs,
use of information to monitor PAM implementation, and to set up and manage NGO
competitive funds; training of NGOs in management, income generation and on the
identification of alternative sources of financing. NGO forums were established where
non-existent, and strengthened elsewhere to strengthen their negotiation capacity vis-a-
vis the states/municipal governments, providing them with political, institutional and
financial sustainability. Seminars, workshops and conferences for the exchange of
information and methodologies were financed at the national level and regional level.
Participation in international fora to exchange ideas and information, and to provide
guidance in global initiatives were financed, as well as for the development of strategic
alliances with less developed countries to facilitate exchange of information and
experiences, and to form a network with these countries. Activities for monitoring the
meeting of agreed targets associated with the fund transfers to states and eligible
municipalities were financed. The project financed subprojects to strengthen NGO's
sustainability, improve management of public implementing entities; goods including
educational materials, computer equipment; consultant services to strengthen PCU
management processes, and improve management of specific programs at the local level;
and training on management and information use for project staff and program managers,
preparation of PAMs, conducting NGO competitive selection processes, and on
sustainability options for NGOs. The project financed attendance and carrying out of
seminars and conferences for knowledge sharing.

Subcomponent 3.3: Project Management. The project financed incremental costs
related to the management and supervision of the Project, including PCU staff, technical
assistance to ensure adequate implementation and supervision of the project,
administrative expenditures for the PCU, office equipment, as well as operation and
maintenance of office equipment as needed, travel expenses and sundry items.



1.6 Revised Components NA




                                             6

1.7 Other significant changes


Project Extension. The loan's closing date was extended one year from December 31,
2006 to December 31, 2007, to allow for finalizing key studies and the international
competitive bidding for procurement of 1 billion condoms initiated under the project, and
which was partly financed by the loan.

Reallocation of loan funds. Two reallocations of loans fund were undertaken during the
life of the project. The final project allocation was considered more satisfactory than the
initial one by both the government and the Bank, as loan funds were mainly used to
finance innovative subprojects rather than goods such as condoms, and the amount of
loan funds allocated to training also significantly increased. In 2006, the first reallocation
reflected changing epidemiological needs. Since the North and the North-East were
identified as strategic areas of intervention due to increasing prevalence rates and high
poverty levels, resources transferred to these two regions increased by 33%. In 2007, the
second reallocation decreased the total amount allocated for goods and funds transferred
to states and municipalities, and increased funds allocated for subprojects and training.
The devaluation of the US dollar vis-à-vis the national currency explains the substantial
increase in the categories of training and subprojects, for which expenditures were mainly
in Reais. Initially, the project allocated almost $40 million for procurement of condoms.
However, delays in procurement throughout the project, including late delivery of the last
batches, required the government to finance condoms from its own resources. The
reallocation reflects more accurately the program's operating environment, where
procurement of goods such as condoms can ­ and should - be financed by federal, state
and municipal budgets, while loans funds are better used to finance innovative
subprojects including on R&D.



                          Reallocation of Loan funds (USD 000)
                                   Original           2006               2007
                                 Allocation       Reallocation       Reallocation


         Goods                       49,000            37,300           24,192
         Consultants                  3,500             5,000            3,500
         Training                     6,100            12,900           14,732
         Operating Costs              7,300             2,800            7,042
         Subprojects                 21,100            29,000           40,313
         CSO Incentivo               12,000            12,000            9,221
         Front end Fee                1,000             1,000            1,000
            TOTAL                   100,000           100,000          100,000




                                               7

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Civil Society and Government Commitment. Ownership of the program extends to
civil society, with advocacy groups pressing the government for policy reform when
necessary, and many NGOs (nearly 1,000) implementing prevention and care activities
for a decade by 2003. Combating HIV/AIDS has been central to the Brazilian
Government's health policy since the mid-1980s, and the World Bank has been an
important partner since the beginning.     The commitment of the government to the
National AIDS Program and the three Bank-financed projects was evident throughout
preparation and implementation of the projects, and was a central factor in the program's
and project's successes. With respect to commitment to the program's decentralization
and establishment of performance-based mechanisms under the project, these too formed
an important thrust of the GOB's health policy.

Quality of Project Design. Lengthy discussions between the Bank and the client, at
times including some of the Bank's leading HIV/AIDS specialists, informed and guided
project design, which was generally sound and comprehensive. The background analysis
supporting the design of the project was thorough. Lessons learned during prior projects
were incorporated into project design. In particular, the second project's ICR noted the
critical need for improved M&E, both in terms of data and human capacity, and for
increased training for NGOs and CSOs that were implementing activities. The prior
project's ICR also emphasized the multiple benefits from decentralizing activities, and
the need for a more refined approach to targeting resources (i.e. more clearly targeting
vulnerable groups while also reaching the general population). Finally, lessons learned
from the second project identified the advantages and limitations of Brazil's treatment
strategy. However, in hindsight, some weaknesses are apparent. At the time of project
design, it was already clear that the target on AIDS incidence was not realistic or
relevant, and it would have been more effective to focus, among other targets, on STD
and HIV prevalence among highly vulnerable groups (MSM, SW, IDUs, prisoners, etc).
Weakness in procurement capacity could have been addressed more aggressively in the
design phase.

Risk Assessment. The PAD identified 8 risks, 7 of which were realistic and
appropriately rated. However, if the eighth, related to the difficulty in inducing a culture
of evidence-based management, had a higher risk rating, it is possible that the issue
would have received more attention and resources. In addition, there were some risks
which affected implementation and/or outcomes that were not identified in the PAD. For
example, staff turnover within the government, Ministry of Health and PN is a substantial
risk in the Brazilian public sector. Finally, the MOH's and PN's procurement capacity
was weak, an issue which could have possibly been identified at the time the risks of the
third project were assessed.




                                            8

2.2 Implementation

The project was not restructured, nor was it considered a project at risk at any time during
its life. The Mid-Term Review (MTR) was conducted in November 2005 and rated
implementation as satisfactory, citing specific successes in program decentralization.
The MTR noted lags in disbursement and procurement, and the Bank team recommended
that the PN initiate major procurements before the end of 2005.                     The pace of
disbursements did pick up after the MTR. Finally, slow procurement required a loan
extension, which was subsequently approved.

                              Mid-Term Review Main Findings

Achievements
     Epidemic contained below 1% of adult population, with an estimated 600,000 people
        infected.
     AIDS mortality, morbidity and hospitalizations continued to decrease.
     Of 364,000 HIV/AIDS cases notified since 1980, 253,000 were followed up by the PN.
     Of these, 158,000 were on treatment with ARVs, ensuring an average survival of 58
        months, comparable to survival rates for AIDS in OECD countries.
Challenges
     There was only one measurement for most indicators, but the PN committed to provide
        at least a second measurement for all project indicators before project closure.
     Ambitious targets set for 2006, taking into account past weak procurement performance.
     Although disbursement increased significantly, the project had only disbursed 40% of
        total funds and 37% of loan funds by September 2005.
     The MTR recommended that the PN give top priority to initiating major procurement
        before the end of 2005.
     The PN had been seeking UN agencies assistance on procurement of goods and services.



Integration with primary health care and other health programs. As previously
mentioned, the epidemic had been progressing from a disease that affected primarily men
and highly vulnerable groups to a disease that increasingly affected women, poorer
populations in the interior of the country, and ethnic minorities.                Following this
epidemiological shift, the PN also began moving from a vertical program structure
towards a more horizontal organization, coordinating and integrating services with other
health and social programs, such as the Brazilian surveillance and primary health care
programs (Atenção Básica and Saúde da Família). Important synergies were achieved
through collaboration with the Family Health Program, which began to raise awareness
about prevention of HIV and other STDs at the primary care level, and with the National
Anti-Drug Secretariat, which included HIV prevention and control in its national policy.

Decentralization. One of the main goals of the project was the decentralization of
project activities to states and municipalities, including training and capacity building.
Supporting enhanced capacity in states and municipalities not only helped to ensure
sustainability of project activities, but also supported the government's policy of social
service decentralization. Results-based Action Plans (Planos de Ações e Metas ­ PAM)
were the primary vehicle for the decentralization process. The PAMs were developed by



                                                9

the Federal District and 25 of the 26 States (the State of Amazonas completed its PAM in
2008). In addition, 445 municipalities also developed PAMs, well beyond the 411
municipalities initially envisaged. In 2007, 75% of the beneficiaries achieved at least
75% of targets. The decentralization process included financing under the project about
half of the 1,500 NGO subprojects financed by the PN. Most of the difficulties in the
implementation of PAMs relate to some state and municipal administrations not
considering STDs, HIV and AIDS a top priority (although project funds were earmarked)
and administrative difficulties, such as carrying out project procurement.

                     Achievement of PAM targets by States 2003-2007*


                 100

                  90

                  80

                  70

                  60

                  50

                  40

                  30

                  20

                  10

                   0
                      AC AL AM AP BA CE DF ES GO MA MG MS MT PA PB PE PI PR RJ RN RO RR RS SC SE SP TO




     Source: SIS-INCENTIVO 2008 * The red line indicates achievement of 75% of PAM targets



Subprojects. These were an innovative tool under the project, with strategic supply-
driven and demand-driven subprojects facilitating implementation. However, the PN
delegated subproject procurement to two UN agencies (UNESCO and UNODC), which
turned out to be a suboptimal arrangement in terms of efficiency, but which did alleviate
some of the PN's constraints. The tendency under the project, however, was to increase
the PN's procurement capacity and decrease the reliance on external agencies.



2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The PN developed the MONITORAIDS (http://sistemas.aids.gov.br/monitoraids2), a
system tracking about 100 indicators, including project indicators. This system was
designed to provide valuable information to track the Brazilian response to HIV, AIDS
and other STDs, and for better results-based management, and allowed for improvements
in the orientation of project activities.




                                                      10

MONITORAIDS includes indicators on context (social and demographic, and National
Health System ­ SUS), impact (mortality and morbidity) and national program
(expenditures, surveillance, research, knowledge, stigma and discrimination, sexual
behavior, vulnerable populations, testing, blood safety, prevention and control of STDs,
availability of condoms and prevention activities, mother-infant transmission, care and
social support). MONITORAIDS is also the most important structural component of the
National Evaluation Plan (NEP), which aim at measuring access, quality, effectiveness
and user satisfaction. Data for the MONITORAIDS indicators is provided by the
Ministry of Health vital statistics databases, and surveys and special studies undertaken
by the PN, as well as other available sources of information. MONITORAIDS reports
provide a summary of the estimates of the indicators for Brazil, states and municipalities,
as well as for the five sites of evaluation (Pernambuco and São Paulo states and the
municipalities of Manaus, Campo Grande and Curitiba).

MONITORAIDS is the result of a joint initiative of the Program, the Oswaldo Cruz
Foundation and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Throughout
project implementation, the PN benefited from in-loco technical assistance provided by
CDC, financed by the US government. The CDC, in collaboration with two US
universities, offered three different forms of training: (i) M&E executive training
program and a Master's Degree in M&E; (ii) short-term course in M&E, developed by
the CDC in collaboration with the National School of Public Health (ENSP/FIOCRUZ)
and offered to over 5,000 people during project implementation; and (iii) a distance-
learning course in M&E.

The M&E system was designed to address the existing problems that were identified
during the first two projects. The project made good progress in disseminating M&E
tools. Standard forms were distributed to all states and municipalities. Some states (for
example, Rio de Janeiro) adapted the content to their specific needs, thus informing state
strategies and overall decision-making on the basis of the M&E data. However, despite
significant progress, M&E activities under the project were considered only moderately
satisfactory for several reasons. Some baseline studies experienced long delays, and some
baseline data were from regional or state-level studies, especially from the State of Sao
Paulo. Project activities directed at trends emerging in other regions were designed based
on data from Sao Paulo, where the epidemic had some different characteristics. Hard-to-
reach groups presented a particular challenge in terms of outreach and sampling.
However, the M&E unit tested two sampling methods through 10 studies of these
populations, and studies were initiated during the last year of implementation. In general,
M&E implementation highlighted three main issues that should be addressed in any
follow-on project: 1) lack of full understanding and ownership of a results-based
management approach, especially at decentralized level; 2) need for further
decentralization and training on M&E, and 3) lack of a strong link between activity and
financial monitoring.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance




                                             11

Safeguard Compliance.        The environmental impact of the project at the time of
appraisal was classified as B. Safeguard compliance was rated satisfactory throughout
project implementation. Training of health staff regarding the handling of blood products
and delivering health care to HIV and AIDS patients was a regular program activity. To
ensure compliance with existing waste management regulations, the program developed a
long distance learning program (TELELAB) for laboratory workers and hemotherapy
units.  In addition, the program provided an average of three one-week courses at
different types of health care institutions on environmental issues related to the project.



The project's Indigenous People Plan was prepared in collaboration with FUNASA
(Brazilian agency responsible for Indigenous Health) and included training of indigenous
groups, NGOs working with indigenous groups, and health staff working in Indigenous
Health Districts (Distritos Sanitários Especiais Indígenas - DSEI). FUNASA delivered
the services and project-trained staff developed protocols, and provided condoms, rapid
HIV tests and ART to indigenous populations.

Disbursement. Overall, disbursement under each of the three project components was
satisfactory. In spite of early problems, disbursements picked up markedly after the
MTR, and the loan was fully disbursed.

Procurement. Despite initial challenges, the project managed to successfully address its
procurement shortcomings over time, and build significant and sustainable capacity.
Procurement was rated as satisfactory during the first year and a half of implementation;
unsatisfactory or moderately unsatisfactory during the next year; and moderately
satisfactory throughout the rest of the project. The downturn in procurement quality
experienced in the second year of the project was related to delays in delivery of goods
and selection of research subprojects, including for key surveys; and suspension of
bidding procedures in a major purchase for non-compliance with technical regulations.
MoH and PN procurement procedures were also severely affected by an investigation not
related to project procurement, and subsequent corrective measures. In addition, the use
of procurement agents to facilitate selection and hiring of consulting services and
subprojects was less effective than expected ­ in several cases, the agencies followed
their own procurement procedures instead of the government's or Bank's, which led to
substantial delays. Remedial actions taken included building up the PN's procurement
capacity and decreasing the amount of procurement carried out through those agencies.
Thus, despite initial challenges, the project managed to address technical shortcomings
over time, and near project end successfully completed the procurement of 1 billion male
condoms, the largest purchase of its kind ever made in the world.

Financial Management (FM).              Overall, accounting, FM reporting, and project
management information system and internal controls that were in place proved to be
adequate and reliable, providing sufficient financial information to manage and monitor
project implementation. Some challenges arose because the project used two separate
systems to track financial data, the PN's financial management system (SIAIDS), as well
as the project's information system. The two systems shared a common database but



                                              12

were not integrated, and neither was integrated with SIAFI, the government's budgetary
and accounting program. This caused some delays, such as slow delivery of financial
management reports as the PN was unable to produce them automatically. Once the
SIAIDS is integrated into the SIAFI this issue should be resolved.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

In May 2008, the new Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) between the Bank and Brazil
was approved. The CPS envisages less Bank involvement in single-disease projects and
potentially more activity in strengthening the health system as a whole, greater
engagement at the sub-national level and improving governance.
The government approved and sent to the Bank a MOH proposal (Carta-Consulta) for a
new project on August 14, 2008. The government seeks continued Bank financing to
support Brazil as it faces the next generation of challenges in addressing the HIV
epidemic.    These "second generation" challenges include integrating the national
response to HIV into the overall health system. Successfully navigating these new
challenges will keep Brazil in the forefront among developing countries as it transitions
from a single-disease focus to a more systemic approach.

The focus on results-based management (RBM) will require comprehensive and ongoing
training efforts, and championing of RBM by health officials at all levels. This issue is
even more critical as decentralization continues. States that are successful should be
rewarded and efforts should be redoubled for those that are lagging behind. In addition,
Bank support is sought to assist Brazil in addressing the persistent issue of capacity
within national, state and municipal institutions. The M&E and procurement issues
revealed some systemic areas of weakness and reinforce the urgency of capacity-building
in these areas. After project completion, funds from the UNAIDS-World Bank Trust
Fund (UWB TF) were secured to carry out an external review of the M&E system during
FY09. This review will make recommendations to improve the M&E system, which
could eventually be supported by a Bank-financed project to further support PN
activities.

3. Assessment of Outcomes: Satisfactory

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The relevance of project objectives, design and implementation is substantial. Reducing
the incidence of HIV and STDs and improving the lives of PLHIV, were important
development priorities of both the government and the Bank at the time of project
approval. These priorities continued to be important to both the government and the
Bank at the time of project closing.        Most importantly, the project contributed to
strengthening the National Program and ensuring its sustainability, an achievement that
will be central in Brazil's response to the next generation of challenges.

Brazil has experienced dramatic improvements in the economy and in social indicators
since the project was designed. Both poverty and inequality have fallen impressively
since 2003, and are now at historical lows. The country has set health sector goals for


                                             13

2020, which include reducing disparity in risk exposure and delivering high quality
health services efficiently, accountably and affordably. These goals align closely to
project objectives. The project's support of decentralization and RBM will contribute to
improved performance of the health sector, and supporting a healthier population that can
take advantage of new economic opportunities.
From the Bank's perspective, the project objectives are in tune with the objectives
outlined in the new CPS that was prepared in 2008. The main pillars of this CPS echo
those in the previous Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) that was in place from 2004-
2007: an equitable, sustainable and competitive Brazil. The current CPS will sharpen the
Bank's focus on HD's contribution to the equity agenda ­ and will broaden that focus to
concurrently recognize the importance of human capital and innovations for the growth
agenda. The project's focus on decentralizing activities and building capacity in states
and municipalities also follows current Bank priorities.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives: Satisfactory

Achievement of PDOs was satisfactory. Brazil moved quickly to contain the growth of
the HIV/AIDS epidemic as soon as the first cases were identified in the early 1980s. The
government has invested heavily in prevention and treatment of HIV/AIDS and other
STDs, providing condoms to highly vulnerable groups, and antiretroviral treatment to all
identified patients who qualify for it, free of charge.

                                       Main Achievements
 Outcomes
· AIDS mortality decreased from 6.3 per 100,000 in 2003 to 5.1 in 2007.
· Morbidity decreased 77% in the decade 1997-2007.
· Hospitalizations decreased from 80.8% of AIDS patients, who had at least one hospitalization
  per year in 1997 to 18.6% in 2007.
· Estimated prevalence kept at 0.6% adult population (15-49 years).
· Prevalence of HIV among pregnant women has remained below 0.3% since 2004.
· Mother-to-child transmission decreased from 16% in 1998 to 6.8% in 2004.
  Prevention
· 97% of the population knows that HIV can be transmitted through sexual relations.
· About 97% of secondary schools conduct HIV/AIDS-related activities.
· Over 40% of adult population tested for HIV at least once.
· 79% people aged 14+ report use of condom in the last sexual encounter with a casual partner.
· 70% sex workers report using a condom with last client.
· Free provision of 1 billion condoms.
· 67% of pregnant women were tested, over 75% in the South, Southeast and Center-West
  regions.
· Over 51% of estimated infected pregnant women, and over 81% of those identified as
  infected, were provided with AZT for PMTCT.
· Notification of congenital syphilis increased 20%.
  Treatment and Care
· Survival of PLHIV on ART almost doubled from 58 to 108 months in the period 1996-2007.
· Over 180,000 patients (100% of those identified that qualify) are treated with ARV according
  to a national treatment protocol.
· Initial average CD4 in patients not on ART increased from 387 to 432 in 2002-2006.
· ART and treatment of OIs is provided by the national health service free of charge.



                                                14

· Savings due to ART estimated at R$ 1.1 billion in a decade (1997-2007).
  Results-Based Decentralization
· The DF, 26 states and 445 municipalities cover about 90% of notified AIDS cases in the
  country, and 62% of the entire population.
· 75% of the states achieved at least 75% of their HIV/AIDS targets in 2007.
· About R$ 510 million (US$305 million) transferred to states and municipalities under results-
  based Agreements.
· Close coordination with national health surveillance, and Family Health and Basic Attention
  Programs allows for extension of coverage to new risk groups: women, poorer people in the
  interior.
· All states have launched public competitions to finance subprojects carried out by NGOs.
· About 1,500 NGOs and CSOs work in the PN, about 600 financed by the project.
  Surveillance and M&E
· Complex seroprevalence surveys that will provide crucial information about HIV infection
  rates among highly vulnerable groups (MSM, SW, IDU) and general population are being
  carried out.
· MONITORAIDS is well established as a PN management tool.
  Research and Development
· Carried out 141 research and development (R&D) subprojects out of 489 submitted under the
  project.
· Diagnostic kits for HIV 1 and 2 produced and distributed.
· HIV Vaccine Strategic Plan and Strategic Plan for Technological development of
  pharmaceutical drugs approved.
· HIV/AIDS and STDs R&D Information System developed.
· Network for technological development of vaccines and microbicides established.
· International HIV/AIDS and STD Network for Technological Cooperation established.


However, significant challenges persist, which the PN should address with vigor in the
next phase. These relate to prevention and control of STDs, increase in use of condoms
by highly vulnerable groups (MSM, IDUs and SWs) and young people in general,
availability of test results within one week, identification and coverage of infected
pregnant women in the North and Northeast, increased expenditures and other needs
posed by PLHIV survival, and improved capacity at decentralized levels.

                                        Main Challenges
· About 11,000 people die of AIDS every year.
· 12 million people infected every year with other STDs.
· For some indicators, information is scarce and/or of poor quality.
· 58% IDUs, 34% MSM and 33% SW report not using condoms with casual partners.
· About half of young people, the group that has more casual partners, do not report use of
   condom on the first sexual relation.
· Coverage of highly vulnerable groups and new groups has to increase to continue keeping the
   epidemic under control.
· Testing results should become available in less than 1 week.
· Only 31% pregnant infected women are identified in the Northeast and 35% in the North.
· The PN has to increase coverage of infected pregnant women nationally to further decrease
   vertical transmission, and eliminate congenital syphilis.
· The expected increase by 44% of the number of people on ART from 180,000 in 2006 to
   260,000 in 2011 could cost R$1.4 billion.
· Generic drugs account for less than 30% of the ARV used in Brazil.



                                                15

 · The PN wants to increase national capacity to produce condoms, lab supplies and ARV, but
   significant participation of the private sector is necessary.
 · Increase in the number of patients and survival involves an increased need for treatment of
   co-infections (viral hepatitis and TB, which are the main causes of death among PLHIV) and
   ART side effects (CVDs, liver disease, lipodystrophy), with additional costs for the SUS.
 · States and municipalities should improve use of resources transferred for HIV, AIDS and
   other STD; technical capacity; M&E; management by results; and procurement capacity and
   flexibility.
 · States and municipalities use less than 10% of funds for prevention, but should increase their
   participation on procurement and distribution of condoms, among other prevention activities.
· Program staff turnover is very high at all levels.


PDO 1:       Reduce the incidence of sexually transmitted infections and HIV by
strengthening the effectiveness and efficiency of the national response and ensuring
its sustainability in the medium and long-term.

Progress towards the achievement of PDO 1 was satisfactory. About one third of all
people living with HIV in Latin America reside in Brazil (UNAIDS 2007). In the
beginning of the 1990s, the epidemic appeared to be progressing in Brazil at comparable
rates with some countries in Africa. However, due to the efforts of the PN, Brazil has
been able to contain the epidemic at 0.6% of adult population, and has nearly halved the
number of AIDS-related deaths. While early Bank estimates indicated that Brazil would
have 1.2 million people living with HIV/AIDS in 2000, the country has now an estimated
620,000 people infected.

Project activities contributed to halting the rapid increase of HIV infection among
women in general and to reducing the prevalence rate among pregnant women (0.26% in
2006).    The project contributed to the reduction of both HIV vertical transmission
(mother to child), which decreased from 16% in 1998 to 6.8% in 2004; and HIV
incidence among children under the age of five, which decreased from 6.5/100,000 in
2002 to 3.1 in 2006. Over 50% of AIDS cases in Brazil are among highly vulnerable
groups (MSM, SW, IDU). HIV prevalence among IDU in Brazil has declined in some
cities as a result of harm-reduction programs, changes from injecting to inhaling drugs,
and mortality among drug users (UNAIDS & WHO 2006).

STD prevalence rates were consistently measured during implementation. Notification
of congenital syphilis increased 20%. The project contributed to the reduction of syphilis
prevalence among women 15-49 years from 1.7% to 1.1%; and to a 40% reduction of
syphilis prevalence among young men (conscripts) during the project period, including a
20% reduction among those who self-identify as MSM.

Significant progress was made in the effectiveness and efficiency of the national
response. Over 40% of the population 14+ years was tested at least once. Rapid tests
(which eliminate waiting periods for results) were implemented at primary health care
institutions, increasing both efficiency and effectiveness. The national production of
rapid tests increased from 150,000 in 2004 to 1.6 million in 2008.




                                                  16

Prevention activities covered many target populations, and achieved important results for
effectiveness. At the time of project closing, more than 96% of secondary schools
conducted HIV prevention activities. About 97% of the population indicated
spontaneously that sexual relations are a source of HIV transmission, and that use of
condoms are a way of preventing the transmission of HIV and other STDs.
In 2007, the PN distributed 122 million male condoms, 1.6 million female condoms and
1.9 million units of gel. In 2007, the PN purchased 1 billion male condoms, which are
being distributed to states and municipalities according to plan; and initiated procurement
of 8 million female condoms and 15 million units of gel. As a result, 79% people
reported use of condom with a casual partner in 2005, and 70% sex workers reported use
of a condom with last client in studies carried out during the project period.

The robust research agenda (epidemiological, clinical and operational) that was funded
under Component 2 is contributing to the effectiveness of the national response. The
R&D aimed at developing innovative testing kits and supplies for HIV/AIDS and STDs.
While 118 R&D projects were financed in the period 1999-2003 at a cost of R$8.8
million; 489 projects were financed in the period 2004-2007, at a cost of R$ 27.2 million.
The project (i) established an R&D information system; (ii) established a national
network for technological development of vaccines and microbicides; (iii) developed the
National Strategic Plans       for Vaccines, and for Technological Development of
Pharmaceutical Drugs; (iv) launched 8 calls for R&D proposals; (vi) financed the Project
of Development of Pharmaceutical technology for production of ARV by the Instituto de
Tecnologia em Fármacos Far-Manguinhos - FIOCRUZ; and (vii) financed the project for
production and distribution of kits for diagnosis of HIV 1 and 2 by the Instituto de
Tecnologia em Imunobiológicos Bio-Manguinhos ­ FIOCRUZ. Complex seroprevalence
surveys that will provide crucial information about HIV infection rates among highly
vulnerable groups (MSM, SW, IDU) and general population are being finalized.

Sustainability of the national response was also enhanced. MONITORAIDS and the
PAM (Planos de Ações e Metas) are well established as PN management tools, and other
management improvements were emphasized at the federal, state and municipality levels.
Project activities were coordinated with other health programs and/or institutions, such as
the integration into national surveillance activities and of testing and counseling services
into the Basic Care and Family Health Programs, which allows for coverage of new
groups at risk, such as women and poorer people in the interior. About 1,500 NGOs and
CSOs work in the PN, of which about 600 were financed by the project.

PDO 2: Improve the quality of life of People Living with HIV (PLHIV) by
strengthening the effectiveness and efficiency of the national response and ensuring
its sustainability in the medium and long-term.

· Progress toward this PDO was also satisfactory. Over 500,000 HIV/AIDS cases were
  notified since 1980, of which over 250,000 are presently being followed up by the PN;
  about 180,000 people are on treatment with antiretroviral drugs (100% of patients
  qualifying), according to an agreed national treatment protocol, free of charge. In 2008,
  86% of patients reported taking 95% of their medications. CD4 in people not on ART



                                             17

  increased from 387 in 2002 to 432 in 2007. Consequently, survival increased from 58
  months in 1996 to 108 months in 2007, comparable to survival in developed countries.
  Among children, the probability of survival after 60 months with AIDS increased 3.5
  times. In the period 1997-2007, morbidity decreased 77% and hospitalizations
  decreased from 80.8% of AIDS patients, who had at least one hospitalization per year
  in 1997, to 18.6% in 2007, which saved up to R$ 1,1 billion.

                   Brazil AIDS Mortality Rate by Region 1996-2005




The DF, 26 states and 445 municipalities cover about 90% of notified AIDS cases in the
country. About R$ 510 million (US$ 305 million) were transferred to states and
municipalities for HIV/AIDS prevention and control, under the results-based
Agreements. In 2007, 75% states met at least 75% of the agreed targets. All states are
contracting NGOs to engage on advocacy, and anti-discrimination activities and provide
prevention and care services. The effectiveness and efficiency of the national response
was improved by an innovative home-based program (Casas de Apoio), which was
financed by loan funds. These Casas are in-patient centers that care for low-income
PLHIV. There are 103 Casas in 19 states, with a total of 2,224 beds. The Casas are
divided into two types: (i) permanent establishments where patients who are severely ill
receive care; and (ii) temporary establishments where patients stay for a shorter period
time, e.g. during routine hospital visits, which may be located far from home. The
establishment of the Casas has clearly contributed to improved quality of life for PLHIV.

The PN coordinated with the Secretary of Human Rights the implementation of the
program Brazil Without Homophobia. Important gains were made in the funding of
prevention and sensitization events targeting marginalized social groups specifically
vulnerable to the epidemic (such as out-of-school youth and street children, women, and
the black population in the North and North-East) as well the promotion of legal
initiatives for Lesbian, gays, bisexuals and transvestites (LGBT) and PLHIV. The PN
disseminates information on its website on issues related to human rights, such as the
most recent national AIDS-related legislation, legal support services available for victims
of stigma and discrimination, and the monitoring of rights violation cases reported
nationally.   In March 2008, the Ministry of Health allocated R$1 million to the




                                           18

implementation of human rights initiatives and prevention activities (STD and HIV)
targeting the LGBT community.

3.3 Efficiency

The project was quite efficient with respect to four strategies:

     Its focus on prevention activities contributed to the reduction of new HIV and
        AIDS cases and had substantial externalities.
     Its differentiated level of funding for highly vulnerable groups based on different
        HIV and STD prevalence rates across regions.
     The provision of rapid testing to all pregnant women allowed for early detection
        and treatment of the infection both among mothers and newborns.
     Finally, Brazil has been successful in negotiating lower costs for many
        medications that are currently under patent protection, and has promoted the use
        of generics to reduce costs, thus alleviating the burden of public spending in this
        area, as documented by a recent economic evaluation conducted by Harvard
        University. This study concluded that Brazil saved nearly US$ 1 billion (e.g.
        DALY, lower hospitalization costs, etc.) from 2001 to 20051.

The following aspects may have impacted efficiency negatively:

     The project funded a large variety of activities under each of its three components,
        which resulted in the dispersion of resources, and made M&E more difficult.
     Many subprojects aimed at highly vulnerable groups tended to focus on narrow
        aspects of care or support, while they could have included additional activities,
        such as condom promotion or behavior change strategies.
     Contracting external agencies as procurement agents did not turn out to be
        particularly efficient, in light of the delayed procurement of goods and
        subprojects.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

The project's overall outcome is considered satisfactory based on the National Program's
and the project's significant achievements, the project's continued relevance and its
contribution toward strengthening Brazil's National Program, and making it more
accountable and efficient.        As Brazil takes on the next generation of challenges
surrounding HIV/AIDS and its overall health system, the project outcomes will continue
to be extremely relevant.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts


(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development



1Nunn AS et al 2007. Evolution of Antiretroviral Drug Costs in Brazil in the Context of Free and Universal
Access to AIDS Treatment.



                                                  19

In recent years, the epidemic has been spreading to females, poorer groups and towards
the interior of Brazil. Although most cases are still located in the South and Southeast,
incidence of AIDS decreased in these regions, while it significantly increased in the
North and Northeast. The epidemic is expected to continue to grow in the North,
Northeast and Center-West regions, where the socio-economic conditions and health
services are more precarious. For example, the risk of dying one year after the diagnosis
in the least developed regions (North and Northeast) is three times higher than in the
most developed region of the country (Southeast).

Feminization of the Epidemic. In 1985, for every 15 cases of HIV infection among
men in Brazil, one was reported among women. Since then, the epidemic has spread
more rapidly in women, and the male-female ratio in 2007 stood at 1.5:1. The spread of
the epidemic among women across Brazil is reflected in the graph below. Heterosexual
transmission is now more important for both genders.         It is estimated that a large
proportion of infections among women can be attributed to the behavior of their male
sexual partners2. However, while the risk of infection for men aged 13-39 years
decreased, the risk for women, especially at younger ages, increased significantly.

             Municipalities in Brazil with at least one HIV-positive woman

                  1980-1989                                  1990-2007




The project allocated a significant amount of resources to respond to the feminization of
the epidemic, especially in the North and the Northeast regions, where prevalence rates of
both HIV and STDs have steadily increased since 2000. A National Integrated Gender
Plan for Health was approved in April 2007, thus paving the way for the continuation of


2Silva and Barone 2006.




                                            20

national funding of activities specifically targeting women beyond project closing. By
electing the whole female population in the country as a priority target group, the project
aimed to develop interventions and a communication strategy that would make every
Brazilian woman aware of her actual risk of infection.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Several aspects of the PN were strengthened due to activities launched under the project.
The PN's support of human rights, prevention, treatment and social care activities
increased under the project. MONITORAIDS was established as a management tool.
R&D activities were identified and supported by the project, with significant positive
results. The PAM (Planos de Ações e Metas) are results-based management tools that
allowed for focused and targeted decentralization of resources and of program activities
to states, municipalities and NGOs. The provision of ART was continued and expanded.
Finally, fiduciary capacity of the PN was increased and fiduciary systems made more
robust, especially in what concerns procurement.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Health System Strengthening. The PN has been contributing to health system
strengthening in several ways: (i) it is implementing a results-based financing mechanism
to transfer funds to states and municipalities; (ii) it is putting in place a robust M&E
system, with assistance from national and international organizations; and (iii) it is
coordinating and integrating provision of prevention and care with primary health care
programs (Atenção Básica and Saúde da Família) to respond to the changing epidemic.
Further development of these areas would be supported by the new project.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops NA


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome: Low

The risk to development outcome is rated low due to institutional, financial and
operational reasons:

 Institutional risks.           Given the Brazilian government's firm commitment to
    continuing its response to HIV/AIDS, institutional risks are low. The main risk is
    posed by staff turnover (and thus loss of institutional knowledge), which is an issue
    that plagues not only the entire health system, but the entire Brazilian public sector.
    The MOH is proceeding with contracting of permanent staff, for the first time in
    many years, which should contribute to alleviate this problem.
 Financial risks. The government provides ART free of charge to all who qualify.
    Growing resistance to first-line medications would lead the government to purchase
    second-line medications manufactured abroad and imported to Brazil at a particularly
    high price, and would significantly increase health expenditures. However, as
    available evidence3 indicates that resistance to first-line drugs is low in Brazil, which


3Petersen ML et al 2006. Assessing HIV resistance in developing countries: Brazil as a case study.



                                                  21

    is an indicator of treatment compliance and the quality of the program, the risk of
    significant increase in health expenditures is low in the short-term.
 Operational risks. The procurement difficulties encountered throughout the project
    seem to have been overcome quite successfully by the PN, as the recent procurement
    of 1 billion condoms clearly demonstrates.         The trajectory for improved M&E
    appears positive.     The dissemination of robust M&E programs and related
    management practices is ongoing. However, without a Bank-financed project, the
    MOH will not be able to guarantee a specific decentralized account for STD and HIV
    in the states and municipalities, which could threaten the technical and financial
    execution of the decentralized program.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance: Satisfactory


The Bank team's leadership (TTL) changed twice during the life of the project. The
changes took place in 2005, as the first TTL, who had supervised the previous project and
designed this project, moved to another region in the Bank; the second TTL ensured a
brief transition period; and the third TTL took over the management of the project in
April 2005 until closing.

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry: Satisfactory

Quality at entry for this project is considered satisfactory. The project design made the
best use of the most up-to-date information and evidence available in Brazil and
internationally at the time, and the quality of the technical assistance to the project design
was good. Operational readiness was also quite good, given that the Bank was in the
process of completing the second project at the time this project was under preparation.
The Bank team carefully assessed successes and challenges from past projects and
applied these lessons to the third project's design. The total time from the date of the
initial identification mission (early 2002) to first disbursement was nearly 22 months,
which at the time was typical given the sometimes lengthy administrative procedures
utilized by the government.

(b) Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory

The Bank team interacted with the national counterparts on a regular basis, focusing on
responding to client requests and needs before, during and after supervision missions. On
every mission, visits were made to states and municipalities, and to NGOs, to supervise
project   implementation,     including   fiduciary    performance.    Aide-Memoires      and
Implementation Status Report (ISR) identified key implementation issues, suggested
solutions and provided analytical and operational support to the PN. An M&E specialist
from the Bank's Global AIDS team provided technical assistance on M&E.                     As




                                             22

previously mentioned, after project completion, funds from the UNAIDS-World Bank
Trust Fund (UWB TF) were secured to carry out an external review of the M&E system
during FY09, and continue to provide TA to the PN in this area.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance:

The Bank has provided substantial technical and financial support to the program since
1988, with total lending for AIDS-related projects during the period of over
US$400 million. In 2003, the Bank approved an additional $100 million to support
further program decentralization by providing incentives to states and municipalities to
focus on prevention and treatment. The Bank's overall performance is rated as
satisfactory due to its: (i) focus on evidence-based strategies and results-based activities
at the federal, state and municipal levels; (ii) participatory and collaborative effort with
the client in the design and supervision of the project; and (ii) thorough supervision and
continued responsiveness despite changes in the Bank team.

5.2 Borrower Performance: Satisfactory

(a) Government Performance: Satisfactory


The Government of Brazil, since the early days of the epidemic, has demonstrated both
exceptional political will and significant financial commitment for confronting the
disease and the myriad of issues that surround it.         In this project, the government
demonstrated strong ownership and contributed substantially to its funding by providing
US$100 million (50% of the total project cost). The government complied with all legal
covenants and agreements. By placing a special emphasis on the sustainability of
program interventions and the need for the PN's financial viability, the government is
also succeeding in coordinating PN's activities with other activities of the Ministry of
Health, including health surveillance and primary health care. Technical capacity within
the procurement unit of the PN improved significantly, especially during the last year of
implementation.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance: Satisfactory


Brazil's success in battling HIV and AIDS stems not only from the government's
commitment and political will, but also from the talent and experience of the PN team.
The PN has built a highly successful program and used this third Bank project to continue
its evolution. In this project, the PN focused on results and results-based management,
decentralizing activities to states and municipalities, making the participation of NGOs
and CSOs more robust, and improving M&E. Despite many challenges, the performance
of the PN was satisfactory. The PN had to deal with changes in leadership accompanying
three different Directors, and a slowdown in implementation resulting from both the
national currency's appreciation against the US dollar (the exchange rate in March 2003
was R$3.48=US$1.00; by May 2008 the rate was R$1.70=US$1.00), and the difficulties
inherent in translating result-based management practices into effective interventions in
the field. The PN staff has been working consistently towards the achievement of the
project development objectives and has made a significant effort in facilitating the



                                             23

involvement both of the public and private sector (including CSOs and research
institutions) in the national response. Performance in the area of M&E and procurement
remained the two areas where specific improvement efforts were focused.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance:

The overall borrower's performance was satisfactory. The countries that have been most
successful in dealing with HIV/AIDS - Brazil, Thailand and Uganda in the 1990s - are
those that have confronted the issue head-on, advocating for safe sex without
embarrassment. Brazil has invested heavily in prevention and treatment of HIV/AIDS
and STDs, providing condoms to highly vulnerable groups, and antiretroviral treatment to
all identified patients that qualify for it and treatment of opportunistic infections free of
charge. This has occurred in a context of cultural tolerance, and significant political will,
where the PN directly involved NGOs and civil society organizations, decentralized the
program to states and municipalities, and put in place a logistic system for the
procurement and distribution of male and female condoms, gel, microbicides, ARV and
other drugs. There are two major factors in Brazil's success in containing the disease and
developing a program that is recognized as among the best in the world: (i) the
government's strong political commitment and continued financial support to fight the
epidemic and (ii) the program's proactive actions in responding to HIV and AIDS and
successfully tackling new challenges. By looking at AIDS as both the aggravating factor
and the result in itself of broader social issues (gender, poverty, discrimination, etc.), the
PN has been able to put in place a successful and relevant program, including innovative
and successful community-based initiatives that have had important and measurable
results.

6. Lessons Learned

Confronting the sensitive issues that surround HIV/AIDS is critical for program
success. Although a predominantly Catholic country where traditional mores still prevail
in many regions, Brazil confronted the sensitive issues surrounding HIV/AIDS without
flinching. Effective prevention activities required that communication strategies directly
discuss delicate subjects that had previously been absent from public discourse. Issues
such as having multiple sex partners, homosexuality and drug use were brought out into
the open by government activities that directly targeted vulnerable groups like MSM, sex
workers and drug users. The general population was also targeted by communication
campaigns to raise awareness of risks. By 2007, the government was distributing over 10
million condoms a month.

Strong, sustained political will is a necessary (but not sufficient) requirement for a
successful HIV program. In Brazil, the government recognized the threat inherent in
the HIV epidemic at an early stage, and established the PN to manage the crisis.
Leadership on confronting and handling the issue came from the highest levels of the
government and strategy, urgency and money flowed down from the top. The mandate
for action from the top levels of government meant that participation could be demanded
from line ministries and other government actors.




                                              24

Civil society and non-governmental organizations play a critical role in HIV
programs. Brazil has been a leader in collaborating with NGOs and CSOs. By the end
of 2007, more than 1,500 organizations were coordinating activities with the PN.
Including these organizations in a national program is, not only a smart financial move
(NGOs often have a better record of effective spending than governments, and leverage
other sources of funds), but can also ensure that local trends and issues are included in
strategies and objectives set at the national level. Finally, NGOs often hold regional and
central governments accountable for their actions and their spending decisions, helping to
ensure transparency and effectiveness.

A multi-sector approach can increase the reach and effectiveness of program
activities. In Brazil, the government's approach did not involve the entire government.
However, key ministries were included that were critical to the PN's ability to reach
certain populations and geographic locations. The government's response included such
key players as the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education and the Defense
Ministry. The latter played a particularly significant role in remote areas of Brazil, where
the national army is the only government institution and is thus the only actor that can
carry out education and prevention activities.

Strategies to prevent and treat HIV/AIDS and STD need to be integrated and
coordinated, without one overcoming the other, and should fulfill the needs of different
groups, especially PLHIV and highly vulnerable groups.

Treatment saves lives (and money) but its other effects must be managed carefully.
The Brazil treatment program clearly has saved lives and money. The cost of ARV
treatment is lower than estimated hospital costs for patients if they had not received
treatment. Treatment does carry the risk of drug resistance, however, so treatment
regimens must be closely managed and monitored.

HIV/AIDS is a complex epidemic which demands a robust response that will rely
heavily on existing institutions. An effective response program will utilize talent and
capacity from the national health system, so a country with a more developed health
network will be able more easily to establish and expand an HIV/AIDS response
program.     An HIV/AIDS program requires high-functioning logistics, sophisticated
testing facilities, reliable and robust information systems, communications and media that
reach the entire country, effective M&E and experienced data analysis. Less developed
countries may not be able to replicate the success of Brazil's program until such
peripheral programs or inputs are developed and/or expanded.

Weak institutional capacity can affect project outcomes. Even though Brazil is a
sophisticated country and is recognized as a global leader on HIV/AIDS, progress can be
hampered by weak institutional capacity in some areas.            The limited capacity in
procurement within the MOH affected more than procurement of project inputs such as
condoms. Critical information such as surveys and research projects were also delayed.




                                              25

Integration of HIV/AIDS activities with other health actors and institutions
increases impact and sustainability. The integration of HIV prevention and treatment
services into the package of services commonly available at primary health centers was a
particularly effective strategy and led to significant increases in demand, access and
utilization of STD, HIV and AIDS services among beneficiary populations. Brazil's
challenge going forward will be to integrate HIV and AIDS activities even more fully
within the overall health system. Appropriate starting points are the Surveillance, Family
Health and Basic Care Programs, which focus on issues such as the information basis
available for decision making in the health sector, women's health and control of
tuberculosis.

Decentralized management of resources is essential in the fight against the epidemic,
allowing for differentiated interventions, with appropriate responses to different
epidemiological profiles and contexts of vulnerability throughout diverse regions.

Decentralization measures often progress unevenly, depending on variable capacity
among state or municipal-level actors. Further development of the results-based
management approach, and performance-based financing should contribute to reward
high achievers, while the PN has increased monitoring and supervision, training and
technical assistance to weaker states and municipalities.

High staff turnover hinders performance. The turnover of staff within the PN, both at
the national and municipal levels, hindered project performance. Wide scale staff
turnover could put the sustainability of any intervention at stake, especially when large
numbers of civil servants change jobs after national elections. As previously mentioned,
this is an issue that affects the Brazilian public system as a whole, and the MOH is
starting to take steps to correct this issue.

Strengthening governance is essential for progress in epidemic control, as an integral
part of increased management capacity of the federal, state and municipal level of the
national health service.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies


In a statement included in Annex 7, the PN considers that the project contributed to
strengthen the performance of the program, which is recognized a reference in the context
of the national health system and internationally, due to the implementation of an
inclusive and comprehensive public health policy on HIV/AIDS and STDs. Similarly to
what happened in previous project, the partnership between the National Program and the
Bank on this third project contributed to significant improvements in several aspects of
the epidemic control, including health promotion, disease prevention, diagnosis,
treatment and care, and the strengthening of a decentralized institutional structure. The
PN points out that there was a substantial increase in the funding of R&D under the third
project as compared with previous ones. In this context, the partnership with the Bank



                                              26

continues to be considered as key to maintain the quality of the Brazilian response to the
epidemic of HIV/AIDS and other STDs.

(b) Cofinanciers NA

(c) Other partners and stakeholders NA




                                          27

                       Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
         Components                Appraisal        Actual/Latest
                                                                   Percentage of
                                   Estimate           Estimate
                                                                    Appraisal
                                 (USD millions)    (USD millions)

Improving Prevention,
                                      166.10             130.47        78.5
Treatment and Care

Scientific and Technological
                                        9.54              13.35        140
Development

Strengthening Program
                                       24.37              55.82        229
Management


            Total Project Costs       200.00             200.00        100
Front-end fee                           1.00               1.00
    Total Financing Required          100.00             100.00        100




(b) Financing
                                   Appraisal        Actual/Latest
                                                                   Percentage of
       Source of Funds             Estimate           Estimate
                                                                    Appraisal
                                 (USD millions)    (USD millions)
Borrower                            100.00              100.00        100%
International Bank for
Reconstruction and                  100.00              100.00        100%
Development
Total project cost                  200.00              100.00        100%




                                          28

                    Annex 2. Outputs by PDO and by Component

Project Development Objectives (PDOs). The development objectives of the Third
AIDS and STD Control Project were to reduce the incidence of STDs and HIV and
improve the quality of life for people living with HIV/AIDS by strengthening the
effectiveness and efficiency of the national response and ensuring its sustainability in the
medium and long-term. Many of the expected results were attained. Mortality and
morbidity decreased, as well as hospital average length of stay and the corresponding
public sector costs. The project contributed to (a) expand the coverage and quality of
interventions; (b) decentralize the financing and management of program activities to
states and municipalities in accordance with current national health policy; (c) strengthen
program management by establishing M&E capacity and instituting the use of
management tools, including performance-based management, focusing on more cost-
effective interventions and improving their targeting; (d) introduce technological
innovation and upgrade existing technology in treatment and prevention; and (e) reduce
discrimination and stigma associated with HIV/AIDS.



                               HIV and AIDS in Brazil in 2008

     Estimated HIV prevalence among adult population (15-49 years): 0.6%
     HIV prevalence among males: 0.8%; among females: 0.4%
     HIV prevalence among 15-49 years old group: 0.5%
     HIV prevalence among highly vulnerable groups: above 5%
     AIDS Mortality in 2007: 5.1 per 100.000
     Number of cases between 1980 and June 2008: 506,499
     Number deaths between 1980 and 2007: 205,000
     Estimated 10-12 million cases of STD each year.
     10 times higher probability of being HIV+ when referring syphilis; and 2.8 times
        when referring having had an STD.
     Concentrated HIV epidemic but the epidemic has been spreading to females, poorer
        groups and towards the North and Northeast regions.
     Increase of number of cases among heterosexual population, women (ratio 1.5
        males/females) and young homosexual and bisexual men 13-24 years old, but more
        women than men infected in the group 13-19 years.
     HIV-1 subtype B is the most common, but subtypes C, D and F1 have been identified
        in some cases.


Component 1. Improving the Quality and Coverage of Prevention, Treatment and
Care (US$166 million total cost; US$78 million loan financing). Component 1 had
four subcomponents, the first three of which included centrally financed initiatives. These
included investments that were for federally mandated activities; were regional in nature,
i.e. involving more than one municipality or state; were of a strategic nature designed to
address emerging issues; and, in cases where municipalities lacked the capacity to
address the issue adequately. The last subcomponent included municipal and state-




                                            29

managed initiatives funded through direct transfers from the federal level to the state or
municipal levels.

Subcomponent 1.1: Prevention of STDs and HIV. The activities financed under this
subcomponent included promotion of behavior change to prevent STDs and HIV with a
strong focus on high risk groups, mother to child transmission, condom promotion, risk
reduction among IV drug users (needle exchange programs), expansion of voluntary
counseling and testing services and IEC (information, education and communication).
The project financed strategic supply driven subprojects (type A) and demand-driven
subprojects (type B) to finance NGOs and other strategic partners to expand prevention
activities, including voluntary testing and counseling and mother to child transmission;
goods including educational materials, male and female condoms, lubricant gels, rapid
test kits, laboratory equipment; consulting services including development of IEC
materials, mass media campaigns, design of prevention strategies and training to
strengthen prevention services and logistics of supplies.

Coverage of prevention activities was expanded by working with the Family Health
Program.      Funding for NGOs also contributed to increase coverage in specific
populations, and mass media campaigns focused on specific issues and target groups.
This component also focused on improving the quality of prevention interventions by
training health sector staff at municipal and state levels, and NGO workers, as well as by
integrating HIV prevention activities with those of other programs (such as TB, women's
health and the Family Health Program). Given the changing demographics of the disease
that were apparent in 2003, targeting was also a focus of component activities, including
analysis of existing data to more specifically define vulnerable groups, and expanded
outreach to groups such as partners of high-risk individuals and victims of sexual
violence.

Promoting behavior change with a strong focus on high risk groups. Unprotected sex
between men is estimated to account for about half of all HIV infections that are sexually
transmitted in Brazil4. Over 50% of AIDS cases in Brazil are among highly vulnerable
groups (MSM, SW, IDU). The incidence of AIDS among MSM is 250 per 100,000,
while among heterosexual men incidence is 27 per 100,000. However, the epidemic has
been spreading to poorer people, women and the interior of the country. The PN launched
several programs to prevent and control the epidemic among highly vulnerable groups,
including:

     National Plan to Control the epidemic of AIDS and other STDs among MSM.
        This program covers MSM, including, gay, bisexuals and transvestites.
     Project Maria Sem Vergonha. Aims at reducing incidence of HIV and other
        STDs among sex workers by supporting the Sex Workers Brazilian Network
        (Rede Brasileira de Prostitutas), which involves NGOs from all states and 36
        municipalities. About 20,000 sex workers benefit from this project.
     Project RoDa Brasil (Harm Reduction Network). IDU are at significantly
        increased risk of infection as compared with the population in general. The MOH

4UNAIDS 2007.



                                            30

       approved a policy on harm reduction in July 2005. Five national initiatives to
       consolidate regional centers of reference for harm reduction were undertaken with
       positive results. HIV prevalence among IDU in Brazil declined in some cities as a
       result of these harm-reduction programs, changes from injecting to inhaling drugs,
       and mortality among drug users (UNAIDS and WHO 2006).
    Program Health and Prevention in Schools (SPE). In 2007, according to the
       School Census, 52,000 public schools (43%) develop program activities, which
       contributed for the increase in the use of condoms in the first sexual relation.
    Integrated Plan to contain the feminization of the HIV and STD epidemic,
       including among SW. Five states (Minas Gerais, Piaui, Rio de Janeiro, Rio
       Grande do Norte and Sergipe) already developed these plans.
    Strategic Program of Affirmative Action addressed at black and indigenous
       populations. About 500 young black people, 200 NGOs and hundreds of
       researchers in 10 public universities benefited from this program.
    Project Indigenous Population. This has been implemented in partnership with
       FUNASA, and covers the 34 Indigenous Health Districts (DSEI).
    Technical cooperation with the Ministry of Defense and UNAIDS to prevent
       HIV/AIDS and STDs in the military.

                  Project expenditures by highly vulnerable group US$

                    Year         MSM              SW            IDU


                    2004      1.557.104,89    763.182,74    1.053.133,95
                    2005      2.080.370,89    254.523,03     135.693,00
                    2006      1.048.184,70    705.143,91     214.051,35
                    2007       169.122,40          -              -
                    Total     4.854.782,88 1.722.849,68 1.402.878,30
                       Source: SIMOP

Information, education and communication (IEC).             Population-based surveys to
identify knowledge, attitudes and practices related to HIV and other STDs among the
Brazilian population (PCAP_BR) were carried out in 2004 and 2008. The 2008
knowledge, attitudes and practices survey showed that 97% of the population 14+ years
knows that HIV is transmitted through sexual relations, and use of a condom prevents it.
A knowledge, attitudes and practices survey is carried out every year in schools in the
context of the School Census. The Program Health and Prevention in Schools (SPE) is
carried out by the Ministries of Education and Health with support from UNESCO and
UNICEF. At project closing, more than 96% of secondary schools conducted HIV
prevention activities. Of these, 18% have free distribution of condoms. In addition, a
campaign to increase testing among school-age young people was carried out, as well as
a competition for students to develop machines which provide free condoms.

Condom promotion. In 2008, over 60% of people 14+ years, 68% of young people 15-
24 years, and 72% of MSM reported use of condom with a casual partner; according to
studies carried out during the project, 70% sex workers report use of condom with the last



                                            31

client. In 1986, only 9% of young people reported use of a condom on the first sexual
relation; in 1998, this proportion increased to 49% among the 16-25 years group; in 2008,
the proportion further increased to 62,3% among the 15-24 years group.

The annual demand for condoms is estimated at 2 billion. The private sector sells about
600 million condoms a year on average5. In addition, the PN purchased 550 million
condoms in 2006, and distributed 122 million male condoms, 1.6 million female
condoms and 1.9 million units of gel in 2007. In 2007, the PN purchased 1 billion male
condoms, which are being distributed to states and municipalities according to plan; and
initiated procurement of 8 million female condoms and 15 million units of gel.

About 40% of loan funds were allocated to procurement of prevention supplies such as
condoms and gel. During project implementation, condom procurement processes were
evaluated and improved. A batch of 150 million condoms was satisfactorily procured
through UNFPA in 2006; and 1 billion condoms were procured through international
competitive bidding (ICB) in 2007. However, there were significant delays in
procurement, which translated into a much smaller final allocation of loan funds to
procurement of condoms. The PN negotiated with the British firm The Female Health
Company for the transfer of technology that would allow for production of female
condoms in Brazil.

A public-private partnership in the State of Acre produces 100 million condoms
annually, and could extend production to 260 million. Due to high demand in the LAC
region; availability of latex in Acre and Amazonas; the possibility of developing
innovative technologies; and the contribution this industry could give to economic and
social development in those states, the Bank team recommended that the PN updates the
condom factory feasibility study, and explores the potential for expansion and the interest
of the private sector on this venture.

Expansion of voluntary counseling and testing services. Over 40% of adults aged 15-
49 years have been tested for HIV at least once; and 67% of pregnant women were tested
in 2007 (75% in the South, Southeast and Center-West; and 35% and 31% in the North
and Northeast respectively). The number of CTA increased 32% from 254 in 2004 to
393 in 2007. Rapid tests, which eliminate waiting periods for results, were implemented
at primary health care institutions, increasing both efficiency and effectiveness. The
CTA Information System (SI-CTA) was implemented with participation of 240 sites out
of 328, collecting data on HIV, syphilis, hepatitis B and C. The Bank team agreed that the
testing and counseling target be reduced from 50% to 35%, which is in line with results
obtained in developed countries, but recommended that the Program improves testing and
counseling to ensure that (i) highly vulnerable groups are covered; and (ii) results become
available in less than one week. The PN is implementing a plan to expand the use of
rapid tests for diagnosis, and to improve the performance of the CTAs.

Mother to child transmission. Mother-to-child transmission decreased from 16% in
1998 to 6.8% in 2004. Prevalence of HIV among pregnant women has remained below

5AC Nielsen 2007



                                             32

0.3% since 2004; and prevalence of syphilis in this group decreased from 1.7% in 2002 to
1.1% in 2006. About 67% of infected pregnant women are tested in the country,
including over 75% in the South, Southeast and Center-West regions. While the program
aims at increasing prevention of vertical transmission from 34% to 95% of HIV+
pregnant women, the PN has only managed to cover 51% with AZT for prevention of
mother-to-child transmission (PMTCT), taking into account the estimated total number of
infected pregnant women in the country. However, this indicator is estimated on the basis
of AZT doses distributed, which may lead to significant errors. A 2005 study of PMTCT
showed that about 82% of identified pregnant women were tested.6 The Bank team
recommended that the Program revises the measurement of this indicator, and improves
identification and coverage of HIV+ pregnant women through other existing national
health services (Basic Attention-Family Health, Women's Health, Maternities, etc). In
2007, the MOH launched a national plan to reduce mother-to-child transmission of HIV
and syphilis by 2011. Testing is expected to further increase under this plan between
2006 and 2008, from 1.4 million to 2.3 million for HIV and from 2.1 million to 4.8
million for syphilis.



                  Rate of Mother-to-Child Transmission of HIV 2000-2004




Subcomponent 1.2: Treatment and Care. This subcomponent financed expanded
diagnosis and treatment for STDs, treatment of opportunistic infections and HIV/AIDS7,
(the project financed activities to improve logistics, expand dispensing units, training
staff to foster adherence, and increasing access to follow-up laboratory tests), home-
based social and psychologica1 care and palliative care. The laboratory network was
strengthened and some facilities were upgraded. The project financed subprojects A to
establish medication dispensing units and improve distribution logistics, increase
adherence to treatment, expand laboratory services, and introduce certification of service
facilities; and subprojects B to finance care activities; goods including educational
materials, computer software and hardware, laboratory equipment, reagents; consultant
services to improve treatment and care; and training for health care staff on treatment and
care, encouraging adherence, patient follow-up, dispensing unit operation.


6PN 2007. Project Birth. Evaluation of the implementation of the PMCT program in maternities.
7ARV drugs are financed by the Ministry of Health; drugs for treatment of STD and opportunistic
infections are financed by states and municipalities. The project did not finance pharmaceutical drugs.



                                                      33

Improved targeting in treatment and care was realized by geographic mapping to
identify groups that required outreach. Coverage of treatment and care increased by
focusing on supplies, the dispensing of antiretroviral drugs (ARV) and other drugs, and
expanding the laboratory network. Quality of treatment and care was improved by
supporting capacity building within the public health sector, improving logistics for drugs
and supplies, upgrading equipment, and reducing waiting time for test results.

Expanded diagnosis and treatment for STDs, treatment of opportunistic infections
and HIV/AIDS. Over 500,000 HIV/AIDS cases were notified since 1980, of which over
250,000 are presently followed up by the PN. In addition, about 180,000 people are on
treatment with ARV, ensuring average survival of 108 months, which is comparable to
survival in developed countries. Consequently, AIDS mortality, morbidity and
hospitalizations decreased significantly in the last two decades.

Surveillance of Resistance to ARV. The PN implemented surveillance of clinical events
and adverse reactions to ARV in 10 reference centers. A study reviewed how limitations
in resources and health care infrastructure may impact the transmission of resistant HIV.
Brazil was chosen as a case study due to its extensive experience delivering ART and
because of the availability of data on the prevalence of resistant HIV. Brazil data show
that ART can be delivered in a resource-limited setting without resulting in widespread
transmission of resistant virus. Increased transmission of resistant HIV has been raised as
a potential consequence of expanded access to ART.          8



Brazil HIV/AIDS and STDs Health Network. The PN implemented a policy to
guarantee access of PLHIV to a primary health care network with trained staff and to
reference centers for more complex cases. As a result, a network of about 2,274 units
provides services for prevention and treatment of HIV/AIDS and other STDs throughout
the country, including 640 primary health care units and 525 hospitals. Between 2004
and 2007, the number of specialized centers (SAE) increased over 51%; the number of
labs performing HIV/AIDS tests increased about 11%, and their quality was controlled;
those performing CD4 tests increased 4.5%, viral load 12.3%, and genotype 42.8%. The
number of units that provide ARV (UDM) increased by over 63%; the number of day
hospitals providing care to PLHIV increased by almost 18%, and the number of
conventional hospitals providing care to PLHIV increased by 8%. Under the project, staff
was trained in these services, UDM were provided new equipment, and the Information
and Drug Logistic Control System (SICLOM) used by UDM was improved.
                        Brazil HIV/AIDS and STDs Health Network




8Petersen ML et al 2006. Assessing HIV resistance in developing countries: Brazil as a Case Study.




                                                 34

In 2007, a quality study compared the provision of ambulatory services to PLHIV in the
period 2001-2007, showing that 91% are physically very accessible; 78% are open 8
hours a day, 5 days a week; 64% of these services ask patients on ART to return within 2
weeks; 75% follow up; and 75% are able to carry out CD4 and viral load tests9.

                    Brazil HIV/AIDS and other STDs Network 2004-2007
                        Health Care Units                2004 2007 % Increase
              Testing and Counseling Center (CTA)         254     393      31,8
              Specialized Care Service (SAE)              422     639     51,42
              Drug Dispensing Unit (UDM)                  407     664     63,14
              Home-Based Care (ADT)                        53     53       0,00
              Day Hospital (HD)                            79     93      17,72
              Hospital                                    401     432      7,73
              CD 4 Lab                                     88     92       4,5
              Viral Load Lab                               73     82       12,3
              Genotyping Lab                               14     20       42,8



Home-based social/psychological care and palliative care. In 2007, 53 health units
provided clinical home care. A MOH policy on the Support Homes (Casas de Apoio) was
approved in 2004. The Casas de Apoio are in-patient centers that care for low-income
PLHIV. There are 103 Casas in 19 states, with a total of 2,224 beds. The Casas are
divided into two types: (i) permanent establishments where patients who are severely ill
receive care; and (ii) temporary establishments where patients stay for a shorter period
time (e.g. during routine hospital visits, which may be located far from home). All
decentralized loan funding for NGOs was allocated to these centers. All NGOs providing



9PN 2007. Evaluation of Ambulatory Care provided to adults with HIV/AIDS (QUALIAIDS).




                                               35

community care were trained under the project. The establishment of the Casas has
clearly contributed to improved quality of life for PLHIV.

Subcomponent 1.3: Human Rights. This subcomponent financed activities to further
foster the protection of fundamental rights of PLHIV and vulnerable populations,
including the rights to employment, education and health; workshops to minimize
situations of social and individual vulnerability of PLHIV, reduce stigma and
discrimination, strengthening of the human rights network; consultancies for the
formulation of laws to protect rights; training for lawyers and judges on the rights of
PLHIV, and training for health professionals and managers on ethics and human rights.
The subcomponent financed subprojects to finance NGOs and other partner activities in
human rights including provision of legal advice, awareness of rights, and goods
including educational materials.

The PN coordinated with the Secretary of Human Rights the implementation of the
program Brazil Without Homophoby. Important gains were made in the funding of
prevention and sensitization events targeting marginalized social groups specifically
vulnerable to the epidemic (such as out-of-school youth and street children, women, and
the black population in the North and North-East) as well the promotion of legal
initiatives for lesbians, gay, bisexuals and transvestites (LGBT) and PLHIV. The PN
disseminates information on its website on issues related to human rights, such as the
most recent national AIDS-related legislation, legal support services available for victims
of stigma and discrimination, and the monitoring of rights violation cases reported
nationally. The PN also actively sought to include the LGBT community in its outreach
and treatment activities. In November 2007, for example, the 13th National Health
Conference included debates on sexual orientation and gender identity in national health
policy, which led to the introduction of training programs on these issues for health staff
across the country. In March 2008, the Ministry of Health allocated R$1 million to the
implementation of human rights initiatives and prevention activities targeting the LGBT
community.

In 2007, the PN established a database on Violations of HIV-related Human Rights,
which      allows    for   monitoring     complaints     throughout    the    country     -
http://sistemas.aids.gov.br/denuncia - and orients the development of local actions against
stigma and discrimination.




                                            36

                          Human Rights Subprojects 2004-2007
                      Year      Subprojects               R$
                      2004           95              5,040,489.78
                      2005           160             8,034,750.58
                      2006           147             4,370,832.69
                      2007           172             5,372,205.15
                                     574             22,818,278.20
                       Source: SIMOP 2007

Subcomponent 1.4: Municipal, State and NGO-managed Initiatives in Prevention,
Treatment, Care, and Institutional Development. This subcomponent supported health
services decentralization by expanding the delivery of services provided by
municipalities and states, and improving their quality. Participation was restricted to
those municipalities and states that had prepared an adequate action and target plan
(PAM- Planos de Ações e Metas) for combating HIV/AIDS. Initially, 411 municipalities
and 27 states were eligible to receive fund-to-fund transfers from the federal government
on the basis of agreed annual action and target plans (PAMs), but the project supported
445 municipalities in addition to the DF and all states. Ten percent of federal funds
transferred were earmarked for NGO-executed activities. An additional amount of
US$12.0 million from the loan was allocated to NGO activities (Casas de Apoio). Funds
for NGOs were transferred through state PAMs, and activities were executed by NGOs
under agreements with the States. Eligible activities to be financed included: (a)
prevention interventions; (b) diagnosis, counseling and tests; (c) treatment of PLHIV; (d)
diagnosis and treatment of STDs and common complications of STDs/AIDS; and e)
epidemiological surveillance of HIV/AIDS and STDs.

Incentive Policy for States and Municipalities. The PN participates in the federal
health policy of transfer of funds to states and municipalities for priority programs. This
is a results-based financing policy, in which states and municipalities agree with the
federal level to accomplish a set of targets to be financed by federal and local funds. The
project included fiduciary innovations such as the pooling of Bank financing with federal
grant transfers for HIV and STD activities, and the use of country systems under such
grant transfers. In addition, loan funds under this scheme were earmarked for the Casas
de Apoio.

A total of R$510 million (about US$305 million) were transferred to 26 states, the
Federal District and 455 municipalities during project implementation. Of this, about
R$34 million (about US$20 million) were loan funds transferred to states and
municipalities under the pooled fund mechanism; and US $9.2 million loan funds were
transferred to Casas de Apoio. As the North and the North-East were identified as
strategic areas of intervention at project design (due to growing prevalence rates and
higher level of poverty and marginalization of the people affected by HIV), the resources
transferred to the two regions increased by 33% in 2004. In the same year, the MOH
approved the program monitoring system, which tracks state and municipal technical and
financial performance against the agreed PAMs. Information about the program is posted
on www.aids.gov.br/incentivo.



                                             37

                             Resources transferred by source R$

                           States      Municipalities    Total by Source    Total

              Year    Loan Budget Loan Budget            Loan     Budget

              2004      ---    38,99     ---    69,08      ---    108,07   108,07

              2005     7,01    36,99    4,95    75,03    11,96    112,02   123,98

              2006    12,04    39,25    9,96    74,25    22,00    113,50   135,50

               2007     ---    49,66     ---    93,37      ---    143,03   143,03

             TOTAL 19,05      164,89   14,91   311,73    33,96    476,62   510,58

                Note: Loan funds were allocated to Support Homes (Casas de Apoio)


As previously mentioned, project activities were coordinated with other health programs
and/or institutions, such as the integration into national surveillance activities and of
testing and counseling services into the Basic Care and Family Health Programs.
Integration of the Program into primary health care has allowed for extending coverage to
new risk groups and increasing sustainability of the national response. For these reforms
to fully succeed it is necessary that a) Program staff turnover decreases at all levels; b)
technical capacity increases in states and municipalities; and c) procurement capacity and
flexibility increases while maintaining transparency and competitiveness.

Component 2. Developing Scientific and Technological Capacity (US$9.5 million
total cost; US$6.7 million loan financing). This component aimed at expanding the
capacity of Brazil to respond to the disease with locally-developed solutions, and to
consolidate its role as a regional and global leader in the fight against HIV/AIDS.

The component financed strengthening the capacity of research centers, laboratories and
universities to engage in scientific and technological research and development (R&D),
and R&D studies and activities to improve the effectiveness of treatment and prevention
of HIV/AIDS. The R&D activities were undertaken by public entities, several of which
have international credibility. Partnerships with international agencies specializing in the
issues addressed were formed in order to standardize methodologies and facilitate
technological transfer. This component financed preparatory studies and infrastructure for
clinical trials of HIV vaccines. Research was also conducted on microbicides and other
products that could improve effectiveness of treatment. In addition, project activities
established methods and infrastructure to guarantee quality control of medications and
biological supplies within the health system. Finally, research explored the potential of
combining two or three ARVs in a single presentation to increase adherence to treatment
protocols. The PN established partnerships with high-income countries on vaccine and
new drugs development. Under the project, the PN intensified these activities, especially
by publishing scientific findings on peer-reviewed journals, and posting these results on
the web.




                                             38

                          R&D on HIV, AIDS and STDs 2004-2007

Year            Call for Proposals            Projects Projects Projects     Financing
                                             Submitted Approved Financed         R$

2004 Epidemiology                               16        0         0                0,00

       Diagnostics and Assistance               11        4         4         767.037,08

       Human Rights and Prevention              23        3         2         329.861,12

       Total 2004                               50        7          6      1.096.898,20

2005 Clinical-Epidemiological,                  97        32        32      6.394.084,21
       Behavioral, Social and Human Rights
       in the North and Center East Regions
       Clinical-Epidemiological Research       110        28        27      5.365.306,52

       Black Population                         26        7         7         900.737,71

       Black Population                         24        10        10      1.075.685,85

       Microbicides                             2         2         2         421.830,46

       Total 2005                              259        79        78     14.157.644,75

2006 Clinical-Epidemiological, Social and       40        15        13      1.884.739,71
       Behavioral R&D in the Northeast

       HIV Vaccine                              19        13        12      4.537.547,15
       Total 2006                               59        28        25      6.422.286,86

2007 Epidemiological,               Clinical,   22        8         8       1.525.992,54
       Behavioral     and Social research
       related to MCT
       Clinical-Epidemiological, Social and     48        10        10      1.415.685,33
       Behavioral R&D in the South Region

       Homophobia and MSM Violence              46        12        12      1.100.179,57

       HIV and Syphilis in MSM, SW, IDU         5         2         2       1.540.028,53

       Total 2007                              121        32        32      5.581.885,97

       Total 2004-2007                         489       146        141    27.258.715,78


While in the preceding period (1999-2003), the PN allocated less than R$9 million to 118
R&D projects; between 2004 and 2007, about R$37 million (about US$22 million) were
allocated to R&D on HIV/AIDS and STDs; of these, about R$27 million (US $16
million) financed 141 subprojects, out of a total of 489 submitted. The PN launched 13
requests for proposals and letters of invitation to select 2 proposals for microbicides
during the life of the project. The robust research agenda (epidemiological, clinical and
operational) that were funded under Component 2 clearly contribute to the effectiveness
of the national response.

Component 3. Strengthening Program Management (US$24.5 million total cost;
US$15.3 million loan financing). This component focused on strengthening the overall
management of the program, and steering it towards results-based management practices.
The project supported the establishment of an M&E unit at the national level,
strengthening of capacity for monitoring at the state and municipal level, a system to


                                             39

monitor compliance with the action plans agreed with municipalities and states (Planos
de Ações e Metas), and activities to develop a culture of performance-based management.
It also financed the incremental costs related to the management and supervision of the
project, including the Project Coordination Unit staff, technical assistance, and
administrative expenditures. Management improvements were emphasized at the federal,
state and municipality levels. Project activities supported the development of software to
improve logistics and management systems necessary for the improved operation of the
project.

Subcomponent 3.1: Monitoring, Evaluation and Epidemiological Surveillance. This
subcomponent included the establishment and operation of a Monitoring, Evaluation and
Planning Unit at the federal level, and reference M&E units at the state level, with a
minimum of one per region. A draft M&E Operational Plan prepared during project
preparation was finalized and served as a guide for the implementation of M&E
activities. A subset of states was selected to function as reference M&E sites where
different decentralized monitoring initiatives were piloted to be disseminated to other
states once the mechanisms were specified and tested. Relevant staff in states and
municipalities was trained on the use of information for decision-making. Activities
designed to strengthen HIV/AIDS and STD surveillance at all three levels of government
were included. The project financed subprojects to provide support in the establishment
of M&E systems at the state and municipal levels; goods including computer software
and hardware, educational materials, epidemiological and survey result reports and
manuals to orient on the use of the various information systems; consultant services for
evaluation studies and the development of software for improved management; and
training on monitoring and evaluation at federal, state and municipal levels.

The National M&E Plan describes the monitoring and evaluation policy of the PN. The
system tracks 94 indicators and can be assessed at www.aids.gov.br/monitoraids.
MONITORAIDS includes indicators on context (social and demographic, and National
Health System ­ SUS), impact (mortality and morbidity) and national program
(expenditures, surveillance, research, knowledge, stigma and discrimination, sexual
behavior, vulnerable populations vulnerable, testing, blood safety, prevention and control
of STD, availability of condoms and prevention activities, mother-infant transmission,
care and social support). MONITORAIDS is also the most important structural
component of the National Evaluation Plan (NEP), which aims at measuring access,
quality, effectiveness and user satisfaction. MONITOR-AIDS was established as a
management tool, in cooperation with the Oswaldo Cruz Foundation and the Centers for
Disease Control (CDC). In addition, the PN implemented the following M&E systems:

     Human Rights
     Civil Society activities
     Program Health and Prevention in Schools
     SI-CTA ­ Information on Testing and Counseling Centers
     SISCEL ­ Control of Lab Tests
     SICLOM ­ Logistic Control of Pharmaceutical Drugs
     QUALIAIDS (quality)



                                            40

                                 MONITORAIDS Indicators
                 Area        Indicators

                 Context     Socio-demographic
                             National Health System
                 PN          Resource expenditure
                             AIDS surveillance
                             Research
                             Knowledge
                             Stigma and discrimination
                             Sexual behaviour
                             Populations vulnerable to HIV
                             HIV testing
                             Blood control and safety
                             Prevention and control of STD
                             Availability of condoms and prevention actitivies
                             Mother-infant transmission of HIV
                             AIDS care
                             Social Support
                 Impact      Morbidity
                             Mortality

The PN carries out a comprehensive training program. More than 200 M&E workshops
were carried out in the DF and 26 states, covering about 5,000 staff from the State Health
Secretariats and NGOs. The PN financed 15 M&E training courses in Brasilia and post-
graduate training in M&E; and training on sampling methods for studies involving hard-
to-reach populations (TSS and RDS methods). The PN carried out surveys on knowledge,
attitudes and practices (PCAP-BR) in 2004 and 2008; the sentinel study among pregnant
women in 2002, 2004 and 2006; the Conscript Study in 2002 and 2007; 5 regional KAP
studies; and evaluation studies of MOH media campaigns, cost-effectiveness of rapid
tests, PMTCT of HIV and syphilis, and provision of ARV. In addition, the PN assisted
the development of M&E on HIV/AIDS and STDs in other countries in LAC and Africa.

The M&E system was designed to address the existing problems that were identified
during the first two projects. The project made good progress in disseminating M&E
tools. However, despite significant progress, M&E activities under the project were
considered only moderately satisfactory for several reasons. Information is scarce, or of
poor quality, for some indicators. Some baseline studies experienced long delays, and
some baseline data were from regional or state-level studies, especially from the State of
Sao Paulo.      Results of complex seroprevalence surveys that will provide crucial
information about HIV infection rates among highly vulnerable groups (MSM, SW,
IDU) and general population will only become available in 2008. This delay was due to
(i) difficulties in identifying appropriate methods to study hard-to-reach populations; (ii)
difficulties in coordinating the work of three different departments involved in the studies
(Epidemiology, R&D and M&E); and (iii) delays in procurement through UN agencies.
The Bank team recommended that the three areas have regular meetings to coordinate
planning and execution of studies, and that the PN integrates M&E to ensure that (i)
results are available for strategic decision-making, to update MONITOR-AIDS, and for


                                               41

accountability purposes next to beneficiaries and financing agencies. The PN started
implementing these recommendations in the last year of the project.

Subcomponent 3.2: Fostering Performance-Based Management. The introduction of
result-based management into the daily practices of municipalities and states is no easy
task and a continued effort is necessary for staff at all levels of the program to become
familiar and comfortable with the adoption of this tool. Activities for monitoring targets
associated with the transfer of fund to states and eligible municipalities were carried out.

This subcomponent financed use of information through training on the use of
information for decision-making for PCU staff, managers at the national and state levels,
and key project coordinators; training for municipalities and states to improve their
planning and management skills, for the preparation of PAMs, use of information to
monitor PAM implementation, and to set up and manage NGO competitive funds;
training of NGOs in management, income generation and on the identification of
alternative sources of financing. The project financed subprojects to strengthen NGO's
sustainability, improve management of public implementing entities. NGO forums were
established where non-existent, and strengthened elsewhere.

Seminars, workshops and conferences for the exchange of information and
methodologies were financed at the national level and regional level. Participation in
international fora to exchange ideas and information, and to provide guidance in global
initiatives were financed, as well as for the development of strategic alliances with less
developed countries to facilitate exchange of information and experiences, and to form a
network with these countries. The PN organized several study tours of policy-makers,
health professionals and NGOs to visit the Program. The PN has been very active in
disseminating knowledge, technology and national-produced generic ART to low- and
middle-income countries in Africa and Asia (eg, Lusophone countries in Africa, East-
Timor), Europe (Russia, Ukraine, Moldova visited the program), and to MERCOSUR
partners such as Bolivia and Paraguay.

Subcomponent 3.3: Project Management. The project financed incremental costs
related to the management and supervision of the Project, including PCU staff, technical
assistance to ensure adequate implementation and supervision of the project,
administrative expenditures for the PCU, office equipment, as well as operation and
maintenance of office equipment as needed, travel expenses and sundry items. The MOH
is carrying out a competition for 3,000 positions, including 47 requested by the PN,
which should diminish the recurrent issue of staff turnover. MOH and PN staff received
training in management and procurement, and MOH Departments, such as the
Procurement Department (Coordenação Geral de Recursos Logísticos), were
strengthened under the project.




                                             42

Project Development Objectives

(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                         Original Target                       Actual Value
                                          Values (from                          Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value
                                            approval                          Completion or
                                           documents)                          Target Years
              Maintain HIV prevalence among pregnant young women aged 15-24 at
Indicator 1
              0.6% in 2000-2006.
Value
                          0.6                   0.6                                 0.26

Date achieved 12/31/2000                12/31/2006                          12/31/2007
              Target achieved. HIV prevalence among pregnant women is used as a proxy for
Comments      prevalence among pregnant young women 15-24 years. The new program target
              is to maintain prevalence among pregnant women at 0.3%, which is in line with
              the respective MDG indicator.
              Reduce prevalence of syphilis in males aged 17-19 from 1.3% in 2003 to
Indicator 2
              1.0% in 2006.
Value
                         0.85                    1                                  0.53

Date achieved 12/31/2003                12/31/2006                          12/31/2007
              Target achieved. Syphilis prevalence among conscripts used as a proxy for
Comments
              prevalence among males 17-19. The baseline value was revised down to 0.85%,
              but even so there was a 40% decrease in this rate during the project period.
              Reduce prevalence of syphilis among MSM from 7.7% in 2002 to 4% in
Indicator 3
              2006.
Value
                          3.4                    4                                  2.7

Date achieved 12/31/2002                12/31/2006                          12/31/2007
              Target achieved. Syphilis prevalence among conscripts used as a proxy for
Comments
              prevalence among MSM. The baseline value was revised down to 3.4%, but even
              so there was a 20% decrease in this rate during the project period.
              Reduce HIV incidence related to vertical transmission from 16 in 1998 to
Indicator 4
              8% in 2006.
Value
                          16                     8                                  6.8

Date achieved 12/31/1998                12/31/2006                          12/31/2004
Comments      Target achieved in 2004.
              Increase survival of adult AIDS patients from 58 months in 1996 to 72
Indicator 5
              months in 2006
Value
                          58                    72                                  108

Date achieved 12/31/1996                12/31/2006                          12/31/2007
Comments      Target achieved.




                                            43

Indicator 6   Reduce incidence of AIDS from 14.2 in 2000 to 10.0 in 2006.
Value         14.2                       10                                  12.1
Date achieved 12/31/2000                 12/31/2006                         12/31/2006
              This target refers only to AIDS cases, not to HIV cases. Target not achieved due
Comments
              to increased survival as a result of ART, which is a very positive outcome.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                           Original Target                      Actual Value
                                             Values (from                        Achieved at
  Indicator         Baseline Value
                                               approval                        Completion or
                                             documents)                         Target Years
              Increase coverage of treatment of HIV positive women in childbirth from
Indicator 1
              34% in 2002 to 95% in 2006
                                                                                    51.2*
Value                    41.6                      95
                                                                                    81.8**
Date achieved 12/31/2002                  12/31/2006                        12/31/2007
              The baseline value was revised from 34% to 41.6%. Target not achieved: * based
Comments      on estimate of total number of infected pregnant women; ** based on actual
              number of pregnant women identified as infected.
              Increase testing of sexually active population aged 14+ from 30% in 2003 to
Indicator 2
              50% in 2006
Value                     30                       50                               40.1*
Date achieved 12/31/2003                  12/31/2007                        12/31/2008
              Target not achieved, but testing rate is above that of developed countries. The
Comments
              new program target is to maintain the rate at 35%, a rate similar to that of
              developed countries. *Source: PCAP 2008.
              Increase percentage of SW who used condom in last sexual encounter with
Indicator 3
              irregular partner from 68% in 2002 to 75% in 2006
Value                    67.3                      75                                 70
Date achieved 12/31/2002                  12/31/2006                        12/31/2007
              The baseline value was revised down from 68% to 67.3. Target not achieved but
Comments
              studies show an increase in the percentage of SW using condoms.
              Increase % of population spontaneously indicating sexual relations are a
Indicator 4
              source of HIV transmission from 86% in 2003 to 95% in 2006
Value
                          86                       95                                97*

Date achieved 12/31/2004                  12/31/2006                        11/30/2008
Comments      Target achieved. * Source: PCAP 2008.
              Increase % of AIDS patients who report having taken 100% of their
Indicator 5
              medications from 68% in 2002 to 75% in 2006
Value                     68                       75                                 86
Date achieved 12/31/2002                  12/31/2006                        11/30/2008
Comments      Target achieved. 2008 study refers to patients who report having taken 95% of
              their medications in the last three days.




                                               44

               Increase average initial CD4 in people without ART from 387 to 425 in the
Indicator 6
               period 2002-2006
Value
                          387                   425                                 432

Date achieved 12/31/2002                 12/31/2006                         12/31/2007
Comments        Target achieved. Source: SISCEL


(c) Process Indicator(s)
                                          Original Target                      Actual Value
                                           Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                              approval                        Completion or
                                            documents)                         Target Years
               Increase the number of condoms sold in Brazil from 420 million in 2002 to
Indicator 1
               550 million in 2006.
Value                     420                   550                                 600
Date achieved 12/31/2002                 12/31/2006                         12/31/2007
               Target achieved. The private sector sells about 600 million condoms a year on
Comments       average (Source: AC Nielsen ­ 2007). In addition, the program purchased and
               distributed 550 million condoms in 2006 and 1 billion condoms in 2007-2008.
               Number of laboratory supplies for diagnosis and ARV patient follow-up
Indicator 2
               developed.
Value                      1                      1                                  2
Date achieved 12/31/2002                 12/31/2006                         12/31/2006
Comments       Target achieved. The Program developed 2 new lab tools for HIV diagnosis by
               2006.
               Percentage of CTAs that, in the last 6 months, received at least 50% of test
Indicator 3
               results within one week of testing, from 32% 2002 to 65% 2006.
Value                     23.3                   65                                 19.3
Date achieved 12/31/2002                 12/31/2006                         12/31/2006
Comments       Target not achieved. The Program carried out a review of the CTAs, and is
               implementing an Action Plan to improve their performance.
               Increase the percentage of states who are subcontracting NGO subprojects
Indicator 4
               through fund-to-fund transfers.
Value                      0                    NA                                  100
Date achieved 12/31/2002                 12/31/2006                         12/31/2007
               Target achieved. In 2006 and 2007, all states launched public competitions to
Comments
               finance NGO subprojects.
Indicator 5    Increase the percentage states that are meeting 75% of the agreed targets.
Value                      0                    NA                                  85
Date achieved 12/31/2002                 12/31/2006                         12/31/2007
Comments       Target achieved. In 2007, 85% of states met at least 75% of the agreed targets.




                                             45

                       Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

An economic and financial analysis was not carried out by project closing. The initial
economic and financial analysis indicated that the economic justification for public
intervention in the slowing the spread of the HIV/AIDS epidemic was clear. The
marginal cost-utility of project prevention was calculated using different assumptions of
effectiveness. In contrast, with a total annual cost of about US$5,300 per patient, ARV
treatment had a cost-utility estimated at US$5,069/DALY.


                         Case Prevention and Marginal Cost-Utility
                      Under Different Assumed Levels of Prevention




        * Using a 3% annual discount rate and constant 2003 US dollars


Fiscal Impact. Government investment for the project was estimated to represent 0.35-
0.41 % of annual federal health expenditures. The project was also estimated to generate
recurrent costs of about US$29 million from 2006 onward. This would represent 0.17%
of federal health expenditures, and 6.6% of HIV/AIDS expenditures. Under the
assumption of a constant HIV/AIDS budget, the incremental recurrent costs would be
relatively easy to accommodate.

As indicated in the main body, actual project efficiency is considered satisfactory. The
project was efficient with respect to four strategies:

    (i)     Its focus on prevention activities had substantial externalities and contributed
            to the reduction of new HIV and AIDS cases.
    (ii)    Its differentiated level of funding for priority highly vulnerable groups based
            of different HIV and STD prevalence rates across regions.
    (iii)   The provision of rapid testing to all pregnant women allowed an early
            detection and treatment of the infection both among mother and their babies,
            thus preventing high costs normally associated with treatments (provided at
            later stage of infection.
    (iv)    Finally, Brazil has been successful in negotiating lower costs for many
            medications that are currently under patent protection, and has promoted the
            use of generics to reduce costs thus alleviating the burden of public spending
            in this area, as demonstrated by a recent economic evaluation of the National
            Program conducted by Harvard University, which concluded that the country
            saved nearly US$ 1 billion (e.g. lower hospitalization costs, DALY10, etc.)


10WHO definition: The Disability Adjusted Life Year or DALY is a health gap measure that extends the
concept of potential years of life lost due to premature death (PYLL) to include equivalent years of



                                                  46

              from 2001 to 200511. However, given that it is unlikely that new cases of HIV
              will be stemmed in the near future, costs will continue to increase and new
              cost-cutting options will have to be identified.

On the other hand, the project presented three main weaknesses that impacted efficiency:

    (i)       It funded a large variety of activities under each of its three components.
              Investing in such a diverse combination of themes resulted in the dispersion of
              resources.
    (ii)      Many subprojects aimed at highly vulnerable groups tended to focus on
              narrow aspects of care or support, while they could have also got involved in
              other activities, such as BCC and condom promotion, without adding
              significant marginal costs.
The contracting of UN agencies as procurement agents for the procurement of goods and
subprojects against the payment of high administrative fees did not turn out to be
particularly efficient, in light of the delayed delivery of condoms and the relatively higher
price per unit; and delays in procurement of key subprojects.




`healthy' life lost by virtue of being in states of poor health or disability (1). The DALY combines in one
measure the time lived with disability and the time lost due to premature mortality. One DALY can be
thought of as one lost year of `healthy' life and the burden of disease as a measurement of the gap between
current health status and an ideal situation where everyone lives into old age free of disease and disability.

11Nunn AS et al 2007. Evolution of Antiretroviral Drug Costs in Brazil in the Context of Free and
Universal Access to AIDS Treatment.




                                                      47

   Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                           Responsibility/
            Names                          Title                  Unit
                                                                              Specialty
Lending
  Sandra Rosenhouse         Sr. Population and Health Specialist SASHD    TTL
Supervision/ICR
 Joana Godinho              Sr. Health Specialist                LCSHH    TTL
 Fernando Lavadenz          Sr. Health Specialist                LCSHH    TTL
 Sandra Rosenhouse          Sr. Population and Health Specialist SASHD    TTL
 Rosalia Rodriguez-Garcia   Sr Monitoring & Evaluation Sp.       HDNGA    M&E
 Daniela Pena De Lima       Operations Officer                   LCSHH    Operations
 Ademildes Dantas           Operations Officer                   LCSHE    Operations
 Trajano Quinhoes           Health Specialist                    LCSHH    ISR
 Michele Tarsilla           Health Specialist                    LCSHH    ICR Primary Auth.
 Cecilia Lorena Brady       Consultant                           LCSHH    ICR Editor
 Anemarie Guth Proite       Procurement Specialist               LCSPT    Procurement
 Luis R. Prada Villalobos   Sr Procurement Specialist            LCSPT    Procurement
 Luiz C. Gazoni             Procurement Specialist               LCSPT    Procurement
 Claudio Mittelstaedt       Procurement Specialist               LCSFM    FM
 Fabson Vogel               Financial Management Specialist      LCSFM    FM
 Joao Vicente Novaes Campos Financial Management Specialist      LCSFM    FM
 Lerick S. Kebeck           Senior Program Assistant             LCSHS    TA
 Carla Zardo                Program Assistant                    LCC5C    TA
 Cassia Castro De Miranda   Team Assistant                       HDNED    TA
 Veronica Jarrin            Sr. Program Assistant                LCSHH    TA
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                           USD Thousands (including
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                                travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY03                                          38                         181.59
  FY04                                                                       0.00
  FY05                                                                       0.00
  FY06                                                                       0.00
  FY07                                                                       0.00
  FY08                                                                       0.00
                           Total:               38                         181.59

Supervision/ICR
  FY03                                                                       6.59
  FY04                                          12                          70.80
  FY05                                          20                          74.44
  FY06                                          41                          99.42
  FY07                                          37                         110.87
  FY08                                          10                          43.79
                           Total:             120                          405.91




                                            48

            Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results


NA




      Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results


NA




                            49

      Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

O Projeto AIDS III fortaleceu a atuação do Programa Nacional de DST e Aids, que hoje é
reconhecido como uma referência, tanto dentro do SUS como internacionalmente, pela
execução de uma política de saúde pública inclusiva e abrangente para o HIV/aids e
outras DST.

Os principais impactos e resultados do Projeto Aids III, no âmbito do Programa Nacional
de DST e Aids encontram-se descritos abaixo.

A aids no país tem-se configurado como sub-epidemias, tendo atingido, de forma
bastante intensa, os usuários de drogas injetáveis e os homens que fazem sexo com
homens. Mais recentemente, vem-se observando o aumento do número de casos de aids
em razão da transmissão heterossexual. De 1980 a junho de 2008 foram identificados um
total de 506.499 casos de aids no Brasil. A partir de 2002, as taxas de incidência anuais
apresentaram tendência de estabilização em patamares elevados.

Em relação ao número de casos por transmissão vertical, observa-se um declínio
importante no número de casos, passando de 884 casos em 2000 para 379 em 2006. No
período de 1985 a junho de 2008, foram diagnosticados 11.796 casos de aids por
transmissão vertical.

Estudos de representatividade nacional vêm demonstrando estabilidade na taxa de
prevalência de pessoas vivendo com HIV/aids. O Brasil mantém sua posição entre os
países com epidemia concentrada, segundo parâmetros da Organização Mundial da Saúde
(OMS), com prevalência de 0,6% da infecção pelo HIV entre a população de 15 a 49
anos, sendo 0,4% entre as mulheres e 0,8% entre os homens, e maior do que 5% em
grupos populacionais sob maior risco para a infecção pelo HIV.

O país acumulou aproximadamente 205 mil óbitos por aids até dezembro de 2007. Até
1995, a curva de mortalidade acompanhava a de incidência de aids, quando atingiu a taxa
de 9,7 óbitos por 100 mil habitantes. Após a introdução da política de disponibilização do
tratamento anti-retroviral, observa-se importante queda na mortalidade, até sua
estabilização, nos últimos 8 anos, em cerca de seis óbitos por 100 mil em 2006. Os
coeficientes de mortalidade apresentam efetiva redução na região Sudeste, estabilização
na região Sul e crescimento nas regiões Norte, Nordeste e Centro-Oeste.

A sobrevida dos pacientes de aids quase dobrou, de acordo com estudo realizado em
2007, passando de 58 meses, em pacientes diagnosticados em 1996, para mais de 108
meses, naqueles diagnosticados em 1998-1999. O estudo foi realizado nas regiões Sul e
do Sudeste, que concentram 82,4% da epidemia brasileira. Em relação às crianças, os
dados também apontam avanços significativos. Antes de 1988, uma criança com aids
tinha cerca de 25% de chance de estar viva após 60 meses. Já para as crianças
diagnosticadas no período 1999-2002 (depois da introdução de TARV) essa chance
aumentou para 86%. A expectativa de sobreviver 60 meses após o diagnóstico subiu 3,5
vezes entre a década de 1980 e 2007.



                                           50

Nos anos de 2004 e 2008, foram realizados inquéritos de base populacional, para
investigação do conhecimento, práticas e comportamentos de vulnerabilidade
relacionados à infecção pelo HIV e outras doenças sexualmente transmissíveis na
população brasileira - as Pesquisas de Conhecimento, Atitudes e Práticas na População
Brasileira (PCAP-BR).

Os dados da pesquisa de 2008 mostram que 97% da população sabem que o preservativo
é a melhor forma de evitar a infecção pelo HIV. A pesquisa mostra também que 80% da
população brasileira era sexualmente ativa no último ano. Cerca de 27% da população
brasileira sexualmente ativa relatou ter tido mais de 10 parceiros na vida e 9,2% mais de
cinco parceiros eventuais no último ano.

Ainda de acordo com esse estudo, os indicadores relacionados ao uso de preservativos
mostram que aproximadamente 37% da população sexualmente ativa usaram
preservativo na última relação sexual, independentemente da parceria. O uso de
preservativos na última relação sexual com parceiro eventual foi de 61%, atingindo quase
68% entre a população de jovens de 15 a 24 anos e 72% na população de HSH. Com
respeito ao uso consistente de preservativos, ou seja, o uso em todas as relações sexuais
dos últimos 12 meses, aproximadamente 21% da população sexualmente ativa relatou uso
regular de preservativo no último ano, atingindo 47% quando se considera o uso com
parceiro eventual.

A análise das coortes de nascimento, em 2008, mostra um aumento relevante no uso de
preservativos na primeira relação sexual entre as pessoas que nasceram no período 1944-
1948 (9%) e aquelas que nasceram entre 1989-1993 (68%). Pesquisas realizadas a partir
da década de 80 confirmam essa tendência de aumento no uso de preservativos na
primeira relação sexual entre os jovens. Enquanto em 1986 apenas 9% dos jovens fizeram
uso desse insumo de prevenção na primeira relação sexual, em 1998, essa proporção,
entre os jovens de 16 a 25 anos, foi de 49% e em 2008, de 62,3% entre os de 15 a 24
anos. Além disso, observa-se também um aumento no uso de preservativo na última
relação sexual, em homens e mulheres, passando de 11,4% entre as mulheres de 15 a 49
anos, em 1996, para 31,8% entre as mulheres em 2008. E, entre os homens, de 30,8% em
1996, entre homens de 15 a 59 anos, para 41,4%, em 2008.

Em relação ao diagnóstico, no período de 2004 a 2008, o percentual de pessoas testadas
no País quase dobrou, passando de 28% para 40%, respectivamente, resultante do
significativo aumento da oferta e realização dos testes pelo SUS. Destaca-se, também, a
ampliação da disponibilização, pelo Ministério da Saúde, de testes rápidos para
diagnóstico do HIV.

Firmado terceiro acordo de empréstimo, o Projeto AIDS III estabeleceu, para o período
de 2004 a 2007, a execução de US$200,00 milhões, sendo US$100,00 milhões
provenientes do Banco Mundial e US$100,00 milhões de contrapartida nacional federal.
Estes recursos foram integralmente executados durante o período de implementação do
Projeto, finalizado em 31 de dezembro de 2007.




                                            51

Em análise comparativa entre os Projetos AIDS II e AIDS III, é possível observar que
houve aumento substantivo no financiamento de estudos e pesquisas. Entre 1999 e 2003
(AIDS II), foram financiados 118 projetos de pesquisa, num valor total de R$ 8,8
milhões. Já no período entre 2004 e 2007 (AIDS III), foram 489 projetos financiados e
R$ 27,2 milhões em valores desembolsados.

ortanto, a parceria do Programa Nacional de DST e Aids com o Banco Mundial na
implementação do Projeto AIDS III, da mesma forma como ocorreu nos projetos
anteriores, proporcionou avanços significativos nos diversos aspectos do controle da
epidemia, envolvendo a promoção à saúde, prevenção, diagnóstico, assistência e
tratamento, assim como no fortalecimento institucional e a gestão descentralizada.

Diante do panorama apresentado, continua sendo estratégica a cooperação técnica com o
Banco Mundial para a manutenção da qualidade da resposta brasileira no enfrentamento
da epidemia de HIV/aids e outras DST.



      Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


NA




                                          52

                        Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Nunn AS, Fonseca EM, Bastos FI, Gruskin S, Salomon JA 2007. Evolution of
Antiretroviral Drug Costs in Brazil in the Context of Free and Universal Access to AIDS
Treatment. PLoS Med 4 (11).

Petersen ML, Boily MC, Bastos FI 2006. Assessing HIV resistance in developing
countries: Brazil as a case study. Revista Panamericana de Salud Publica 19 (3) March
31, 2006.

Project Appraisal Document 2003. AIDS & STD Control III Project. Washington DC:
The World Bank.

Project Aide-Memoires. Internal documents. Washington DC: The World Bank.

Project Implementation Status Reports. Internal Documents. Washington DC: The World
Bank.

PN 2005. Project Birth. Evaluation of the implementation of the PMTCT program in
maternities. Brasilia: PN.

PN 2007. Evaluation of Ambulatory Care provided to adults with HIV/AIDS (Qualiaids).
Brasilia: PN.

Silva ACM, Barone AA 2006. Risk factors for HIV infection among patients infected
with hepatitis C virus. Revista de Saúde Pública, 40(3):482­488.




                                            53

MAP




       54

