Report No. 108b-UV'
Appraisal of Second Rural Development
Fund Project Upper Volta
May 24, 1976
Agriculture Projects Department
FOF'IALOFKiSz 'e4 y
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00         CFAF 225
CFAF 100        US$0.44
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton          0.98 long ton (2,205 lb)
1 kilometer (km)      0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)       2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS
AVV            Volta Valleys Development Authority
BADEA          Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
BND            National Development Bank
CCDR           Coordinating Committee for Rural Development
CESAO          Centre d'Etudes Economiques et Sociales
d'Afrique Occidentale
CFDT           Compagnie Francaise pour le Developpement
des Fibres Textiles
FAC            Fbnds d'Aide et de Cooperation (French AID)
FDR            Rural Development Fund Management Unit
FED            European Development Fund
HAER           Rural Development Works Department
HRAT           Rural Engineering Division
IRAT           Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales
et des Cultures Vivrieres
OFNACER        Office National des Cereales
ORD            Regional Development Organization
ORSTOM         Office pour la Recherche Scientifique
et Technique Outre Mer
PWD            Public Works Department
RDF I          Rural Development Fund Project (Credit 317-UV)
RDF II         Second Rural Development Fund Project
SERS           Rural Road Unit (Service Entretien des
Routes Secondaires)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
PROJECT YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  .................................                 i-v
I.    INTRODUCTION ............................................                     1
Il.    BACKGROUND ..............................................                     1
A Rural Economy  ....................................                   1
Agriculture ........................                                   2
Rural Development Strategy .........................                   3
III.    RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND I ................................                     5
IV.    THE PROJECT AREA ........................................                     8
Choice of the Project Area ..... ............                          8
Description of the Project Area .... ............                      8
V.   THE PROJECT .............................................                     10
Background  .........................................                 10
Summary Description ................................                  10
Detailed Features  ...............       ..     .................     12
VI.    COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS  ....               ...........    17
Project Costs  ...................            ...................     17
Financing Arrangements  .............       ..      ..............    19
Procurement  ....... .............          ....................      20
Disbursement         ....................     ...................     21
Accounts and Audit              .................   22
VII.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  .............................                   22
VIII.    FARMER BENEFITS AND FINANCIAL
IMPLICATIONS FOR GOVERNMENT ...........................                   26
Farmer Benefits from Productive Subprojects               ........    26
Financial Implications for Government ....... .......                 28
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. R. van der Lugt, J.L. Ginnsz (IDA), V. Fudzie (ADB), H. Wissink
and B. Victor-Pujebet (Consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
IX.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ..............................       28
X.   AGREEMENTS REACHEI) ......................................       30
ANNEX 1        Agricultural Statistics
Table 1      Land Use in Upper Volta
Table 2      Cereal Donations and Imports 1971-73
Table 3      Agricultural Production
Table 4      Indices of Agricultural Production 1967/68-1973/74
ANNEX 2        First Rural Development Fund Project
A.  Original Objectives
B.   Summary of Physical Achievements
C.   Performance of Participating Agencies
D.   Costs
E.   Undertaking under Credit 317-UV
F.   Conclusion
Table 1      Works Carried out Under the First Project by ORD
Table 2      Cash Flow of First Rural Development Fund Project
Table 3      Receipts and Expenses of the Rural Development Fund
Table 4      Disbursements under Credit 317-UV
ANNEX 3        Project Area Statistics
Table 1      Rainfall for Different Cities in Upper Volta
Table 2      Rural Population, Area and Population Density
Table 3      Population and Density by District in the Five ORDs
of the Plateau Mossi
Table 4      Cultivated Areas per Main Crop
Table 5      Farm Sizes on the Mossi Plateau
Table 6      Agricultural Production 1972/73
ANNEX 4        Land and Infrastructural Development
Table 1      Bottomland Development, Unit Investment Cost
Table 2      Improved Bottomlands:  Investment Cost per ha
Table 3      Small Irrigation Schemes:  Investment Cost per ha
Table 4      Erosion Control Works, Unit Investment Cost
Table 5      Cost of Well Construction
Table 6      Well Construction:  Equipment List and Costs
Table 7      Well Construction:  Operating Costs
Table 8      Well Construction:  List of Personnel



- 3 -
Table 9      Tubewell Construction Costs
Table 10     Tubewell Construction:  Personnel Costs
Table 11     Tubewell Construction:  Costs of Supplies and Operating Costs
Table 12     Maintenance Brigade for Tubewells
Table 13     Estimated Costs of Village Warehouses
Table 14     Estimated Costs Village Centers
Table 15     Land and Infrastructural Development Program
ANNEX 5        Agricultural Credit
Table 1      BND Summary of Balance Sheets
Table 2      BND Lending Operations from 1961 to 1974
Table 3      BND Loan Portfolio-1971-72 to 1973-74
Table 4      BND Coi     e  Profit and Loss Accounts
Table 5         ricultural Credit from 1966 to 1974
Table 6      Repayment of Short and Mledium-term Agricultural
Credit by ORDs
ANNEX 6         Studies for Economic Development of Areas Freed
from Onchocerciasis
A.   Introduction
B.   The Proposed Technical Assistance Operation
C.   Execution of Technical Assistance Program
D.   Costs and Financing
E.   Justification
Table 1      Summary of Costs of Onchocerciasis Study (Oncho Study)
Table 2      Cost of Land Use Survey
Table 3      Climatology, Surface and Groundwater Studies
Table 4      Land Suitability Survey
Table 5       Social and Economic Studies
Table 6      Preparation Development Plan
Table 7      Preparation Investment Projects
Chart 15624  Operation Calendar for Studies for Economic Development
of Areas Freed of Onchocerciasis
ANNEX 7         Project Costs
Table 1       Summary of Project Costs
Table 2      Costs of Project Subcomponents
Table 3      Supporting Services, Staff
Table 4      Supporting Services, Equipment
Table 5      Supporting Services, Operating Costs
Table 6      Supporting Services Related to Wells and Tubewells
Table 7      Summary of Costs of Tubewell Maintenance Brigade
Table 8      Supporting Services, Training
Table 9      Technical Assistance
Table 10     Summary of Costs for Onchocerciasis Studies
Table Il     Contingency Calculations
Table 12     Balance of Credit 317-UV



-4-
ANNEX 8        Financing Plan
Table 1      Summary of Financing Plan
Table 2      Detailed Financing of Project Costs
Table 3      Estimated Disbursements
ANNEX 9        Organization and Management
Table 1      Calculation of Extension Workers' Requirements
Table 2      Schedule of Responsibilities in Subproject Cycle
Table 3      Schedule of Responsibilities for Agricultural Credit
ANNEX 10       Training
ANNEX Il       Farm Budgets
Table 1      Illustrative Farm Budget (4 ha) - Rainfed Crops
with Erosion Control Works
Table 2      Illustrative Farm Budget (0.2 ha) - Paddy in
Bottomlands and Improved Bottomlands
Table 3      Illustrative Farm Budget (0.2 ha) - Paddy in
Small Irrigation Scheme
Table 4      Illustrative Farm Budget (6 ha) with Ox-Drawn Equipment
ANNEX 12       Economic Benefits
Table 1      Incremental Project Production
Table 2      Economic Price of Cereals
Table 3      Economic Price of Paddy
Table 4      Economic Price of Groundnuts
Table 5      Economic Price of Seed Cotton
Table 6      Economic Rate of Return Calculations
Table 7      Sensitivity Analysis
Chart 16054  Ministry of Rural Development
Chart 15429  Regional Development Organization
Chart 15432  Rural Development Works Department
Map IBRD 11592 - Second Rural Development Fund Project



UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Government of Upper Volta has requested IDA to continue its
assistance in the financing of the Rural Development Fund. This report
appraises the Second Rural Development Fund Project, a continuation of
the project financed by Credit 317-UV, which has been successful in
financing small agricultural and rural development subprojects. An IDA
Credit of US$9.4 million is proposed. The project was prepared by RMWA
in April 1975 and appraised by an IDA mission in October 1975.
ii.       Upper Volta is one of the least developed countries.  It has a
traditional and overwhelmingly rural economy. Farming is difficult due
to erratic rainfall and a prolonged dry season, poor and shallow soils,
and farming systems that generally have not evolved beyond shifting cul-
tivation with little use of cash inputs.   Consequently, productivity is
very low, and while agriculture and livestock provide a living for 96% of
the population, they generate less than 45% of GDP. Approximately 2.2
million hectares are under cultivation, and grains (the basic food crops
are millet, sorghum and maize) represent 80% of agricultural production.
The most striking feature is the sharp regional contrast. In the central
and northern regions farming is at subsistence level due to high popula-
tion, poor soils and irregular rainfall, and this is particularly so in
the case of the Mossi plateau. Conversely, in the western and south-
western regions, production is more diversified and market-oriented, as
growing conditions and soils are more favorable and population density
is lower.
iii.      The First Rural Development Fund Project (RDF I) was appraised
in August 1971, signed in June 1972, and became effective in October 1972.
Progress was slow through 1973 due to delays in the recruitment of staff,
delays in Government arranging for prefinancing of project expenditures,
and slow procurement of equipment. By 1974, however, the project gained
momentum, which accelerated through 1975. Project funds have been depleted
due to the dollar devaluation, which reduced IDA's contribution to an equiv-
alent of about 86% of the original estimate, and inflation, which was much
higher than estîmated at appraisal.
iv.       The proposed Second Rural Development Fund Project (RDF II)
will, with few exceptions, be concentrated on the Mossi plateau for the
following reasons: (a) the ability of the Rural Development Fund (Fonds
de Developpement Rural - FDR) to finance a variety of small-scale projects
is best utilized under Mossi plateau conditions where there is little
potential for major agricultural development projects; (b) major agricul-
tural development projects are being implemented in other regions; and



- ii -
(c) such concentration would be in line with Government rural development
strategy.
v.        The project provides basically a line of credit to FDR for invest-
ments in small-scale rural projects. The main purposes of the subprojects
would be to increase crop production and improve village water supplies.
The project would be carried out over five years (1975/76 through 1979/80);
but most of the activities would be undertaken during the last four years,
with 1975/76 being treated as a bridging year, financed partly under Credit
317-UV and partly under RDF II. Based on past experience and assessments
made by FDR and other agencies, the program of activities for RDF II would
be roughly as listed below; project cost calculations are based on a program
of this content:
(a) bottomland development, 2,700 ha;
(b) erosion control works, 9,200 ha;
(c) small-scale irrigation and improved bottomland development,
500 ha;
(d) wells, 520;
(e) tubewells, 180;
(f) village warehouses, 400, and village centers, 20;
(g) medium-term credit for agricultural equipment, US$0.5
million equivalent;
(h) provision for unidentified projects, US$0.6 million;
(i) studies for economic development of areas freed from
onchocerciasis.
In support of the above subprojects, the following would also be financed
under the project:
(j) maintenance brigade for tubewells;
(k) staff, equipment and operating expenditure incurred by FDR
in executing the project, and some support for the Rural
Development Works Department (HAER) and the Regional
Development Organizations (ORDs);
(1) training of Voltaic staff;
(m) expatriate technical assistance to help in project execution.



- iii -
Although project costs reflect the above development program, the physical
targets are not absolute and flexibility would be maintained throughout the
project period to enable emphasis to be shifted as and when required.
vi.       An internationally-supported riverblindness eradication campaign
has been implemented in the valleys of the Volta since 1974. The effect
of control spraying is almost immediate although efforts need to be sus-
tained for 20 years to ensure permanent control, but in a few areas people
are already returning to the fertile valleys in expectation of permanent
control. These valleys constitute one of West Africa's last remaining
natural resources and it is imperative that optimal use be made of them
and that land development be controlled. Therefore the project includes
studies for economic development of areas freed from onchocerciasis (oncho
studies) which would involve preparation of:
(a) an inventory of resources;
(b) a development plan which would identify priorities for
development in the oncho areas; and
(c) a number of specific investment proposals within the
framework of the development plan.
Overall responsibility for the oncho studies would rest with the existing
Coordinating Committee for Rural Development; however, specific ministries
would execute the various studies: the Ministry of Rural Development would
be responsible for the inventory of resources and feasibility studies, and
the Ministry of Planning for the development plan. For practical purposes
disbursements would be handled through FDR.
vii.      Investment requirements of the Fund over the five-year period
(1975/76 - 1979/80) are estimated at US$16.2 million. An IDA credit of
US$9.4 million would finance 62% of project costs net of taxes. The re-
mainder of the project costs would be financed as follows: Banque Arabe
pour le Developpement Economique en Afrique (BADEA), US$4.5 million (30%
of project costs net of taxes); Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC), US$0.6
million (4%); Dutch Government, US$0.15 million (1%); United Nations Develop-
ment Program (UNDP), US$0.45 million (3%); and Government, US$1.1 million (7%
of project costs equivalent to estimated taxes).
viii.     The IDA credit would be on standard terms; the BADEA loan would
be for 25 years with 5 years grace and an interest rate to be set between
2% and 4%. The UNDP, FAC, and Dutch Government contributions would be
grants. All cofinancing would be on a parallel basis. BADEA's contribution
would be for the wells, tubewells, maintenance brigade for tubewells, and
related supporting services. Contributions of FAC, the Dutch Government and
UNDP would be for expatriate technical assistance. As funds available under
Credit 317-UV are likely to be exhausted before funds from the RDF Il credit
become available, retroactive financing of up to US$350,000 is proposed. It
is recognized that the cofinancing will result in procurement and disbursement



- iv -
procedures which will vary among the various agencies. For BADEA's contri-
bution of US$4.5 million, procurement would be in accordance with BADEA
rules. These are not expected to involve Government in higher costs than
if the project were financed only by IDA. The services of expatriate
staff and volunteers valued at about US$1.2 million, financed by UNDP,
FAC and the Dutch Government, would be obtained in accordance with these
agencies' procedures.
ix.       Items financed under the IDA credit would be procured as follows:
vehicles, tractors, other equipment and supplies such as cement and steel,
valued at US$2.0 million, would be obtained through international competi-
tive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines in the case of contracts
over US$50,000, and through local competitive bidding in the case of con-
tracts of less than US$50,000. For contracts under US$10,000, direct com-
petitive purchasing would be employed. Domestically manufactured goods
would be allowed a 15% preference or the applicable import duty, which-
ever is lower. A large part of project costs would be for labor, sal-
aries, operating and training expenses, valued at about US$4.2 million,
none of which are suitable for competitive bidding. The services of con-
sultants and expatriate staff valued at about US$1.4 million would be ob-
tained according to procedures acceptable to IDA. These services are
mainly for the oncho studies and total cost per consultant employed has
been estimated at US$7,500 equivalent per man-month, made up as follows:
average consultant fee and daily allowance, US$6,000; international and
local travel, US$1,000; and US$500 for miscellaneous items. A total amount
of US$1.1 million would be for agricultural credit and unidentified proj-
ects. An amount of US$1.8 million would cover contingencies.
x.        The IDA credit would be disbursed as follows:  Category I - all
project works and supporting services for the wells, tubewells, and tube-
well maintenance brigade components of the project, 89% of total expendi-
ture, amounting to US$200,000; Category II (all project works and sup-
porting services except those in Category I) - (a) imported goods and
foreign consultants' services, 100% of foreign expenditures, amounting to
US$1,200,000; (b) other eligible expenditures, 89% of total expenditures,
amounting to US$5,000,000; Category III - studies for economic develop-
ment of areas freed from onchocerciasis: (a) internationally recruited
staff, 100% of total expenditures, amounting to US$160,000; (b) consul-
tancy services, 100% of foreign expenditures amounting to US$1,140,000;
(c) other expenditures for vehicles, operating costs and local counter-
part staff, 80% of total expenditures, amounting to US$100,000; and Cate-
gory IV - unallocated, US$1,600,000. Retroactive financing by IDA would
be permitted under Categories I and II for up to US$350,000 and IDA financ-
ing under Category I would be terminated on the day of signing of the BADEA
agreement. BADEA would not provide retroactive financing and its contri-
bution would be disbursed against 100% of total expenditures for wells,
tubewells, the maintenance brigade for tubewells and related supporting
services. This would amount to US$3.4 million, and US$1.1 mitlion would



v -
be unallocated. FAC, the Dutch Government, and UNDP would disburse directly
in accordance with their own procedures. IDA disbursements would be against
certified records of expenditures and import documentation.
xi.       The Rural Development Fund (RDF) will continue as now to be ulti-
mately responsible for project execution. RDF staff will be strengthened
and the Interministerial Technical Committee established for RDF I will be
changed and its membership reduced to improve efficiency. The Regional De-
velopment Organizations (ORDs) and the Rural Development Works Department
(HAER) will be responsible for identification, execution, and postinvest-
ment implementation. RDF will be responsible for appraisal, end-inspection,
and evaluation. RDF's evaluation function will be considerably strengthened
under the project.
xii.      The main impact of the productive subcomponent of the project would
be additional production of cereals such as millet and sorghum, and paddy.
If the assumed development plan materializes, ineremental annual production
at full development in 1980 is estimated at 1,200 and 5,300 tons respectively.
This will not create any marketing problems.
xiii.     Farmers would benefit from increased crop production, better stor-
age of crops and inputs and improved water supplies. Improvements in income
enjoyed by participating farm families in productive subprojects are expected
to average about CFAF 13,000 (US$60) for erosion control; CFAF 9,800 (US$45)
in the case of bottomland development; CFAF 14,700 (US$67) for improved
bottomland development; and about CFAF 27,000 (US$120) for small-scale irri-
gation. Farmers taking up animal-drawn cultivation financed by medium-term
credit provided by the project would benefit from saved man-days that would
allow an expansion in the area they cultivate. Through this, incremental
income could amount to as much as CFAF 40,000 (US$175) per family. It is
estimated that about 15,000 farm families would benefit from the produc-
tive subprojects, and many more people from the wells and village build-
ings constructed.
xiv.      The project has important social and institutional benefits.  The
village wells provide an assured water supply to populations who otherwise
are forced to depend on small and often distant creeks, which may run dry
for as much as three months of the year and which often are a health hazard.
Institutional strengthening has already been achieved under the first project
and this would again be reinforced under this follow-up project. Some of
the subprojects are directly productive while others have large social and
health benefits which are difficult to quantify. The project provides a line
of credit for investment in various small-scale subprojects. Rate of return
calculations are therefore only tentative. However, if the mix of projects
set out in para v materialized, the investment package provided under RDF Il
would obtain a rate of return of 16%. Under the very difficult ecological
and human conditions of the plateau, rates in excess of 10% must be consid-
ered quite satisfactory. Furthermore, the rate of return fails to reflect
an important aspect, namely that the benefits accrue to the poorest segments
of Upper Volta's population.






UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Upper Volta has asked IDA to provide additional
finance for its Rural Development Fund. The Fund was established in 1972
with funds provided under IDA Credit 317-UV. This report appraises a Second
Rural Development Fund Project (RDF II) and recommends a second IDA Credit
for the Fund. The Rural Development Fund Project (RDF 1) has been success-
ful (details. are in Chapter III) in financing small and scattered agricul-
tural and rural development subprojects. This approach would continue under
RDF II.
1.02      The proposed project would be the sixth IDA credit for the agri-
cultural sector in Upper Volta. Previous agricultural projects are the
West Volta Cotton Project (1970, Credit 225-UV, US$6.2 million), the Rural
Development Fund Project (1972, Credit 317-UV, US$2.2 million), the Drought
Relief Fund Project (1973, Credit 442-UV, US$2.0 million), the Bougouriba
Agricultural Development Project (1974, Credit 496-UV, US$8.0 million),
and the Livestock Development Project (1975, Credit 557-UV, US$9.0 mil-
lion). Other projects which are also important for the rural sector are
the Education Project (1973, Credit 430-UV, US$2.85 million) which has a
substantial rural training component, and the recently signed Rural Roads
Project (1975, Credit 579-UV, US$7.5 million).
1.03      An identification report was submitted by the Director of the
Rural Development Fund early in 1975. The project was prepared by an RMWA
mission in April 1975, and appraised by an IDA mission composed of M4essrs.
R. van der Lugt, J. L. Ginnsz (IDA), V. Fudzie (ADB), B. Victor-Pujebet,
and H. Wissink (Consultants), which visited Upper Volta in October 1975.
II. BACKGROUND
A Rural Economy
2.01      Upper Volta, with an area of 274,000 km   and a population of 5.6
million, is classified by the United Nations as one of the 25 "least devel-
oped countries". In 1974 average GDP per capita barely exceeded US$80. It
has a traditional and overwhelmingly rural economy: 99% of the labor force
is composed of self-employed farmers and pastoralists and their families.
Farming is difficult because of erratic rainfall and a prolonged dry season,
poor and shallow soils, and farming systems that generally have not evolved
beyond shifting cultivation with little use of cash inputs. Consequently
productivity is very low in the agricultural sector, and while agriculture
and livestock provide a living for 96% of the population, they generate less
than 45% of GDP.



-2-
2.02      Crop farming provides a living for almost 90% of the population,
and accounts for about 31% of GDP and 45% of total export earnings. By
contrast, livestock employs only 6% of the population but produces a rela-
tively high share of GDP (10-12%), and provides about one third to one half
of export earnings. However, in spite of the predominantly rural economy,
foodgrain imports are important. They represent about 20% of total import
value in normal years and substantially more when drought occurs. Average
imports, 1969-71, amounted to some 40,000 tons of grain. Of these about
26,000 tons were wheat and flour and wheat cannot be grown in Upper Volta
except with irrigation. At the height of the Sahelian drought as much as
100,000 tons of grain imports were required annually.
2.03      The 1971-73 drought caused economie growth in Upper Volta first to
stagnate, and then to decline. This disruption followed an already low rate
of growth in the preceding six years. In addition, the drought exacerbated
the existing disparities between the densely populated central plateau lands
(Mossi plateau) and the western, southwestern and, to a lesser extent, east-
ern regions of the country which, because of riverblindness, are less popu-
lated but have more fertile soils and generally higher rainfall.
2.04      Government has substantial external reserves and a high level
of deposits with the internal banking system. This reflects the austerity
policy which Government introduced in 1968 to correct budget deficits.
This entailed strict expenditure control, from which public services con-
cerned with economic development suffered most. The operating budget for
agriculture and livestock services combined amounted to only 5% of total
current expenditures in 1973. The largest item of current expenditure is
education, about 25%. The budgets of the eleven Regional Development Or-
ganizations (see para 2.08) in charge of rural development stagnated over
the 1969-73 period, and decreased in real terms; although they were in-
creased by about 10% in 1974, this was not enough to compensate for in-
creased wages and operating costs. Thus, shortage of operating funds--in
spite of a comparatively strong Government financial position--has been a
major constraint on development and there is a need to adjust Government
expenditure priorities if a strong rural development effort is to be
supported., Government granted wage increases varying between 20% and
50% as of January 1976, and this might further constrain ORD operating
budgets.
Agriculture
2.05      Approximately 2.2 million ha are under cultivation and cereals
represent 80% of agricultural production. Agricultural statistics are
in Annex 1. The most striking feature is the sharp regional contrast:
in the central and northern regions, crop farming, basically the produc-
tion of sorghum, millet and groundnuts, is at subsistence level due to
high population, poor soils and irregular rainfall. Conversely, in the
western and southwestern regions production is more diversified and
market oriented, as growing conditions and soils are more favorable and
population density is lower.



-3-
2.06.     The basic food crops are millet, sorghum and maize, of which little
is marketed. Rice, sweet potatoes, cotton, groundnuts, sesame and sheanuts
are marketed in greater quantities for local consumption or for export.  A
traditional system of shifting cultivation is used everywhere, but in areas
where population pressure is high, such as the Mossi plateau, soils have
deteriorated because of an insufficient fallow period. Cotton, the most
important cash crop and a major export, is grown mainly in the western and
southwestern regions.
2.07      Livestock is one of the country's principal exports.  Annual milk
and meat production are estimated at 100,000 tons and 54,000 tons respectively,
and average domestic per capita meat consumption at 8.6 kg, half of which
is beef. On the Mossi plateau farmers are increasingly turning to fattening
cattle with crop residues and by-products. Most farmers keep snall stock,
goats, sheep, pigs and poultry around their houses where they live by scav-
enging.
2.08      The country is divided into Regional Development Organizations
(Organisme Regional de Developpement - ORD), public agencies administered by
boards of directors representing local administtation and population. Except
for the valleys of the Volta, ORDs are responsible for planning and implement-
ing all agricultural operations in their region; they are supervised by the
Ministry of Rural Development. An autonomous Volta Valleys Development
Authority (Autorite pour l'Amenagement des Vallees des Volta - AVV) is re-
sponsible for all development activities in the valleys of the Volta. AVV
is also supervised by the Ministry of Rural Development. Agricultural re-
search is carried out by specialized French institutions. By and large,
research has produced good technology packages for cotton, groundnuts,
rice, vegetables and, to a lesser extent, maize. An effective package
has yet to be developed, however, for the traditional staples, millet and
sorghum.
2.09      Mlarketing is mainly in the hands of private traders, but Govern-
ment involvement is increasing. Cotton, sesame and sheanut exports are
controlled by a Government agency, the Stabilization Fund, and official
minimum producer prices are set. In addition, reference export prices are
announced and if actual prices obtained are higher than the reference price,
the difference is paid to the Stabilization Fund; where actual prices are
lower, the exporters receive the difference from the Stabilization Fund.
Compagnie Francaise pour le Developpment des Fibres Textiles (CFDT) has
a monopoly on cotton exports, and is presently the largest contributor to
Stabilization Fund surpluses. Vegetable exports are handled through a pro-
ducers' cooperative which has not been very successful in domestic market-
ing, but which has developed an air freight market for high quality exports
to Europe and the Ivory Coast. To improve cereal marketing and stabilize
domestic prices, OFNACER (Office National des Cereales) was created in 1971,
but has mainly been involved with distributing relief foodgrains.  In 1974/75,
Government set up an official grain marketing svstem through ORDs and OFNACER,
but this has not been very effective.



-4-
Rural Development Strategy
2.10      A recent Bank report on the economic situation in Upper Volta 1/
examines the long-term development perspectives. These can be summarized as
follows: (a) the Mossi plateau is heavily populated; in the five ORDs cover-
ing the plateau 2/, 61% of the population lives on 34% of the available land,
and in many districts population density exceeds 40 inhabitants per sq km,
which is too high to maintain even moderately productive systems of agricul-
ture under presently available techniques. Efforts over the past 15 years
to improve living standards of the local population have failed. Only a
reduction in population levels could increase land availability and improve
incomes; and (b) Upper Volta has large areas which are still relatively
underpopulated or even empty, and which, because they have good agricul-
tural potential, could support satisfactory standards of living. People
could be attracted to these areas through settlement projects, integrated
rural development projects and possibly irrigation schemes. Many of these
potential settlement areas, however, are in the valleys of the Black, Red
and White Volta Rivers where onchocerciasis (riverblindness) has been en-
demic.
2.11      Settlement in the valleys of the Voltas depends on the eradica-
tion of riverblindness. An internationally supported eradication campaign
was started in 1974 under which about 1,600,000 ha would be freed from river-
blindness over a 20-year period; of this, an estimated 600,000 ha would be
suitable for agriculture.
2.12      Intensive settlement could be possible through developing irriga-
tion for which a potential of some 130,000 ha is estimated to exist. How-
ever, given the high investment cost of irrigation and the severe lack of
experienced personnel, it would appear advisable to concentrate initially
on rainfed agriculture.
2.13      While the scope for a large-scale agricultural development program
capable of bringing about meaningful improvements in the income of any sig-
nificant number of people on the Mossi plateau does not appear to exist,
there is both the opportunity and need for implementing a variety of small-
scale projects designed either to take advantage of limited areas of land
of good potential, for example bottomlands, or to satisfy the needs of rural
communities, such as wells and village warehouses. Such opportunities have
been successfully exploited under RDF I and this would be continued under
the proposed second project.
2.14      In sum, the Bank mission concluded that Government's principal
effort should be to develop the west and southwest where conditions could
support reasonably productive farming systems, and to implement a program
1/   Report No. 564a-UV, dated July 7, 1975, Current Economic Position and
Development Prospects of Upper Volta.
2/   Ouagadougou, Yatenga, Kaya, Koudougou and Koupela.



- 5 -
of small-scale improvements on the Mossi plateau where needed by the local
communities and where economically viable. In general, Government has
adopted this approach.
III. RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND I
3.01      The First Rural Development Fund Project (RDF I) was appraised
in August 1971; Credit 317-UV was signed in June 1972 and became effective
in October 1972. The objective of the Fund (see also para 5.01) was to
finance small-scale rural development activities designed to increase agri-
cultural production and to improve the health and well-being of rural com-
munities which, because of their small size and scattered location, could
not be handled in the context of a traditional Bank/IDA agricultural devel-
opment project. At appraisal it was assumed for calculation purposes that
the project would comprise: (a) 500 wells for domestic water supplies;
(b) 700 village warehouses for storing farm inputs; (c) 1,500 ha of bottom-
land development for rice production; (d) 1,000 ha of erosion control works
to improve yields of traditional crops such as millet, sorghum, cotton and
groundnuts; (e) 200 ha of small irrigation schemes below existing dams for
rice and vegetable production; (f) 270 km of rural roads; and (h) a number
of unidentified projects. Total project costs were estimated at US$3.04
million, and were financed by IDA, US$2.2 million (72% of project costs);
French bilateral aid, US$0.38 million (13%); and Government, US$0.46 mil-
lion (15%).
3.02      The main institutions involved in executing the project were, and
continue to be, the Rural Development Fund (Fonds de Developpement Rural -
FDR), a unit established within the National Development Bank (Banque Na-
tionale de Developpement - BND) for the purpose of managing the Fund and
to appraise the suitability of subprojects for financing; the Rural Devel-
opment Works Department (Direction Hydraulique et Amenagement de l'Espace
Rural - HAER) of the Ministry of Rural Development, responsible for design-
ing and constructing subprojects; and the ORDs, responsible for identifying
and preparing potential subprojects and for their subsequent management.
An Interministerial Technical Committee (Comite Technique Interministriel)
was established to supervise FDR and to approve FDR programs. Another re-
lated institution is the Ministry of Rural Development 1/ which supervises
the ORDs and AVV. A Coordinating Committee for Rural Development (Cormite
de Coordination du Developpement Rural) has been established to determine
national rural development policy, approve related programs and projects
and ensure necessary harmonization and coordination.
1/   At appraisal there was a Ministry for Planning, Rural Development,
Environment and Tourism, but on February 9, 1976, a new Cabinet was
announced. This resulted in a split into three Ministries: Ministry
of Planning, Ministry of Rural Development, and Ministry of Environ-
ment and Tourism.



- 6 -
3.03      Physical Progress.  The project became operational in October
1972 but progress was slow through 1973 due to delays in the recruitment
of staff needed by PWD and HAER, delays in Government arranging the prefi-
nancing of project expenditures, and slow procurement of equipment. By 1974,
however, the project gained momentum, which accelerated through 1975. Proj-
ect funds will be exhausted in March/April 1976, and it is estimated that by
June 1976 the following program will have been completed:
Estimated     Estimated Achieve-  Percentage of
Objectives    ments at Project    Physical Works
at Appraisal       Completion           Completed
Subprojects
Wells (No)                          500                277                45
Village warehouses (No)             700                677                97
Bottomland development (ha)       1,500             1,141                 76
Erosion control works (ha)        1,000               845                 85
Small irrigation schemes (ha)       200                 68                34
Roads (km)                          270                353               130
Under unidentified projects, the following were financed: (a) eight large
warehouses for ORDs; (b) a feasibility study for irrigation of the Kama-
dena plain; (c) part-financing of a cold storage warehouse; and (d) eleven
livestock pens for smallholders to facilitate the production of farmyard
manure.
3.04      Costs.  The costs of the RDF program have proved higher than expec-
ted at appraisal; in part this is due to a level of worldwide price inflation
that was not expected at appraisal, when price contingencies equivalent to
only 5% of total project costs were employed. This not only affected well
construction costs considerably, but also costs of warehouses and road con-
struction.  However, because of changes in design (less complicated than
envisaged), bottomland development costs were lower than appraisal estimates.
The cost overruns were compounded by dollar devaluation; at appraisal the
IDA credit of US$2.2 million was equivalent to CFAF 562.6 million. In fact
the average rate of exchange was lower and the credit generated only CFAF
485 million, or 13% less than estimated.
3.05      Farmer Support.  An important criterion for the selection of sub-
projects under RDF I was that they were perceived as needed by local people
who were prepared to participate by providing free labor (self-help).
3.06      After hesitant and wait-and-see attitude in the early stage-of
RDF I, farmer response became increasingly favorable as the project gained
momentum and became more widely known in rural areas; labor required for
construction has been voluntarily provided by village communities. For
road construction labor, however, villagers received small bonuses. Given



- 7 -
the prevailing local support, Rural Development Fund Operations can continue.
Farmers are also required, after completion of construction, to provide labor
for maintenance. Experience to date however is too short to make either a
negative or positive assessment of farmer response in this respect. Works
seem generally well maintained, but lack of sufficient ORD support in certain
cases resulted in suboptimal maintenance.
3.07      Problems.  A number of problems, in addition to the initial prob-
lems described in para 3.03, which occurred during implementation of RDF 1,
must be corrected if RDF II is to be fully successful.   Basically, most
problems have stemmed from a lack of suitably experienced staff to conceive,
design, and implement subprojects; deficiencies in organization which led to
inadequate supervision of subprojects in both construction and operational
phases; and from less than optimum support (extension, credit and inputs)
to participants in directly productive subprojects such as bottomland devel-
oprment, small-scale irrigation and erosion control.
3.08      The problem of staff is that there are too few qualified people
in FDR, the ORDs, and HAER. This situation reflects an overriding problem
in Upper Volta. In RDF I staff shortages resulted in the failure of the
admittedly small program of irrigation below existing dams, the unnecessary
failure of some bottomland schemes because of poor design, and the fact that
about 50% of the wells constructed now have to be deepened. The solution
under RDF II is described in Chapter VII and involves the recruitment of
expatriate personnel and a training program for Voltaics.
3.09      The organizational problem is related to the staff issue and is
more complex. FDR has been unable, due to lack of staff, to provide the
supervision and monitoring for the program as a whole that was envisaged
at appraisal. Importantly, FDR has been unable to ensure that the subproj-
ects it finances are being constructed and managed properly or to evaluate
the impact of project actions on participants. Chapter VII describes the
way in which FDR will be strengthened in its evaluation and supervisory
roles.
3.10      Under RDF I responsibility was placed on HAER for the execution
of all works with the exception of roads. The ORDs thereafter took over
the management of the subprojects. HAER suffered from a high staff turn-
over which caused delays in project implementation and resulted in less
than optimal coordination between HAER and the ORDs.  Under RDF II RAER
involvement will be limited to construction of the technically more complex
well and small-scale irrigation subprojects. The ORDs will be responsible
for the construction of all other subprojects, especially the important bot-
tomland and soil erosion control activities. The ORDs will be strengthened
to enable them to fulfill these new roles. Since the ORDs will have respon-
sibility for all phases of the subproject cycle, from identification through
operation, higher standards can be expected.



-8-
3.11      A serious problem that became evident once RDF I got underway in
1974 was that the ORDs were not providing the support services, extension,
credit, improved seed and other input supplies needed to maximize the ben-
efits from FDR investments. As a stop-gap measure IDA agreed in late 1974
to finance 40 farm level extension workers to service RDF subprojects.
Under RDF II the arrangements for providing such support services would
be formalized and made mandatory for all FDR-financed activities.
3.12      Lesser problems have arisen other than those concerning staff
and organization; the steps to be taken under RDF II to resolve these are
described in various sections of the report. Overall, however, RDF I,
despite its deficiencies, has demonstrated that the original concept of
the project was sound. In Upper Volta the project is considered a major
success by officials and farmers alike. More details and tables appear in
Annex 2.
IV. THE PROJECT AREA
Choice of the Project Area
4.01      While RDF I financed subprojects throughout Upper Volta, RDF Il
activities would be concentrated on the Mossi plateau (the five ORDs of
Ouagadougou, Koudougou, Koupela, Kaya and Yatenga). This is because:
(a) FDR's ability to finance a variety of small-scale projects is best
utilized under Mossi plateau conditions, where there is little potential
for major agricultural development projects; (b) major agricultural devel-
opment projects are being implemented in other regions; and (c) such con-
centration would be in line with Government rural development strategy (see
paras 2.10 - 2.14). The Mossi plateau is intersected by some of the Volta
valleys. Development of these valleys is the responsibility of the Volta
Valleys Development Authority (AVV) and RDF II financing would not be ex-
tended to these areas. Exceptions to the above would be well and tubewell
construction, which would be financed by FDR as part of the national program,
and a provision equivalent to not more than 10% of project funds which RDF
would be permitted to employ on high priority projects elsewhere in the
country. During negotiations assurances were obtained from Government to
these effects.
Description of the Project Area
4.02      The climate of the project area is Sudanian.  The Mossi plateau
receives an annual rainfall increasing from 600 mm in the north to 950 mmr
in the south. Rainfall is concentrated (85%) in the four-month period



- 9 -
June-September, when it is often torrential with intermittent dry spells.
There are large fluctuations in annual rainfall, and the date of the begin-
ning of the rains, important for soil preparation and sowing, varies widely
from year to year. Both fluctuations strongly influence production. Average
monthly temperatures are around 20 C; maximum temperatures are around 39 0C in
March, April, and May; and minimum temperatures, around 14 C, occur during
January. Project area statistics are in Annex 3.
4.03      Soils are generally poor with nearly 75% classified as shallow,
gravelly sands of low agricultural potential. About the only merit of these
soils is that they are relatively easy to work; they are used for millet/
sorghum and groundnut production. The remaining soils are the heavier
and deeper soils of low-lying areas, some of which are seasonally flooded.
These soils are used for rice and vegetable production; most of the bottom-
land development under RDF I and proposed for RDF Il would be on soils of
this type.
4.04  2   Population densities on the plateau range from 21 to 74 inhabitants
per km . As a result of these high densities, more than half of all culti-
vated lands is cropped each year. This intensive cropping has led to loss
of soil fertility over much of the plateau. With yields decreasing the Mossi
plateau has become a major source of labor for the neighboring coastal coun-
tries, in particular the Ivory Coast. The exodus is mostly of young people.
Despite the poor potential there are ways in which, on a limited scale,
agricultural productivity could be increased. These include (a) intensifi-
cation of cultivation in depressions through better drainage and water con-
trol; (b) contour bunding of cultivated lands and contour cultivation to
improve water retention and erosion control; (c) irrigation from lakes or
ponds, or from water holes traditionally dug by farmers in bottomlands dur-
ing the dry season for irrigation of high value crops such as tobacco and
vegetables; and (d) introducing livestock into the farming system.
4.05      The project area contains about 440 km of bituminized roads and
about 1,400 km of national gravel roads; there are also about 1,500 km of
secondary roads. Road connections between Ouagadougou, the capital, and
the headquarters of the five ORDs, are more than adequate, and while within
the ORDs there are areas which have poor access, a number of large rural and
secondary road improvement programs are in the pipeline, which should allevi-
ate this situation. Under the Bank's Rural Roads Project, a special unit
(Service Entretien des Routes Secondaires - SERS) is being created which
will be responsible for construction and maintenance of all feeder roads
in Upper Volta.



- 10 -
V. THE PROJECT
Background
5.01      The idea of a Rural Development Fund was a result of the Bank's
first economic mission to Upper Volta in November 1969 1/, which concluded
that:
(a)  there was an obvious need by local communities for small-scale
development actions, which if they could be initiated would
be supported by the local population;
(b)  in the past a number of projects in the rural sector had
failed because of lack of local support;
(c)  foreign aid sources, which provide most of the money for
financial development in Upper Volta, had up to then shown
little interest in financing such small-scale actions;
(d)  as Government had started to decentralize its services by
setting up Regional Development Organizations (ORDs),
agencies now existed capable of identifying and imple-
menting such small projects;
(e)  ORD financing, however, came mainly from aid sources
and was tied to specific programs which did not include
this type of project; and thus
(f)  some form of mechanism to finance such actions was required.
5.02      An IDA appraisal mission pursued the matter further, and Credit
317-UV was approved to finance a Rural Development Fund (RDF I) which
constituted a line of credit to finance small-scale development actions.
The basic arrangement was that the Fund would appraise proposals made to
it by the ORDs as and when suitable small-scale proiects were identified
and prepared. Experience so far has proven that this approach is valid
(see Chapter III), although organizational modifications are needed to
improve execution.  Such modifications would be made under RDF II (see
Chapter VII) and the line of credit approach would be continued.
Summary Description
5.03      The project (RDF II) would involve the implementation of small-scale
rural development activities (subprojects) financed through FDR, the main
1/   See Report AW-19a, The Economic Development of Upper Volta, dated
November 17, 1974, in four volumes.



- il -
purpose of which would be to increase crop production and improve
village water supplies. The project would be carried out over five years
(1975/76 through 1979/80), but most of the activities would be executed over
the last four years; 1975/76 being treated as a bridging year, financed
partly under Credit 317-UV and partly under RDF II.
5.04       Based on past experience and assessments made by FDR, the ORDs
and other agencies, it would appear that the program of activities for RDF
Il would be roughly as listed below and project cost calculatLons are based
on this:
(a)  bottomland development, 2,700 ha;
(b)  erosion control works, 9,200 ha;
(c)  small-scale irrigation and improved bottomland
development, 500 ha;
(d)  wells, 520;
(e)  tubewells, 180;
(f)  village warehouses, 400, and village centers, 20;
(g)  medium-term credit for agricultural eq1ipmient,
,JS$0.5 million equivalent;
(h)  provision for unidentified projects, IJS$0.6 million;
(i)  studies for economic development of areas freed from
onchocerciasis.
In support of the above subprojects the following would also be financed
under the project:
(j)  maintenance brigade for tubewells;
(k)  staff, equipment and operating expendi.tires incurred by
FDR in executing the project, and some support for HAER
and the ORDs;
(1)  training of Voltaic staff; and
(m)  eKpatriate technical assistance to help in project
execution.
.Uthough project costs reflect the above development progran, the physical
targets are not absolute and flexibility wout,1 he maintained throughout the
project period.



- 12 -
5.05      Details concerning land and infrastructure development subprojects
are given in Annex 4 and summary descriptions are below.
Detailed Features
5.06      Bottomland Development.  Bottomlands are small swampy depressions
served by small seasonal streams and which can be developed and used for
paddy cultivation by simple water control works. The project includes
2,700 ha to be developed by the ORDs at an estimated cost of about CFAF
41,700/ha (US$185).
5.07      Erosion Control Works.  Erosion control works involve the con-
struction of contour bunds by tractor-drawn disc. Such bunds reduce run-
off, thereby improving water percolation and reducing the erosive effect of
rainfall. As the ORDs have demonstrated their capability for this work, a
much larger program has been provided for than under RDF I. ORDs would be
responsible for preparing and executing about 9,200 ha at an estimated cost
of CFAF 14,740/ha (US$65).
5.08      Small-Scale Irrigation and Improved Bottomland Development.  A
variety of small-scale irrigation possibilities exist.  These Lncl'1de gravity
irrigation below existing small dams, sorie 240 of which were financed by FAC
and FED in the early sixties for water supply. These are rlO longer used for
drinking water, and have been replaced by wells. The average irrigation
potential of each dam is about 40 ha, but only a fraction of the total has
been developed. Other small-scale irrigation possibilities involve pumping
from ponds and all-season rivers, and small perimeters irrigated from shal-
low wells. In addition, many already developed bottomlands could be further
improved by flood protection and other works thus intensifying cultivation.
RDF Il provides for 500 ha to be developed. For costing purposes, it has
been assumed that 300 ha of bottomlands would be improved at an estimated
cost of CFAF 150,000/ha (US$666) and 200 ha of small-scale irrigation devel-
oped at an estimated cost of CFAF 1 million/ha (US$4,400). Cost estimates
are tentative since actual costs would be determined by the physical and
hydrological characteristics of individual sites. In addition to the proj-
ect's small-scale irrigation component, FED is planning a similar program
covering 300 ha (mainly gravity irrigation below existing small dams) over
the next few years.
5.09      HAER would prepare the technical studies for, and construct, the
irrigation works. its staff would be strengthened through expatriate tech-
nical assistance (see para 5.22) to ensure effective execution of project
works. Given the inherent difficulties of this component of RDF II, FDR
would appraise individual proposals for investments in small-scale irri-
gation and improved bottomland development, and compile each year an
annual program of work which would be agreed with IDA before any works
were executed by HAER. Assurances to this effect were obtained during
negotiations.



-13 -
5.10      Wells.  The RDF I well-building program has been executed by four
brigades which would be maintained under RDF II to construct an estimated
520 wells. Costs are estimated at CFAF 58,800 (US$261) per linear meter,
or, with an average well depth of 17.5 meters, at CFAF 1,030,000 (US$4,570)
per well.
5.11      HAER would be responsible for well construction.  Presently all
four well brigades are directly dependent on HAER central maintenance and
administrative facilities in Ouagadougou. This is inefficient; under the
project a temporary base providing storage and maintenance facilities would
be financed. Such a base, consisting of prefabricated buildings and trailers,
would be moved from time to time to keep up with the movements of the four
brigades. The base would be manned by a mechanic and a supply officer, and a
coordinator would be appointed for liaison between HAER headquarters and the
four project brigades; currently the four brigade leaders report directly to
the Director of HAER. At negotiations assurances were obtained that a coor-
dinator with these responsibilities would be appointed before December 31,
1976.
5.12      Tubewells.  Drilling equipment has been financed under the Drought
Relief Project (Credit 442-UV) which is administered by FDR. Drillings with
financing from Credit 442-UV will continue until about June 30, 1977, when
120 wells will have been drilled and funds under Credit 442-UV exhausted.
5.13      Drilling equipment purchased under Credit 442-UV should last at
least five years and drillings after 1977 would be continued with this equip-
ment under RDF Il. On this basis an estimated 180 wells would be drilled
during 1977/78-1979/80 to a depth of 50 meters (average) and 4-1/2" diameter.
Each borehole would be equipped with a manual pump. Costs are estimated at
CFAF 18,600 (US$83) per linear meter or about CFAF 930,000 (US$4,130) per
tubewell. These estimates do not include the costs of the original equip-
ment purchased under Credit 442-UV (amounting to about CFAF 66 mnillion -
about US$300,000).
5.14      Execution of the tubewell drilling program would continue to be
the responsibility of HAER. A tubewell drilling team with a well-equipped
base in Dori is now being formed and trained with technical assistance from
consultants. No change is envisaged for RDF Il tubewell drilling and the
team leader in Dori would remain responsible, as now, to HAER headquarters.
5.15      Village Buildings.  The building of small warehouses under RDF I
was successful. The Fund provided cement, a simple brick press and a mason,
and the village provided free labor. This program will be continued and
an estimated 400 larger warehouses (8 x 3 meters, against 4 x 3 meters in
RDF I), will be constructed. Costs, excluding village labor, are estimated
at CFAF 152,100 (US$676) per unit. Some 20 village centers would also be
constructed on the same basis as the warehouses. These would consist of a
hall (for teaching, meetings, literacy programs, etc.) and a small room
for storage of medical supplies and use by health officials. Estimated



- 14 -
costs are CFAF 258,000 (US$1,150) per center. However, before approving
construction of a village center, FDR would ensure that no equivalent
buildings exist or were planned for the village.
5.16      Agricultural Credit.  In Upper Volta medium-term credit for the
purchase of agricultural equipment is almost nonexistent; most agricul-
tural credit (95%) provided by BND is short-term credit for seasonal inputs
and cotton marketing. USAID recently provided CFAF 63 million (US$280,000),
which is fully disbursed, for medium-term credit for agricultural equipment;
FDR administered the funds.  The terms were 5.5% intereèt with a repay-
ment period of five years, including one year's grace. Under the project
it is proposed that a revolving medium-term credit fund of up to US$0.5
million be created in BND for agricultural equipment and be financed under
the proposed credit. Farmers using the facility, who do not own one drought
animal or agricultural traction equipment, would be required to make a
minimum cash down payment of 10% of the cost of the equipment to be pur-
chased. Credit terms would be identical to the USAID-funded agricultural
credit, except that the interest rate would be raised to 8% to take account
of the recent increase in the rediscount rate from 3.5% to 5.5% granted by
the Central Bank (BCEAO) to BND. The terms of the credit together with other
conditions would be incorporated in the credit agreement to be signed between
the farmer and BND.
5.17      The revolving medium-term credit fund account would be managed
by BND which would appoint, before December 31, 1976, a credit officer to
be responsible full time for its management, and assurances to this effect
were obtained. Applications for medium-term credit would be made through
the ORDs who would appraise the applications with the assistance of a BND
credit officer. The details of these procedures are in Annex 5. The ORD-
appraised applications would be approved by FDR who would be responsible
for authorizing disbursements. This responsibility would rest with FDR
because with its evaluation officers and evaluation procedures at this
time it is better equipped than BND to supervise the use of credit. Sub-
sequently, administration, recovery and relending of the medium-term credit
would be the responsibility of BND or any other agency satisfactory to IDA.
After approval by FDR a credit agreement would be signed between the farmer
and BND. Assurances have been obtained at negotiations that a pro forma
medium-term credit agreement would be prepared by December 31, 1976, and
submitted to IDA for approval.
5.18      Unidentified Projects.  An amount of US$0.6 million would be pro-
vided under the credit to finance other types of subprojects. Proposals
for such subprojects would be submitted to IDA for its agreement to finance
either individual projects or types of projects.
5.19      Maintenance Brigades for Tubewells.  Wells require little main-
tenance, and what is required is done by villagers themselves; tubewells
need to be maintained. Some ORDs have organized a maintenance brigade,
but none exist in the north where project drilLings will be executed.



- 15 -
To maintain tubewells drilled under the project, a small maintenance brigade
would be established, which would be responsible to the team leader of the
tubewell drilling. By the end of the project period, responsibility for
maintenance of project tubewells would be transferred to the benefiting
ORDs, 1/ and assurances to this effect were obtained.
5.20      Supporting Services.  RDF II would provide for the cost of staff,
equipment and operating costs needed by FDR to operate the fund, as well as
direct costs incurred by other participating organizations. In the case
of HAER this would cover the cost of the coordinator of RDF activities,
two topographical brigades, and the four well brigades, and for the ORDs
one topographical brigade, tractors and equipment (mostly for erosion con-
trol works) and extension workers. More details about organization and man-
agement are in Chapter VII.
5.21      Training.  Project institutions would be strengthened by tem-
porary employment of expatriate technical assistance personnel and com-
plemented by training Voltaics to take on project responsibilities. The
project training component would include:
(a)  scholarships (up to 24 individuals would be involved)
for project evaluation officers, engineers, and tech-
nicians, principally for Voltaic counterparts of ex-
patriate staff;
(b)  up to 80 scholarships for short rural development
courses at CESAO 2/ for ORD staff or villagers respon-
sible for small rural development projects; and
(c)  consultancy services for an extension training study
(see para 7.09).
5.22      Technical Assistance.  A number of multilateral and bilateral
agencies have been asked to assist in the execution of the project by pro-
viding expatriate technical assistance. So far the following arrangements
have been concluded:
(a)  Dutch Government:   Provision of three volunteer tech-
nicians to supervise ORD topograph-
ical survey teams;
(b)  FAC:                 Financing of four technicians:  senior
rural engineer, to act as technical
advisor to the RDF coordinator
1/   Or such other organization as may be acceptable to IDA.
2/   Centre d'Etudes Economiques et Sociales d'Afrique Occidentale.



- 16 -
in HAER; junior rural engineer,
responsible for HAER-executed
RDF II components; topographical
engineer, responsible for eval-
uating topographical studies
and overall guidance to ORDs in
topographical work; and a well
brigade leader.
(c)  UNDP:                Two expatriates to assist FDR in
appraising and evaluating subproj-
ects.
The three Dutch volunteers arrived in Upper Volta in December 1975; the FAC-
financed well brigade leader is working in Upper Volta under RDF I and will
continue to work under RDF II; the FAC-financed senior rural engineer arrived
in January 1976 and the junior rural engineer and the topographical engineer
were recruited in March/April 1976.  A project document for UNDP assistance has
been prepared and submitted to UNDP headquarters which has given permission to
the UNDP Resident Representative in Upper Volta to finance the two evaluation
officers from his technical assistance budget.
5.23      Studies for Economic Development of Areas Freed from Onchocerciasis
(Oncho Studies).  The Volta basin is afflicted by onchocerciasis which brings
iaisery and blindness to people and inhibits development of many fertile val-
leys.  The disease is transmitted by the bite of an infected female blackfly
of the species Simulium damnosum, which carries the disease. An onchocer-
ciasis control program, basically involving the spraying of breeding sites of
the fly with insecticides, is being supported by the international community
and implemented under WHO direction. The program has been in full operation
since December 1974. The effect of control spraying is more or less immedi-
ate although efforts need to be sustained for 20 years to ensure permanent
control. Already, in a few areas, people are returning spontaneously to the
fertile valleys in anticipation of the permanent control of the disease. The
affected valleys constitute one of West Africa's last remaining natural re-
sources and it is imperative that optimal use be made of them, and in par-
ticular, that the traditional destructive methods of land development be
controlled.
5.24      A basic planning methodology for the oncho areas has been developed
by FAO/IBRD missions which visited Upper Volta in 1974 and has been agreed
in principle with Government. Details are in Annex 6. The methodology
involves:
(a) inventory of natural resources in the oncho area
(the data bank);
(b) preparation of a broad development plan for the next
ten years in which development priorities in the oncho
areas are identified (the ten-year development plan); and



- 1 7 -
(c) preparation of specific investment proposals within
the framework of the development plan (project prepa-
ration).
Major surveys and studies needed to complete the data bank are, land use sur-
vey and mapping, associated climatological and hydrological studies; land
suitability survey and mapping; and sociological and economic surveys. The
studies would be executed by consultants working under the direction of the
Ministry of Rural Development in cooperation with AVV and the ORDs. For the
development plan, it is proposed that a small planning cell headed by a senior
advisor (senior oncho areas planning advisor) be established in the Ministry
of Planning. The cell would employ specialized consultants and specialists
on short-term appointments.  For project preparation, provision has also
been made to hire consultancy services to prepare two or three feasibility
studies. The fullest use would be made of local expertise in the oncho work.
Overall responsibility would rest with the Coordinating Committee for Rural
Development, but specific Ministries would be responsible for executing the
various studies (see para 7.11). FDR would be used only as a disbursement
channel. Total costs per consultant employed have been estimated at US$7,500
equivalent per man-month made up as follows: average consultant's fee and
daily allowance US$6,000, international and local travel US$1,000, and US$500
for miscellaneous items. An estimated 75 man-months might be required to
complete this component.
5.25      Feeder Roads.  A road component was included under RDF I which
was jointly executed with similar components financed under Credit 442-UV,
the latter providing funds for equipment. About 350 km of roads have been
successfully improved using labor-intensive methods with active and enthu-
siastic participation by local people. No road component is included in the
proposed project, as Credit 579-UV 1/, a Rural Roads Project, was recently
signed. Under this project, a central Rural Road Unit (SERS - Service En-
tretien des Routes Secondaires) has been created under PWD which will be
responsible for construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of secondary
and feeder roads in the project area and elsewhere. Credit 579-UV will
carry out over the next few years road improvements not financed under RDF
II.  However, all road equipment financed under Credit 317-UV and 442-UV,
and now in the charge of FDR, would be transferred to SERS, upon comple-
tion of the works financed under these credits (estimated in June 1976)
and Government will sign a letter to this effect during credit signing.
VI. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
Project Costs
6.01      Based on the program of activities assumed in para 5.04, estimated
project costs are summarized below and detailed in Annex 7.
1/   For details see Report 738a-UV, dated June 6, 1975, Appraisal of a
Rural Roads Project Upper Volta.



UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVEL0PMENT FUND PROJECT
Summary of Project Costs
CFAF Thousand                                                US$ Thousand
Local            Foreign            Total                 Local                Foreign                Total
A.  Project Works
Bottomlands                                  59,358           53,232           112,590                 263.8                236.6                  500.4
Erosion Control Works                        74,500           61,108           135,608                 331.1                271.6                  602.7
Extended Bottomlands and
Small-Scale Irrigation                    149,158           95,812           244,970                 662.9                425.8                1,088.7
Village Buildings                            36,338           29,667            66,005                 161.5                131.9                  293.4
Wells                                       261,425          274,450           535,875               1,161.9              1,219.8                2,381.7
Tubewells                                    71,608           95,722           167,330                 318.3                425.4                  743.7
Agricultural Credit                          78,750           33,750           112,500                 350.0                150.0                  500.0
Unidentified Projects                        71,550           63.450           135,000                 318.0                282.0                  600.0
Subtotal                              802,687           707,191        1,509,878               3,567.5              3,143.1                6,710.6
B.  Supporting Services
Personnel                                   502.450              -             502,450               2,233.2                 -                   2,233.2
Equipment                                    44,040          102,760           146,800                 195.8                456.6                  652.4
Operating Costs                              64,145           78,398           142,543                 285.1                348.4                  633.5
Training                                     21,020            9,000            30,020                  93.4                 40.0                  133.4
Maintenance Brigade                          11,462           18,758            30,220                  50.9                 83.4                  134.3
Well Brigade Related                         34,275             5,625           39,900                 152.3                 25.0                  177.3
Subtotal                              677,392           214,541          891,933               3,010.7                 953.4                3,964.1
C.  Technical Assistance                            -             222,606          222,606                   -                   989.4                  989.4
D.  Onchocerciasis Studies                       31,973           304,402          336,375                  142.1             1,352.9                 1,495.0
E.  Contingencies
Physical                                    101,366           97,425           198,791                 450.5                433.0                  883.5
Price                                       246,942          243,739           490,681               1,097.5              1,083.3                2,180.8
Subtotal                              348,308           341,164           689,472               1,548.0              1,516.3                3,064.3
Project Costs (A + B + C + D + E)             1,860,360         1,789,904        3,650,264               8,268.3               7,955.1               16,223.4
Balance Credit 317-UV                             (6,337)          (6,088)          (12.425)                (28.2)               (27.0)                 (55.2)
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                           1,854,023         1,783,816        3,637,839               8,240.1               7,928.1               16,168.2



- 19 -
6.02      Cost estimates are based on price data obtained during execution
of the RDF I Project, updated to end 1975. However, following recent salary
increases (para 2.04) salaries and wages were updated during negotiations
(April 1976). Project costs are estimated at US$16.2 million or US$15.1
million net of taxes.
6.03      Physical contingencies equivalent to 10% of the costs of project
works and 5% of the costs of supporting services are included in project
costs. Price contingencies have been calculated over base costs and physi-
cal contingencies, and allow for compounded increases based on the follow-
ing annual percentages: for equipment and supplies 10% in 1976, 8% in 1977,
1978 and 1979, and 7% in 1980; and for all other cost items (mainly salaries,
operating costs and labor) 7% annually. No price contingencies have been
used for salaries in 1976, because these were updated to levels paid in 1976
(see para 6.02).
Financing Arrangements
6.04      The financing plan is detailed in Annex 8 and summarized below:
------------------Financing Plan------------------
Total Costs               Net of Taxes
US$ million      % Total    US$ million       % Total
IDA                      9.40            58           9.40            62
BADEA                    4.50             27          4.50            30
FAC                      0.60              4          0.60             4
Dutch Aid                0.15              1           0.15            1
UNDP                     0.45              3          0.45             3
Government               1.10              7           -             -
Total            16.20           100          15.10          100
6.05      The proposed IDA credit of US$9.4 million would finance 62% of
project costs net of taxes and would cover the estimated foreign exchange
component (US$7.9 million) and 18% of local costs. The remainder of project
costs would be met by: Banque Arabe pour le Developpement Economique en
Afrique (BADEA); Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC); the Dutch Govern-
ment; United Nations Development Program (UNDP); and Government whose share
is equivalent to the estimated taxes.
6.06      The IDA credit would be on standard terms, and the BADEA loan
would be for 25 years with 5 year grace, and with an interest rate to be
set between 2 and 4%. The UNDP, FAC, USAID and the Dutch Government con-
tributions would be grants. Financing arrangements would be parallel.
BADEA's contribution would be for the following sub-component: wells,
tubewells, the maintenance brigade for tubewells and related supporting
services. The contributions of FAC, the Dutch Government and UNDP would



- 20 -
be for expatriate technical assistance. A signed agreement between Govern-
ment and BADEA would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
6.07      All project funds would be passed on to FDR as grants.  FDR would,
as necessary, reallocate them to other participating agencies, HAER and ORDs
as grants. No onlending arrangements are involved as it is proposed that
finance for medium-term agricultural credit would be in a revolving fund
to be managed by BND. During negotiations assurances were obtained that
the revolving fund would be administered by BND under conditions to be de-
termined between BND and Government with IDA agreement.
6.08      As funds available under Credit 317-UV are likely to be exhausted
before funds from the credit made for RDF II become available, it is proposed
that retroactive financing of up to US$350,000 be permitted against expendi-
tures incurred on qualified subprojects 1/ between March 1, 1976 and credit
signature. BADEA would not engage in retroactive financing (see also para
6.11).
Procurement
6.09      Items financed under the IDA credit would be procured as follows:
vehicles, tractors, other equipment and supplies, such as cement and steel,
valued at US$2.0 million, would be obtained through international competi-
tive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines in the case of contracts
over US$50,000, and through competitive bidding in accordance with local
procedures acceptable to IDA in the case of contracts of less than US$50,000.
For contracts under US$10,000, direct competitive purchasing would be em-
ployed.   Domestically manufactured goods would be allowed a 15% preference
or the applicable import duty, whichever is lower. A large part of project
costs would be for labor, salaries, operating and training expenses, valued
at about US$4.2 million, none of which are suitable for competitive bidding.
The services of consultants and expatriate staff valued at about US$1.4 mil-
lion would be obtained according to procedures acceptable to IDA. A total
amount of US$1.1 million would be for agricultural credit and unidentified
projects. An amount of US$1.8 million would cover contingencies.
6.10      It is recognized that the cofinancing will result in procurement
and disbursement procedures which will vary among the various agencies. For
BADEA's contribution of US$4.5 million, procurement would be in accordance
with BADEA rules. These are not expected to involve Government in higher
costs than if the project were financed only by IDA. The services of ex -
patriate staff and volunteers,valued at about US$1.2 million, financed by
UNDP, FAC, and the Dutch Government, would be obtained in accordance with
these agencies procedures.
1/   i.e. subprojects qualifying under the criteria established for RDF I
and as, and if, amended under the arrangements proposed in this report
for RDF II.



- 21 -
Disbursement
6.11      The IDA credit would be disbursed as follows:
Category I
All project works and related supporting services for
wells, tubewells, and tubewell maintenance brigade
components of the project                US$  200,000    89% of total
expenditures
Category II
All project works and supporting services except
those covered under Category I
(a) directly imported goods and
foreign consultants' services       US$1,200,000    100% of foreign
expenditures
(b)  other eligible expenditures         US$5,000,000    89% of total
expenditures
Category III
Studies for economic development of areas
freed from onchocerciasis
(a)  internationally recruited staff    US$  160,000    100% of total
expenditures
(b)  consultants' services               US$1,140,000    100% of foreign
expenditures
(c)  other expenditures for vehicles,
operating costs and local
counterpart staff                   US$  100,000    50% of total
expenditures
Category IV
Unallocated                              US$1,600,000
Total                      US$9,400,000
Retroactive financing by IDA would be permitted under Categories I and II
for up to US$350,000. IDA financing under Category I would be terminated
on the day of signing the BADEA agreement, and any remaining funds would
be reallocated.
6.12      The BADEA contribution would be disbursed against 100% of total
expenditures for wells, tubewells, maintenance brigade for tubewells and re-
lated supporting services. This would amount to US$3.4 million, and US$1.1
millionwould be unallocated. FAC, the Dutch Government, and UNDP would
disburse directly in accordance with their procedures. IDA disbursements
would be against certified records of expenditures and import documentation.



- 22 -
Accounts and Audit
6.13      FDR would prepare half yearly budgets which would be submitted to
the Interministerial Technical Committee for approval and to IDA for informa-
tion. On the basis of the approved budgets, Government would make its budget
allocations and would make the necessary funds available to FDR quarterly in
advance. Assurances to this effect were obtained.
6.14      In addition, FDR will prepare and send to IDA biannually in
January and July progress reports and summaries of project expenditures
and use of funds in such detail as IDA may request. Assurances to this
effect were obtained. In addition, a detailed annual report will be pre-
pared, which should be submitted to IDA three months after the end of the
project year.
6.15      FDR would:  (i) keep records adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound accounting practices, their operations and financial position;
(ii) have their accounts audited by a firm of auditors acceptable to IDA;
(iii) submit copies of their audited accounts and the auditors' report to
IDA within four months of the end of each project year; (iv) see that the
reports of the auditors are of such scope and detail as IDA may reasonably
have requested; and (v) furnish such other information concerning its ac-
counts as IDA may reasonably have required.
6.16      Under RDF I it was required that FDR accounts be audite`d in con-
junction with BND accounts by Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
and the Financial Controller of the Ministry of Finance. This has not
been done; consequently as a condition of credit negotiations FDR appointed
a firm of auditors to audit all FDR accounts. The audit will take place
in May/June 1976 and the auditors' report would be available in the fall
of 1976.
VII. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
7.01      Project implementation, except for the oncho studies, would involve:
the Rural Development Fund (FDR), the Rural Development Works Directorate
(HAER), and the Regional Development Oranizations (ORDs). The responsibili-
ties of these organizations are summarized below. Details are in Annex 9.
7.02      Rural Development Fund (FDR).  FDR will continue, as now, to be
ultimately responsible for project execution; it will appraise subprojects,
assist if necessary in identification and preparation of subprojects, and be
responsible for technical inspection upon completion together with HAER and
for evaluation. FDR staff would be strengthened by two evaluation officers,
an agro-economist and a rural engineer. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the qualifications, expense, and terms of employment of
the evaluation officers would be satisfactory to IDA. Assurances were also
obtained that as their first task the evaluation officers would evaluate the
program so far financed by FDR in accordance with a schedule to be agreed



- 23 -
with IDA. Following this evaluation and based upon its results an efficient
monitoring system would be designed for evaluation of FDR's further program.
7.03      The FDR accommodation in the BND building is inadequate and other
rented accommodation will be required during the second half of calendar
year 1976. BND levies a 1% service charge on all FDR transactions to cover
rent and other sums that it funds.  This would be adjusted after the FDR
office is moved.
7.04      In addition to subprojects funded under Credit 317-UV, FDR has
administered the Drought Relief Fund Project (Credit 442-UV) and the USAID
medium-term Agricultural Credit Fund (see para 5.16).  In order to ensure
proper management of RDF Il, however, assurances were obtained at negotia-
tions that FDR would not undertake any additional responsibilities without
the agreement of IDA.
7.05      Interministerial Technical Committee.  An interministerial tech-
nical committee was established under Credit 317-UV and a similar intermin-
isterial technical committee was established for Credit 442-UV. The pur-
pose of these committees was to (i) "promote" the goals of the IDA credit
and (ii) provide the necessary coordination and supervision of FDR. The
first function has been taken over to a large extent by the recently estab-
lished Coordinating Committee for Rural Development. The second function
was not executed completely satisfactorily, as membership of the Committee
was too large and few meetings were held. Accordingly, Decree No. 72-142
(Interministerial Technical Committee Credit for 317-UV) and Decree No. 74-
092 (Interministerial Technical Committee for Credit 442-UV) would be abol-
ished and assurances were obtained that a new committee with a membership
satisfactory to IDA would be established not later than September 30, 1976
to supervise FDR. The membership would include the Minister of Rural Devel-
opment (Chairman), the Minister of Planning, the Director of the Permanent
Secretariat of ORDs, the Director of HAER, the Director of Agricultural
Services, the Director of BND, the Director of the Budget, the Director of
the Treasury and the Director of FDR (Secretary). The Directors of the
Departments of Livestock and Forestry would be co-opted if and when FDR
becomes involved in livestock and reafforestation. The Committee would
meet at least twice a year, but preferably quarterly. Since the Director
of the Permanent Secretariat of ORDs is a member, he would decide if there
were any issues which would have to be referred to the Coordinating Commit-
tee for Rural Development.
7.06      Rural Development Works Department (HAER).  Under RDF I, HAER was
responsible for the engineering, design and execution of all subprojects,
but under RDF II HAER would be responsible only for well construction, tube-
well drilling and technically more complex works such as small-scale irriga-
tion and improved bottomland development. 1/ However, HAER would still pro-
vide: (a) guidelines and standards to ORDs for engineering and design; and
1/   If Government established a separate irrigation department responsibil-
ity for the latter works would, after IDA agreement, be transferred to
this new department.



- 24 -
(b) technical inspection upon completion ("reception") of all projects to-
gether with FDR. Assurances reflecting the changes in HAER's responsibili-
ties were obtained at negotiations.
7.07      Staffing has always been a limiting factor in HAER's executive
capacity. Under the project an assistant to the Director would be appointed
to coordinate all FDR activities being handled by HAER.  This appointment
would be a condition of credit effectiveness. FAC is providing technical
assistance to HAER through four expatriate experts (see para 5.22) and this
should meet HAER's needs for technical personnel.
7.08      Regional Development Organization.  The role of ORDs under the
second project .will be expanded. In addition to identifying subprojects,
providing extension, credit and input supply services to participants on
productive subprojects and supervising the maintenance of completed subproj-
ects, they will also undertake engineering, design and execution of simple
works such as bottomlands, erosion control works and village buildings.
ORDs would be strengthened to undertake these tasks and funds would be
provided under RDF II for additional topographical survey teams and trac-
tors and equipment needed for land development. Lack of funding has re-
sulted in shortages in ORD staffing in the past; therefore funding of ex-
tension workers to supervise maintenance of and provide extension services
for farmers participating in productive subprojects, started under RDF I,
will be continued and expanded under RDF II. The ORDs would be responsible
for supervising the management and maintenance by farmers of subprojects
once construction is completed and since they also provide the necessary
services, ORDs would therefore be the critical element in ensuring the suc-
cess of the various subprojects. At negotiations.assurances were obtained
that Government would provide adequate funds and support to ORDs to enable
them to provide the necessary services to ensure successful and efficient
operation and maintenance of subprojects.
7.09      Training.  A small training component, mainly scholarship, has
been included in the project. Details are in Annex 10. However, although
current output of extension workers in Upper Volta may be sufficient, there
are some doubts about the quality of extension worker training and adequacy
of training facilities in relation to future manpower requirements. Govern-
ment is aware of this and has certain ideas on possible solutions. What is
needed however is a short study to pull the various elements and ideas to-
gether and provide a concise proposal for future action. An extension
training study would be completed by June 1977, and submitted to IDA for
information. Assurances to this effect were obtained together with assur-
ances that the terms of reference, terms of employment and qualifications
of consultants who might be hired under the training component of the
project would be satisfactory to IDA. The Ministry of Rural Development
would in principle be responsible for executing this study, but for prac-
tical purposes the small disbursement involved would be channeled through
FDR.



- 25 -
7.10      Subproject Cycle.  Except for the medium-term credit revolving fund,
the arrangements for which are described in paras 5.16 and 5.17, three organi-
zations are involved in the project cycle:  FDR, HAER and ORDs.  SeLeç;2o;
criteria for subprojects would be identical to those adopted for RDF I, but
y ohact cle nave been
changed somewhat.  Details are in Annex 9; but in summ
--t îrl'tle-sa~re -as  -lo
(a) Identification and preparation: ORDs and HAER for
wells, tubewells and small irrigation schemes.
(b) Appraisal FDR. Full appraisal of each individual
subcomponent is not necessary. The well construction
and tubewell drilling programs would be approved on
an annual basis taking into account HAER's executing
capacity. Simple works such as improved bottomlands,
erosion control and village warehouses are now well
established and justified, and would not need in-
dividual full appraisal for each site, but FDR would
assess the engineering capacity of ORDs and ensure
that studies are complete, farmer agreement has been
obtained and organizational arrangements are adequate.
Proposals for improved bottomlands and small-scale
irrigation would be fully appraised and justified on
an individual basis and works would not be executed
by HAER until the annual program has been approved by
IDA (see para 5.09). Proposals for subprojects to be
financed under unidentified projects would be fully
appraised and justified and subsequently full docu-
mentation would be submitted to IDA for approval.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during
negotiations.
(c) Execution of construction: ORDs for bottomland
improvement, erosion control and village buildings
and HAER for wells, tubewells and small irrigation.
(d) Technical inspection upon completion ("reception"):
FDR together with HAER.
(e) Supervising and supporting services to project
participants: ORDs.
(f) Evaluation: FDR. Lack of staff has hindered full
evaluation of RDF I, but the appointment of two ex-
patriate evaluation officers should rectify this
situation. In order to monitor and evaluate, FDR will
determine the needed data, which will be collected
quarterly by ORD extension workers for all subprojects
financed by FDR. ORDs will forward these data together



- 26 -
with summaries and a note of explanation. Duplicate
data will be kept by ORDs for use by their own planning
and evaluation section. FDR will verify evaluation re-
sults annually on the basis of a 10% sample of all sub-
projects.
7.11      Oncho Studies.  Overall responsibility for the oncho studies would
rest with the existing Coordinating Committee for Rural Development and as-
surances were obtained that this Committee would be maintained. Immediate
responsibility for the data bank and feasibility studies will rest with the
Ministry of Rural Development and the Ministry of Planning will be responsi-
ble for the ten-year development plan. For that purpose, the Ministry of
Planning will be strengthened by the appointment of a Senior Adviser who
will be internationally recruited with qualifications and terms of appoint-
ment satisfactory to IDA. Assurances to this effect were obtained. Consul-
tants are expected to carry out most of the studies and assurances were
obtained that consultants would have terms of reference, terms of employ-
ment and qualifications satisfactory to IDA.
7.12      AVV is responsible for the economic development of well-defined
areas along the Volta Rivers. Recently consultants, financed by UNDP with
the Bank as executing agency, reported on AVV's organization, its future
role and related organizational and financial requirements. This report
is presently being studied by Government and its implications being dis-
cussed with IDA. During negotiations assurances were obtained that Govern-
ment would present to IDA not later than March 31, 1977 its proposals with
respect to detailed tasks and specific responsibilities of its agencies
which will execute development projects in the areas freed from onchocer-
ciasis.
VIII. FARMERS' BENEFITS AND FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS FOR GOVERNMENT
Farmers Benefits from Productive Subprojects
8.01      Farmers would obtain direct benefits in the form of salable or con-
sumable farm products from the bottomland, small-scale irrigation, erosion
control, and medium-term credit subprojects. The principal products would
be rice, sorghum and millet; there would be lesser quantities of groundnuts,
cotton and vegetables.
8.02      If the mix of subprojects envisaged in Chapter V is implemented
and if on average they reflect the "model" subprojects described in Annexes
4 and 11, it is estimated that by 1980 RDF Il would be generating 5,300 tons
of paddy (3,400 tons of rice equivalent), 1,200 tons of cereals and some 200
tons of other products annually with a total financial farm gate value of
CFAF 217 million (US$965,000). These returns are based on official farmgate



- 27 -
producer prices prevailing in late 1975: paddy CFAF 35/kg; sorghum/millet
CFAF 22/kg; groundnuts CFAF 25/kg and seed cotton CFAF 39/kg. These prices
are also used in the farm budget analyses described below. Their use in the
analyses is conservative since prices paid by private traders, who dominate
the marketing chain in Upper Volta, are generally higher.
8.03      It is estimated that as many as 15,000 farm families (between
120,000-190,000 people) could benefit from one or more of the directly pro-
ductive RDF II subprojects if the tentative program in Chapter V is imple-
mented. More families would benefit from bottomland development than any
other type of project since it is usual to allot about 0.2 ha per family
in such schemes, consequently, 13,500 families could participate in these
subprojects; another 1,000 in small-scale irrigation; and about 2,500 in
erosion control schemes. About 1,700 families are estimated to make use
of the medium-term credit facility. All of these people would be among
the poorest in Upper Volta. In addition, many more people will benefit
from the wells, warehouses and village centers constructed under the proj-
ect, which would affect an estimated 600 villages.
8.04      Models of typical holdings together with farm budget analyses are
given in Annex 11, and summarized below:
8.05      Bottomlands.  Assuming 0.2 ha per participating farm family, a
yield of 1.5 tons paddy/ha, with no inputs other than improved seed, family
income 1/ is estimated at CFAF 9,800 (US$45) annually and the return per
man-day employed in cultivating rice at about CFAF 445 (US$2). In the case
of improved bottomlands, yields would amount to 2.2 tons; incremental family
income over traditional bottomland income would be CFAF 4,900 (US$22); 2/
and the return per man-day would rise from CFAF 445 to CFAF 668 (US$3) fol-
lowing improvement.
8.06      Small-scale irrigation.  Benefits from small irrigation schemes
would vary widely depending on the cropping patterns adopted and the amount
of double cropping. Where paddy is grown, average yields of 3,500 kg/ha/crop
together with a cropping intensity of 150% could be expected. Assuming a plot
of 0.2 ha a family growing rice on such a scheme would receive, after the
purchase of inputs, an income 3/ estimated at CFAF 27,000 (US$120) and a
return per man-day employed of CFAF 697 (US$3.10).
8.07      Erosion control works.  The erosion control works would improve the
retention and percolation of rain water and slow down the degradation of soil
1/   Bottomlands are generally not farmed before development, thus family
income from this source would be additional to income from traditional
holdings.
2/   Family income for a 0.2 ha holding would increase from CFAF 9,800 for
a bottomland to CFAF 14,700 following improvement.
3/   Income from an 0.2 irrigated holding would be additional to income
from a traditional holding.



- 28 -
structure. The direct impact of these improvements on yields is impossible
to determine and on an annual basis would be very small. However, partici-
pants in these subprojects would also receive and employ a simple package of
improved technology (seed of improved varieties, seed dressing, fertilizer
and pesticide sprays for cotton and advice on better spacing and timing of
cultivation). These improvements together with the soil erosion control
measures are expected to result in increments in yield of 150 kg/ha for
sorghum, 135 kg/ha for unshelled groundnuts, and 200 kg for seed cotton.
On a typical Mossi farm of 4 ha located in an erosion control perimeter
incremental net income (after payment for inputs) would be an estimated CFAF
13,000 (US$60) 1/ and the return per man-day employed would increase by 30%
from CFAF 157 to CFAF 204.
8.08      Medium-term credit.  The credit would be for animal drawn farming
equipment. The impact of the use of this equipment would be to save labor,
thus permitting, first, the more timely cultivation of existing land (bottle-
necks occur at the beginning of the planting season) and second, the cultiva-
tion of more land if the family has such a facility. In the model at Annex 11,
it is assumed that the family would cultivate an additional 2 ha and net incre-
mental family income on such basis is estimated at about CFAF 40,000 (US$175).
Financial Implications for Government
8.09      Government's contribution to project investment costs would be
equivalent to the estimated tax component of the project during the proj-
ect period. Thereafter, Government would have to meet the costs of exten-
sion and other farmer support services provided to participants on the di-
rectly productive subprojects. Directly related project costs are estimated
at about CFAF 30-40 million (US$130,000-180,000) annually. Subsequent to 1986
Government would have to meet repayments of the IDA credit amounting to an
average of US$240,000 annually and of the BADEA loan amounting to an average
US$300,000 annually. Project participants would not pay back the investment
costs of subprojects, since investments are generally small, participants are
poor, and natural conditions on the Mossi plateau are harsh. However mainte-
nance costs (mainly labor) would be borne by participants. Government would
thus not receive any direct offsetting revenues other than stabilization fund
revenues if any on cotton and groundnuts and indirect taxes generated by par-
ticipants' greater purchasing power. Indirectly project activities will re-
quire Government expenditures for rural sector overheads, such as in ORDs,
HAER and its Ministry of Rural Development.  Government is aware that expend-
itures for Rural Development will have to be increased and this will be stud-
ied and discussed from time to time during supervision of the proposed project.
IX. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
9.01      The project provides a line of credit to FDR for investment in
small-scale scattered subprojects, selected in accordance with procedures
1/ Net value of production would rise from CFAF 43,000 (US$190) to CFAF
56,000 (US$250).



- 29 -
set forth in Chapter VII and detailed in Annex 9. Although benefits for
most individual subprojects can be identified (see farmer benefits on
typical holdings in Chapter VIII) some will provide social and health
benefits which are less easily quantified.
9.02      The principal economic and quantifiable benefits of the project
would be as follows: Bottomlands - increases in wet season rice production;
small-scale irrigation - increases in rice and season vegetable production;
erosion control and medium-term credit - increased production of cereals and
groundnuts; warehouses - reduction of storage losses in both farm inputs
and farm outputs, plus induced increases in input use; and wells and tube-
wells - improved labor productivity and increased livestock production.
9.03      The project will also provide important social and institutional
benefits. Wells give an assured water supply to the human population, who
otherwise depend on small often distant creeks which run dry for at least
three months of the year. There is also a significant health impact as the
creeks contain waterborne diseases. Institutional strengthening has already
occurred under the first project by improving the capacity of FDR, HAER and
ORDs to sponsor and implement sound development plans. The proposed strength-
ening of these institutions under the project (see Chapter VII) would provide
further improvements.
9.04      To calculate project costs, a development program for works to
be executed has been determined (see Chapter V). Neither the program, nor
the annual pace of development can be determined in advance, but on the
basis of the assumptions and the various benefits described in Chapter
VIII, the estimated economic rate of return from the Rural Development
Fund investment package is 16%. Excluded from the calculation is the cost
of unidentified projects, and studies for economic development of areas
freed from onchocerciasis. The onchocerciasis eradication program is eco-
nomically justified (see Annex 6).
9.05      The economic rate of return calculations are tentative as the
project provides basically a line of credit to FDR. Therefore separate
rates of return for various subcomponents are hardly meaningful and are
very arbitrary as it is impossible to accurately allocate overheads and to
determine the annual pace of development.  However, in order to obtain some
idea about the ranking of the various subcomponents, based on simple models
and the development program in Chapter V, assuming that benefits described
in Chapter VIII will materialize and excluding overheads, the estimated
subproject economic rates of return are: bottomlands, over 50%, erosion
control 30%, improved bottomlands 18%, small-scale irrigation 16%, and agri-
cultural equipment, over 50%. The rate of return for wells and tubewells
is 6% (for details see Annex 12) but the benefits do not include improve-
ments in health and guaranteed water supplies. If wells and tubewells are
excluded the overall economic rate of return would be 21%.
9.06      The above rates of return do not take into account two important
aspects: (i) that the main benefits accrue to the poorest segment of the
population in an area with difficult ecological and human conditions, and
(ii) the impact on human well-being, such as subprojects providing improved



- 30 -
village water supplies. The rate of return is lower than for other agri-
cultural projects financed by IDA in Upper Volta, but this results directly
from the choice of the central plateau as the area of concentration of
RDF II. Under the very difficult ecological and human conditions of the
plateau, rates in excess of 10% must be considered quite satisfactory.
9.07      Risks.  As with all agricultural operations in Upper Volta, ben-
efits are liable to sharp fluctuations due to notoriously variable rain-
fall. Other major risks are that it may be difficult to ensure (a) ade-
quate supervision and support for subprojects scattered over a large area;
and (b) that local communities obtain benefits from individual subprojects.
Under the project the organizations would be strengthened which should mini-
mize risks.
X. AGREEMENTS REACHED
10.01     The following principal agreements have been reached with the Bor-
rower during negotiations:
(a) except for well and tubewell constructions, (i) no more
than 10% of project funds would be spent on works outside
the five Mossi plateau ORDs, and (ii) subprojects in the
valleys of the Voltas would be excluded (AR 1/ para 4.01
and CA 2/ 3.06);
(b) The annual program for small-scale irrigation and improved
bottomland development will be appraised by FDR and agreed
with IDA, before any works are executed by HAER (AR para
5.09 and CA 3.07);
(c) A coordinator responsible for liaison between the four
project well brigades, and HAER would be appointed
before December 31, 1976 (AR para 5.11 and CA 3.05);
(d) BND would appoint before December 31, 1976 a credit officer
who would be responsible for management of the project medi-
um-term credit fund (AR para 5.17 and CA 3.09);
(e) A proforma medium-term credit agreement would be prepared
by December 31, 1976 and submitted to IDA for approval (AR
para 5.17 and CA 3.09);
1/   AR = Appraisal report.
2/   CA = Credit Agreement.



- 31 -
(f)  The revolving fund for medium term credit would be admin-
istered by BND under conditions to be determined between
BND and Government in agreement with IDA (AR para 6.07
and CA Schedule 4);
(g) The qualifications and terms of employment of the FDR
evaluation officers would be satisfactory to IDA and, as
their first task, they would evaluate the program so far
financed by FDR in accordance with a schedule to be
agreed with IDA (AR para 7.02 and CA 3.02(b) and 3.04);
(h) A new interministerial technical committee, with member-
ship satisfactory to IDA, would be established not later
than September 30, 1976 (AR para 7.05 and CA 3.15);
(i) Full documentation for each unidentified project would
after appraisal by FDR, be sent to IDA for approval (AR
para 7.10(b) and CA 3.08);
(j) The terms of reference, terms of employment, and qual-
ifications of consultants required for (i) the exten-
sion training study, and (ii) the oncho studies, would
be satisfactory to IDA (AR paras 7.09 and 7.11 and
CA 3.10);
(k) A senior oncho areas planning adviser would be appointed
not later than December 31, 1976, to the Ministry of Plan-
ning with qualifications and terms of employment satisfac-
tory to IDA (AR para 7.11 and CA 3.12);
(1) Government would present to IDA not later than March 31,
1977 proposals with respect to detailed tasks and speci-
fic responsibilities of its agencies which will execute
development projects in the areas freed from onchocer-
ciasis (AR para 7.12 and CA 4.04).
10.02     The following would be conditions of effectiveness of the Credit:
(a) Signing of a loan agreement between BADEA and Upper
Volta (AR para 6.06 and CA 6.01(a)); and
(b) Appointment of an assistant to the Director of
HAER to coordinate all FDR activites in HAER
(AR para 7.07 and CA 6.01(b)).
10.03     All road equipment financed under Credits 317-UV and 442-UV would be
transferred to SERS upon completion of the works financed under these credits
(estimated in June 1976) and Government will sign a letter to that effect
during credit signing (AR para 5.25).



- 32 -
10.04     It is proposed that in order to allow for a smooth transition be-
tween RDF I and RDF II and to avoid a financing gap in FDR operations, as of
March 1976 retroactive financing of up to US$350,000 would be made available
(AR para 6.08).
10.05     On the basis of the above assurances and conditions, the project
would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$9.4 million.



ANNEX 1
Table 1
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Land Use in Upper Volta
Million ha        % of Surface
Crops                                     2.2                 8
Fallow                                    8.8                32
Natural Pastures                         13.6                50
Other                                     2.8                10
27.4               100



UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Cereal Donations and Imports 1971 - 1973
1971                                1972                             1973
Quantity                            Quantîty                        Quantity
Donor                           Commodity         tons              Commodity         tons           Commodity         tons
AID (U.S.A.)                    Sorghum         19,059              Sorghum         15,000           Sorghlm        21,000
FED (E.E.C.)                   Maize             9,500              Maize            9,500           Maize          15,000
FAC (France)                   Maize             4,000              Maize            3,500           Wheat & Maize  6,000
WFP (U.N.)                Sorghum, Wheat,                           Maize &
& Maize Flour         1,491              Maize Flour      2,900           Maize Flour    4,000
Canada                                            -                 Wheat            2,000           Wheat           5,000
West Germany                                                        Wheat            3,000           Wheat           4,000
U.S.S.R.                        Rice               150              Rice               950           Rice              500
Ivory Coast                                       -                                   -              Rice              150
Total                                     34,200                               36,850                          55,650
Regular Imports                                 25,813                              30,350                          30,000
Total Imports                                   60,013                              67,200                          85,650
Source:  Office National des Céréales.                                                                                      tDx



ANNEX 1
UPPER VOLTA                                             Table 3
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Agricultural Production
(in thousand of metric tons: in CFAF per kg)
(in CFAF millionl
1967/68        1968/69        1969/70         1970/71        1971/72        1972/73        1973/74
Millet
volume                        330              315            362            327             298            259            257
farmgate price I/              12               12             12             12              14             16             20
production value            3,962           3,780           4,344          3,924          4,172           4,144          5,140
Sorghum:
volume                        546              545            560            506             474            50i            493
farmgate price                 13               13             13             14              15             17             23
production value            7,098           7,124           7,280          7,084          7,110           8,619         11,339
Maize:
volume                         65               66             69             55              66             59              58
farmgate price                 13               13             13             14              16             19             25
production value              845              858            897            770           1,056          1,121          1,450
Rice:
volume                         36               38             39              34             37             34              31
farmgate price                 17               17             18             20              23             28             30
production value              612              646            702            680             851            952             960
Groundnuts:
volume                         75               75             78             65              66             60              63
farmgate price                 17               18             18             18              19             21              22
production value            1,375           1,350           1,404          1,170           1,254          1,260          1,386
Sesame:
volume                          3                5              8              4               4              6               5
farigate price                 19               20             20             20              21             22             23
production value               57              100            160              80             84            132             115
Cotton:
volume                         17               32             36              24             29             32              27
farmgate price                 29               30             30             30              30             32             35
production value              493              960          1,080            720             870          1,024            945
1/ Farmgate prices reflect to the extent possible average prices paid to the producer immediately
after harvest, and therefore differ from official farmgate prices particularly in the 1971/73
period for millet, sorghum and maize, for which official prices have increasingly tended to lag
behind prices actually perceived. Official prices have been used for commodities where price
control tends to be more effective, such as cotton, rice (when produced in irrigated areas,
about 50% of total production) and groundnuts (when sold for processing, about 15% of total
production).
2/ CFAF billion.
Source: Direction du Plan, Haute Volta.



UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Indices of Agricultural Production, 1967-68/1973-74 1/
(1969-70 = 100)
1967-68    1968-69    1969-70    1970-71    1971-72    1972-73   1973-74
Millet                    91          87          100         90           82          72         71
Sorghum                  98           97          100         90          85           91         88
Maize                    96           96          100         80           96          86         84
Rice                     92           97          100         87           95          87         80
Groundnuts               96           96          100         83           85          80         81
Sesame                   38           63          100         50          50           75         63
Cotton                   47           89          100         67           81          89         75
Total Agricultural
Production            88          94           100         88          85           83         81
Source: Economic Report                                                                                    ( 
_/ In 1967 constant prices.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
First Rural Development Fund Project
A. Original Objectives
1,        The First Rural Development Fund Project (RDF I) was appraised in
August 1971; the credit was signed in June 1972 (Credit 317-UV) and became
effective in October 1972. The Project's objective as defined at appraisal 1/
was to set up a Rural Development Fund to help finance a large number of
small-scale rural development activities designed to increase agricultural
production and to improve the health and well being of rural communities.
The small-scale activities consisted of a program of construction within a
three-year period of about:
(a)  500 wells for domestic water supplies;
(b)  700 village warehouses for storing farm inputs;
(c)  190 small land and water development projects, which
consisted of water control and swampy depressions,
irrigation works below existing dams and soil erosion
control. More detailed estimates were:
(i)  1,500 of bas fonds development (150 projects with
an average of 10 ha);
(ii) 200 ha small irrigation (10 projects with an average
of 20 ha); and
(iii)  1,000 ha soil erosion control works (20 projects of
50 ha each);
(d) improvement of about 270 km of feeder roads; and
(e) a number of unidentified projects.
Project costs were estimated at US$3.04 million. An IDA credit of US$2.2
million was made to cover 72% of project costs. French bilateral assistance
in the form of seconded expatriate staff amounted to US$0.38 million or 13%
of project costs and Governnent budgetary allocations axnounted to US$0.46
1/   See Report PA-127a, Appraisal of a Rural Development Fund Project Upper
Volta, dated May 16, 1972.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
million or 15% of project costs; Government contribution was offset by taxes
and duties which were estimated at appraisal to amount to about 15% of proj-
ect costs.
2.        The idea of a Rural Development Fund originated as a result of the
Bank's first economic mission to Upper Volta in November 1969 1/, and stemmed
from the mission's conclusions that:
(a) there was a perceived need by local communities for
small-scale development actions and that if these
could be initiated they would be supported by the
local population;
(b) in the past a number of projects in the rural sector
had failed because of lack of local support;
(c) foreign aid sources, which provide most of the money
for development finance in Upper Volta, had up to then
shown little interest in financing such small-scale
actions;
(d) as Government had started to decentralize its services
with the creation of Regional Development Organizations
(ORDs) agencies now existed that were capable of identi-
fying and implementing such small projects;
(e) ORD financing, however, was coming mainly from aid
sources and was tied to specific programs that did
not include this type of project; and thus
(f) some form of mechanism to finance such actions was re-
quired.
An IDA appraisal mission pursued the matter further, and Credit 317-UV was
approved to finance a Rural Development Fund (RDF I) that itself constituted
a line of credit to finance small-scale development actions. The basic
arrangement was that the Fund would appraise proposals made to it by the ORD
as and when suitable small-scale projects were identified and prepared rather
that the more usual system of following a clearly defined program of actions
and technical and economic viability of which is determined in advance.
3.        Responsibility for execution of RDF I was shared between three
institutions. FDR was created as an operating division of the National
Development Bank (BND) to manage the Fund administratively and financially,
and to evaluate subprojects: the Rural Engineering Division of the Ministry
of Agriculture (which later became the Rural Development Works Department
1/   See Report AW-19a, The Economic Development of Upper Volta, dated
November 17, 1974, in four volumes.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
(HAER) under the Ministry of Rural Development) was responsible for wells,
tubewells, and land and water development, and the Ministry of Public Works
(PWD) for feeder roads. To help them undertake these tasks, the Rural
Engineering Division and PWD were reinforced with additional personnel,
totaling three Voltaic engineers and six expatriates; the latter were to
be provided and financed by French technical assistance (FAC). Government
agreed to supply additional extension personnel to the ORDs to supervise
FDR funded projects as a condition of the credit 1/.
B. Summary of Physical Achievements
4.        Although the project became operational in October 1972, it had a
slow start for several reasons:
(a)  implementation of a program of subprojects for the first
dry season (1972/73) was delayed by the late recruitment
of key personnel for HAER and PWD;
(b) financial difficulties arose at the start of the project
because Government failed to prefinance project expendi-
tures (prefinancing was agreed only in April 1973); and
(c) delays occurred in the acquisition of equipment (both in
bidding procedures and in equipment deliveries to Upper
Volta) which affected in particular the well construction
program.
5.        After these initial difficulties were overcome, project implemen-
tation accelerated rapidly. Physical achievements as of June 30, 1975, are
summarized below and detailed by ORD in Table 1.
1/   RDF I appraisal report para 5.11 and Credit Agreement 317-UV
(para 3.08(a)).



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Objectives and Physical Achievements RDF I
Percentage of
Objectives at      Physical /1   Physical Works
Subprojects                       Appraisal       Achievement        Completed
Wells /2 (No)                        500              227                 45
Village Warehouses (No)              700              627                 90
Bottomland Development (ha)        1,500            1,041                 69
Erosion Control Works (ha)         1,000              645                 64
Small Irrigation Schemes /3
(ha)                               200               68                34
Roads (km)                           270              353                130
/1   As of June 30, 1975.
/2   A few boreholes have also been drilled experimentally.
/3   Irrigated horticulture perimeters are included.
By June 30, 1976, when project funds are fully exhausted, it is estimated
that the following additional works will have been completed: 100 ha bottom-
lands, 200 ha erosion control works, and 50 village warehouses.
6.        Farmer Support.  An important criteria for the selection of sub-
projects under RDF I was that they were perceived as a need by local people
who were prepared to participate, by providing free labor, in their construc-
tion. After an initial hesitant and a wait and see attitude, in the early
stage of RDF I farmer response became increasingly favorable as the project
gained momentum and became more widely known in rural areas and manual labor
required for construction of project activities has been voluntarily pro-
vided by village communities. But for road construction labor, villagers
received small bonuses. Given the prevailing local support, Rural Develop-
ment Fund Operations can continue. Farmers are also required, after com-
pletion of construction, to provide labor for maintenance. Yet experience
to date is too short to make either a negative or positive assessment of
farmer response in this respect. Works seem generally well maintained,
but lack of sufficient ORD support in certain cases resulted in sub-optimal
maintenance.
7.        Erosion Control Works have not been as extensively executed as
planned. They were concentrated in the ORD of Ouagadougou which had already
acquired experience with these works under other programs in earlier years.
Farmers' support is strong and works have been executed as expected. Yields
have also increased, but sufficient data have not yet been collected to com-
pare results with appraisal estimates.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
8.        Irrigation below Dams.  This subcomponent has not been successful,
basically from lack of qualified personnel. Works that were carried out,
showed shortcomings in design and low quality in construction because of
insufficient supervision. Under the project 29 ha of irrigation below dams
and 39 ha of irrigated horticulture perimeters were developed. The 29 ha
perimeter was inundated and destroyed by floods during the 1975 rainy season.
The horticulture perimeters are lands irrigated from a well; they were mostly
developed near Bobo-Dioulasso and are successfully maintained and used. Al-
though experience is limited, it seems that these irrigated horticulture peri-
meters are rather successful. Because of experience under RDF I, procedures
for implementation of small irrigation works (irrigation below dams, irriga-
tion by pumping from lakes, or irrigation from wells) need to be tightened.
Although partly a failure, it was also partly a success and therefore
continued allowance for development of small irrigation has been made under
RDF II.
9.        Village Warehouses have been generally well constructed.  It was
originally envisaged that these facilities would be used for the storage of
farm inputs, such as seeds, fertilizer and pesticides. It was assumed that
cotton growers would be the principal beneficiaries from the storage facili-
ties, because of increased yields due to better germination of seed if it is
properly stored. In addition there would be reduced losses of fertilizer
and other inputs through better storage. However, because of the drought,
cotton production has sharply declined on the Mossi plateau. Instead of being
used for input storage, village warehouses have been in strong demand by ORDs
for storing foodgrain bought by them from the farmers, since storage losses
are thereby reduced.
10.       Bottomland Development.  About 1,000 ha of bottomlands have been
developed under RDF I. Works consist of the establishment of small dikes
in bottomlands following contour lines, which in principle, enable water
retention both over a larger area and for a longer period, thus increasing
the area available for paddy cultivation and making more water available
during the crucial flowing period in September, thus increasing yields.
11.       Works have been organized as follows:  (a) extension agents from
ORDs have organized village meetings, to obtain farmers' consent to develop
the bottomlands, their cooperation in carrying out the establishment of
contour dikes and their agreement to distribute plots according to work
performed by individuals; (b) surveyors from HAER carried out a topographical
survey, established field pickets following contour lines and dew contour
maps; (c) tractors equipped with disc-plots, owned or hired by ORDs, have
lossened the soil along contour lines, and sometimes plowed the entire area
to be cultivated if the land was sufficiently levelled; mechanical land
levelling has only been carried out on rare occasions; and (d) local farmers
have established and compacted contour dikes (under HAER supervision), and
where necessary the services of qualified masons have been used to complete
control structures such as culverts and small spillways.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
12.       The establishment of contour dikes has, on the whole, given the
results that could be expected from it. Rice cultivated area has increased
and yields on developed bottomlands have on average been 500 kg to 600 kg
higher than on undeveloped bottomlands. In 1974/75, yield data were col-
lected for the first time by FDR. These data revealed that yields varied
from 0.9 tons of paddy/ha to 3.5 tons/ha, and averaged about 1.5 tons/ha;
rice yields in underdeveloped bottomlands were tentatively estimated at 0.9
tons/ha. Most bottomlands (80%) developed under RDF I are located on the
Mossi plateau. Farmer response has been satisfactory but extension follow-
up could have been better.
13.       Results have been satisfactory but different from those estimated
at appraisal. It was initially expected at appraisal that bottomland devel-
opment would be more intensive than the relatively simple contour dike system,
and would involve small weirs with lateral irrigation ditches and drains that
would permit a high degree of water control. Average investment costs were
calculated at 74,000 CFAF per ha, and yields were estimated to reach about 3
tons of paddy/ha. These more sophisticated structures have not been built,
mainly for two reasons:
(a) hydrological data on rainfall intensity in the watershed
and flood behavior in bottomlands, necessary for the
design of such structures, have not been collected; 1/
(b) neither ORDs nor HAER have sufficiently qualified person-
nel to carry out the engineering, design, and execution
of such more sophisticated works.
14.       The more traditional type of bottomland develoment used in RDF I
has led to cost savings: actual costs during the 1974/75 season did not
exceed 40,000 CFAF per ha. Conversely, average yields on such bottomlands
are estimated at 1.5 tons of paddy per ha. The more traditional method of
bottomland development will be continued under RDF II (see Annex 4), although
some provision has been made for a small program of more sophisticated
bottomland development, more-or-less the type originally envisaged for RDF I.
15.       Well Construction.  It was envisaged that 500 wells would be con-
structed under RDF I (120 in 1972/73; 100 in 1973/74 and 220 in 1974/75).
Three well construction brigades were to be responsible for subproject execu-
tion. It was envisaged that voluntary village labor would be used for digging
and lining the wells under the supervision of paid masons. Each well was to
be concrete-lined and have a concrete surround; no head works were to be pro-
vided as water would be drawn by simple rope and container. Expected costs
were estimated at CFAF 400,000 per well, or CFAF 22,500 (US$112.50) per linear
meter.
1/   Data on the size, vegetation and rainfall in specific watersheds
exist only in a study of some 100 bottomlands around Ouagadougou.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
16.       It appears that well construction costs were underestimated at the
time of appraisal. In 1971/72, wells built on force account in Niger were
already costing CFAF 30,000 per linear meter, and wells built by private
enterprise in the People's Republic of Benin cost CFAF 50,000. The main
cause of the underestimation was an overoptimistic evaluation of the potential
operating efficiency of the brigades rather than an underestimation of unit
costs. Average rate of construction was estimated at 55 wells per brigade
per year (500 wells by three teans over three years), whereas the actual rate
of construction was 20 in 1972/73, and rose to 40 in the 1974/75 season.
17.       The formation of the brigades was slow and delayed the construction
program. Four brigades were ultimately financed under RDF I and the same
number will be financed under RDF II. Delays in the arrival of compressors,
pumps and drilling equipment prevented the brigades from digging deep enough,
particularly in rocky layers. A result of this is that the majority of
wells are too shallow and run dry at the end of the dry season. Progress
of construction is presented in the following table:
Number of wells   Remaining
with sufficient      to be
Well operating  Number of wells completed   depth: 5 meters   deepened
teams       1972/73  1973/74  1974/75   (as of 30/6/75)  (as of 30/6/75)
Bogande            20        5          -            7                 18
Koupela  I          -       42         20           30                 32
Koupela II          -        -         22           22                  -
Fada  I             -        -         50           -                  50
Fada II             -       40         28           25                 43
Total           20      87         120           84               143
18.       Three of the well brigades follow the work method described in
paragraph 15. A different method has been introduced by one of the more re-
cently established brigades, i.e., construction of wells in one continuous
grab bucket operation. This method is more rapid, requires somewhat more
equipment but needs less salaried manpower and less voluntary labor. The
latter is also important as experience shows that village labor is willing
to participate, but generally is not available before the end of harvesting
which occurs well into the dry season (December/January). This new method
is, however, somewhat more complex than the traditional one, and needs
experience and continuous supervision.
19.       Currently well brigades lack sufficient core drills and jackham-
mers, and the derricks have insufficient power. Explosives are not used
but their use is strongly recommended in order to speed up work in rock
layers. Needed equipment and materials, together with required replace-
ments, are detailed in Annex 4, and would be provided under the project.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
20.       The professionals in charge of the well brigades (three Voltaics
and one expatriate) are well qualified; the Voltaics have progressively
acquired experience and are now able to complete wells that are entirely
satisfactory. To increase operating efficiency, however, it would be
necessary:
(a) to establish annual well digging programs in such a way
that the teams can work in close proximity, thus facil-
itating the supply of materials and supervision of works;
and
(b) to make one of the team heads responsible for supervising
the total RDF II well construction program and all field
teams. One of the Voltaic brigade leaders would be well
qualified for this role.
21.       Road Development.  Road development has been executed under
Credits 317-UV and 442-UV jointly. Equipment purchases were financed under
Credit 442-UV, the remainder of the costs was met from 317-UV. This partly
explains why a greater length of roads has been constructed than estimated
at appraisal. The different roads developed and their estimated costs are
summarized in the table below:
ORD/Road                               Km                    Costs
(CFAF million)
Yatenga
(Ouahigouya-Koumbri-Ban)                       65                    21.1
Dedougou
(Soin-Gassau)                                  74                     6.4
Ouagadougou
(Sorgho-Yarghin)                               65                    19.1
Kaya
(Kaya-Tenia)                                  80                     27.9
Bobo-Dioulasso
(Banankeledaga-Tokoyo-Rui-Komo)               21                     12.8
Koudougou
(Rui-Sadou)                                   48                    26.2
Total                                   353                   113.5
(or CFAF 321,500 per km)



ANNEX 2
Page 9
22.       Road construction has been executed using labor intensive methods,
and villagers have been very willing to participate in road construction
work. To a large extent the success of this subcomponent has been due to
the energetic supervision of the road engineer provided by FAC. The road
component will not be continued under RDF II, since rural road development
is now financed under the IDA-funded Rural Roads Project (Credit 579-UV).
23.       Unidentified Subprojects.  Subprojects executed under the un-
identified components include:
(i)  eight large-size warehouses for use by ORDs (sizes
2       2            2
50 m , 250 m , and 300 m
(ii) eleven livestock pents for smallholders to facilitate
production of farm yard manure;
(iii) a cold storage warehouse (FDR financed part of this
investment; the ORD of Bobo-Dioulasso financed the
greatest part; the warehouse is to be used for
storage of vegetables); and
(iv) feasibility study of irrigation in the Kamadena plain.
The study was awarded to BDPA-GERSAR in August 1974,
and is now being finalized.
C. Performance of Participating Agencies
24.       FDR (Fonds de Developpement Rural).  Since few subprojects were
proposed by ORDs in the project's early stages, the project manager's main
task initially was one of helping ORDs to identify subprojects, rather than
appraising and supervising projects generated by ORDs, as was thought at
appraisal would be the case. The general success of RDF I is a tribute to
the project manager's efforts to identify and establish a strong and co-
operative relationship between ORDs and FDR. The post of evaluation officer
in FDR has, however, never been filled and this is a serious deficiency.
In addition the accounts of FDR have yet to be audited and a detailed
analytical accounting system is needed, as is an improved system of stock
valuation and control.
25.       Under RDF Il, FDR management will be strengthened through provision
of additional staff, including two expatriate evaluation officers. The
audit of FDR accounts is now being organized.



ANNEX 2
Page 10
26.       The Rural Water and Land Development Division (HRAT) 1/  Within
the Rural Development Water Department (HAER) was charged with the technical
preparation and execution of all subprojects except feeder roads. Although
HRAT has made commendable efforts to carry out its tasks, it has continuously
suffered from a high turnover of personnel and as a consequence was seriously
understaffed most of the time. The situation as of April 1975 serves as an
illustration of the difficult situation.
HRAT key personnel working           Positions agreed at            April 1975
on RDF projects /a                credit negotiations            situation
Senior rural engineer (expatriate)            1                       - /b FAC
Rural Engineer (expatriate)                   1                       - lc FAC
Chief surveyor (expatriate)                   1                       - /c FAC
Rural engineers (local)                       2                       1 Id
Topo-survey teams (local)                     3                       2
/a   Excluding well construction.
/b   Left mid-1974; not been replaced.
/c   Replacement requested, but nobody was in position in 1975.
/d   The Voltaic engineer present obtained his degree from university in
February 1975 and was recruited in March 1975.
The vacant positions are now being filled by technical assistance personnel
provided by FAC.
27.       In addition to lack of staff, persistent problems have arisen in
personnel allocation. RDF I-financed personnel is integrated into the HAER
organization, but since it is responsible to the Director of HAER and not
FDR, this has led to such personnel being allocated at times to non-FDR-
financed projects. This occurred much more following the departure of the
senior rural engineer, whose task was, amongst others, to coordinate all
work of HAER personnel where FDR activities were concerned.  However, it
should also be noted that although HAER needed technical assistance in order
to be capable of executing project works, these jobs did not at all times
provide full employment.  Therefore, as long as FDR financed projects are
properly prepared and executed, there should be no objection against using
technical assistance to the fullest extent possible. An alternative method is
where all project works are executed by a project management unit, but this is
against the basic approach of the Rural Development Fund Project, which is to
be a source of finance for projects executed by other institutions. Whilst
there is always the danger that staff and other resources financed by FDR
1/   At the time of appraisal of RDF I, the Rural Development Works Department
(HAER) was called Hydraulique et Equipement Rural and the Rural Water
and Land Development Division (HRAT) was called Hydraulique et Amenagement
de l'Espace Rural.



ANNEX 2
Page 11
can be diverted to other purposes because they are not directly controlled
by FDR.  This issue is not seen as a major problem, since FDR exercises a
financial controlling device. Furthermore, where such resources would
otherwise be underemployed, then additional alternative usage should be
encouraged.
28.       Under RDF I, HAER was responsible for preparation and execution
of all project works, except roads. This arrangement will be changed under
RDF II, since ORDs will be responsible for the bottomland and anti-erosion
works development. HAER as the technical department will however have to
safeguard technical standards by regular supervision. It will also be
responsible for the small-scale irrigation component and the well and tube-
well subcomponents of the project.
29.       The Public Works Department (PWD) had to delay the start of its
operations due to the late arrival of the road engineer (in November 1973).
Little road construction equipment was purchased under the Credit 317-UV
following a decision to hire existing PWD equipment. This has proved to
be costly and has resulted in the start of numerous but small and scattered
road improvements. The situation has greatly improved since it was decided
to buy road construction equipment under the Drought Relief Project (442-UV)
and to establish an independent feeder road unit, headed by the RDF I road
engineer. The road unit has performed remarkably well under the able
guidance of the expatriate road engineer. Labor intensive construction
methods have been employed which have been appreciated by the villagers
involved in road construction.
30.       Since rural roads in general are now going to be improved under
the responsibility of SERS (Service Entretien des Routes Secondaires - a
new service created under PWD as part of the Bank's Rural Road Project),
the road component will not be continued under RDF II. Equipment purchased
under Credits 317-UV and 442-UV will be handed over to SERS.
31.       The Regional Development Offices (ORDs) have, as a whole, made
a strong effort to use available RDF funds effectively. A major problem
for most ORDs, however, is their inability to engage additional personnel
needed for the supervision and provision of support services for subprojects.
Government has failed to increase ORD budgets to the extent necessary to
make adequate allowances for these services, in spite of an obligation to
do so under section 3.08 of the Credit Agreement.
32.       The dangers of inadequate supervision and failure to provide sup-
port services to participants in subprojects was pointed out in a bottom-
land development project carried out with French bilateral aid funds from
1969 to 1972. It is estimated that some 35% of all bottomlands developed
were abandoned, mostly because of the failure of the implementing agency
to (i) correct design deficiencies and ensure adequate maintenance; and
(ii) to provide participants with the advice and inputs needed to make
best use of the developments. Because of this, IDA agreed at the end of



ANNEX 2
Page 12
1974 that FDR could provide financing to ORDs for the employment of ad-
ditional extension personnel. Some 40 extension workers have since been
recruited and placed in different ORDs.
33.       An Interministerial Technical Committee was created at the
start of RDF I to examine and approve all projects proposed for financing
hy FDR. The Committee consists of about 15 members, representing the
different Government ministries and agencies concerned (Agriculture, Plan-
ning, Public Works, Finance, ORDs). Meetings were to be convened at the
initiative of the Director of FDR. In practice, the Committee has been
convened on average only once per year, as it proved cumbersome to
organize such meetings. The Committee has, however, provided a useful
forum to "publicize" FDR intentions and support project management.
34.       Now that Coordinating Committee for Rural Development has
been established, this body would provide the form for "publicizing" all
rural development activities, and therefore this function should no longer
be performed by the Interministerial Technical Committee. Membership of
this Committee could therefore be reduced (see Annex 9) so as to include
only those directly related with project execution. This would make the
Committee more effective.
D. Costs
35.       The cashflow of the First Rural Development Fund Project is in
Table 2; a statement of receipts and expenditures is in Table 3; and a
summary of disbursements under Credit 317-UV is in Table 4.
36.       As of June 30, 1975, an amount of CFAF 441.4 million had been
spent. Reimbursements by IDA until that date amounted to US$1,683,000,
leaving a balance of about US$517,000 (or CFAF 116 million at an ex-
change rate of US$1.00 = CFAF 225). This is insufficient to cover expendi-
tures of a 1975/76 campaign of the size considered by FDR to be necessary
and realistic. Consequently it is proposed that retroactive financing be
provided to finance some FDR activities in 1975/76.
37.       The IDA credit of US$2.2 million was expected to cover expenditures
of CFAF 562.6 million, and an exchange rate of US$1.00 = CFAF 255.8 was used
at appraisal. In practice, however, the average exchange rate for disburse-
ments was US$1.00 = CFAF 220.55, and the credit was equivalent to only
CFAF 485 million, or 86% of the original estimate. The project also suffered
from the steep world-wide inflation that began in 1973. Provision for price
inflation was only 5%. With hindsight, it is clear that this was grossly
insufficient; contingencies amounting to 20-30% of project costs would have
been more appropriate.



ANNEX 2
Page 13
38.       A comparison of unit costs, appraisal estimate and actual, for
some of the subprojects is given below:
Appraisal
Subprojects                                     Estimate        Actual
(CFAF)         (CFAF)
Well Construction (per well)                    445,000        805,000
Village warehouses (per warehouse)               60,000         74,000
Bottomland Development (per ha)                  74,000         40,000
Irrigation Below Dams (per ha)                  257,000        240,000
Erosion (per ha)                                 14,500         15,000
E. Undertakings under Credit 317-UV
39.       Section 3.02 of the Credit Agreement deals with the project manage-
ment unit. Under this section the Borrower agreed to establish a Rural
Development Division with BND, to cause BND to employ a project manager,
deputy project manager and an evaluation officer, to cause BND to keep a
consolidated account and separate accounts for each ORD by class of projects,
and to cause HAER to employ a sufficient number of qualified engineers.
Accounts are discussed below in para 45. The project has been managed accord-
ing to organization envisaged at appraisal. However, staffing has been a
problem throughout the project period and this will have to be improved
under RDF II especially with regard to project evaluation.
40.       Under Section 3.03 the Borrower agreed to advance funds quarterly
for the operations of FDR. As noted above one of the reasons for a slow
start was that Government was not prepared to advance funds until April 1973
(see para 4). However, since that date, no further problems have been
encountered.
41.       Under Section 3.04 it was envisaged that ORDs would prepare projects
and under section 3.05 that FDR would appraise such projects. As noted above
FDR has given considerable assistance to ORDs in the preparation of projects.
Although ORDs have now gained experience in dealing with FDR, a lot depends
on their actual staffing and the continued assistance of FDR in project
preparation may be required under RDF Il.
42.       An interdepartmental Technical Committee has been established as
required under section 3.06 of the Credit Agreement. Certain modifications
in its membership are proposed for RDF II.
43.       Under section 3.08 the Borrower undertook to (a) provide ORDs
at all times with the necessary agricultural extension and credit services;
(b) cause ORDs to organize farmer groups for land and water development
projects; and (c) define a model contract detailing the respective rights and



ANNEX 2
Page 14
obligations of ORDs and farmers participating in land development projects.
As discussed elsewhere, additional funds were not made available for exten-
sion workers from the regular budget, and FDR has been forced to provide the
necessary funds for extension workers. This arrangement will continue under
RDF II and appropriate financial provisions are made in project costs. Farmer
groups have been formed for the various land and water development projects
and a model contract has also been drawn up. Although legally sound, the
model contract is probably too long and complicated to serve as an under-
standable and effective document between farmers and ORDs.
44.       Section 3.10 reads as follows:  "The Borrower shall cause BND,
assisted by its departments and agencies, to conduct studies on the impli-
cations of the execution of the Project to the Borrower's budget, the impact
of increased economic activity brought about by RDF and the feasibility of
collecting repayments for project costs from the farmers. The terms of
reference and the timetable for such studies shall be approved by the Associa-
tion and the Association shall have the opportunity to review the progress
of such studies and to comment on the final report." No such study has been
made, and it is not specifically proposed to make such study under RDF II,
but continuous evaluation of RDF II will also cover economic and financial
impact.
45.       Section 4.01 deals with maintaining adequate accounts and the
necessity of having such accounts audited by independent auditors. Accounts
have been maintained, but have not been audited so far.  However, arrangements
for auditing the acounts are now being made and auditors will be appointed
before negotiations. The timetable is that auditors would be appointed around
April 1976 and would undertake the actual auditing in July/August 1976, cover-
ing all accounts from 1972 until June 1976. Their report would then be
available by the end of 1976.
46.       Section 4.03 reads:  "The Borrower shall cause about 20 wells and
tubewells equipped with pumps, including hand-operated wheel-type pumps, to
be constructed...., and cause BND and the appropriate ORD to maintain records
adequate to reflect the cost, efficiency, and utility of such wells in com-
parison with the open-type wells that would.... be constructed under.... the
project." A few tubewells have been built, but no evaluation study has been
implemented. However, now that it is proposed to include both tubewell
drilling and well construction under RDF II, the necessary data can be com-
piled.
47.       Section 4.04 reads:   "(a) The Borrower shall cause BND, the appro-
priate ORD and the competent administrations to furnish to the Association
such information regarding public health and environmental sanitation as
the Association may reasonably require, and shall cooperate with and give
assistance to health experts of the Association carrying out a study
financed by the Association about the effects on the health conditions of
the populations and the measures to be taken against any possible adverse
effect. (b) The Borrower shall take the necessary steps to ensure that



ANNEX 2
Page 15
construction under the Project would not adversely affect health conditions.
Such measures shall include the control of bilhatzia snails and the larvae
of the blackfly vector of onchocerciasis in land and water development works;
and the routine treatments of wells constructed under the project against
pollution with human disease organisms." Since the signing of the Credit
Agreement, a large program of riverblindness eradication has been studied
and organized which appears to satisfy at least the issues detailed in
article 4.04(a). In addition, normal measures have been taken to safeguard
water supplies from adversely affecting health conditions, and this will
be continued.
48.       Under section 5.02(c) the Borrower undertook to inform the Asso-
ciation of any new assistance for rural development and ensure that such
assistance would not interfere with the objectives and operations of FDR.
The dialogue between IDA and Upper Volta has been a continuous one; all
aspects of rural development are regularly reviewed. However, FDR has
also managed other projects such as a USAID medium-term credit fund. There
is no objection to this and the practice should continue. However, under
RDF II, specific assurances would provide for approval by IDA of management
by FDR of any other funds. This should ensure that projects do not suffer
because of an overextension of the management capacity.
49.       In general one can conclude that the assurances requested have been
adhered to, but that auditing has been delayed and the lack of evaluation
staff in FDR has hampered the undertaking of more thorough studies and
evaluations.
F. Conclusions
50.       In spite of certain shortcomings, the first Rural Development
Project is generally regarded in Upper Volta as a successful project.
After some initial delays because of slow recruitment of personnel, late
delivery of equipment and ORDs' inexperience with the new system, the project
has aroused considerable interest as evidenced both in increases in works
performed and in the acceleration of project expenditures. These components
will be expanded under the second project. Benefits from irrigation below
dams have not materialized due to inadequate supervision. These works would
be subject to stricter appraisal criteria and control under the second
project. The higher than estimated costs of well construction have been
due largely to inefficiencies in the start-up period and with the experience
now gained, well construction under the second project is expected to be more
efficient. Village warehouses and feeder roads have been largely carried out
according to expectations.
51.       As described above, inadequate quantity and quality of personnel
is still at the root of many technical problems in project execution.



ANNEX 2
Page 16
Staffing will be strengthened under the second project. However some tech-
nical problems have also arisen out of the division of responsibilities
as agreed at the start of the project:
(a) HAER has been in charge both of carrying out works,
mostly on force account, and of supervision and
final approval of such works as its sole responsibility.
This dual responsibility, coupled with lack of person-
nel, has sometimes led to work of sub-quality standards
being approved; and
(b) the fact that the agencies more directly interested in
project implementation (ORDs and FDR) did not have
the power to prepare projects technically and execute
them, has been generally detrimental to the speed of
project preparation and execution. It should be noted
that FDR subprojects are only part of HAER's
responsibilities; the latter is also carrying out
similar projects financed by other aid sources
such as well construction by FED and FAC, and irrigation
works below dams by FED. Therefore procedures for
preparation, appraisal, supervision and evaluation
of subprojects under RDF II will adapted to this
experience. Details are in Annex 9.
52.       Although the selection criteria for subprojects (para 5.09 of
the first RDF appraisal report) clearly emphasize projects directly support-
ing farming communities, there has been, and still is, strong pressure on
FDR management to finance investments directly benefiting the ORD organiza-
tions such as office buildings and housing, warehouses or agricultral
machinery used by ORDs. The pressure is understandable as ORD budgets are
notoriously inadequate and within these, equipment budgets often get a
lower priority. Although by far the greater part of RDF investments have
gone to the direct support of farming communities, pressure for more invest-
ment and operational support of ORDs will increase under the second RDF
project, as Government contributions to CRD budgets are unlikely to be
raised substantially in the near future and, without RDF support, ORDs might
be hard put to carry out their role. Justification of such support, however,
would have to be linked directly to RDF projects benefiting farmers.
53.       In summary, the first RDF project has proven to be valuable for
rural development financing and assuming that the personnel and organiza-
tional problems are remedied, an expanded second RDF project would be
entirely justified.



ANNEX 2
Table 1
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPIMENT FUND PROJECT
Works carried out under the first Rural Development Project by ORD _/
Wells   Village    Bottom    Irrigation    Erosion    Feeder    Horticulture
ORD's of                warehouses  lands       below dams    control       roads     perimeters
no.       no.       ha        -haha             ha          km          ha
Ouagadougou       -          77       255           24           570          65            -
Koudougou         -         97        250            5            -           48            -
Dedougou          -         26        133            -            -           74            -
Bobo-Dioulasso   -          93         -             -            -           21           31
Banfora           -         52         -             -            -            -            3
Kaya              -          84       132            -            75          80            5
Fada-N'Gourma    132        15         55            -            -            -            -
Yatenga            19        78       176            -                        65            _
Bougouriba        -         40         40            -            -            -            -
Koupéla            76        65        -             -            -            -            -
Total      227       627      1,041           29           645        353           39
Concentration 2/
on Plateau Mossi  42%        64%       78%          83%         100%          73%          13%
1/ Works completed as of June 30, 1975.
2/  Percentage of works executed in the five ORDs on the plateau Mossi (ORDs of Ouagadougou,
Koudougou, Kaya, Yatenga and Koupéla.



UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMNET FUND PRO3ECT
Cash Flou of Piret Rural Development Fund Pro1ect
(CFAF * 000)
197211973                           197311974                           197411975             TOTAL              1975/1976/
from beginning project          July I         January 1             July I         Januaty 1                    July I       January I
June 30, 1973    - Decevber 31       _ June 30        _ Deceuber 31        J lune 30               Deceab-r 31        June 30
Overheads  3/
RDF equipuent                                               2.017                  2.733              227               3.670            298         8,945           6
salaries and operating costs                            1.749                 3.083            4.410                3.375          5.918       18.535
Technical Services 4/
equipment                                              13.023                10.884            2.278                2.175            -         28.360
salaries and operating coste                            2.221                 3.793            4.471                6.102         5.077        21.664
Subtotal                                      19.010                20.493           11.386              15.322         11.293        77.504
I. Worka
Wells and tubewells                                         1.747                  8.183           48.483              25.160         47.877       131.450
Varehouses                                                      96                 5.884            8.910              10.318.        10.284        35.492
Bottoulend development                                           5                   600            6.602               3.355          3.084        13.646
Suall irrigation                                             -                      -               4.639               1.264            767         6.670
Anti-erosion worka                                           -                        63             -                  1.267             63         1.393
Roade                                                                               -              17.615              28.575         40.736        86.926
Unidentified projects                                        -                      -               3.864              21.349.        27.611        52.824
Subtotal                                       1.848                14.730           90.113              91.288        130.422       328.401
Stocks 5/                                                   5.540                  6.163           15.651               4.652          3.526        35.532
TOTAL                                                      26.398                 41.386.         117.150             111.262        145.241       441.437
I  Total over the period from the *tart of the project until June 30, 1975.
No complete figures yet available.
Excluding expatriates provided under French bilateral assistance.
FAER and PWD
S1 FDR - management employs a rental storage facility: in the absence of an analytical cost sccounting -
system, the value of supplies entry into stocks cannot be allocated to works vithout separate
analysis. This vill be done by auditors which vill audit the vorks in August 1976.
if These figures vill be available for green cover or during negotiations.
il



UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Receipts and Expenses of she Rural Deyelopment Fund
Reimbursed
Government                                                                                           Government
Advances                             Expenses                                     Bv IDA             Contribution
----------------------------------------- -CFAF ---          ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- _
Government Advancea
1.  allocation (April 28, 1973)                               112,880,000
2.  allocation (March 11, 1974)                               148,000,000
3.  allocation (December 26, 1974)                             35,413,000
4.  allocation (January 23, 1975)                             130,087,000
5.  allocation (June 20, 1975)                                 84,220.667
510,600,667
Expenses
Application
Request                       Period
1           (August 1, 1972 - March 30, 1973)                                                  4,991,641                                3,587,505            1,404,136
2           (April 1, 1973 - June 30, 1973)                                                   21,406,543                               17,566,535            3,840,008
3           (July 1, 1973 - September 30, 1973)                                               18,698,591                               15,805,632            2,892,959
4           (October 1, 1973 - December 31, 1973)                                             22,687,405                               19,008,773            3,678,632
5           (January 1, 1974 - March 31, 1974)                                                45,144,406                               39,297,377            5,847,029
6           (April 1, 1974 - June 30, 1974)                                                   72,005,208                               62,553,803            9,451,405
7           (July 1, 1974 - September 30, 1974)                                               30,830,767                               25,947,077            4,883,690
8           (October 1, 1974 - November 8, 1974)                                              27,828,264                               23,097,460            4,730,804
9           (November 11, 1974 - December 12, 1974)                                           52,602,942                               43,660,444            8,942,498
10           (January 1, 1975 - March 31, 1975                                                 81,916,894                               68,904,028           13,012,866
il           (April 1, 1975 - May 31, 1975)                                                    35,359,006                               29,347,975            6,011,031
12           (June 1, 1975 - August 11, 1975)                                                  44,514.208                               35,888.967            8.625,241
Total (as of August 11, 1975)                                              457,985,875                              384,665,576            73,320,299
Funds Available (advances less expenses)
(as of August 11, 1975)                                      52,614,792
(ADJUSTED FIGURES - SEE NOTE)                                   (69,164,070)                     (441,436,597)                             (371,322,949)         (70,113,648)
(as of June 30, 1975)
NOTE: The financial situation of RDF as presented above covers their accounts up to August 11, 1975. In order to make comparable statements for campaign
years (July 1 - June 30) and in order to determine the exact amount of funds available as of June 30 and to compare this with the 1975/76 budget,
the account of FDR was aaked to divide application request No. 12. This gave aa a result that of CFAF 44,514,208, CFAF 27,964,930 was for the
period June 1 - June 30, 1975 or 62.8225%.  This percentage was used to determine Gcvernment's and IDA part in these expenses.  Thus, the situation
was as follows:
Application 12                         Adiusted                            Exchange Rate
Total Expenses                                         44,514,208                            27,964,930
IDA                                                    35,888,967                            22,546,340          St                 219-215       gives   102,892.60
Government                                              8,625,441                             5,418,590
Using the applicable exchange rate for the latest withdrawal application (calculated from line 13 in table 4  ).  Therefore, total reimbursements for
the period up to August I1 amounted to $1,744,104.74, but adjusted until June 30, 1975 would be $1,683,214.26.                                                                                  't



UUU V<IL
SmCOND -RUAL DIlolV R  £IJD FMPROJT
Disbursemnts Under Credit 317-UV
Withdraval Authorization          Application Reuuest               Catezory          Catesory                   Total                       US$ Ecuivalent
No.   Dte 1/                               No4./                        1                  2
--------- --------------- CFAF --------------------                     -----u  ------
I July 26, 1973                            2                        7,744,400         9,822,135               17,566,535                     87,130.01
2 october 17, 1973                         1                        1,855,000         1,732,505                3,587,505                     17,162.62
3  January 24, 1974                        3                        1,969,700        13,616,828               15,586,528                     59,696.40
4  February 21, 1974                       3  Suppleant 2/              -               219,104                   219,104                       896.57
5 March 19, 1974                           4                        1,239,800        17,768,973               19,008,773                     78,563.73
6  May 17, 1974                            5                       11,387,365        27,910,012               39,297,377                    161,355.03
7 Septeuber 27, 1974                       6                       16,522,701        46,031,102               62,553,803                    264,610.00
8  December 12, 1974                       8                            -            23,097,460                23,097,460                   102,876.09
9  December 19, 1974                       7                        2,103,189        23,843,888                25,947,077                   116,658.06
10  February 3, 1975                        9                           -             43,660,444               43,660,444                    200,838.09
Il  June 9, 1975                           10                        5,370,629        63,533,399               68,904,028                    345,122.08
12 June 24, 1975                           il                           -             29,347,975               29,347,975                    145,412,98
13  October 14, 1975                       12                          760.700        35.128.267               35.888.967                    163»783.08               AVERAGE EXCUENIE RA OO
-                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FOR DI63EUEE1I  USS1.00 
TOTAL  4/                                              48  953 484      335.712.092              384,665.576                 1.744.104.74  6/            CFAF 220.55
Source: Withdraval applications of Controllers Department.
1/ Date and sequence on withdraval application prepared by Controllers Department.
2/ Application request sequence as reported by FnR - unit.
3/ Application No. 3 of FDR was paid in two tranches.                                                                                                                                         i.
4/ As of December 31, 1975.  Latest withdraval application covers period up till August 11, 1975.
5  Coupared with an appraisal estimate of US$100 - 255.79; or in other words, due to exchange rate difference actualdisbursements in CFAF terma vere
only 867 of those estimated at appraisal.
6/ This is disbursement for all expenditures up to August 11, 1975.  The sdjusted figure for all expenses up till June 30, 1975 (see table    )
would be $1,683,214,26 or the remaining balance in Credit 317-UV US$516,785.



UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Rainfall for Different Cities in Upper Volta (in mm)
itv                    Year         J        F         M        A         M         J        A         A         S        O         N         D             Annual Total
Rainfall    number of daya
mnfora                1960-70      2,1      7,5       24,4     69,6    110,2   159,0       211,8    346,0    222,6       57,1      13,0       3,6     1.226,9            78
1971         -         -         9,3     75.4    114,4    96,8       171,7    413,1    113,1       19,2        -        -       1.070,6           68
1972         -       83,8       11,3     91,9    246,6    76,9       162,4    134,0    129,4    101,2          _        -       1,047,5           76
,bo Dioulasso         1960-70      1,7      4,8       20,7     42,5      97,0    128,8    243,0    344,2    219,4        68,6       6,7       3,5      1.180,9           93
1971         -       36,2      44,6      75,9      32,9    135,4    229,3    291,8    102,3        15,2        -         -        963,6           85
1972         -        0,8        9,7     44,2    250,4    150,0    161,1    116,1    101,7         60,2        -         _        894,2            85
~dougou               1960.70      0,1       1,2       7,4      48,5     70,0    119,1    200,8    279,8    182,8        38,8       1,8       0,9        951,2           65
1971          -        -        18,2      5,9       7,0     61,7    281,6    269,9    126,3        11,8        -        6,5       788,9            53
1972          -       1,5         -       7,5    156,5       95,6    137,0    172,5      49,4      50,4        -         -        670,4            64
)ri                   1960-70       -         -        1,7       4,9     29,0    103,2    130,5    199,8    102,4         17,4      1,4       1,2        590,6           54
1971          -       3,7        3,5      0,6       2,5      73,7    108,5    157,4       76,7      --        --         -        426,6            42
1972          -        -          -         -      40,3    123,8    129,5    126,0        33,3     18,8        -         -        471,7            46
ada N'Gourma          1960-70      0,2       0,2      10,4      32,2     64,2    129,0    216,0    260,2    195,5         32,5       1,3      1,7        963,4           77
1971          -        -        15,1      2,8      69,8      86,0    180,5    201,3    157,6       25,9        -         -         739,0           72
1972          -        -         6,7     90,3      49,2      67,0    226,0    194,4    156,1       50,1        -         -         839,8           83
sya                   1960-70       -        0,4       2,2      13,2     45,0    123,3    164,0    223,8    124,3         21,3        -       1,2        718,7           55
1971          -       2,7       83,8      0,8      10,9      84,8     92,5    288,1    124,1          -        -         -         687,7           51
1972          -        -          -        1,3     47,9      66,9    108,2    217,3    130,6        10,0       -         -         582,2           47
Dudougou              1960-70       -        2,2       6,8      37,7      72,8    100,6    173,2    255,6    175,4        34,3       3,4      1,6        863,6           72
1971          _        -         8,2     25,9       9,7      60,2    157,6    234,3       92,6       7,3       -        3,6        599,4           61
1972          -        -          -      17,3      83,6      70,7    123,7    185,8    146,3    101,5          -         -         728,9           58
ouna                  1960-70      0,2       4,7       1,6      26,6      64,0    133,8    189,8    243,8    145,3        43,8       3,9      1,6        859,1            63
1971          -        -        11,9      16,6     30,4      91,5    177,9    223,9    114,4         1,2       -       29,5        697,3           66
1972          -       8,5         -       16,0     53,0    141,0    116,7    224,8        48,2     49,8        -         -         658,0           69
uagadougou (ville)   1960-70        -        0,7        3,5     20,8      81,8    110,1    183,9    259,2    162,3        35,4       2,7       1,9       862,3            75
1971          -        -         6,0     56,5      37,4      61,7    264,5    215,9    151,1          _        -        3,7        796,8           64
1972          _ -                 -       33,5    108,5    300,2    158,0    204,8    150,8         53,3       -         -       1.009,1           68
uahigouya             1960-70      0,6       0,9        1,2      7,8      27,7      90,6    181,1    227,4    124,1       36,0       0,6       0,9       698,8            62
1971          -        -         3,0      18,1     16,8      61,4    135,5    170,6       73,5        .        -        2,7        481,4           55
1972          _       0,3         -       12,0     38,2    107,0    103,8    136,0        68,2      36,0       -         -         501,5           57
Durce:  ASECRA - Upper Volta - Meteorological Service.



ANNEX 3
Table 2
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Rural Population, Area and Population Density
ORD's            Population                 Area            Population           Area cultivated
'000 in-   % of       square      % of        density in-          '000      % of
habitants  total        km        total       habitant km2          ha        total
Ouagadougou 1/        847.6      17.5      24,179        8.9           35.1            352.1       15.8
Yatenga               531.5      10.9      12,297        4.5           43.2            218.4        9.8
Kaya                  592.6      12.2      21,331        7.9           27.8            275.9       12.4
Koudougou 1/          719.3      14.8      26,324        9.7           27.9            342.3       15.4
Koupela               272.6       5.6       9,039        3.3           30.2            124.5        5.6
SUBTOTAL    2,963.6       61.0     93,170       34.3            31.8          1,313.2       59.0
Sahel                 259.6       5.4      36,895       13.6            7.0            133.0        6.0
Fada N'Gourma         287.1       5.9      47,992       17.7            6.0             147.7        6.6
Bobo-Doulasso 1/      326.4       6.7      28,297       10.4           11.5             157.7        7.2
Volta Noire           479.4       9.9      29,588       10.9           16.2            239.6        10.8
Bougouriba            350.0       7.4      17,448        6.4           20.6            143.2        6.5
Banfora               180.0       3.7      18.393        6.7            9.8              87.0        3.9
SUBTOTAL    1,892.5       39.0    178,613       65.7            10.6            908.2       41.0
TOTAL        4,856.1    100       271,783        100            17.9          2,221.4       100
1/ Without city population
2/ Source: Drawn from individual DRD reports for the 1972/73 crop year.



ANNEX 3
Table 3
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMEMT FUND PROJECT
Population and Density by District
in the five ORD's of the Plateau Mossi
Districts                      Population                      Density
('000 persons)                (person/km2)
Ouagadougou
Boussé                          95.9                            50.1
Kombissiri                      90.8                            31.2
Manga                          103.6                            34.4
Ouagadougou I/                 126.5                            74.1
Sapone                          70.4                            37.6
Tiebelé                         53.0                            73.5
Ziniaré                        123.4                           44.5
Zorgho                          85.7                            21.0
PO                              22.8                             7.2
Koupela
Tenkodogo                      111.3                            18.6
Garango                         68.4                            48.1
Koupéla                         92.9                            57.1
Zabré                           75.5                            33.9
Kaya
Barsalogho                      46.9                            13.0
Boulsa                         147.9                            19.6
Kaya                           211.1                            44.8
Kangoussi                      142.8                            35.5
Pissila                         43.9                            26.1
Yaten&a
Gourcy                         120.4                            60.1
Ouahigouya                     220.3                            45.0
Séguénega                      115.3                            75.9
Titao                           75.5                            19.4
Koudougou
Reo                             85.6                            48.7
Tenado                          62.2                            18.2
Yako                           197.7                            60.2
Koudougou 1/                   267.1                            72.2
Leo                            106.7                             7.8
TOTAL                 2,963.6
1/   Without  urban population.
Source: Drawn from individual ORD reports for the 1972/73 crop year.



UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Cultivated Areas per Main Crop (1,000 ha)
1972/1973
ORD OF THE PROJECT AREA
CROP             Upper Volta       Project Area           % _         Ouagadougou      Koudougou      Kaya      Yatenga      Koupela
1. Cereals         1,883.2           1,163.5            61.7             375.8            245.9        245.7     170.5         125.6
Millet            711.4             438.3            61.6             158.1             60.8         88.6      70.0          60.8
Sorghum         1)050.7             687.0            65.4             209.3            176.5       146.4      100.5         54.3
Maize              80.9               22.2           27.4               5.8              6.0          8.8       -             1.6
Rice               40.2               16.0           37.8               2.6             2.6           1.9       -             8.9
2. Miscellaneaus    338.2               149.7           44.2              39.6             36.6         26.6       26.6         20.3
Groundnuts        104.7              43.6            41.6              15.5             8.1           -        10.7          9.3
Cotton             70.1               28.2           40.2               5.1            12.5          10.6       -            -
Others            163.4               77.9           47.9              19.0            16.0          16.0      15.9         11.0
GRAND TOTAL(1+2)  2,221.4            1,313.2            59.1             415.4            282.5        272.3      197.1        145.9
Source: Statistiques Agricoles - Ministère du Plan - 1972-73



ANNEX 3
Table 5
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Farm Sizes on the Plateau Mossi
% of Total                 Number of Persons
Farm Size             Area        Average Size    Per Farm           Ha/Person
(Ha)                 %            (Ha)            (No.)              (Ha)
Under-2               15              1.3            4.5                 0.28
2-3.9                 30              3.0            8.6                 0.34
4-5.9                 21              4.8            9.8                 o.49
6-7.9                 17              6.6           11.2                 0.59
8-9.9                 11              8.7           13.8                 0.63
Over 10                 6            29.2           33.9                 1.76
Source:  ORSTROM (Office de la Recherche Scientifique et Technique Outre Mer)
Sample Survey on the Plateau Mossi 1973



UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Agricultural Production 1972/1973
ORD of the Project
CROP                     Upper Volta    Project Area         %      Ouagadougou       Koudougou      Kaya      Yatenga      Koupela
Millet  ('000 tons)         265.6            158.3         59.6         53.1            25.1           26.6       23.1         30.4
Sorghum  ('000 tons)        512.3            303.6         59.1         86.5            72.0           77.8       40.2         27.1
Maize  ('000 tons)           58.6              8.7         14.8          2.8              3.5           1.8        -            0.6
Rice  ('000 tons)            33.5              8.8         26.2          2.2             1.2            1.9        -            3.5
Total  Cereals ('000 tons) 870.0            479.4          55.0        144.6           101.8          108.1       63.3         61.6
Rural Population('000)  4.856.1           2.963.6          61.0        847.6           719.3          592.6      531.5        272.6
Cereal Production per       179             162              -         171             142            182        119          226
Rural Person(kg/person)
Groundnuts ('000 tons)       60.4             18.9         31.3          6.5             4.7            -          2.1          5.6
Cotton  ('000 tons)          32.6              5.8         17.8          0.9             3.3            1.6        -            -
&l



ANNEX 4
Page 1
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Land and Infrastructural Development
Bottomland Development
1.        Bottomlands are small, flat areas located along temporary
"marigots" 1/ which are scattered throughout the project area. Bottomland
soils are predominantly clayey, with low permeability, and are suitable for
rice cultivation. Undeveloped bottomlands are presently used as pastures
or as extensive paddy lands. Average size of bottomlands developed under
the. First Rural Development Fund Project (RDF I) was about 6 ha (ranging
from 1 to 20 ha in the ORD of Ouagadougou).
2.        Basic Bottomland improvement under thè Second Rural Development
Fund Project (RDF II) would comprise construction of small longitudinal con-
tour bunds with cross bunds to limit individual plots to an average of about
0.2 ha. The bunds, about 1,000 meters per ha, are trapezoidal in cross sec-
tion with 0.30 m top width and 0.40 m height. Flood water would flow down-
stream, filling each consecutive strip of land between transversal bunds
crossing these through pipe culverts. Included in bottomland development
would be an initial tractor plowing; subsequent plowing, however, would be
the farmer's responsibility.
3.        Bottomland development would be the responsibility of the ORDs.
Construction of bunds would be by tractor, but farmers would participate
(compaction of fill, transportation of material), using hand tools provided
under the project. The works would permit limited control and better dis-
tribution of water, although water resources would still be very dependent
upon local climatology and hydrology. As the water discharged into the
bottomland may not be consistent with paddy requirements, growth could
still be affected by water shortages or extreme flooding. The latter could
cause bund damage although floods would be infrequent. Bund maintenance
and repair would be the responsibility of farmers, under the supervision
of ORDs, using hand tools provided for implementation of works.
4.        It is estimated that 2,700 ha could be developed, equivalent to
an annual rate of 500 ha to 800 ha. The planning, execution and supervi-
sion of bottomland development would be the responsibility of the ORDs.
Construction costs are estimated at CFAF 41,700/ha and are detailed at
Table 1.
1/   Marigots are small rivers or streams.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Improvement/Protection of Bottomlands
5.        In some instances selected bottomlands, developed as above, could,
because of the availability of surplus water, be further improved to allow
greater water control. Also, occasions may arise when bottomlands will re-
quire protective works against flooding. In some cases protection and im-
provement may be combined. It is estimated that on up to 300 ha improve-
ments and protection may be justified or required. Improvements would
usually involve some development of the natural drainage (marigots), addi-
tional secondary drains, simple weirs across the natural course to raise the
water to field level, and supplementary irrigation channels.
6.        Improvements would be made only after careful studies and designs
had been prepared by HAER and accepted by FDR. Thereafter, in conjunction
with the ORDs, HAER would supervise the construction of the works.  Invest-
ment costs are estimated at about CFAF 150,000/ha and are detailed at
Table 2.
Small-Scale Irrigation
7.        Small-scale irrigation schemes would vary in size from 3 to 50 ha
and be based on (i) gravity irrigation below existing small dams; (ii) pump-
ing from small perennial streams, lakes or ponds; and (iii) installing wells
in depressions where the water table is close to the surface and pumping thus
relatively cheap.
8.        Main irrigation works for developing an area below a dam would com-
prise:
Flood protection dikes stretching along one or both sides of the
"marigot";
a weir across the "marigot" designed to maintain the water level
upstream consistent with gravity irrigation and to let excess
flood water flow downstream.  To meet these requirements, the weir
would have to be equipped with an intake and a spillway;
-    a head canal might be necessary to convey water to the irrigated
area;
-    an irrigation network;
-    a drainage network, if necessary, and
-    small concrete hydraulic structures.
9.        Gravity-fed irrigation has advantages over schemes depending on
pumped water, since the former avoid creating farming groups dependent on



ANNEX 4
Page 3
pump maintenance, fuel supplies, etc. Production would be centered on rice
production during the wet season with, in the dry season, probably 50% un-
der vegetables or a second rice crop. HAER would be responsible for the
planning, designing and contruction of each scheme.
10.       Investment costs are estimated at CFAF 1 million per ha.  This is
based on detailed analysis of two small irrigation projects presently under
construction (Table 3 gives details). Actual investment costs per hectare
will vary considerably depending on physical characteristics of perimeters.
In the case of pump irrigation high investments per hectare are compounded
by substantial annual operating costs. In addition to maintenance of works,
generally estimated at 3-5% of investment costs, pump operating costs could
amount to about CFAF 25,000 (US$110) per ha.
11.       HAER would prepare detailed studies for each irrigation scheme,
and the technical and appraisal studies would be submitted to IDA. The
annual program for small-scale irrigation and improvement of bottomlands
would be agreed with IDA before any works are executed by HAER.
Erosion Control Works
12.       Although the topography of the area is generally rather flat, there
is evidence of increasing erosion due to the intensity of farming and the high
runoff at the time of intense rainstorms. Erosion control works developed
under the project would have a two-fold function, (a) to reduce runoff, there-
by preventing soil loss and conserving moisture; and (b) to act as foci for
proper land and catchment area development.
13.       Erosion control works would involve construction of small contour
bunds. These would have a trapezoidal cross section, 0.40 m top width and
some 0.50 m height. The distance between two bunds would depend on slope
and soil characteristics. The entire works would be carried out by ORDs.
A preliminary topo-survey would define bund location along contour lines;
a tractor equipped with a disc plow would throw up a rough bund; reshaping
and compacting would be done by farmers, as under RDF I; labor requirements
are estimated at 19 mandays per ha. Under the project it is estimated that
9,200 ha could be developed at a rate increasing from 1,500 ha in 1976/77
to 3,000 ha in 1979/80. The cost per hectare is estimated at 14,740 CFAF
as shown in Table 4.
Wells
14.       The lack of potable water is a problem in many villages in Upper
Volta. Not only are distances great, but ponds and creeks contain poor
quality water infested with diseases. Futhermore, water supplies can run
dry at the end of the dry season. Under RDF I about 227 wells have been
constructed by four well brigades under HAER responsibility. FAC provided
technical assistance through the secondment of an expatriate brigade leader.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
15.       The technique presently used by HAER for well construction ("havage")
consists of two stages: (1) hand digging down to the aquifer in the first
year, and (2) deepening (by hand) below the aquifer, using pumping equipment
in the second year. Additional labor is provided to the brigades by villagers
on a self-help basis. The present method is not necessarily the optimal
one, although if executed properly, should produce good results. For various
reasons but mainly because of poor control over work executed, many existing
wells are not deep enough, and thus are unable to provide a sufficient volume
of water (25 liters per inhabitant per day) during the crucial period April/
May (end of the dry season), when the groundwater table is at its lowest.
Another well constuction method ("foncage continu") is being tested by HAER,
under which wells are constructed in a single stage. Under both techniques
wells are lined with concrete casings and the lower casings are perforated
(screen). Constructing or deepening wells through rocky material necessitates
the use of explosives. Main well characteristics are as follows: diameter
of 1.2 to 1.8 m, depth of 15 to 20 m. Both construction methods, if properly
executed, will produce good wells. There are certain cost advantages in
using the continuous well digging operation, which also allows more efficient
use of resources; however, this method requires experienced well brigades
and leaders. Therefore a choice between two methods is not imperative from
the technical point of view, but should be governed by practical considera-
tions.
16.       Well construction would be undertaken by the four HAER construction
brigades developed under RDF I. The expatriate provided by FAC would continue
to act as technical adviser and head of one brigade; the other three brigades
would be headed by Voltaics. Normally each brigade would be split in five
groups. Based on the assumption that work will be executed on five job sites,
one brigade should be able to construct 25 wells per year, increasing--because
of construction experience--to about 40 by the end of the project period.
17.       Four well brigades will continue to execute the well digging program.
However, at present all four brigades are too dependent on HAER's central
facilities in Ouagadougou for maintenance and other services, and much time
is spent on this and on coordination with HAER. This is inefficient and
cumbersome; under the project a coordinator for the four brigades who would
also liaise with HAER would be appointed. Furthermore, a simple prefabricated
base would be developed so that it could be easily moved elsewhere if con-
struction so required. The base would have storage and repair facilities
and be manned by a supply officer and mechanic under the responsibility of
the coordinator.
18.       Once constructed, concrete wells hardly require maintenance, but if
needed, this would be done by the beneficiaries; they will also ensure that
the well's immediate surroundings are clean at all times. HAER would handle
special repairs as required.
19.       Total costs of the well construction program are estimated at about
CFAF 535 million. This amounts to an average cost of about CFAF 1,030,000
(US$4,570) per well. Detailed costs are at Tables 5-8.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
Tubewells
20.       The Drought Relief Fund Project (Credit 442-UV) was scheduled to
be completed by June 1976, by which time 150 tubewells would have been con-
structed. Because of delays in equipment delivery and problems in operating
the drilling machine, it is expected that well drilling will not be com-
pleted until June 1977. About 120 tubewells would then have been con-
structed, and no funds would remain after completion of that program. Using
442-UV drilling equipment (with an estimated life of five years) a further
180 tubewells would be constructed under the project.
21.       Characteristics of the boreholes would be:  depth of 50 m, and
4-1/2" diameter. Each borehole would be equipped with a manual pump. Dis-
charge is difficult to estimate and would vary considerably. Very tentative
estimates place the average discharge at between 2-4 m  per hour.
22.       Execution of tubewell construction programs would be the responsi-
bility of HAER; works would be implemented in phases by three brigades re-
spectively responsible for (i) drilling works, (ii) pumping tests, and (iii)
pump installation. An efficient tubewell drilling team is now being formed
and trained with technical assistance from consultants and a well-equipped
base has been established in Dori. No change in the organization for tube-
well drilling is envisaged under RDF II. The tubewell drilling manager would
form the link and channel of communications with HAER.
23.       Tubewell maintenance is absolutely necessary for proper and continu-
ous operation of pumps. Under the project a maintenance brigade would be
formed, which would operate from the base in Dori under the responsibility
of the tubewell drilling manager. The brigade would consist of a mechanic,
driver and two laborers. It would be provided with a vehicle modified for
maintenance work and with the necessary equipment. To guarantee proper main-
tenance, it is advantageous to have the maintenance brigade under the project.
However, maintenance should be an ORD responsibility and should be transferred
to the Sahel ORD at the end of the project period.
24.       Construction details and costs are detailed at Tables 9 - 11, and
are estimated at CFAF 930,000 (US$4,130) per tubewell. These estimates do
not include equipment purchased under the Drought Relief Fund. Maintenance
costs are at Table 12.
Village Warehouses
25.       The dimensions of the village warehouses (12 m ) constructed under
RDF I were too small; under RDF II the size would be doubled. Warehouses
would be constructed of village-manufactured bricks, and the roof would con-
sist of galvanized iron sheets. Materials such as cement, galvanized sheets,
timber (for door posts and roof support), reinforcing steel (to reinforce
columns), nails and a brick press (for improved manufacturing of traditional



ANNEX 4
Page 6
bricks) could be provided by FDR through ORDs. Unskilled labor for brick
maanufacturing and construction would be provided as self-help by the vil-
lagers. The services of a mason, to assist in the more difficult construc-
tion jobs and to give guidance, and transport of supplies would be paid by
FDR. Supervision will be the responsibility of ORDs. Under the project
400 warehouses would be constructed. Costs per warehouse are estimated at
approximately CFAF 152,100. Details are in Table 13.
Village Centers
26.       As a pilot component, provision has been made under the project to
construct 20 village centers. The village centers would provide a covered
place for meetings, teaching, instruction, literacy programs, etc., and also
to have a small room for storage of medical supplies and for use by health
officials.  The meeting hall (45 m ) would have open sides except for a sur-
rounding brick wall about 1 meter high, and the small "health" room, which
would be completely walled except for the door. Materials would be delivered
to the village by FDR through ORDs concerned. Payments would also be made
for transport of materials and the services of a mason. Unskilled labor
needed for brick manufacturing and construction would be provided by the vil-
lagers as a self-help activity. Costs per center are estimated at about
CFAF 258,000. (Details are in Table 14). Before approving the construction
of a village center, FDR would ensure that no equivalent buildings (such as
schools or dispensaries) already exist in the village and that no such build-
ings are proposed to be constructed under other projects (such as the Bank's
education project) or under other bilateral aid programs.
27.       Table 15 summarizes the project targets and phasing for the imple-
mentation of the land and infrastructural development program. The estimates
must be regarded as flexible, and during implementation reallocation of funds
is likely to occur depending on the demands and results of project actions.



ANNEX 4
Table 1
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Bottomland Development:  Unit Investment Cost
(CFAF/ha)
Supplies:         Cement, wood, culverts                             5,000
Equipment:        hand tools, (picks, shovels, push cart)
CFAF 42,500 for 5 ha;             per ha:          8,500
Operating         20 tractor hours per hectare
Expenses:        at CFAF 1040 per ha                               20,800
Skilled
labor:           two days per ha to build chutes and place
culverts at 600 CFAF per day                       1,200
Labor:            62 mandays per ha at 100 CFAF                      6,200
TOTAL                41,700 IL
/1   Foreign exchange is estimated as follows:  55% for supplies, 65% for
equipment, and 55% of operating expenses, giving a total of CFAF 19.715
in foreign exchange or 47% of investment costs.  Taxes are estimated
as follows:  4% for cement; 25% for equipment (hand tools); 20% for
operating expenses. Total taxes per hectare are estimated at CFAF
6,417 or 15% of total investment costs.



ANNEX 4
Table 2
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Improved Bottomlands: Investment Cost per ha /1
Supplies:         cement:  0.54 tons per ha at CFAF 25,000 per ton   13,500
iron and steel (for reinforcement)                     21,000
stones:  purchase and delivery                          6,000
wood:  0.2 m /ha at 40,000 CFAF/mr3                     8,000
Equipment:        supplementary hand tools and truck transport /2    42,000
Skilled labor:   16 mandays per ha at CFAF 600/day                        9,600
Other labor:      (drainage channel, ditches):  166 mandays per ha
at CFAF 300/day                                        49,800
TOTAL              149,900 /3
/1   Cost of improved bottomland development would be costs over and above
those for traditional bottomland development.
/2   CFAF 19,000 would be for suppleementary tools, the remainder being
operating costs.
/3   The foreign exchange component is estimated at 55% for supplies, 65%
for equipment, and 55% for operating expenditures, giving a total of
CFAF 51,675 or 34% of total costs. Taxes are estimated at 4% for
cement, 22% for reinforced steel, 20% for timber, and 25% for hand
tools and 20% for operating costs, giving a total of CFAF 16,110 or 11%.



ANNEX 4
Table 3
Page 1
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Small Irrigation Schemes:  Investment Cost per ha
CFAF
I.   Irrigation of 4 ha by pumping from lake /1
- Purchase of two diesel pumps with a capacity of
3
65 m /hour (18 1/sec) at CFAF 445,000 per pump               890,000
- Construction of pump house, lined main canals,
small warehouse (voluntary labor, two qualified
masons, cement, brick presses)                             1,900,000
- Fencing around perimeter (for protection against
animals; barbed wire fence)                               1,700,000
- Hand tools                                                    75,000
TOTAL (4 ha)              4,565,000
Cost per ha               1,141,250
II. Irrigation of 33 ha below dam /2
- Supplies and materials:  (cement, steel, stones)          10,354,000  (49%)
- Equipment (purchased and/or hired for earth moving) /3 4,734,000  (22%)
- Skilled and manual labor                                   6,254,000  (29%)
TOTAL                21,342,000
Cost per ha             646,727
III.  Cost per ha assumed for calculations /4                      1,000,000 CFAF/ha /5
(Footnotes on page 2)



ANNEX 4
Table 3
Page 2
Footnotes
/1   Taken from a project under construction (the Dem Lake); detailed cost
estimates available at HAER.
Engineering Design
Gross and net irrigable area amount to 8.0 and 4.0 ha respectively
(176 plots of 240 m  each)   Irrigation is provided by pumping from
the lake (discharge:  65 m /hour, total manometric head:  12 m).
The water is delivered to a small balance tank which delivers a
constant flow of 18 l/s. Two main canals which are masonry lined
and with rectangular cross section, convey water to secondary
earth canals. Each plot is irrigated from a small irrigation ditch.
A controlled volume of water is provided to each plot. Excess water
is conveyed back into the lake through a drainage system. A flood
protection dike has been constructed to prevent damages from outside
runoff. Farm tracks located along secondary canals have been
designed (2 m width) to give access to all plots.
Crops
The irrigated area has been designed for the cultivation of dry season
vegetables (from October to February).
/2   Taken from a project under construction (at Zabre) financed by FED.
Detailed cost estimates available at HAER.
/3   Assuming that about half would be equipment and half operating costs.
/4   This cost is also consistent with that of recent FED irrigation proj-
ects. The total cost for small irrigation (CFAF 1 million) has been
broken down into subcomponents for foreign exchange and other calcu-
lations in accordance with percentages arrived at under II.
/5   Foreign exchange is estimated as follows:  55% for supplies, 65% for
equipment and 55% for operating costs, giving a total of CFAF 401,500
as foreign exchange component or 40% of total investment costs.
Taxes are estimated as follows: 4% for cement, 22% for steel, 20%
for timber, 5% for other supplies and 20% for equipment and operating
costs. Total taxes per hectare are estimated at CFAF 115,000 or 11%
of total investment costs.



ANNEX 4
Table 4
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Erosion Control Works: Unit Investment Cost
CFAF/ha
Supplies:                 Cement, and gravel                          4,300
Equipment:                Hand tools (picks, shovels, push cart)  5,700
(CFAF 28,500 for 5 ha)
Operating
Expenses:                Earth moving:  operating expenses for
tractor plus implements 1 hour x
1040 CFAF/hour /1                           1,040
Skilled
labor:                   3 mandays for culverts at 600
CFAF/day                                    1,800
Labor:                    19 mandays at 100 CFAF                   1,900
TOTAL                      14,740 /2
/1   300 meters of dike/ha.
/2   Foreign exchange is estimated as follows:  55% for supplies; 65%
for equipment and 55% for operating expenses, giving a total of
CFAF 6,642 or 45% of total investment costs. Taxes are estimated
as follows: 4% for cement, 25% for hand tools, and 20% for operat-
ing expenses. Total tax element per hectare is CFAF 1,773 or 12%
of total investment costs.



ANNEX 4
Table 5
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Cost of Well Construction
/1
1975/76    76/77        77/78        78/79       79/80       Total
---------------------------- No -----------------------------
Development schedule             100         120           140         160         520
Supplies /2; Cement /3 ----------------------- CFAF '000 ---------------------
and Reinforcement
steel /4                    29,500       35,400       41,300      47,200    153,400
Equipment /5                 116,830      15,460       21,700        2,485    156,475
Operating costs /6            29,500      29,500       29,500       29,500    118,000
Operating staff /7            27,000      27,000       27,000       27,000    108,000
TOTAL    202,830    107,360        119,500    106,185    535,875 /8
/1   No new wells will be constructed, since, where necessary, the wells already
constructed under RDF I will be deepened.
/2   Costs of supplies per well:  cement:  0.35 ton/linear meter x 17.5 meter/well
x CFAF 25,000/ton = 153,125 CFAF
steel:   40 kilo/linear meter x 17.5 meter/well
x CFAF 200/ton
= 140,000 CFAF
293,125 CFAF or rounded to
295,000 CFAF/well
/3   In total about 3,185 tons would be required (0.35 x 17.5 x 520).
/4   In total about 364 tons would be required (40 x 17.5 x 520).
/5   See table 6 for details.
76   See table 7 for details.
/7   See table 8 for details.
/8   Foreign Exchange is estimated as follows:  55% for supplies, 80% for
equipment, and 55% for operating costs, giving a total of CFAF 274,450
foreign exchange or 51% total investment costs. Taxes are calculated
as follows:  4% for cement, 22% for steel, 5% for equipment overall
since there would be no taxes on directly imported equipment, and 20%
for operating costs. Total taxes amount to CFAF 50,664 or 9% of total
investment costs.



UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Well Construction: Equipment List and Costs
(CFAF '000)
To be purchased under RDF II
Avai lab le
Items                                Unit Costs       Required      RDF I                                   1976/77               1977/78                 1978/79               1979/1980             TOTAL
Pickup                                1,500             6 '1          -                                       9,000      (1)        1,500        (1)        1,500                    -               12,000
Trucks  (4-5 ton)                     3,000             5 /2           1                                     12,000                              (1)        3,000                    -               15,000
(10 ton)                     4,000             1 /2          -                                       4,000                  -                      -                        -               4,000
Derrick - Lifts                       1,000            20 /3          6                            (14)      14,000      (2)        2,000        (2)        2,000                    -              18,000
Compressors                           2,500            12 /4          2                            (10)      25,000      (1)        2,500        (2)        5,000                                   32,500
Air Pumps                               350            12 /5          -                            (12)       4,200       (2)          700       (2)          700                                     5,600
Tripods - Brigade                       400             4 /6          _                                       1,600       (1)          400                                                            2,000
- Lorries                       600            6 /6           -                                      3,600                              (1)          600                                     4,200
Concrete Crusher                        100            12 /7          2                                       1,000       (2)          200       (2)          200                                     1,400
Pneumatic drills                        100            12 /7          4                                         800      (2)           200       (2)          200                                     1,200
Core Drills                             150            12             1                                       1,650       (2)          300       (2)          300                                     2,250
Grab Buckets                             600            3             -                                       1,800                              (1)          600                                     2,400
Miscellaneous Equipment                                                                                       4,000 /9                800 lio                 800 /10               800 /10          6,400
Molds
1.80/2.04 (h = 1.00)                  750            20 /3          -                                      15,000      (5)        3,750        (5)        3,750                                   22,500
1.40/1.60 (h - 1.00)                  300            10 /8          -                                       3,000      (3)          900        (2)          600                                    4,500
2.10  (margelle)                      120             4 /6          -                                         480                 -            (2)          240                 -                     720
Casing
1.80 diameter                         150             2             -                                         300      (1)           150       (1)          150                                       600
1.40 diameter                         125             6             -                                         750      (3)           375       (3)          375                                     1,500
Rand Tools                              350 per brigade             300                                       1,100                    220 /10                 220 /10               220 /10           1,760
Workshop Equipment                   13,000                           -                                      13,000                  1,300  j11             1,300 /11              1,300 /1.1        16,900
Camping Equipment                        550                                                                     550                   165 /12                 165 /1                165 112          1,045
1jl6,830               15,460                  21,700                 2,485            156,475
/1  Well brigade leaders (1 x 4) = 4 ; Mechanic: 1; Supply officer: 1 ;             Total = 6.
/2  4-5 tons:  brigades: (1 x 4) = 4; Workshop: 1;
10 tons: heavy equipment delivery truck: 1 .
/3  1 per job site; 1 x 5 job site/brigade x 4 brigades = 20.
/4  3 per brigade: 3 x 4 = 12; 5,000 1/rm
/5  3 per brigade: 3 x 4 = 12.
/6  1 per brigadet 1 x 4 =  4.
1 per lorry: 1 x 6 = 6.
/7  1 per compressor: 12.
/8  0.5 per job site.
/9  107. of the following equipment: compressors, air pumps, tripods, concrete crushers, pneumatic drills, core drills, and grab buckets.
/10  Replacement in years  after year of original purchase estimated at 20%.
/11  Replacement in years after year of original purchase estimated at 10%..
/12  Replacement in years after year of original purchase estimated at 30%.



ANNEX 4
Table 7
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Well Construction: Operating Costs
Item                     Number    Estimated use    Unit cost    Total cost
in Use    Number   Unit        (CFAF)      (CFAF'000)
Pickups                     6      30,000    km           45          8,100
Trucks                      6       20,000    km          50          6,000
Compressors                12          800    hours   1,000           9,600
Derrick-lifts              20        1,000    hours       200          4,000
Explosive Detonators                                                   1,800
Total cost per annum            29,500



ANNEX 4
Table 8
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Well Construction: List of Personnel /1
Total
Number         Salary         Salary       annual
per month      per year /2  salary
tCFAF)       (CFAF '000)  (CFAF '000)
Brigade mechanics            4           37,500           338         1,352
Core drill and com-         20 /3        37,500           338         6,760
pressor operators
Masons                      20 /3        32,400 /7        292         5,840
Assistant masons            20           27,000 /8        243         4,860
Drivers                     12           30,000           270         3,240
Storekeepers                 4 /4        30,000           270         1,080
Assistant storekeepers       4           18,000            162           648
Manual Labor                48 /5         7,500 /6          68        3,264
27,044
/1   does not include l expatriate, 3 voltaic brigade leaders, 1 supply
officer and 1 workshop mechanic. These are costed in Annex 7, table 6.
/2   based on a 9 months/year basis.
/3   l per job site:  1 x 5 job sites x 4 brigades = 20.
/4   1 per brigade.
/5   12 per brigade.
/6   300 CFAF/day; 25 days/month.
/7   27,000 CFAF/month plus 20% for overtime = 32,400 CFAF.
/8   22,500 CFAF/month plus 20% for overtime = 27,000 CFAF.



ANNEX 4
Table 9
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Tubewell Construction Costs
1975/76 1976/77    1977/78    1978/79   1979/80   TOTAL
------------------------ No. --------------------------
Development
Schedule
- Under Drought
Relief
Project (442-UV)      60    60 /1                                   -       120
- Under RDF II            -     -            60             60        60      180
Equipment /2        ---------------------- CFAF '000 ----------------------
- Cars                                             (3) 5,000               5,000
- Truck 3.5 T                                      (2) 6,000               6,000
- Miscellaneous
Equipment /3                           1,560         1,560      1,560   4,680
- Pumps /4                               9,000         9,000      9,000  27,000
Subtotal:  Equipment            10,560        21,560    10,560  42,680
Personnel                                 7,740         7,740      7,740  23,220
Supplies                                 12,870        12,870    12,870  38,610
Operating Costs       _                  20,940        20,940    20,940  62,820
TOTAL                     52,110        63,110    52,110 167,330 /5
/1   Because of technical problems, (delays in delivery of the drilling
machine and replacement of this machine in 1976 because of bad operating
conditions), the drought relief program for tubewell development suffered
long delays. Consequently, it is expected in the above calculations that
the program would be reduced from the 150 wells originally scheduled to
120 and delayed by one year.
/2   This refers only to that part of the equipment purchased under 442-UV
Project which would have to be replaced to ensure full use of the exist-
ing drilling equipment.
/3   Estimated at 20% of original equipment purchase under 442-UV.
/4   130,000 CFAF/borehole.
/5   Foreign exchange is estimated as follows:  80% for equipment, 70% for
supplies and 55% for operating costs, giving a total of CFAF 95,722
foreign exchange or 57% of investment costs. Taxes are calculated as
follows: 5% for equipment and 20% for supplies and operating costs
amounting to CFAF 22,420 or 13% of total investment costs.



ANNEX 4
Table 10
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Tubewell Construction Costs: Personnel Costs
(CFAF '000)
Salary         Total Salary
PERSONNEL                            Number         Per Month        Per Month
1.   Drilling Team
Hydro-Geologist                 1 /1
Foreman (Hydro-geologist
technician)                    i /1
Drill operator                  1              37,500            37,500
Assistant Drill Operator         1             30,000            30,000
Drivers - Trucks                4              33,000           132,000
- Cars                  2             30,000            60,000
Welders                         2              30,000            60,000
Mechanic                         1             37,500            37,500
Laborers                        4               9,500            38,000
Assistant accountant             1             45,000            45,000
440,000
2.   Pumping Test Team
Foreman                          1 /1
Mechanie                         1             37,500            37,500
Drivers - Truck                  1             33,000            33,000
- Car                   1             30,000             30,000
Laborers                        3               9,500            28,500
129,000
3.   Pump Installation
Brigade Leader (= Driver)        1             37,500            37,500
Mason                            1             27,000            27,000
Laborer                         3               9,500            28,500
93,000
TOTAL 1              662,000
Overtime and Indemnities (30%)                    198,000
TOTAL 2              860,000
TOTAL per year (9 months)    7,740,000 CFAF
/1   Provided by HAER.



ANNEX 4
Table 11
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL-DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Tubewell Construction: Costs of Supplies and Operating Costs
Quantities
SUPPLIES:  Cost per borehole              Required       Unit Cost    Total Cost
per borehole      (CFAF)         (CFAF)
- Casings (4-1/4")                        44 I.m.       3,500          154,000
- Screen (4-1/4")                          6 l.m.       3,750           22,500
- Piezometer (2-2-1/2")                   50 I.m.         200           10,000
- Gravel                                Lump Sum        8,000            8,000
- Cement (Curb-Stone)                      0.8 T       25,000           20,000
TOTAL Cost per Borehole       214,500
OPERATING COSTS:                                                     Total Cost
Estimated Use         Unit Cost      Per Year /1
ITEM                                Per Year             (CFAF)      (CFAF '000)-
Cars                       3       40,000 km              45             5,400
Tank                       1       30,000 km              50             1,500
Truck, 3.5 T               3       20,000 km              50             3,000
Truck, 8-10 T              1       30,000 km              60             1,800
Drilling machine and
equipment                 1        9 months         600,000             5,400
Pumping Test Equipment    1         9 months         400,000             3,600
Miscellaneous                    Per borehole          4,000               240
TOTAL                  20,940
/_   Drilling of 60 boreholes per year.



ANNEX 4
Table 12
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Maintenance Brigade for Tubewells
1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80    Total
------------------------- No. -------------------------
Tubewell Program
- under Credit 412-UV    60          60        -           -          -        120
- under RDF II              -         -         60          60        60       180
Cumulative number of
tubewells to be
maintained /_             60       120        180        240        300        -
------------------------- CFAF '000 ------------------
Capital Costs
Four wheel drive
including
modification:                   2,000                                       2,000
Pulley and drain utensils           120                                        120
Tool set and hand tools
such as shovels and picks         110                                         110
Camping material                     50                                         50
Wench                               170                                        170
Reserve parts /2                   400                                         400
Collars and ring clamps              10                                         10
Spare pumps /3                   3,600      1,800       1,800      1,800    9,000
Total Capital Costs              6,460      1,800       1,800      1,800   11,860
Operating Costs
Mechanic                     (1)   450         450         450        450    1,800
Driver                       (1)   360         360         360        360    1,440
Laborers /4                  (2)   180         180         180        180      720
Vehicle Operating Costs /5        1,350      1,350       1,350     1,350    5,400
Supplies needed for
maintenance /6                     900     1,800       2,700      3,600    9,000
Total Operating Costs            3,240      4,140       5,040      5,940   18,360
TOTAL COSTS                      9,700      5,940       6,840      7,740   30,220 /7
Footnotes on page 2.



ANNEX 4
Table 12
Page 2
Footnotes
/1   As of end of campaign year.
/2   Excluding spare pumps.
/3   at CFAF 150,000 pump, based on incremental number constructed each year
except for 1976/77 when it is based on total number constructed by that
time.
/4   300 CFAF/day for 25 days a month; for 12 months a year.
/5   30,000 km/year at 45 CFAF/km.
/6   For 60 wells this would amount to 15,000 x 60 = 900,000 CFAF.  Supplies
needed for maintenance are based on the cumulative number of wells
constructed by end of previous campaign.
/7   Foreign exchange is estimated at 80% for equipment, 70% for supplies, and
55% for operating costs, giving a total of CFAF 18,758 in foreign exchange
or 62% of total costs; taxes are estimated at 5% for equipment, 20% for
supplies and operating costs, giving a total of CFAF 3,473 or 11% of costs.



ANNEX 4
Table 13
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Estimated Cost of Village Warehouses /1
CFAF
Supplies:  Cement - 2,200 kg at CFAF 25/kg                           55,000
Iron sheets - 12 at CFAF 2,500                            30,000
1 at CFAF 1,400                            1,400
Wood support                                              13,000
Reinforcement steel                                        2,000
Miscellaneous supplies                                     2,600
Subtotal supplies                                      104,000
Labor:     Masons - 50 mandays at CFAF 600/day /2                     30,000
Transport of supplies:  2.4 tons over 200 km at 20 CFAF
per ton/km                                   9,600
Equ.pment:  1 brick-press for 14 warehouses at 119,000
CFAF each                                                 8,500
TOTAL                                152,100 /3
_ ~~~~~~~~~2
/1 dimensions 3 x 8 m (24 m2)
7!   other labor needed is provided by the villagers for free (self-help
activity)
/3   Foreign exchange is estimated as follows:  55% for supplies, 65% for
equipment, and 55% for operating expenditures and transport giving
CFAF 68,005 or 45% of total investment costs. Taxes are estimated
as follows: 4% for cement, 20% for iron sheets and timber, 22% for
steel and 5% for miscellaneous supplies and 20% for operating costs
and equipment, giving CFAF 15,270 or 10% of total investment costs.



ANNEX 4
Table 14
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Estimated Cost of Village Centers
CFAF
Supplies:  Cement - 4,300 kg at CFAF 25/kg                          107,500
Iron Sheets - 24 at CFAF 2,500 each                       60,000
- 1 at CFAF 1,400 each                        1,400
Timber for support                                        17,000
Reinforcement steel                                        3,000
Miscellaneous supplies                                     3,600
Subtotal supplies                               192,500
Labor:     Masons - 60 mandays at CFAF 600/day /1                     36,000
Transport of Supplies: 0.75 tons over 200 km at
CFAF 20 per ton/km                          19,000
Equipment:  1 brick-press for 10 centers at CFAF
119,000 each                                             10,500
TOTAL                        258,000 /2
/1   Unskilled labor to be provided free by villagers (self-help activity).
/2   Foreign exchange and taxes are calculated as shown in Table 1 of this
Annex. Total foreign exchange component per unit village center
amounts to CFAF 123,150 or 48% of total investment costs. Total
taxes per unit village center amount to CFAF 26,720 or 10% of total
investment costs.



ANNEX 4
Table 15
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Land and Infrastructural Development Program
/l
1975/76    1976/77  1977/78   1978/79  1979/80 Total
-----_______________--- ha -------- ---
Bottomlands                100         500       600        700     800   2,700
Erosion Control Works    200         1,500    2,000       2,500   3,000   9,200
Small Irrigation
- improved/protected      -            50        50        100      100     300
bottomlands
- small irrigation        -            25        25         75       75     200
---------------------- number ----------------------
Village Buildings
- warehouses              50           50        75        100      125     400
- village centers         -             5         5          5        5      20
Wells                       - /2        100      120        140      160     520
Tubewells                  - /3         - /3      60         60       60     180
/1   The 1975/76 FDR budget provides for a reduced level of activities, since
funds remaining under Credit 317-UV would not allow for an expanded pro-
gram and RDF II will not be effective before the end of FY 76.
/2   No new wells; only deepening of wells built under RDF I.
/3   About 120 tubewells will be constructed, but are financed under Credit
442-UV.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Agricultural Credit
Background
1.        Upper Volta, together with five other countries 1/, is a member
of the West African Monetary Union, established in its present form since
1962. Member countries share a common currency, the CFA Franc (Franc de
la Communaute Financiere Africaine) and a common Central Bank, the Banque
Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Quest (BCEAO). Commercial banking
services in Upper Volta are provided by the Banque Internationale pour le
Commerce, l'Industrie et l'Agriculture de la Haute Volta, the Banque
Internationale de Volta and the Banque Internationale de l'Afrique de
l'Ouest. Long and medium term credit, and also agricultural credit, is
mainly financed and regulated by the National Development Bank (Banque
Nationale de Developpement - BND).
National Development Bank
2.        BND was established in 1961 as a successor to a series of state-
owned development finance institutions and in 1965, a special credit depart-
ment was set up to handle agricultural credit. BND's statutes, which are
similar to those of other development banks in French-speaking West Africa,
were approved by Decree 2/ in 1961 and amended in 1962 3/. BND's objectives,
which are defined by Public Law 4/, are to provide technical and financial
assistance to carry out all projects furthering the economic and social de-
velopment of Upper Volta.
3.        A board of directors, composed of eleven members, eight from Govern-
ment Departments, two from the CCCE of France and one from BCEAO, manages BND.
It is responsible for defining and implementing policies and credit programs.
The Board may delegate some of its powers to a limited standing committee on
which the shareholders are represented in the same proportion as on the Board.
The Board meets once a month. The General Manager is nominated by three-
fourths majority of the board, and is appointed by the Government.
1/   The five countries are Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, and Togo.
2/   Decree No. 82/PRES/ECNA, March 4, 1961.
3/   Decree No. 103/PRES/ECNA, April 6, 1962.
4/   Public Law No. 6/61/ANL, January 23, 1961.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
4.        BND's capital is authorized as follows:
Government                                   54.55%
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique (CCCE)                             9.09%
BCEAO                                         9.09%
DEG                                           9.09%
Others                                       18.18%
100. 00%
5.        BND is responsible to the Minister of Commerce, Industry and Mines.
Accounts of BND are audited by the "Commissaire aux Comptes" of the Ministry
of Finance, and from time to time by CCCE experts. As agreed with the West
African Monetary Union, BCEAO receives monthly statements on BND's financial
and liquidity position in addition to annual reports and accounts. Internal
audit is the responsibility of the General Controller. Internal and exter-
nal audit and control seem to be adequate.
6.        Total BND staff numbers approximately 126, including a small number
of expatriates. BND personnel are well trained and qualified for their tasks.
No specially trained staff for evaluating the technical and economic aspects
of agricultural credit applications are employed, and these functions are
presently carried out by the staff of the ORDs where the credit applications
originate. However, there is some doubt whether ORD staff are sufficiently
experienced to process loan applications.
7.        Condensed balanee sheets are shown in Table 1.  Paid up capital was
CFAF 355 million, but increased to CFAF 1,100 million in August, 1974. Other
sources of funds are:
-    grants and guarantee funds from CCCE and Government, reserves pro-
visions and profit;
-    medium term loans from CCCE, the Government and BCEAO;
-    long term loans from CCCE, Government, USAID and African
Development Bank (BAD); and
-    short term loans, deposits and funds.
BND has rediscount facilities with BCEAO; medium term loans are rediscounted
for up to ten years, and short term marketing loans for one year; discount
rates were generally 3.5%, but have recently been increased to 5.5%.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
8.        BND's lending operations have increased from about CFAF 206 mil-
lion in 1961 to CFAF 4,615 million in 1974. Table 2 gives details and
Table 3 gives a breakdown of BND's loan portfolio for the period 1970/71 -
1973/74 into the major sectors. BND's operations for the financial year
1973/74 by sectors were as follows:
No. of Loans       Amount       Percentage
CFAF million        %
Real Estate                          3,056             1,624           35
Agriculture                             96             1,101           24
Commerce and Industry                   145            1,593           35
Small Equipment. & Automobiles       5,535               246            5
Official Entit4es                         1               51            1
TOTAL                           8,833            4,615          100
9.        Condensed profit and loss accounts for BND's last four fiscal years
are given in Table 4. BND's performance has improved over the years, especi-
ally following revision of loan conditions and transfer to ORDs of debt col-
lection responsibility.
Agricultural Credit
10.       Marketing loans for cotton, to the Compagnie Francaise pour le
Developpement des Fibres Textiles (CFDT) for cotton purchases, are the major
item in BND's agricultural lending. In 1973/74 they amounted to CFAF 837 mil-
lion or 76% of BND's lending. Credit for seasonal inputs amounted to CFAF 205
million in the same period. Together short term credit amounted to about 95%
of BND'S agricultural lending. BND's medium term credit for agriculture is
insignificant as can be seen from Table 5, which gives a breakdown of BND's
agricultural credit in various categories over the years. For the 1973/74
period the breakdown of BND's agricultural credit was as follows:
Nature of Agricultural Credit 1973/74
Amount                      Percentage
Nature of Credit                 (CFAF million)                        %
Seasonal Inputs                         205                            19
Cotton Marketing                       837                             76
(1,042)                          (95)
New Plantings                             8                             0.7
Buildings                                 3                             0.3
Equipment                                36                             3
Livestock                                12                             1
Medium term Credit                      (59)                           (5)
TOTAL                           1,101                            100



ANNEX 5
Page 4
Agricultural lending over the years has increased substantially but declined
as a percentage of credit extended (see Table 5) from about 50% by the end
of the sixties to 23% in 1973/74.
11.       Basically BND lends to the 11 Regional Development Organizations
which onlend to the farmers. Short term credit applications are made in the
first instance to village committees composed of elders and the "Chef de
Terre" which approves the application.  Individual application forms are com-
pleted with the assistance of the ORD extension workers. Final approval is
given by the ORD. Before the agricultural season starts, each ORD presents
to BND its estimated requirements for seasonal short term credit for each
ORD.  Short term credit records are kept by the ORD.  Medium term credit
financing is handled on a case-by-case basis, with the applications being
reviewed by the ORD Steering Committee.  Reviewed applications and the recom-
mendations of the Committee are then sent to the BND for approval. Medium
term credit is further handled from BND headquarters in Ouagadougou where
all records are kept. Medium term credit centralization in Ouagadougou has
resulted in such problems as delay in procurement of agricultural equipment
and poor control of medium term credit repayments. Decentralization of ap-
proval and recording of medium term credit seem necessary and should be
studied by BND.
12.       Criteria established by BND for approval of medium term credit
oan applications are that an applicant must:
(a) have repaid any prior debts;
(b) belong to a precooperative association or village group;
(c)  have demonstrated in the past his willingness to follow prescribed
agricultural techniques; and
(d)  have a proven agricultural income equal to at least three times
debt service.
13.       ORDs are financially responsible to BND for all credit extended
to farmers, and ORDs have to repay even if farmers do not repay. Any sub-
sector 1/ and sector 1/ with past-due debts exceeding 10% and 20% respec-
tively, is not eligible for further credit until the situation is rectified.
BND is protected from any financial malpractices by the ORD by a general
guarantee of Government.
1/   Each ORD is divided into five or six sectors, and theee sectors are
divided into four or five subsectors.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
14.       Interest rates for short term credit are 5.5%, with repayment
within a year or a shorter period depending on the crop cycle.  Medium term
credit by BND for farm equipment is extended for two years with a down-
payment requirement of about 50%. Lending rates of BND are based on BCEAO's
rediscount rate. Since the rediscount rate was recently increased from 3.5%
to 5.5%, BND has increased its rates for agricultural credit to 8%, although
it is not yet sure if BND wishes to use differential rates for short and
medium term credit.
15.       In the past, BND experienced difficulties in recovering agricul-
tural loans, particularly medium term loans for farm implements. A Presi-
dential Decree of 1968 declared non-repayment of agricultural credit as a
national crime of the same order as tax-evasion. Since then, collection of
short term credit repayments has improved considerably, not necessarily be-
cause of the decree, but because (i) farmers who were granted loans were
required to grow a minimum area of cash crops; and (ii) responsibility for
debt collection was transferred to ORDs. The repayment performance of the
ORDs as shown in Table 6 has varied depending on their programs and poli-
cies. The present standard of loan appraisal and recovery techniques for
short term credit are such that future defaults should be minimal. As of
June 30, 1974, 94% of repayments due on short term loans had been collected.
At the same time, only 54% of all medium term repayments had been collected.
In drought years, deferment of repayment obligation is normally granted.
However, even taking this into account, repayments of medium term credit
are not completely satisfactory. This points to the fact that loan appli-
cation procedures and terms may not be well organized and adapted to the
requirements.
16.       USAID recently channeled about CFAF 63 million through FDR to far-
mers, as medium term credits for financing oxen and implements.  Farmers re-
ceived these credits at an interest rate of 5.5% with repayment to be made
over five years including one year grace period. To be eligible for such a
credit, a farmer should havé or provide one oxen himself.
Credit Under the Project
17.       Under the project it is proposed to make approximately US$0.5 mil-
lion available to BND to be used as a revolving fund for medium term agricul-
tural credit. Funds would initially be channeled from government through
FDR, but once medium term credits were made, subsequent administration would
be the responsibility of BND. Funds repaid would again be used for medium
term credit and the revolving fund would be regarded as a trust fund to be
managed by BND in accordance with rules established between Government and
BND with IDA approval.
18.       Terms of medium term credit would be 8% with a repayment period of
five years with one year grace. This is in line 1/ with the terms of the
medium-term credit fund made available to BND by USAID; this fund was managed
1/   Except for the interest rate, which was 5.5%.



ANNEX 5
Page 6
through FDR. Interest rates of the USAID fund were 5.5% and that was also
the prevailing BND interest rate at the time of appraisal.  However interest
rates were being reviewed following a change in BCEAO rediscount rate from
3.5% to 5.5%. An interest rate of 8% is proposed, but if BND sets its own
agricultural medium term credit rates differently, the project interest rate
would be reviewed accordingly.
19.       Farmers in the five ORDs on the plateau Mossi 1/ would be eligible
for medium term credit on the following conditions:
(a) a minimum down payment in cash of 10% would have to be made if the
farmer does not own one draught animal or agricultural traction
equipment;
(b)  the farmer must be known to follow advice on agricultural tech-
niques given by the extension service;
(c) the farmer must have a good repayment performance on earlier loans;
and
(d)  the farmer must have a cash income from his agricultural activities
(either from cash crops, sales of livestock or from sale of surplus
subsistence crops) estimated to be sufficient to cover more than
his repayment obligations.
These conditions and other undertakings would be spelled out in a contract to
be signed by the farmer and BND. This contract would also specify repayment
procedures. A pro forma contract would be drawn up and this would be agreed
with and approved by IDA. Although not a specific selection criterion, FDR,
in approving applications, would give preference to farmers who are already
engaged in other development activities, in other words the credit would
supplement other activities which would provide for a more complete package
of services.
20.       BND would appoint a credit officer who would be specifically re-
sponsible for the project medium term credit revolving fund.  In addition
he would study the need and organization required for medium term credit in
general.
21.       Procedures in channeling medium-term credit to farmers would be as
follows:
(a)  farmers would make applications for medium term credit to ORDs;
(b) ORDs, using the criteria laid down by FDR and BND, would screen
and initially approve applications;
(c)  BND's medium-term credit officer would visit each of the ORDs to
assist with initial approval of applications;
1/   Ouagadougou, Kaya, Yatenga, Koudougou, Koupela.



ANNEX 5
Page 7
(d) applications would be forwarded to FDR;
(e) FDR would give final approval for credit applications, consulting
BND's medium term credit officer;
(f) FDR would notify ORDs of approvals, and credit agreements, between
farmers and BND would be signed;
(g)  FDR would arrange for the necessary purchases, distributing them
to the farmers through ORDs;
(h) following disbursement, FDR would hand a list with credit amounts
per farmer to BND; the total amount would be charged to a special
BND revolving account for project medium term credit; and
(i) BND would thereafter be responsible for managing the revolving
fund, including collection of repayment.
22.       The procedures outlined above would have to be tied in with the
agricultural time-table (soil preparation to start in May). Therefore, ORDs
would approve applications throughout the year, but would complete this pro-
cess in December. Approved applications would be forwarded to FDR before
end December. FDR would review and approve applications in January, prepar-
ing its total annual program before the end of January. Subsequently, it
would organize procurement. Deliveries to farmers through ORDs would be in
March/April.
23.       Repayment by farmers would be in four equal installments after one
year grace, although the farmer would have the right to accelerate repayment.
The amount of these equal installments and dates due would be shown in the
contract signed between the farmer and BND. Repayment would be collected by
BND after harvest. Procedures would require farmers to make their paymeents
in any ORD office, where the officer in charge would give a receipt to the
farmer.  BND officials would colect repayments from these offices.  They
would also visit farmers who did not repay; ORD extension workers will not
be asked to enforce repayments. The adequacy of these arrangements will be
reviewed from time to time with BND's medium term credit officer during
supervision of RDF II.



UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
BND Summary of Balance Sheets
30/9/71             30/9/72              30/9/73             30/9/74
CFAF                CFAF                 CFAF                CFAF
million       %     million       %      million       %     million   _
Assets
Premises and equipment               71.4      2.2       73.1       1.7       73.3       1.3     114.4       1.2
Investments                         74.0       2.3       75.1       1.8      65.7        1.1      66.1       0.7
Loans and other accounts         2,868.5      88.2   4,004.8       93.9   5,278.7       91.0   9,115.5      95.2
Cash on bank                       238.8       7.3      113.6       2.6      381.2       6.6     280.7       2.9
Loss carried forward                  -        -          -         -          -         -         -         -
Total                     3,252.7    100      4,266.6    100       5,798.9    1C0       9,576.7    100
Liabilities
Capital and Reserves
Capital                          355.0                355.0               355.0                355.0
Grants and guarantee funds       282.1                283.0               275.7                276.9
Reserves and provisions          250.9                341.5               431.8                553.2
Profit carried forward             0.9                  1.1                  1.1                 1.1
Subtotal                       888.9      27.3      980.6     23.0   1,063.6       18.4   1,186.2       12.4
Borrowing
Long term                        776.8              1,286.7             2,144.5              3,541.6
Medium term                      278.9                281.6                303.4             1,636.1
Short term                       487.6                790.5             1,288.0              1,877.4
Subtotal                     1,543.3      47.5   2,358.8      55.3   3,735.9       64.4   7,055.1       73.7
Deposit and other accounts         820.5      25.2      927.2      21.7      999.4      17.2   1,335.4      13.9
Total                     3,252.7    100      4,266.6    100       5,798.9    100       9,576.7    100



ANNEX 5
Table 2
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
BND Lending Operations from 1961 to 1974
Period                       No. of Loans              Amount CFA'OOO
1961                               944                      206,249
1962                             1,877                      391,737
1963                             2,478                      387,312
1964                             2,229                      592,992
1965 (9 months)                  2,569                      487,966
1965/66                          3,426                      448,366
1966/67                          3,617                      544,361
1967/68                          4,272                      755,957
1968/69                          5,588                   1,475,168
1969/70                          6,777                   2,438,203
1970/71                          7,749                   2,104,941
1971/72                          7,894                    5,034,652
1972/73                          7,711                    3,880,750
1973/74                          8,833                   4,615,o47
TOTAL                           65,964                   23,363,701



UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
BND - Loan Portfolio - 1971/72-1973/74
1971/72            1972/73              1973/74                Total 1971-74
Category             CFAF Million      ,%l
I (%)        ~~~I ()I ()I(%
Category                               l                  l                      
Real Estate                    738.8    14.7    1,144.8 | 29.5       1,623.6   35.2            3,920.3   26.6
Agriculture                  1,222.8    24.3    1,242.0  32.0        1,101.0   23.9            3,738.1  1 25.4
Commerce and Industry        2,551.5    50.7        646.7 | 16.7     1,593.3  | 34.5           4,938.4  | 33.5
Small Equipment and            231.4      4.6       236.0 o   6.1      246.4      5.3            956.6  I 6.5
Automobiles                          l                  l
Official Entities              290.0      5.7       611.2  15.7         50.7    1.1            1,183.9    8.0
I F
W'.



UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
BND - Condensed Profit and Loss Accounts
1969/70        1970/71         1971/72         1972/73         1973/74
CFAF           CFAF            CFAF            CFAF            CFAF
million    %   million    %   million    %   million    %   million    %
Income
Interest on loans, etc.      161.0   92.2   160.6   64.2   205.2   92.7   276.4   91.2   445.3   83.1
Miscellaneous                  -       -       1.6    0.6      -      -        -      -        -      -
Transfer from reserves &
guarantee funds              -      -       70.2   28.0    10.8    4.9    17.7    5.9    74.7   14.0
Profit from previous
operations                  13.5    7.8    18.0    7.2       5.4    2.4      8.8    2.9    15.7    2.9
Loss                           -       -       -       -       -      -        -      -        -      -
Total                 174.5  100.0   250.4  100.0   221.4  100.0   302.9  100.0   535.7  100.0
Expenditure
Administrative & general
expenses                    97.4   55.8   122.5   48.9   141.1   63.7   192.3   63.5   300.0   56.0
Transfer to reserves &
provision                   62.7   35.9   122.8   49.1    75.7   34.2   105.8   34.9   210.4   39.3
Profit                        14.4    8.3      5.1    2.0      4.6    2.1      4.8    1.6    25.3    4.7
Total                 174.5  100.0   250.4  100.0   221.4  100.0   302.9  100.0   535.7  100.0
I F3 MT



UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Agricultural Credit from 1966 to 1974
('000 CFAF)
Nature of Credit         1965/66      1966/67     1967/68      1968/69     1969/70      1970/71    1971/72      1972/73     1973/74
Seasonal inputs (CT)     111,671       42,570     117,550      135,046     127,342      157,142    136,301      181,827     205,522
New plantings (MT)          2,695         365          380         150       2,132        2,081      2,687        7,079       7,647
Buildings (MT)               -          2,097        -             621       1,110        5,160      7,170          200       3,050
Equipment (MT)            60,281       27,906      11,729       12,789      16,400        8,836     17,675       50,402      35,844
Cotton marketing (CT)     16,500       34,000     252,000      633,200     988,000      883,000  1,053,750      996,520     837,662
Livestock (MT)                700       2,070       6,071         -            769        4,792      5,184        6,035      11,747
Annual Total        191,847      109,008     387,730      781,806   1,135,753   1,061.011  1,222,767   1,242,063   1,101,472
Agricultural Credit
in % of total credit
extended                       42          20           51          53          46           50         24           32          23
Note:  CT = short term;  MT = medium term
><
Un i



UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Repayment of Short and Medium-Term Agricultural Credit by ORDs
(CFAF million)
I         1971           '           1972         ,             1973        '             1974
1Repayment    Repaid    '  Repayment    Repaid        Repayment    Repaid '    Repayment    Repaid
ORDs                       due         in %           due        in %            due        in %           due         in %
A.  Short-Term
Ouagadougou                   14.7          89            2.4          86           15.2         89           14.8          94
Koudougou                     18.0          93 -   '     14.4          84            3.7         63    '        5.3         92
Dedougou                      63.2          99           33 - 4        93           38.5         97           36.9          89
Kaya                           3.1          88            2.0          71            2.4         73            2.6          55
Yatenga                        6.o          87            1.2          76            2.9         85    '        -
Banfora                        6.5         100      '    10.3          59            6.6         42              - _
Diebougou                     14.9          98      '     4.2          96            5.1         81   '        5.1          92
Bob-Dioulasso                 61.7          95           51.0          99           61.3        100           70.0         100
Kouepela                        -            -             _            -             -             
TOTAL ORDsî  168.1         94           118.9          91         135.7          92          134.7          94
B.  Medium-Term
Ouagadougou                i   5.1         100            1.5          40   ,        1.4          7            1.5          63
Koudougou                 '   2.7           63            2.6           4            o 0.4       35             0.3         30
Dedougou                   î   8.1          99            3.9          48   ,        3.3         67             2.9         69
Kaya                       i   2.1          64      1     2.7          54   ,        2.0         49             2.0         26
Yatenga                    I    -            -            0.14         77           0o.4         13              -
Banfora                   i   0.2           98            0.3          50   ,        o.4         10              -           -
Diebougou                      0.8          84            0.8          67   ,        0.2         13             0.2         41
Bobo-Diolasso              I    -            -            4.0          85            1.2         91             0.3         89
Kouepela                  I    -             -             -            -             -           -             -      -
TOTAL     1  19.0          90            16.2          52   ,       9.3          50            7.2          5



ANNEX 6
Page 1
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Studies-/ for Economic Development of Areas Freed from Onchocerciasis
A. Introduction
1.        Joint FAO/IBRD missions 2/ visited Benin, Ghana, Mali, Togo, and
Upper Volta in June/July 1975 to: prepare terms of reference for basic studies
of areas within those countries freed from onchocerciasis, to provide for
coordination and strengthening of planning processes for preparation of the
Ten-Year Development Plan and specific projects suitable for investment by
governments, multilateral and bilateral aid agencies, and plan training of
local personnel in basic data collection, interpretation, plan preparation,
and execution.
2.        Although the countries differ in their levels of economic develop-
ment (for instance, per capita income ranges from US$240 in Ghana to US$70
in Upper Volta), there are numerous similarities. Agriculture is the pre-
dominant sector in these countries and production is declining as a result
of increased population pressure, overcultivation of lands, and erosion.
The recent drought has compounded problems. There is clearly a need for
diversification, import substitution, and improved agricultural techniques.
3.        A major cause of overcultivation and population pressure has been
the movement of people from the more fertile onchocerciasis-affected riverine
areas. In the five countries, these areas, which lie between latitudes 80
and 15  no5th and longitudes 40 east to 80 west, cover approximately
571,000 km . The reopening of these areas, with the control of the
onchocerciasis vector, would ease population pressures through resettlement,
allow for increase in agricultural production and diversification of agri-
culture, and reduce regional imbalances that presently exist. It would also
develop two major natural resources: land and water. The primary objectives
1/   This Annex is based on FAO Report WS/H 3291, October 1975, Economic
Development of Areas Freed from Onchocerciasis in Benin, Ghana, Mali,
Togo and Upper Volta, prepared by the mission mentioned in paragraph 1.
2/   The missions comprised Messrs. Burer, Kock, Osei, Otten, Sinodinos,
Weed (Bank), Groom (FAO) and Soa (Consultant). The mission was assisted
in Togo by Mr. el Kashef (FAO), in Mali by Mr. Fanfant (FAO) and in
Upper Volta by Mr. Hirsch (FAO). Mr. R. Noronha (Consultant) assisted
in preparing this report.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
of the control program is economie and social development, but humanitarian
goals are also significant.
4.        The Volta River Basin area covers nearly 700,000 km  in seven West
African countries (Benin, Ghana, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Togo and Upper
Volta). The area is afflicted by onchocerciasis which brings blindness and
misery to people and inhibits development of many fertile valleys. The dis-
ease is transmitted by the bite of an infected female blackfly of the species
Simulium demnosum which thus functions as a vector for the transmission of the
disease. The onchocerciasis vector control program implemented under WHO di-
rection has been in full operation since December 1974. The effect of this
program is more or less immediate although efforts need to be sustained for 20
years to provide permanent control, and in a few areas people are already spon-
taneously returning to the fertile river valleys in anticipation of a perma-
nently controlled disease. It is imperative therefore that an inventory of
natural resources in these areas be made and plans for effective resettlement
and economic development.
5.        An important justification for the onchocerciasis control program
is humanitarian, but the primary justification is economic It is estimated
that hundreds of thousands of people could be settled in areas freed of
the disease thereby lessening population pressure on the degraded soils
of plateaux, and increasing production of food and cash crops. To prevent
uncontrolled and irreversible exploitation of one of West Africa's few remain-
ing and relatively untouched natural resources, it is essential to follow
a systematic approach to its development. Of the seven countries where
the vector control program is being executed, the Government of Ivory Coast
has itself prepared a program for development of areas to be freed fron
onchocerciasis (oncho areas) and, at this time, does not intend to seek fur-
ther assistance from UNDP or other international agencies beyond that already
requested for aerial mapping and the survey of the incidence of the tsetse
fly. The Government of Niger is also preparing its own plans for its re-
latively small oncho area and is being assisted by UNDP in this respect.
However further technical assistance will be required for the oncho areas
of Benin Republic (56,000 km ), Ghana (98,000 km ), Mali (125,000 km ), Togo
2                               2
(18,000 km ) and Upper Volta (274,000 km ).  It has been suggested that this
technical assistance might be best provided in relation with Bank/IDA proj-
ects. 1/  The remainder of this Annex deals only with economic development
of areas freed from onchocerciasis in Upper Volta, as affected by the medical
onchocerciasis control program.  This oncho area covers approximately 90% of
the national territory.
1/   For Upper Volta the proposed Second Rural Development Fund Project;
for Ghana the Upper Region Agricultural Development Project; for Mali
the Mali-Sud Agricultural Development Project.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
6.        The basic and accepted planning methodology for the oncho areas
will result in the preparation of:
(a) an inventory of natural resources (the data bank);
(b) a broad ten year development plan for priority zones of the
oncho areas (the Ten Year Development Plan); and
(c) a number of specific investment projects (project preparation).
B. The Proposed Technical Assistance Operation
General
7.        The proposed technical assistance operation would involve funding
of actions needed to achieve execution of the methodology set out in para 6.
In Upper Volta the operation would complement actions already underway with
UNDP and other financial support.
8.        Execution of the methodology would have the long term objectives
of:
(a) improving the living standards of people now living at subsist-
ence or near subsistence levels in densely populated or otherwise
in-hospitable zones, by providing opportunities for resettlement
in the relatively fertile oncho areas and/or other less populous
areas;
(b) achieving such settlement without the uncontrolled exploitation
and lack of conservation that has characterized most settlement
in West Africa; and
(c) increasing output of food, livestock, and industrial and export
crops.
9.        The operation would be carried out over a three-year period and
would consist of:
(a) completion of the data bank;
(b) preparation of a Ten-Year Development Plan; and
(c)  preparation ot [,ivestrnent projects for early submission to ex-
ternal financing agencies and execution in the first four years
of the Development Plan.
10.       The approach proposed for planning developmnt of the oncho areas
does not indicaate that the resulting investment projects will be highly
complex or costly. Government wishes to ensure that a maximum number of



ANNEX 6
Page 4
people will benefit from oncho area development and will seek to achieve
this by providing settlers with minimum assistance, commensurate with
achieving a satisfactory in-flow of people, and effective conservation
measures. Therefore good basic data and planning are important.
Detailed Features
11.       Çompletion of the Data Bank.  Upper Volta has a development pro-
gram that extends to specific oncho afflicted areas located in the valleys
of the Black, Red and White Volta Rivers. The "Autorite des Amenagements
des vallees de Volta" (AVV) is even executing projects of one type or
another in these areas (AVV areas). However, Government acknowledges the
need for better overall planning and has agreed that a data bank compris-
ing up-to-date knowledge of the oncho areas, their resources and poten-
tialities is of national interest. It is also agreed that a Development
Plan for these areas conceived on the basis of a sound knowledge and
analysis of the area's fundamental potentialities is necessary both as a
planning tool and to facilitate obtaining external financial assistance.
The principal elements of a data bank needed for future development plan-
ning purposes are: (a) present land use; (b) land suitability classifica-
tion (physical and chemical properties of soils and social and economic
parameters would be used to determine the economic value of different
soil types); (c) climate; (d) surface and groundwater resources and poten-
tials; and (e) socio-economic data on: population, land tenure and social
organization and key data relating to agriculture, livestock, forestry and
fishery.
12.       Many studies and surveys have already been made in the oncho areas.
For example, Office de la Recherche Scientifique et Technique d'Outre-Mer
(ORSTROM) has prepared soil maps and Institut Geographique National has
produced topographic maps. Raw climatological data are available in Paris
and London. For over a decade the oncho area has also been covered by
LANDSAT satellites and accumulated data are on computer tapes. A consider-
able amount of social and economic data exists. All these data, although
scattered in Africa, Europe and elsewhere, are retrievable, and conse-
quently, constituting the data bank would involve: (a) the retrieval of
existing data, (b) its collation, and (c) supplementation where gaps exist
through new surveys and studies carried out specifically for this purpose.
When complete the data bank should provide a profile of any significant
subject relating to the oncho areas. This profile would provide not merely
gross categories of information but also show the types of local variations
likely to assist or constrain developmental activities.
13.       Preparation of a Ten-Year Development Plan.  This would be prepared
based on material from the data bank. The plan would define specific zones
suitable for priority development over the next decade and would be divided
into phases, each consisting of one or more investment projects. Critical
for plan preparation is the establishment by Government of parameters and
criteria for determining zone priorities and the type of projects it wishes



ANNEX 6
Page 5
to promote. Factors to be considered in determining priorities should in-
clude: (i) resource potential; (ii) population pressure in potential emmigra-
tion areas; (iii) existence of social and cultural conflicts between ethnic
groups in overpopulated areas; and (iv) per capita settlement costs. The Plan
would incorporate existing Government plans for AVV's oncho areas and would
also take into account the national development plan presently being prepared.
14.       Preparation of Investment Projects.  Detailed preparation of proj-
ects would not commence before a thorough review of the Development Plan
by Government and potential donors have been sought. However, identification
of projects would begin at the same time as work on the Ten-Year Development
Plan is initiated.
C. Execution of the Technical Assistance Operation
15.       Technical assistance would be provided by appropriately qualified
consulting firms to ensure that the operation, designed to lead to early
emergence of investment proposals would be completed within the time limits
specified. There is local expertise (including institutions) qualified in
varying degrees to do part of the work and consulting firms submitting offers
would be required to assess the availability of local expertise and to
specify how they will mobilize and employ it. It is, however, important
to note that much of the work entails assembly of data available only out-
side West Africa.
The Data Bank
16.       Completion of the data bank would require three principal opera-
tions:
(i) a land use survey and mapping and associated climatic
and hydrological studies;
(ii)  a land suitability survey and mapping; and
(iii) a social and economic survey.
17.       Land Use Survey and Mapping.  This survey would rely primarily on
satellite remote sensing, supplemented where necessary by existing photo-
graphy, and ground and aerial observations.  Given the highly specialized
nature of this work, and the geographic homogeneity of the oncho areas, it
would be preferable that a single contract be let for this purpose. 1/ In
addition data need to be completed for climatology and for hydrology.
1/   Draft terms of reference for various studies are in FAO Report WS/l 3291
(see footnote 1, page 1).



ANNEX 6
Page 6
18.       Land Suitability Survey and Mapping.  An individual contract would
be let for this work in Upper Volta.
19.       Social and Economic Survey.  An individual contract would be let
for this work.
20.       While the land suitability, and social and economic survey work
would be let as distinct contracts, consulting firms would be permitted to
bid for any number of these contracts. It would ensure maximum competition
between consulting firms thereby guaranteeing the quality of the consultants'
personnel offered. An operation calendar showing the scheduling of the
various surveys is in Chart 15624, attached to this Annex. It shows that
surveys would be completed within a six-month period after which the planning
process would commence.
Ten-Year Development Plan (the Plan)
21.       A special Development Planning Group would be established to be
responsible for planning economic development of the oncho areas. The main
task of the Planning Group would be the preparation of the Ten-Year Develop-
ment Plan.
22.       The Planning Group would have a permanent chief (Senior Oncho Areas
Planning Advisor), either a national, if available, or recruited internation-
ally. The terms of reference and the qualifications of the Senior Oncho
Areas Planning Advisor would be satisfactory to IDA. In estimating costs it
has been assumed that the Senior Oncho Areas Planning Advisor will be re-
cruited internationally for a three-year period.
23.       The Planning Group would further consist of a team of specialists
comprising a rural development planner, an agriculturalist/agro-economist,
and a civil engineer. Provision has also been made for short-term employment
of other specialists that may be required. The services of these specialists
would be obtained under contracts with appropriately qualified consulting
firms. The Planning Group would be established as soon as results from the
land use survey would be available. It is estimated that the first draft of
the Plan would be available within six months after establishment of the
Planning Group. The team of specialists would be employed during this period,
and would return a year later to revise and update the Plan.
Preparation of Investment Projects
24.       Following Plan preparation, development priorities should be estab-
lished and projects prepared. The technical assistance proposed includes
funds for two to three contracts with consultants for the preparation of
feasibility studies, which would be suitable for international aid agencies.
Responsibility for Implementation
25.       To complete the data bank, additional maps, surveys and studies
are required to be executed by highly specialized consultant services together



ANNEX 6
Page 7
with local expertise presently available in rural development and resettle-
ment projects. Since both types of projects fall under the newly-established
Ministry of Rural Development, it is proposed that completion of the data
bank would be carried out under the tutelage of this Ministry. IDA staff
will contribute substantially and assist Government in drawing up terms of
reference and in the selection of suitable consultancy firms. Consultants
should have qualifications and be appointed on terms and conditions satis-
factory to IDA.
26.       To design the Ten-Year Development Plan, which is of national
interest, planning capability would be strengthened in the Ministry of Plan-
ning by the long-term appointment of a Senior Advisor (Senior Oncho Areas
Planning Advisor), assisted by short-term specialists, and backed up by con-
sultants for specific studies. The Ten-Year Development Plan would be pre-
pared by the Ministry of Planning after consultation with the Ministry of
Rural Development. Provision has also been made for consultant services
to prepare feasibility studies for specific investment proposals, directly
related to development of areas located in the various ORDs and/or falling
under the jurisdiction of AVV. The primary responsibility for executing
these studies would belong to the Ministry of Rural Development, which can
delegate further responsibilities to AVV or an ORD.
27.       AVV is responsible for the economic development of well-delineated
areas along the Volta Rivers. Recently consultants, financed by UNDP with
the Bank as executing agency, reported on AVV's organization, its future role
and related organizational and financial requirements. 1/ This report is
presently being studied by Government and its implications being discussed
with IDA. During negotiations assurances were obtained that Government
would present to IDA not later than March 31, 1977 its proposals with respect
to detailed tasks and specific responsibilities of its agencies which will be
responsible for the execution of development projects in the areas freed from
onchocerciasis.
28.       Overall responsibility for implementation of the oncho studies
would rest with the Coordinating Committee for Rural Development. For
practical purposes no new financing channel will be created and disburse-
ments will be channelled through FDR.
29.       The Senior Oncho Areas Planning Advisor would be responsible to
the Minister of Planning. He and other specialists of the planning team
would work closely with AVV, which is the only local organization that has
adequate experience on resettlement schemes.
D. Costs and Financing
30.       Costs are estimated at about US$1.8 million including contingen-
cies. Cost estimates are summarized in Table 1 and detailed in Tables 2-7.
1/   Bereschot, Moret, Bosboom; see also their Report R 6082/292 dated
January 1976.



ANNEX 6
Page 8
31.       IDA would finance 100% of total cost of expatriate personnel,
100% of the foreign expenditures of consultancy services, and 50% of other
local expenditures; IDA would also assist in the recruitment of the Senior
Oncho Areas Planning Advisor and assist in drawing up terms of reference
for consultants.
E. Justification
32.       The similium eradication program itself has been shown to be eco-
nomically justified, on the assumption that even in the absence of speci-
fic, planned projects, there would be spontaneous migration of people from
the over-populated plateaux to the fertile river valleys freed from oncho-
cerciasis, where they would engage in traditional agriculture. Under such
conditions, and assuming a pessimistic-optimistic range for costs of infra-
structure, value of output and rate of migration, the incremental value
of the output from such areas exceeded the costs of eradication plus infra-
structure; the economic rate of return was calculated as ranging between
8% and 16%. The justification for the investments proposed for the economic
development of the oncho areas depends on the demonstration that the planning
exercise will result in national investments which would lead to benefits
(principally in the form of higher agricultural production) exceeding the
costs of both the planning and the subsequent investments. A numerical de-
monstration of this assertion in the usual manner (i.e., economic rate of
return or cost-benefit ratio) would be merely a formal exercise, since moder-
nizing agricultural production techniques in that region has consistently
led to improvements in yields which, translated into economic rates of re-
turn, have been of the order of 15% to 25% and even higher. The major con-
straint to a successful and rapid transformation of traditional agriculture
has been lack of information to permit a more accurate prediction of the
likely response of soil, people, farming systems, etc., to a given package
of improvements. The rationale for planning is precisely that it increases
the likelihood of f inding workable combinations of technological improve-
ments.
33.       Land to be freed from onchocerciasis infestation represents
almost the last remaining significant area of West Africa which man has not
yet exploited. Proper conservation, reserve protection and renewal are re-
quired to safeguard this asset, but this will be impossible without appro-
priate planning. The cost of the proposed technical assistance represents
only a minute fraction of any reasonable estimate of the value of the land
and is insignificant in comparison with benefits that should emerge from
well-conceived projects for development of the oncho areas.



AliNg 6
Table I
UPPES V0LTA
SECOND RUDW DEVEL01T FUND PEOJhCT
Suary of Conta of OncbocarctatIs  Study (Omebe Studyv  t/
Foreign Exchange        Reference
1976/77      1977/78      1978/79         Total        b       Amount         Tsble
- - - -                    - - US$ 000-                 - - - - - 
A.  Completion of Data Bank
Land Use Survey                              269.0            -            -         269.0         87        233.0            12.1
Climatology                                   45.0            -             -         45.0        100         45.0            12.2
Surface and Groundwater Studies               55.0            -            -           55.0       100         55.0            12.2
Land Suitability Survey                      191.0            -             -         191.0        81        155.0            12.4
Preparation of Socio-Economic Data           120.0            -            -          120.0        88        105.0            12.5
Achives Facilities                            25.0            -            -           25.0        60         15.0                  2/
Subtotal                                     705.0            -            -         705.0                   608.0
B.  Preparstion Development Plan
Permanent Adviser                             45.0          60.0         60.0         165.0       100        165.0
Planning Group                                90.0          45.0           -          135.0       100        135.0
Short Term Specialists                        75.0            -            -           75.0       100         75.0
Vehicles and Operating Costs                  43.0          20.0         12.0          75.0        _          29.9
Subtotal                                     253.0         125.0         72.0        450.0         40        404.9            12.6
C.  Preparation Investment Proiects
Aerial Photographs                               -          90.0            -          90.0       100         90.0
Studies                                          -         200.0         50.0         250.0       100        250.0             12.7
Subtotal                                         -         290.0         50.0         340.0                  340.0
Categories of Diabursment
Other and
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - CFAF t000 3/ - - - - - - - - - - -             Expatriates      Consultants          Local
A.  Completion of Data Bank
Land Lse Survey                           60,525              -             -     60,525           87    52,425                 _            52,425            8,100
Climatology                               10,125              -             -     10,125          100    10,125                 _            10,125
Surface and Groundwater Studies           12,375              -             -     12,375          100    12,375                 -            12,375
Land Suitability Survey                   42,975              -             -     42,975           81    34,875                 -            34,875            8,100
Preparation of Socio-Economic Data    27,000                  -             -     27,000           88    23,625                 -            23,625            3,375
Archives Facilities                        5.625              -             -      5,625           60      3 375                -                 -            5,625
Subtotal                                 158,625              -             -    158,625                 136,800
B. Preparation DeveloPment Plan
Permanent Adviser                         10,125         13,500       13,500      37,125          100    37,125            37,125                 -
Planning Group                            20,250         10,125             -     30,375          100    30,375                 -            30,375
Short Term Specialiats                    16,875              -             -     16,875          100    16,875                 _            16,875
'Vehicles and Operating Costs               9,675         45t)0         2 700      16.875           40      6 77                                   -          16,875
Subtotal                                  56,925         28,125       16,200    101,250                   S,u
C.  Priparatioe Investment Proiects
Aerial Photographs                              -        20,250             -     20,250          100    20,250                 -            20,250
Studies                                         -       45.000        11.250      56.250          100    56.250                 -            56,250
Subtotal                                        -       65,250        11,250      76,500                  76,500
D.  Grand Total                              215_550         93.375        27_450    336_375            90   304  402          37.125           257.175            42O75
E.  Contingencv Calculations
Physical 4/                               10,777          4,668        1,373      16,818
Price 5/                                  15,843        14 707         6,629      37179
_7' T,2       19 375         8,002      53,997
Total Costa including Contingencies:  390,372  (or US$ 1.7  million)
At the time of negotiations nu definite assreements had been reached about cofinencing of this component.
2/Tn be established ln AV5V and National Planning Office to store the data collections
3/ US$ 1.0 - CPAF 225
4/ At 5% of all coet items
5/  At 7% compounded, calculated over base cosets and physical contingencies; only half percentages taken into account in year concerned;  sctual compounded
percentages are:  1976/77, 7%; 1977/78, 15%; and 1978/79, 23%.



ANNEX 6
Table 2
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Cost of Land Use Survey
(US$'000)
Upper Volta
Unit Cost US$         No. Units        Total Cost
Space Images /1                      200                40                 8.0
Negatives for Ground Control         120                 12                1.5
Color Enhancement                    500                 12                6.0
Computer Time                      2,500 /2             40               100.0
Photo Processing                                                          10.0
Report                                                                    17.5
Personnel Services
Project Coordinator                7,500 /3               4               30.0
Field Assistant                    7,500 /3               8               60.0
Local Counterpart Aid /5           1,500 /4              24               36.0
TOTAL                                                          269.0 /6
/1   Covering wet and dry season.  Total number of images could be less, if
the studies were executed simultaneously for all countries.
/2   Unit cos't of computer time is considered to be a maximum.
/3   All-in cost of US$7,500 per man-month includes provisions for expatriate
personnel: average consultant fee, daily allowance, international and
local travel and small miscellaneous costs.
/4   All-in cost of US$1,500 per man-month includes:  average salary, daily
allowances and small miscellaneous costs for local personnel.
/5   Two man-months for each expatriate man-month.
/6   Since work will most likely be executed by consultants, all costs will
be local foreign exchange except those for counterparts. Thus FE
component 233.0 or 87%.



ANNEX 6
Table 3
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Climatology, Surface and Groundwater Studies
A.   Climatology
The collection, analysis and presentation of climatological features
is assumed to form part of a consultant contract for land use surveys. Data
from weather satellites combined with ground observations and soil data would
make it possible to estimate the potential production of areas with forest,
food and fiber. In addition to climatological maps on the same scale as the
land-use maps, a climatological report should be produced, describing: cli-
matological characteristics, the relationship between weather and yield po-
tential in the past ten years, and a weather-yield forecast for the forth-
coming three years. Additional cost for climatological mapping is estimated
at US$45,000.
B.   Surface and Groundwater Studies
To have a better knowledge of surface and groundwater potential
for the project area in the various countries, it is believed that in the
estimated time span of 6 months for completion of the data bank, explora-
tory drillings cannot be carried out. It is therefore proposed to use the
technique of remote sensing to delimit the extent of relevant water bodies
in dry and wet season, taking into account the existing data, and to prepare
water exploration guide maps, indicating priority areas with a high proba-
bility of finding water sources. This would be carried out in the context
of a package deal for the preparation of land use maps by means of remote
sensing. Additional costs would be estimated at about US$55,000 for this
study. The final report should include a review and updated compilation of
existing data and data collected by consultants, together with maps drawn to
the same uniform scale as specified in the terms of reference for land use
specifications.



ANNEX 6
Table 4
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Land Suitability Survey
(US$'O00)
Unit Costs US$ /1        No. of Units    Amount
Senior Soil Specialist            7,500 /1                   4            30.0
Soil Specialist                   7,500 /1                   8            60.0
Local Counterparts                1,500 /2                  24            36.0
Cartographie Work                                                         60.0
Report                                                                     5.0
TOTAL                                                           191.0 /3
/1   All-in cost of US$7,500 per man-month includes provisions for expatriate
personnel: average consultant fee, daily allowances, international and
local travel and small miscellaneous costs.
/2   All-in cost of US$1,500 per man-month includes:  average salary, daily
allowances, local transport and small miscellaneous costs.
/3   Since work is assumed to be executed by consultants only local counter-
parts are local expenditure; thus FE component is 155.0 or 81%.



ANNEX 6
Table 5
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Social and Economic Studies
(US $'000)
Unit Costs US$ /1       No. of Units    Amount
Various Specialists                7,500 /1               10            75.0
Local Counterparts                 1,500 /2               10            15.0 /5
Drafting                           3,000 /3                4            12.0
Processing /4                                                           18.0 /5
TOTAL                                                         120.0 /5
/1   All-in cost of US$7,500 per man-month includes provisions for expatriate
personnel: average consultant fee, daily allowances, international and
local travel and small miscellaneous costs.
/2   All-in cost of US$3,000 per man-month includes average consultant fee
for technical assistants at home office (particularly draftsmen).
/3   All-in cost of US$1,500 per man-month includes:  average salary, daily
allowances, local transport and small miscellaneous costs.
/4   Processing cost includes printing of maps and production of a report.
/5   Local counterparts are local expenditures; thus, foreign exchange
amounts to 105.0 or 88%.



ANNEX 6
Table 6
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Preparation Development Plan
(US$'000)
Consultant services would be required to advise the Government
of Upper Volta in preparing a Ten Year Development Plan for the economic
development of areas freed from onchocerciasis. The Ten Year Development
Plan would be prepared by a Development Planning Group consisting of a
senior advisor and three highly qualified specialists. For preparation of
the development program, short-term specialists would strengthen the
Development Planning Group. The phasing over the three Project Years and
the estimated costs are as follows:
FE
1976/77    1977/78    1978/79    Total    FE%   Amount
Senior Advisor /1             45.0      60.0       60.0      165.0   100   165.0
Development Planning
Group /2              (12) 90.0  (6) 45.0         -        135.0   100   135.0
Short-term
Specialists /3        (10) 75.0        -          -         75.0   100    75.0
Vehicle                   (2) 23.0        -         -         23.0    70    16.1
Vehicle Operating        (2) 10.0  (2) 10.0  (1)  5.0         25.0    55    13.8
Other Expenditures            10.0       10.0        7.0      27.0    -       -
TOTAL                  253.0      125.0       72.0      450.0          404.9
/1   He would be employed for about three years, but would not be on the job
before October 1976.
/2   Would consist of three specialists who would be each for about four
months in Upper Volta, followed by another two months a year later.
/3   Allowance of 10 man-months of additional specialist services has been
made.



ANNEX 6
Table 7
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Preparation Investment Projects
Orthophoto Maps and Aerial Photographs
1.        After the data bank has been completed, orthophoto maps and aerial
photography will be required for areas selected as the sites of potential
development projects. However, aerial potographs on a sufficiently large
scale have already been made for Upper Volta.
2.        Provision has been made for certain areas to be photographed, at
scale 1:20,000, for detailed or semi-detailed studies. These aerial photo-
graphs would be taken of areas with a potential for development projects.
The estimated cost for panchromatic and color infra red aerial photography
is: US$90,000.
Studies
Feasibility studies will be required for further definition and
evaluation of investment projects identified by the Plan. Based on prior
experience in West Arica, provision has been made in the cost estimates for
such studies for two or three projects during the period of the technical
assistance operation of this Annex. Estimated cost of a full feasibility
study would be about $100,000.






UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Operation Calendar for Studies for economic development of areas freed of Onchocerciasis
1976/77                             1977/78                             1978/79
A. Completion Data Bank
1. Land Use Survey: Climatology;
and Surface & Ground Water
Studies
2. Land Suitability Survey
3. Social and Economic Studies
B. Preparation Development Plan
1. Permanent Advisor
2. Development Planning Group
3. Short Term Specialists
C. Preparation Investment Projects
1. Ortho-photo Maps/Aerial
Photographs
2. Studies                                                                           -                                            -
Worid Bank-15624






UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
S-ary of Pro1ect Coats
(CFAF 000)
Rsference                                                                                                                                                      Foraign Esehenge Co poneel
Table                 1975/76                1976/77                1977/78                1978/79                1979/80               Total                  3                  Amount
A.  Proiect WMrks
Bottoalsada                                  7.2                     4,170                  20,850                25,020                29,190                 33,360               112,590                 47                 53,232
Eracile  Control WMrk.                       7.2                     2,948                  22,110                29,480                36,850                 44,220               135,608                 45                 61,108
Exteaded Bottomlsnds ted S11-Scaîo
Irrigation                                  7.2                      -                     32,495               32,495                 89,990                 89,990               244,970                 39                 95,812
Village Buildings                            7.2                     7,605                   8,896                12,699                16,501                 20,304                66,005                 45                 29,667
WMlle                                        7.2                      -                    202,830               107,360               119,500                106,185               535,875                 51                274,450
T.bk 11ls                                    7.2                      -                       -                   52,110                63,110                 52,110               167,330                 57                 95.722
Agricultural Credit Il                        -                                             28,125                28,125                28,125                 28,125               112,500                 30                 33,750
Unidentified Projecti2/                       -                       -                     33.750                33.750                33.750                  33.750              135,000                 47 j/              63.450
Subtotal                                                        14,723                 349,056              321,039                417,016                408,044             1,509,878                 47                707,191
B. Supporting Services
Personnel                                    7.3                    49,990                  71,980                91,780               136,800                151,900               502,450                 -                     -
Equiprent                                    7.4                    23,500                  49,400                36,000                21,300                 16,600               146,800                 70                102,760
Operetig Caste                              7.5                    21,763                  30.195                30,195                 30,195                 30,195              142,543                  55                 78,398
SOpp-rting Services Relatad ta Wellt
ood Tubeel1s                                7.6                     -                     11,135                 8,635                 10,265                  9,865                39,900                 14                  5,625
Maintenseca Brigade for Tab..elîs            7.7                                             9,700                 5,940                  6,840                  7,740               30,220                  62                 18,758
Trsining                                     7.8                      -                     12.540                 5.620                  6.320                  5,540                30.020                 30                  9.000
Subtatal                                                        95,253                 184,950               178,170               211,720                221,840               891,933                 24                214,541
C.  Technisal Assitance                           7.9                   23,100                  61,861                65,917                 68,192                  3,536               222,606                100                222,606
D. Oschocerciasis Studies                         7.10                    _                    215,550                93.375                 27.450                   -                  336,375                 90                304.402
E. Total Base Caste                              7.11                  133,076                 811,417               658,501                724,378                633,420             2,960,792                 49              1,448,740
F. Castinxe..iea
Physîisl                                                             7,391                  51,838                42,791                 50,884                 45,887               198,791                 49 4/              97,425
Prise                                                                2.745                  57.836                95.060                153.929                181.111               490,681                 50 4/             243.739
Subtote1 Castigeacies                                          10,136                 109,674               137,851               204,813                 226,998               689,472                                   341,164
Prajoat Cost (A + B + C + D + F)                                       143,212                 921,091               796,352                929,191                860,418             3,650,264                 49              1,789,904           .f
BaIsses of Credit 317-UV                          7.12                  (12.425)                  -                     -                      -                      -                  (12.425)                49                 (6,0885
TOTAL F7IANCING C08TS                                                  17                      921.091               796.352                929.191                860.418             3.637,839                 49              1.783 816
1/ A credit sabcorposent of US$500,000 Os prapaaed, per  osat celculatias, it has becs  -asd that this atouer  -uld be equally ased over th. four y-er psrisd 1976/77-1979/80.
2/ An unidentified aubcs,paesnt of US5600,000 i propoeed for diabursseaet echedale, it has bec .      ssa,s-d that this eount wuld bh  equally used over tha four yer period 1976/77-1979/80.
3/ Average Foreign Exch-nge caste af pwsjest orks  tthbut usideatified project.
4/  Calcul-ted in accordasse with contingency calculations for various items and the itîes related, foreign exchange compoent.






AUII  7
TSble 2
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND 8RUAL DEVELOPflET FOND PROJECT
Projeet Caste
1975/76          1976177           1977178           1978/79          1979/80           Total           FoeUs EonbNae          Foreig, îceSsag_
A.  Botto-lands .
Area (ha)                                   (100)            (500)             (600)             (700)             (800)        (2,700)
Sopplies                                    500             2,500             3,000            3,500             4,000          13,500                  55                   7,425
Equipent                                    850             4,250             5,100            5,950             6,800          22,950                  65                  14,919
Operatiag Costa                           2,080            l0400            12,480           14,560            16,640          56,160                  55                  30,888
Labor                                       740             3.700             4.440            5.1W0             5.920          19.980                  -                     -
Subtot-l A                            4,170            20,850           25,020            29,190            33,360         112,590                  47                  53,232
B   E-esion Control Worka 2/
Ares (ba)                                  (200)           (1,500)           (2,000)          (2,500)           (3,000)        (9,200)
Supplies                                    860             6,450             8,600           10,750            12,900         39,560                   55                  21,758
Equipsent                                 1,140             8,550            11,400           14,250            17,100         52,440                   65                  34,087
Oporatisg Coest                             208             1,560             2,080             2,600            3,120          9,568                   55                   5,263
Labor                                       740             5.550             7,400            9.250            11,100         34.040                   -                     -
Subtota1 E                            2,948            22,110           29,480            36,850            44,220        135,608                   45                  61,108
C. 8Sall Irrisatios Soheseand Extended
Bottomsands
(S) 5Il Irrigation Sche.es 3/ (ha)        -                  (25)              (25)             (75)              (75)          (200)
Supplies                                   _               12,250            12,250           36,750            36,750         98,000                   55                  53,902
Equipseet                                  -                2,750             2,750            8,250             8,250         22,000                   65                  14,302
Oporati.g Cost, a                                           2,750             2,750            8,250             8,250         22,000                   55                  12,102
Sabor                                                       7.250             7.250           215750            21,750         58,0 0
Subtotol (i)                           -               25,000           25,000            75,000            75,000        200,000                   40                 80,306
(ii) Inproved Boîtotlanda _/ (ha)                             (50)              (50)            (100)             (100)          (300)
Supplies                                                    2,425             2,425            4,850             4,850         14,530                   55                   8,004
Equipseet                                                   2,950               950            1,900             1 900         54700                    65                   3,706
Operating COntc                            _                1,150             1,150            2,300             2,300          6,900                   55                   3,796
Lab-r                                                       2.970             2.970             5.940            5.940         17.820                    -                   -
Subtotal (ii)                                           7,495            7,495            14.999            14_990         44.970                   34                  15.506
Subtotal C                             -               32,495           32,495            89,990            89,990        244,970                   39                  95,812
D. Village Buildings
(i) W.arehou-e  5/ (No)                     (50)              (50)              (75)            (100)             (125)          (400)
Supplie.                                  5,200             5,200             7,800           10,400            13,000         41,600                   55                  22,880
Eqoip.ent                                   425               425               638               850            1,063          3,401                   65                   2,211
Operating Costt, Too..port                  480               480               720               960            1,200          3,840                   55                   2,112
Labor                                     1.500             1.500             2.250             3.000            3.750         12.000                   -                     -
Subtotal (S)                          7,605             7,605           11,408            15,210            19,013         60,841                   45                  27,203
(ii) Village Centers 6/ (No)               -                   (5)               (5)               (5)              (5)           (20)
Supplies                                   _                  963               963               963              963          3,852                   55                   2,119
Equipment                                  _                   53                53                53               53            212                   65                     136
Operating Conte, Tr-neport                 _                   95                95                95               95            3W0                   55                     208
Lober                                      -                  180               180              1I0               10            720                                        -
Subtotal (ii)                          _                1.291             1,291            1.291             1.291          5.164                   48                   2.463
Subtotal D                            7,605             8,896           12,699            16,501            20,304         66,005                   45                  29,666
E. Wello 7/ (No)                                -                (100)             (120)             (140)             (160)         (520)
Supplies                                   -               29,500            35,400           41,300            47,200        153,400                   55                  84,370
Equipretnt                                 _              116,830            15,460           21,700             2,485        156,475                   80                 125,180
Oparating Costa                            _               29,500            29,500            29,500           29,500        118,000                   55                  64,900
Operating Staff                             -              27.000            27_000            27,000           27.000        108 000
Subtotal E                             -              202,830           107,360          119,500           106,185       535,875                    51                 274,450
F. Tubeveils Sf (No)                            -                -                  (60)              (60)              (60)         (10)
Supplie.                                   _                 _               12,870           12,870            12,870         38,610                   70                  27,027
Equipnent                                                                    10,560           21,560            10,560         42,680                   80                  34,144
Operatirg Coots                            -                 -               20,940           20,940            20,940         62,820                   55                  34,551
Operatino Staff                            --                                 7.740             7.740            7,740         23.220                   -                     -
Subtotal F                             -                 -               52,110           63,110            52,110        167,330                  57                   95,722
1/  For det-ile sec Anne. 4, Table 1
2/  For deusile sec A-.co 4, Table 4
3/  For detail  sec Annex 4, Table 2
4/ For detaila .ee Annea 4, Table 3
5/  For details sec Anses 4, Table 13
6/  For details ses Auses 4, Tabls 14
7/  For details sec A-nen  4, Table 5
8/  For detaila sec AMnas 4, Table 9



ABEEX 7
Table 3
SIID MIAS  YUl01T  bLD   r~E
Susnoetlu Sazeisu Ste ff/
(cru 000)
Unit Coats          1975176          1976177           1977178          1978179          1979/80           Total
A. fID IEfaant Unit
Projeat Directar                           6,000         (1)  6,000      (1)   6,000       (1)  6,000        (1)  6,000       (1)  6,000          30,000
Evaluatin Zetciet
Bxpatriate 3/                              -           tlJ   -         (1)    -          (1)   -           <1>   _          (1)   -                -
Voltaie 3/                               3,600               -                -                -                3,600            3,600           7,200
Eval.ation Engoa_r
Kapatriate 3/ Y                                        <»    -         (1)                                       -                -                -
Voltai. j/                               3,600               -                -                -                3,600            3,600            7,200
Accouating Offiear                         2,500               -         (1)   2.500       (1)  2,500        (1)  2,500       (1)  2,500           10,000
Assistmt Accourcting Offiear                 800         (1)    800      (1)     800       (1)    800        (1)    800       (1)    800           4,000
Supply Offiear                               800               -         (1)     800       (1)    800        (1)    800       (1)    800           3,200
Sacretary                                    450         (1)    450      (1)     900       (2)    900        (2)    900       (2)    900           4,050
Drivers                                      360         (2)    720      (4)   1,440       (4)  1,440        (4)  1,440       (4)  1,440           6,480
Office Assistaits 51                         360               -         (2)     720       (2)    720        (2)    720       (2)    720           2,880
Watlesn 5/                                   270                         (1)     270       (1)    270        (1)    270       (1)    270            1,080
Office Cla-r 2/                              270               -         t1l     270       i1l    270        (13    270       (13    270            1.080
Subtotal A                                                 7,970            13,700           13,700            20,900           20,900          77,170
B. Technimil Staff IAeR
I. Gaieral
Coordiator FDRActivitias               3,600         (1)  3,600      (1)   3,600       (1)  3,600        (1)  3,600       (1)  3,600          18,000
Senior Rural BEgineer 6/
Expatriate Y                          1,400 2/     (1)    700 _/   (1)   1,400        (1)  1,400       (1)  1,400              -              4,900
Voltaie j/                            3,600               -                -                -           (1)  3,600       (1)  3,600            7,200
Juaior Rural Engiree r1/
Expatriats 2/                         1,400 9/    (1)    700 A    (1)   1,400         (1)  1,400        (1)  1,400             -              4,900
Voltoie j!                            3,600              --                                 -           (1)  3,600       (1)  3,600           7,200
Topogrphic Znginar 11/
Expatriate 7/                         1,400 j/     (1)    700 y    (1)   1,400        (1)  1,400       (1)  1,400              -              4,900
Voltai. 8/                            3,600              --                                 -           (1)  3,600       (1)  3,600           7,200
Secretary                                450        (1)    450       (2)     900       (2)    900       (2)    900        (2)    900           4,050
Drivers                                  360        (2)    720       (4)   1,440       (4)  1,440        (4)  1,440       (4)  1,440           6,480
Il. Toso Teas (ttw)o 12/
Surveyor                                 950        (2)  1,900       (2)   1,900       (2)  1,900        (2)  1,900       (2)  1,900           9,500
Assistant Surveyor                       480         (2)    960      (2)     960       (2)    960        (2)    960       (2)    960           4,800
Assistants                               450        (4)  1,U00       (4)   1,800       (4)  1,800        (4)  1,800       (4)  1,800           9,000
Drivers                                  360        (2)    720       (2)     720       (2)    720       (2)    720        (2)    720           3,600
III. Wel1 Brigadea (four) l3
Coordinator of Brigades                1,200              -   16/           -                -                 -                -               -
Brigade Leaders
Expatriate L/                         1,400 U/    (1)  1,400               -                -                 -                -              1,400
Voltaic                               1,130         (3)  3,390             -                -                 -                -              3,390
Base Mechanic                            720              -    j/           -                -                 -                -               -
Base Supply Offictr                      800               --                                -                -                 -               -
S.btotal B                                               17,040           15,520           15,520            26,320           22,|20          96,520
C. Techoical Staff OrDos W7
Laid Developnent Manager 18/
Vol,s,tesra 19/                            800 20/   (4)  1,600 LI/  (4)  3,200          (4)  3,200        (4)  3,200             -              11,200
Vrotait P/                               1,130               -                -                -           (4)  4,520     (S)  4,520              9,040
Survsyor                                     950         (4)  1,900 fl/   (4)  3,800       (4)  3,800        (4)  3,800       (4)  3,800           17,100
Assistnt Surveyor                            480         (4)    960  l/  (4)  1,920        (4)  1,920        (4)  1,920       (4)  1,920            8,640
Assistants                                   450         (8)  1,800 32J   (8)  3,600       (8)  3,600        (8)  3,600       (8)  3,600           16 200
Drivers                                      360         (4)    720 21    (4)  1,440       <4)  1,440        (4)  1,440       (4)  1,440            6,480
Tractor Drivers                              450               -          (4)  1,800       (8)  3,600        (8)  3,600       (8)  3,600           12,600
e.tension Workers 2/                         450        (40) 18.000      (60) 27.000      (100)45.000      (1503 67.500     (200) 90.000          247.500
S.btotal C                                               24,980           42,760           62,560            89,580          108,880         328,760
CRAND TOTAL                                                 49.990            71.980           91.780           136.800          151.900          502.450
/  Staff of FDR  _aagait Unit fully costed under project.  Only so,i staff of other agendes are fin^eaad
under the project in order to ausiat the execution of FDR wrx.
2/  Financed under UBDP assitance (se. Table 9J.
3/  To be trdned -nder UNDP ausistance (mea Table 9).
As-ied ta arrive begi,ning 1976; thus half the 1975/76 ca_pign caste.
BND office space vill be  ufficient nd it in assased that fra 1976/77 an office vill be rented;
this requires additiosal supporting office staff.
H! Ne vill be the tclmnical adviser to the coordinator.
7/ Prmvided undar FAC technical assistence (sa  Table 91
8/ Ta be tradned under project (..e Table 8).
2/ Salaries p-id by FAC but rent allavace(75,000 CFAF/sonth) ad dieplaceent allovance (500,000 CFAF/year)
ta be paid by prajeet.
0/  He will be responsible for execution of irrigation wvrie nd improved bottnlande.
LI/ He will be responsible for supervising wtr of tapa tra         (both hAER  nd ORS tenac) in order to ascertain
q.ality standards.
~/ Ta AeUR te will be finaeced -ader the proje.t.
U/ Costed in Table 6, betaise part of BADEA caspoenets sa of 1976/77 capaign.
Lj/ Already in Upper Volta; fi enced by FAC.
S1 PiFnnced by FAC bot rent alloanece (75,000 CFAF/eonth)  nd displacéasnt allavanea (500,000 CFAF/year)
ta be paid by praject.
16/ Base org-nieation frai which the four brigades will operate vill be organized early in 1976/77.
17/ There are five ORDe in plAteau Moasi. Ouagadougou' ORD hma alredy 4 topa tC .  Under the project
eqaipnt for the tapa brigades for the five ORD. vill be fianced, but oly staffing of for will
be fiennc.d.
18/ They oversee end assist wnrk of topo brigedes -nd supervise land deelopint wvr  in OR.
19/ Three voluateter  for Kaya, Yalaga, Ko-d-ug-u  iI1 arrive end Dec_ber; amothar valunter iL already
in Koupela.
LO/ Vala1teers peid by their own goverisents; havever, tant allowvaces (25,000 CFAF/tonth) sud displatesint
ellae -ce ta be p-id by project.
2l/ Since the volunteers arrive Decen,ber 1975, the tOpO brigades have to be faoned in the seeond half of
the 1975/76 ca_*aign; half year teots taken  into accaunt.
22/ Bmasd on calc1latin as explained in Anue. 9, Table 1.



UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMEI FU ND PROJECT
Supporting Services Equipment
(CAFI '000)
Unit Costa      1975/76          1976/77         1977/78          1978/79         1979/80             Total
A. FDR Management Unit 1/
Passenger Car                                1,800             -               -           (1) 1,800            _                _               1,800
Station Wagon                                1,500             -          (2) 3,000            -                -           (2) 3,000            6,000
Four-wheel Drive                             2,600             -               -                -          (1)  2,600            -               2,600
Office Equipment 3/                          2,000             -               2,000             200              200              200           2.600
Subtotal A                                                 -                5,000           2,000            2,800            3,200          13,000
B. Technical Staff HAER 3/
I. General
Station Wagons 4/                         1,500            -           (4) 6,000            -                -           (14) 6,000          12,000
II. Topo Teams (two) 5/
Pick-up Trucks                            1,200            -           (2)  2,400           -                -           (2)  2,400           4,800
Topo Equipment                            1,500            -           (2) 3,000            -                -                -               3,000
Camping Equipment                           500            -           (2) 1,000            -                -                _               1,000
III. Four Well Brigades 6/
Station Wagon
Establishment of Base                                           _
Subtotal B                                                -               12,400            -               -                8,400           20,800
C. Technical Staff ORDs
Station Wagons 7/                            1,500        (5) 7,500  9/        -                -          (5)  7,500            -              15,000
Pick-up Trucks 8/                            1,200        (5) 6,000  V/        -                -          (5) 6,000             -              12,000
Topo Equipment                               1,500        (5)  7,500 27                         -               - -                               7,500
Camping Eouipment                              500        (5) 2,500 9/         -                -               _                -                2,500
Tractors and Equipment IQ/                   6,000             -          (5) 30,000       (5) 30,000           -                -               60,000
Motorcycles Extension Workers 1V/              100             -          (20)  2,000     (40)  4,000      (50)  5,000     (50)  5,000           16,000
Subtotal C                                               23,500           32,000           34,000          18,500            5,0o0          113,000
gaAl TMOAL                                               23,500          49,400           36,000           21,300           16,600         146,800
1/    FDR Management Unit bas presently 3 cars (l passenger car; 1 station wagon; 1 four-wheel drive).
2/    Present office accomodation in BND  building will soon be too samll; therefore in 1976/77 an office
vill be rented vhich has to be equipped.
3/    FDR pays presently for the operating of 4 cars of HAER.
4/   Cars for the three expatriates and coordinator of FDR activities (replacement of present 4 cars).
5/    Replacement and upgrading of material bought for these two brigades under FDR I.
6/   Costed in Table 6 as part of BADEA's contribution.
7/    For land development managers.
8/    For the topo brigaders.
9/    Since volunteers of ORDs vill arrive in December 1975, the topo brigades will have to be established in
second half 1975/76 campaign.
10/    One for each ORD in 1976/77 and one in 1977/78; tractor will be used for implementing FDR financed vorks.
11/    One for each additional extension worker.



ut±r'b VuULA
SECOND RURAL DEVELORIENT FUND ROJECT
Supporting Services Operating Costa
(CFAF ' 000)
Unit Costa      1975/76         1976/77         1977/78         1978/79          1979/80            Total
A. FDp Management Unit
Cars                                         1,125 1/    (3) 3,375        (4) 4,5°°       (4) 4,5oo       (4) 4,50o       (4) 4,500            21,375
Office Expenses ;/                         500/75o              500             750              750             750             750            3,500
Auditing>4/                                   -               6,750            2,250           2,250           2,250           2,250           15,750
Office Rental 5/                             3,120            -      /        3,120            3,120           3,120           3,120           12.480
Subtotal A                                               10,625          10,620           10,620          10,620          10,620          53,105
B. Technical Staff HAR 6/
I. General
Station Wagons                            1,125 1/    (2)  2,250       (4) 4,500       (4) 4,500       (4) 4,500       (4) 4,500            20,250
Il. Tpo Teams
Pic-uTrucks                               1,350 2/    (2)  2,700       (2) 2,700       (2)  2,700      (2) 2,700       (2) 2,700            13,500
III. Well Brigades
Station Wagons
Subtotal B                                               >4,950           7*200           7,200            ,200                           33,750_
C. Technical Staff oevs
Station Wagons                               1,125 1/   (5)  2,813 8/   (5) 5,625         (5) 5,625       (5) 5,625        (5) 5,625           25,313
Pick-up Trucks                               1,350 2/   (5) 3,375 U/   (5) 6,750          (5) 6,750       (5) 6,750        (5) 6,750           30,375
Tractors  9/
Motorcycles 10/                               -               -                -               -               -               -                 -
Subtot al C                                              6,188           12,375          12,375          12,375          12,375           55,688
GRAND TOTAL                                              21.763          30.195          30.195          30.195
V/ 25,000 km/year at 45 CFAF/km.
2/ 30,000 km/year at 45 CFAF/km.
J  For 1975/76 budgeted at 500,000 CFAF; because of rental of own office afterwards estimated to increase by 50%.
el Books of FDR unit have never been audited so far.
First auditors' repart estimated to require one manrmonth @ $300/day and two mannonths @ $200/day; travel estimated at $1,000/trip and par diem at $50.
Further auditors' reporta estimated to require one manmonth @ $200/day; travel estimated at $1,000 and per diem at $50.
5/ BND office space will soon be too small; from 1976/77 onvards FDR Management Unit will have to rent office space rent eutimated at CFAF 200,000/imonth           o
and electricity at CFAF 180,000/3 months.
FmE Management Unit does not pay any rent to BND for office space and services provided; but 1% of turnover of FMI is payable to BND as coq"eoation
for services rendered.
7/ Cost d in Tabla 6.
i/ Top  brigadée vill be forud. and 1975; thefoere half et ecte téo  iute  cet àet 1975/76 ea_ I .
9/ Operating expenditures financed as part of the c»te of de«leping b.tt.lde  _d  enti--rOs" I          Z s.
0/ Operating costa financed by extension vorker and/or ORD,



UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
SuPporting Services Related to Wells end Tubevells 1/
(CFAF '000)
Foreigjn Exchange
Unit Costs        1975/76        1976/77         1977/78        1978/79         1979/80         TOTAL           %       A ount
A.   STAFF  (Four Well Brigades)  2/
Coordinator of Well Brigades 5/                     1,200                    (1)    1,200   (1)   1,200   (1)   1,200    (1)   1,200              4,800
Brigade Leaders
-  Expatriate  3t                                   1,400  4/                (1)    1,400   (1)   1,400   (1)   1,400                  -          4,200
-  Volteic                                          1,130                    (3)    3,390   (3)   3,390   (4)   4,520    (4)   4,520             15,820
Base Mechanic  5/                                     720                    (1)       720   (1)      720   (1)       720    (1)       720        2,880
Base Supply Officer  5/                               800                    (1)       800   (1)      800   (1)       800     (1)      800        3,200
Total                                                                    7,510           7,510           8,640            7,240       30,900
B.    EQUIPMENT  6/
Station Wagons                                      1,500               -   (1)    1,500              -               -       (1)   1,500         3,000
Establishment of Base  7/                           1,000                -   (1)    1.000             -               500              -          1 500
Total                                                        -            2,500             -              500            1,500        4,500          70         3,150
C.    OPERATING COSTS 6/
Station Wagons                                      1,125               -   (1)    1.125   (1)   1.125   (1)   1.125    (1)   1,125               4.500
Total                                                                     1,125          1,125           1,125            1,125        4,500          55         2,475
GRAND TOTAL                                                              11,135          8,635          10,265            9,865       39,900          14         5,625
1/    This vill be part of BADEA's contribution, and it is assumed that BADEA's contribution
vill start as of 1976/1977 campaign.
2/    Four vell brigades are financed under the project; staff listed here are the permanent
staff of the brigades; other staff are listed in Annex 4.
3/    Already in Upper Volta; financed by FAC.
4/    Financed by FAC, but rent alloavnce (CFAF 75,000/month) and displacement allovwnce (CFAF 500,000)
to be paid by project.                                                                                                                                                                    MI
5/    Base organization froe which the four brigades vill operate vill be organized early in 1976/77.                                                                                          O
6/    Equipeent and operating coasts of vell brigades, see Annex 4; this car             is needed for coordinator                                                                             0-j
of veil brigades.
7/    Base for the four brigades; establishment ia estimated st CFAF 1,000,000 but replacement after
tvo yeare at only half coast.



UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Summary of costs of tubewell maintenance brigade 1/
(CFAF '000)
1976/77     1977/78     1978/79     1979/80         Total     FE%i    FE amount
Supplies                    900       1,800        2,700       3,600         9,000       70      6,300
Equipment                 6,460       1,800        1,800       1,800        11,860       80      9,488
Operating Costs           1,350       1,350        1,350       1,350         5,400      55       2,970
Operating Staff             990          990         990         990         3,960       -
Total                     9,700       5,940        6,840       7,740        30,220       62    18,758
1/ For details see Annex 4, Table 12.
è W
i..  Xr



UPPER VOOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEELOEMINT FUND PlOJECT
Supporting Services Training
(CFAF '000)
Unit Costs       1975/76          1976/77          1977/78           1978/79          1979/80              Total        FEF FE  mwunt
raluation Officers 1/
iral Engineers 2/                                    500                          (i>l  500        (1)  1,0o0       (1)  1,500             1,500 6/         4,500
3ents Traveaux Agricole 3/                           100             _            (2)    200       (2)    400       (2)    600             1,200 7/         2,400
,chnicien Superieur du
Genie Rurale  4V                                     345             -           (4)  1,380       (4)  2,760       (4)  2,760             1,360             8,280
ctension Workers _5/ 
raining Courses at CESAO                               73                        (20)  1,460      (20) 1,460        (20) 1,460       (20) 1,460              5,840         -
onsultancy Services for
Extension Training Study 8/9,000                                                                         -                 -               -                9.000        100           9.000
TOTAL                                             12,540             5,620            6,320           5,540            30,020         30           9,000
1/     To be trained under UNDP technical assistance.
2/     To be trained at Ecole Inter-Etats d'Ingenieurs de l'Equipemient Rurale et Ouagadougou.  Annual scholership
eétimated at CFAP 500,000; course tekes 3 years.
3/     To be trrined at Matourkou; annual Scholarship estimated at CYAF 100,000; course takes 4 years.
(,1    People et Baccaleureat level; 2 years trained et Ecole Inter-Etats des Techniciens Superieurs de l'Hydraulique
et de l'Equipement Rurale de Camboinse; annual scholarahip estimated at CFAF 345,000.
5/     Matourkou is presently filled over its training capecity and some ORD's train their own extension
vorkers. Governuent is considering to reorganize agricultural training for extension workers. No formal
assistance for extension training is provided under the project, but consultancy services are provided to Btudy
extension training in Upper Volta.
6/     Includes 500,000 for 1980/81
7/     Includes 400,000 for 1980/81 and 200,000 for 1981/82.
81     Allovance has been made for 4 man months  of consultancy tirne @ US$10,000 per man month, thus a total of
US$40,000 or CFÀF 9 million.
9/     Number in brackets refer to candidates who initislly receive a schorlarship for training; however, training                                                                            Cli
takes more than one year; the numbers in brackets do not refer to the total nueber of students being trained
in any given year  but to the number of students who start training in that year.



UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Technicel Assistance 9/
(CFAF ' 000)
Unit Costa          1975/76          1976/77           1977/78         1978/79         1979180          TOTAL
A.    UNDP  1/
Evaluation Economist                     10,800 w              -              10,800           10,800          10,800             -            32,400
Evaluation Engineer                       10,800  2            -              10,800           10,800          10,800             -            32,400
Scholerahips                                 169   /           -          (6)  1,014    (30)   5,070   (42)   7,098   (18)   3,042             16,224
Study Tours                                  247  4/           -          (11    247      (1)     247    (2)      494    (2)       494          1I482
Subtotal                                                 -              22,861           26,917          29,192           3,536          82,506
B.     FAC
Senior Rural Engineer                      9,600  5/          4,800            9,600            9,600           9,600             -            33,600
Junior Rural Engineer                      7,200  6/          3,600            7,200            7,200           7,200             -            25,200
Topographie Engineer                       7,200  6/          3,600            7,200            7,200            7,200            -            25,200
Well Brigade Leader                        7,200 7/           7-200            7-200             7-200           7.200            -            28.800
Subtotal                                               19,200           31,200           31,200          31,200             -           112,800
C.     Dutch Government
Volunteers                                 2,600  8/    (3)  3,900        (3)  7 800    (3)    7 800   (3)    7 800               -            27 300
Subtotal                                                3,900            7,800            7,800           7,800             -            27,300
GRAND TOTAL                                            23,100           61,861           65,917          68,192            3,536        222,606
1/     Based on  reviaed UNDP project document.
2/     US$48,000 per man year; experts *ssu ed to arrive second half 1976.
3/     US$750/month; figures in brackets refer to months.
4/     US$1,100 per tour.
5/     Estimated by FAC et CFAF 800,000/month; expert assumed to arrive firet half 1976 end therefore in 1975/76 only half mon
year conts tsken into account.
6/     Estimated by FAC et CFAF 600,000/month; expert  assumed to arrive firat half 1976 and therefore in 1975/76 only holf
man year costs taken into account.
7/     Estimated at CFAP 600,000/month; expert votks already in Upper Volta.
8/     Estimated et Dutch  guilders 30,000/man yesr; et US$1.00 - fl 2.60 end US$1.00 - CFAF 225; this amounts to
CFAF 2,600,000/man year.
9/     For cost calculation it has been assumed that expatriates vould romain for 3 years,or alittle more if they
*rrived before July 1976.  This in not necessarily reflected in the actual contracts given, but it is understood thet
expansion of contracta vill not cause major probleme.
10/     The actual figure in' revised UNDP's project document (UPV 75/015/A/01/12) amount to US$270.6 thousand; this document assumes
2-year  service, rather than the 3-~ assumed in these calculation., but expansion is alloved for (aee note 9).  Therefore
subtracting this expansion vill give approximately the UNDP figure taking into account that rounding vas necessary to
arrive from US$ into CFAF'OOO.  In addition UNDP does not provide for contingencies, but as for other project cost,
contingencies have been calculited on technicel assistance aiso in accordance vith the percentages given in Table Il of this Annex.



UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Summary of Costs for Onchocerciasis Studies 1/
CFAF '000
Foreign Exchange
1976/77       1977/78        1978/79        Total            %      Amount
A.  Completion Data Bank
Land Use Survey                   60,525              -              -      60,525             87      52,425
Climatology                       10,125              -              -      10,125            100      10,125
Surface and Groundwater Studies   12,375              -              -      12,375            100      12,375
Land Suitability Survey           42,975              --                    42,975             81      34,875
Preparation of Socio-Economic
Data                            27,000                      -      _      27,000             88      23,625
Archives Facilities                 5,625                            -        5,625            60       3,375
Subtotal                         158,625                                   158,625                    136,800
B.  Preparation Development Plan
Permanent Adviser                 10,125         13,500         13,500       37,125           100      37,125
Planning Group                    20,250         10,125              -       30,375           100      30,375
Short Term Specialist             16,875              -              -       16,875           100      16,875
Vehicles and Operating Costs       9,675          4,500          2,700       16,875            40       6,727
Subtotal                          56,925         28,125         16,200     101,250                     91,102
C.  Preparation Investment Projects
Aerial Photography                      -        20,250              -       20,250           100      20,250  
Studies                                 -        45,000         11,250       56,250           100       56,250       x
Subtotal                                         65,250         11,250       76,500                    76,500     °
',rand Total                     215,550         93,375         27,450     336,375            90      304,402
1/  See Annex  6, Table 1



ANNEX 7
Table 1i
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Contingencies 1
(CFAF'000)
Bose Costs                     Contingencies                        TOTAL
Phvsicel 2/  Price 3/ Total
Prolect Warka
Bottomlsnds                                         112,590                11,259        24,546    35,805             148,395
Erosion Control                                    135,608                 13,561        30,354    43,915             179,523
Smnll Irrigation                                   200,000                 20,000        51,512    71,512            271,512
Improved Bottomlanda                                44,970                  4,498        10,175    14,673             59,643
Warehouses                                          60,841                  6,085        13,884    19,969              80,810
Village Centers                                       5,164                   516         1,190     1,706               6,870
Wells                                               535,875                53,588       102,113   155,701             691,576
Tubewells                                          167.330                 16.733       44.125    60,858             228 188
Subtotel                                   1,262,378               126,240       277,899   404,139           1,666,517
Supporting Services
Personnel                                          502,450                 25,123        79,026   104,149           606,599
Equipment                                          146,800                  7,340        24,454    31,794           178,594
Operating Costa                                    142,543                  7,128        24,553    31,681           174,224
Training                                             30,020                 1,501         2,544     4,045             34,065
Maintenance Brigade                                  30,220                 1,515         6,315     7,830             38,050
Well related Services                                39.900                 1,995         5,678     7,673             47.573
Subtotal                                     891,933                44,602       142,570   187,172          1,079,105
Technicel Assistance                                     222,606                11,131        33,033    44,164            266,770
Oncho Studies                                            336,375                16,818        37,179    53,997            390,372
TOTAL                                      2,713,292                198,791      490,681   689,472          3,402,764
1/    Does not include the medium-term agricultural credit revolving fund (US$ 500,000) end
the unidentified projects component (US$ 600,000) for whick no contingencies have been calculated.
2/   Physicel  contingencies have been calculated et 107 for project works and 5% for supporting services.
3/   Price contingencies have been calculated over base coits end physical contingencies.  Price contingencies
have been calculated in accordance vith the folloving schedule:
for vehicles, equipment end supplies: 1976 - 97., 1977-1979 - 87., and 1980 - 7%;
for ell other coets (staff salaries, operating costs, labor, technical assistance, etc.): 7% annually.
Hovever, salories vere updated during negotiations and no price contingencies vere applied for 1976 salaries.
Annusl percentages have been trsnsferred into compounded percentages for campeign yesr (July 1 - June 30),
besed on the fact thst costs are based on end-1975 prices, and salaries on 1976 prices, and that for the
period concerned only half the percentage is taken into account. This resulted in the following percentages
applied:
vehicles, etc.        1975/76 - 2%;  1976/77 - 9%;  1977/78 - 18%;  1978/79 - 27%;  1979/80 - 37%.
salaries              1975/76 - --;  1976/77 - 2%;  1977/78 -  7%;  1978/79 - 15%;  1979/80 - 23%.
other                 1975/76 - 2%;  1976/77 - 7%;  1977/78 - 15%;  1978/79 - 23%;  1979/80 - 31%.



UPPfl VOLTA                                                   ANNEX 7
Table 1
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPHENT FUND PROJECT
Balance of Credit 317-UV 1/
(CFAF '000)
C R E D I T                    D E B IT
Undisbursed funds remaining in Credit 317-UV  2/                              114P750
Government Contribution  3/                                                    23,500
Well Deepening Program
- additional deepening equipment                                                                              6s669
- materials (cement and iron)                                                                                   500
- small deepening tools (shovels, etc)                                                                        5,650
- transport of materials                                                                                        400
- personnel costs                                                                                            22.556
- vehicle operating costs                                                                                    11.640
- other equipment operating costs                                                                             4,220
- unallocated  4/                                                                                           35615
55.250
Assistance to Other Well Digging Operatinns 5/                                                                 8,500
Intervention of Topo Brigades  6/                                                                              2,050
Payments remaining for project already completed 7/
- warehouses                                                                                                 10,025
- bottomland development                                                                                     12,500
- small irrigation                                                                                            3,000
- anti-erosion works                                                                                          4,000
29,525
Projects under development
- Kamadena plain study  8/                                                                                    2,449
- central warehouse in Fada ORD  9/                                                                           2.305
- central warehouse in Koudougau 10/                                                                          3,160
- cold storage project in Bobo Dioulasso  il/                                                                20,000
27,914
BND - Commission  12/                                                                                          2,586
138.250                       125,825
Balance of Credit 317-UV                                                                                      12,425
1/   The FDR budget makes provision for payments which still have to be made for works already completed;
these are mainly guarantee clauses in suppliers' or construction contracts which provide for payment of
the final sum sometime after work completion or equipment delivery. These items and some other items
have been taken from FDR 1975/76 budget. The remainder of this budget is covered under project costs as
calculated in the other tables.
2/   As of June 1975, US$516,785 (CFAF 116,277,000) vas remaining, at an exchange rate of US$1 - 225.
In order to allow for exchange rate variation over the remainder of the disbursement period, US$510,000
(CFAF 114,750,000) has been taken into account.
3/   Since IDA's contribution to project costs is 83%, Government's obligation based on further IDA disbursements
would be CFAF 23,500,000.
4/   Calculated at 7% of the other well-deepening costs.
5/   FDR provides materials to well brigades in Banfora and Yatenga.  This will be discontinued under RDF Il;
FDR will concentrate its attention on its own four brigades.
6/ Topo brigades of HAER, who assist ORDswith land development studies; under RDF II, ORDs will have their
own brigades.
7/   Projects were completed during the 1974/75 campaign, but some payments are still due because "réception" has
not been administratively completed.
8/   Study done by BDPA - GERSAR in the ORD of Dedougou.
9/ One warehouse of 300 m2 and two warehouses of 250 m2.
10/ One warehouse of 300 m2 and one warehouse of 200 m2.
11/  Establishment of cold storage warehouse in Bobo Dioulasso for vegetables, etc.  Total costs of CFAF 74,000,000
financing would require a credit of CFAF 50,000,000; ORD's own contribution of CFAF 4,000,000; and an FDR
contribution of CFAF 20,000,000.  FDR's participation is sought because FDR also financed an irrigated
vegetable perimeter in Bobo Dioulasso.
12/ One percent commission is paid to BND for all funds passing through FDR. This is to cover accomodation, etc.,
which is calculated at 1% of all costs in 1975/76. Afterwards, it is assumed that FDR will rent its own
accomodation, which is reflected in project costs.






UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Sunmary of Financing Plan I/
DUTCH
TOTAL COSTS        IDA          BADEA    GOVERNIENT      UNDP        FAC     GOVERNMENT
------------ ---------------------------------CFAF'000-------------------------------
Project Works 2/          1,497,453        706,880       703,205   87,368                      -          -
Supporting Services         891,933        731,414        70,120   90,399          -           -          -
Technical Assistance        222,606           -             -        -             82,506    112,800    27,300
Onchocerciasis Studies      336,375        315,337          -      21,038            -         -          -
Unallocated                 689,472        368,327       232,062   44,919          18,246     20,785     5,133
TOTAL                     3,637,839      2,121,958     1,005,387  243,724         100,752    133,585   32,433
------------------------------   ---  -----------US$$   000--
Total in dollars             16,168          9,431         4,468    1,083            448         594       144
Rounded in dollars           16,200          9,400         4,500    1,100            450         600       150
1/ Sumimarized from detailed Table 2 of this Annex.
2/ Less balance Credit 317-UV.
F Co



Tabl. 2
U93  VOLTA
SECOND RURIAL DrISONT FUND PROJECT
Dctaild Pinaein. or Proicct Costa
Ro..nded for
Cateporis of IDA Credit           Dicbur..e-et
1975176         1976177          1977/78          1978179          1979/8           Total       Cai.aory   CFAP'008  tioV000           S.hed.le
-A- --------------_---------_--___,_ ----- C AFP 000  U S S-OO-                                                                         USS'OOO
A. IDA Prolect Works Md Sopport-
ot. Servic.
Botto-1înds                      4,170           20,850           25,020           29,190           33,360        112,590
Erogo-, Work.                    2,948           22,110           29,480           36,850           44,220        135,608
IrproYed Botto l1ad. *nd
otll irrigation                 -              32,495           32,495           89,990           89,990        244,970
Village B.ildiesg                 7,605           8,896           12,699           16.501           20,304         66.005
Agricoltura1 Credit                -             28,125           28,125           28.125           28,125        112.500
UlJd.otified Projecta              -             33,750           33,750           33,750           33,750        135,000
Per.onnel                       49,990           71,980           91,780          136,800          151,900        502,450
Equipmet                        23,500           49,400           36,000           21,300           16,600        146,800
Operatieg Costs                  21,763          30,195           30,195           30,195           30,195        142,543
Trainin8                           -              12,540           5,620            6,320            3,540         30,020
Le... B1-1e. Credit 317-uv      <12425)            -                                                  -           (12.4255
Subtotel                 97,551          310,341          325,164          429,021          453,984      1,616,061
IDA (89%)                       86,820          276,203          289,396          381,829          404,046      1,438,294         I  I I  1,438,294   6,392.4            6.400
Covere.ent (11%)                 10,731          34,138           35,768           47,192           49,938         177,767
B.  BADEA Wall nd Tubell
Cownent and Relted Suport-
ine Servis.
Mcl1.                                            202,830          107,560          119,500          106,185        535,875
Tubeoells                                           -             52,110           63,110           52,110         167,330
Suppwrting teie.. teîatlog te
e11 briges                                      11,135            8,635           10,265            9,865         39,900
Maitteoance Brigde                                9,700            5,940            6.840            7.740          30.220
Subt.te1                                 233.665           174.045          199.715          175,900        773.325
SADEA (100%)                                    223,665          174,045          199,715           175,900       773,325
C. Techical Asist-ce                2310            61.861           65 917           68,192            3.536         222 606
UNDP                               -             22,861           26,917           29,192            3,536         82,506
FAC                              19,200          31,200           31,200           31,200              -           112,800
DScth  ovGrnmet                   3,900           7,b00            7,800            7,800             -            27,300
D. O.ch. Studies (Sec Annex 12
fr- detuls)
EtPotriaît Pereonoel               -              10.125           13.500          13.500              -           37,125
IDA (100%)                                       10,125           13,500           13,500             -            37,125         lIII        37,125     165.0              160
Conoulea.cy Service.                             170,550          75.375            11.250            -           257,175
IDA (100%)                         -            170,350           75,375            11,250            -           257,175          liIb      257.175   1.143.0            1.140
Othcr Expendit.res                               34,875            4. 50        0                      -            42,075
IDA (50%)                                        17,437            2,250            1,350             -            21,037         liI        21,037      93.5              100
Certa«nt                                          17,438            2,250            1,330                          21,038
E. Coetitg ec.                      10,136          109.674          137,851          204.813          226.996        689.472
IDA                              7,561           55,503           71,477          102,300          131,486        368,327         IV        368,327   1,637.0             1.600
bACE4                              -             39,971           44,079           70,079           77,933         232,062
UNDP                               -              2,823             5,585           8,510             1,328         18,246
FAC                               1,363           3,853             6,474           9,095              -            20,785
Dutch Govcro.et                    277              963             1,619           2,274              -             5,133
Cevern_nt                          935            6,561            8,617            12,555           16,251         44,919
2L121,958   9 430 9            9.400



ANNEX 8
Table 3
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Estimated Disbursements
Cumulative
US$'000             US$'000
First half FY'77                     1,500                 1,500
Second half FY'77                    1,200                 2,700
First half FY'78                     1,000                 3,700
Second half FY'78                    1,000                 4,700
Pirst half FY'79                     1,000                 5,700
Second half FY'79                    1,100                 6,800
Pirst half FY'80                     1,100                 7,900
Second half FY'80                    1,200                 9,100
First half FY'81                       300                 9,400
9,400



ANNEX 9
Page 1
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Organization and Management
General
1.        The main institutions concerned with Project implementation are:
(a) Rural-Development Fund (FDR),
(b) Rural Development Works Department (HAER), of the Ministry of Rural
Development, and the
(c) Regional Development Organizations (ORDs).
In addition there is an Interministerial Technical Committee which is respon-
sible for coordination and supervision of FDR activities.
2.        The studies for economic development of areas freed from
Onchocerciasis are a specific part of the project. Responsibilities for
executing this part of the project are in Annex 6.
Rural Development Fund (FDR)
3.        FDR will continue to be ultimately responsible for project execu-
tion. Under the project, it would be strengthened mainly in evaluation and
accounting to effectively manage the greatly increased scope of the second
fund.
4.        Responsibilities of FDR staff would include the following:
(a) assisting ORDs and HAER if necessary, in identifying and preparing
subprojects (pre-appraisal);
(b) appraising subproject proposals, in particular technical standards
of proposed works, degree of farmers' support, organizational
arrangements and implementation schedule, incremental production
to be expected, economic benefits and provisions for adequate main-
tenance;
(c) technical inspection upon completion ("reception "); together with
HAER;
(d) evaluating projects after completion, especially impact on agricul-
tural production as well as adequacy of maintenance, services pro-
vided by ORDs to support project investments;



ANNEX 9
Page 2
(e) purchasing equipment and materials needed for project execution;
(f)  administering all FDR accounts, including control on accounts
maintained by ORDs for FDR subprojects, and submitting audited
annual accounts to IDA;
(g)  preparing annual development programs, accompanied by budgets,
and submitting them for approval to the Interministerial Technical
Committee;
(h) preparing annual reports and semi-annual progress reports for sub-
mission to the Interministerial Technical Committee, to the Coor-
dination Committee on Rural Development, to the Director General
of BND, and to IDA; and
(i) preparing reimbursement applications for submission to IDA and
other external sources of finance.
5.        Present FDR staff consists of a director, an assistant accountant,
a secretary and two drivers. Staffing will be considerably strengthened by
appointing two evaluation officers, an accountant, a supply officer, two
additional drivers and an additional secretary.
6.        FDR is accommodated in the BND building.  FDR pays no rent for this
accommodation, but BND levies a 1% service charge on all FDR transactions.
Since present accommodation will be too small for an expanded FDR, accommoda-
tion will be rented elsewhere in Ouagadougou by the second half of 1976 and
additional office staff (messengers, cleaners, watchman) will have to be
hired. Project costs include the appropriate provision for these expenditures
and the 1% service charge would be abolished after FDR has rented its own
office.
7.        FDR accounts have not yet been audited.  However, before negotia-
tions, auditors would be appointed. It is envisaged that auditing will take
place in July/August 1976 and that the auditors' report will be available by
the end of December 1976. The auditors will also advise FDR about its account-
ing system, which needs to be improved to allow better stock inventory and more
detailed analysis of costs. The appointment of an FDR accountant and supply
officer would safeguard implementation of these accounting improvements.
8.        Two expatriate evaluation officers would be appointed to assist FDR
in appraisal and evaluation. Few data were collected under RDF I, and con-
siderable improvements are required for monitoring and evaluation. The eval-
uation officers would have the following qualifications:
(a) agricultural economist, very experienced in all aspects of agri-
culture, socio-economic evaluation, appraisal techniques, and plan-
ning and programming; some experience with livestock and agricul-
tural processing would be useful;



ANNEX 9
Page 3
(b)  rural engineer, with some economie background, very experienced
in land and water development projects, such as those proposed
under this project, and in well and tubewell construction. His
agricultural and economic background should be sufficient to enable
him to participate fully in evaluation;
Both officers would work under the Director of FDR. They would be responsible
for appraisal and evaluation of subprojects, and assist ORDs where necessary
in identification. They would assist with planning and programming of FDR
activities, although this would be the main responsibility of the Director.
They would also organize in collaboration with ORDs a system to monitor and
evaluate subproject results. The rural engineer would be specifically re-
sponsible for technical inspection together with HAER. The first task of the
evaluation officers would be to prepare an evaluation report of RDF I.
9.        FDR would prepare reports and budgets as follows:
(a) Budgets would be prepared semi-annually to allow their use for
fiscal years (January to December) and project years (July to
June). Budgets would be submitted to the Interministerial Tech-
nical Committee for approval and would be subsequently forwarded
to IDA for monitoring.
(b) Statements of project expenditures and use of funds will be pre-
pared twice a year (as of end December, and as of end June);
they would be forwarded to IDA together with the progress reports.
(c) Progress reports, in a form satisfactory to IDA, would be prepared
twice a year. They would be submitted to IDA and also to the
Interministerial Technical Committee in January and July of each
year.
(d) An annual detailed report would be prepared, as presently, which
should cover the project year. It should be available three months
after the end of the project year. This report would be widely
distributed and among the recipients would be IDA, other donors,
the Interministerial Technical Committee, and the Coordinating
Committee for Rural Development.
(e) Audited accounts and the auditors' report in a form satisfactory
to IDA would be forwarded to IDA within four months after the
end of the project year.  The first auditors' report is likely
to be available by the end of 1976 (see para. 7) and would
cover the period 1972 to June 30, 1976.
10.       FDR has proven to be an efficient channel for financing of scattered
agricultural investments. This has been recognized by other donors such as
USAID which asked FDR to manage its medium-term credit fund. This is an
efficient use of scarce management resources. However, different donors have



ANNEX 9
Page 4
different procedures (especially for procurement and disbursements) which might
not simplify joint management of separate project funds for which further addi-
tional staffing is likely to be needed. Therefore, although in principal the
use of FDR as a channel for investments by other donors should be encouraged,
the implications should be carefully studied, and IDA agreement for this would
have to be obtained.
Interministerial Technical Committee
11.       It was a condition of effectiveness for Credit 317-UV that an Inter-
ministerial Technical Committee would be established. This committee was
established 1/ with a large membership 2/ as follows: the Minister of Rural
Development (Chairman), a representative of the Prime Minister's office,
Director General of Education, Director General of Health, Director of Agri-
cultural Services Department, Director of HAER, Director of Livestock Depart-
ment, Director of Forestry Department, Director of Public Works Department,
Director of BND, Director of the Treasury, Director of the Budget, a repre-
sentative of the Ministry of Planning, Director of Social Affairs, and the
Director of FDR. This committee being too large met only sporadically in
the past, but has served as a useful forum to promote FDR. This is hardly re-
quired anymore and can further be better handled by the recently established
Coordinating Committee for Rural Development.
12.       An Interministerial Technical Committee was also set up in 1974 3/
for the Drought Relief Fund Project (Credit 442-UV). Its membership is almost
identical to the Interministerial Technical Committee which was established for
FDR with the exception of the Minister of Commerce, Industrial Development and
Mining who is Vice President of the "drought committee" and the representative
of the Prime Minister's Office who is not a member of the "drought committee."
13.       The two interministerial technical committees would be abolished and
one new interministerial technical committee created for supervision of FDR.
Membership of the new committee would be as follows:
Chairman: Minister of Rural Development
Members:   The Minister of Planning, or a senior representative
Director of the Permanent Secretariat for ORDs
Director of BND
Director of HAER
Director of Agricultural Services
Director of the Budget
Director of the Treasury
Secretary: Director of FDR
1/   Decret No. 72-142/PM/AGRI/EL dated July 21, 1972.
2/   The committee was established in 1972 and since that time Government
has been reorganized various times. Nomenclature used in this
paragraph does not reflect the edict, but present Government structure.
3/   Decret No. 74/902/PRES/PL-DR-E dated March 28, 1974.



ANNEX 9
Page 5
Two additional members such as the Director of the Livestock Department,
and the Director of the Forestry Department would be co-opted if FDR would
undertake activities in these fields. The committee would meet at least
twice a year, but preferably quarterly. Since the Director of the Permanent
Secretariat for ORDs is a member of the committee he will decide if there
are any policy issues which need to be referred to the Coordinating Committee
for Rural Development.
14.       In addition to this official committee, the Director of FDR would
meet at least quarterly with the Directors of the five ORDs on the plateau
Mossi. 1/ However this would not be an official committee.
Rural Development Works Department (HAER)
15.       Under RDF I, HAER was responsible for all engineering and design,
and subsequently for execution of subprojects. This was clearly a constraint
since HAER executive capacity is limited. Under the project main responsibil-
ity for traditional bottomland development, erosion control works, and village
buildings would rest with ORDs and HAER would concentrate on technically more
complex works such as small-scale irrigation and improved bottomland develop-
ment and on well construction and tubewell drilling. However, HAER is the
technical department in the Ministry of Rural Development, and as such has to
safeguard technical standards nationwide. Therefore, HAER would be responsi-
ble for:
(a) guidelines and standards for engineering and design by other organ-
izations; and
(b) technical inspection upon completion ("reception") together with
FDR.
16.       Although HAER was fully staffed during RDF I at a certain point in
time, it was mostly understaffed and lacked experienced personnel, which
seriously limited its executing capability. Under the project FAC will pro-
vide expatriate technical assistance to HAER as follows:
(a) senior rural engineer, who would be the technical advisor to the
FDR coordinator in HAER;
(b) junior rural engineer who would be responsible for small-scale
irrigation and improved bottomlands;
1/   Ouagadougou, Koupela, Kaya, Yatenga, Koudougou.



ANNEX 9
Page 6
(c) topographical engineer who would be responsible for evaluating
topographical studies and for overall guidance to ORDs regarding
topographical studies and land surveys; and
(d) well brigade leader.
17.       An assistant to the Director of HAER will also be appointed to
coordinate all FDR activities in HAER. He will provide and arrange the
necessary administrative and logistic support for project execution by HAER.
He will provide the channel of communication between HAER and FDR, and will
also be responsible for HAER reporting.
18.       Tubewell drilling is executed and managed from a base in Dori pre-
sently by an expatriate, but a Voltaic counterpart is being trained. The
manager undertakes the necessary coordination with HAER. No similar organiza-
tion exists for well construction. In order not to necessitate each well
brigade leader to communicate separately with HAER and to speed up administra-
tive support, a coordinator for the four well brigades would be appointed to be
responsible for the FDR-financed well construction program, and for providing
the channel of communication with HAER. A small base, which would be easy
to relocate, would be created for storage and maintenance so as to reduce time-
consuming reliance on faraway central HAER facilities in Ouagadougou. The
base would be staffed by a supply officer and mechanic.
19.       The project provides finance for the above HAER staff and related
equipment and operating costs (details are in Annex 7, Tables 3, 4 and 5).
In addition, two HAER topographical brigades for land survey work will be
funded under the project.
Regional Development Organizations (ORDs)
20.       ORDs have recently been reorganized.  There are still shortages
of staff, procedures have to be further detailed and accounting is weak.
Given these constraints ORDs perform reasonably well. Although ORDs un-
doubtedly can use more support, this has to be provided by Government within
the framework of the Permanent Secretariat for ORDs. Under the project only
specific support related to project investments will be provided.
21.       The role of ORDs in project execution would be expanded under
RDF II. In addition to existing tasks of identification and supervision
subprojects, and provision of supporting services to project beneficiaries,
ORDs would also undertake engineering, design and execution of simple works
(bottomlands and erosion control works) and of village buildings. There-
fore, ORD land development sections will be strengthened under the project
by:
(a) providing services of expatriate volunteers at, the junior
topographical engineer ]evel to supervise land survey work and
land development work;



ANNEX 9
Page 7
(b) providing topographical brigades to do land survey work;
and
(c) providing tractors for use in land development works.
The actual situation in this respect in October 1975 was as follows: in
Ouagadougou and Koupela, ORD volunteers were already assisting with topo-
graphical work. The Ouagadougou ORD had already organized a topographical
brigade although it was badly equipped. To remedy this, three more volunteers
were requested from the Dutch Government and arrived in Upper Volta by the
end of December 1975. The project will finance staff of four topographical
brigades, and provide topo equipment and tractors to the five ORDs on the
plateau Mossi.
22.       Ineffective extension and poor maintenance of land and water devel-
opment projects have, as noted in Annex 2, mainly resulted from lack of per-
sonnel. Therefore, it was decided to recruit and finance extension workers
directly under RDF I. This practice will be continued under RDF II. The
number of extension workers based on estimates (detailed in Table 1) which
relate number of extension workers to the development program of the project,
to be financed would be as follows:
1975/76      40
1976/77      60
1977/78     100
1978/79     150
1979/80     200
23.       Project investments are part of ORDs' overall investment program
and should be incorporated in that program as such. Therefore, ORDs have a
specific responsibility to ensure that this is the case. This is not the
responsibility of FDR, although they obviously "as bankers" have an interest
in the good performance of ORDs and may therefore discuss the relation between
FDR investments and the ORDs' overall development program from time to time.
This applies even more emphatically to the land and water development projects
which have to fit within regional land planning. It makes no sense to develop
a small area without thinking about wider regional land planning, especially
in the case of erosion control water. Land development sections of ORDs
should take this into account in making detailed proposals for land develop-
ment subprojects. The data collection for studies for economic development
of areas freed from onchocerciasis will cover a large part of Upper Volta and
land development sections should use the data (especially aerial photography
might be useful) so made available for their land planning purposes.
24.       ORDs will provide extension, credit and input supply services to
participants on subprojects and will also undertake supervision of main-
tenance of completed subprojects. Therefore, ORDs basically would ensure
the success of the various subprojects. It is important that both ORDs
and Government realize this and that adequate funds and support be provided
to ORDs to enable them to ensure successful and efficient operation and main-
tenance on subprojects.



ANNEX 9
Page 8
Responsibilities in the Subproject Cycle
25.       A schedule of responsibilities in the subproject cycle is
attached as Table 2, which should be self-explanatory. A schedule of
responsibilities for project agricultural credit is attached as Table 3,
which also should be self-explanatory but further details are in Annex 5.
Responsibilities with regard to executing the training component are de-
tailed in Annex 10.
26.       In initial identification of subprojects, two basic criteria
would be applied. These are that the subproject would be:
(a) of a nature for which strong farmers' demand or support exists
to the extent that - if construction becomes necessary -
unskilled labor would be freely provided; and
(b)  small-scale, requiring onlyai,nmple organizational arrangements
+ ''ftiinimum equipment and materîfà-t, for construction.
Having met these criteria, priority would be given to projects which would
enlarge or improve upon existing investments seeking to improve agricultural
production and increase rural incomes.
27.       Subprojects that would pass the above test would be further
elaborated and appraised by FDR. In the case of traditional bottomlands,
erosion control works and village buildings, in-depth appraisal of each sub-
project would not be necessary; for traditional bottomlands and erosion con-
trol, FDR would satisfy itself that information is complete (farmers' agree-
ment, adequate design, cost estimates, number and size of holdings, timing
of construction, adequate organizational arrangements and extension) and that
the works would fall within the "standard" type on which experience has al-
ready been gained. For village warehouses, FDR would in addition require
that they be built only if a sufficient number of farmers already use fertil-
izer, seeds or insecticides or that such demand is likely to develop in re-
lation to other subprojects (bottomlands, irrigation, erosion control) or
that storage demand for crop is substantial. As far as village centers are
concerned, FDR will also ensure that no similar buildings already exist or
are being planned under other projects or programs. Improved bottomlands
and irrigation schemes would be subject to full appraisal by FDR. The annual
/  rogram of investments in improved bottomlands and irrigation schemes would
t'<appo ~For new types o   proje
~nanced byFDR under the category of "unidentified projects" the proposals
would be appraised, fully documented and submitted to IDA for approval.1 No
---Fîna ncaa6-d--eonôuId bappmI-d* ahfo`r -wèlZ coïïs'iiïr-t-c , the
criteria for village selection adopted under the RDF I (number of villagers
being served by the proposed well and extent - or security - of alternative
water sources) would continue to apply. An additional factor would, however,
be the extent to which villagers own cattle which are using existing water
points in or around the village throughout the year. Criteria for farmers'
eligibility for medium-term credit are described in Annex 5; ORDs would
group farmers' credit requests for submission to FDR.



ANNEX 9
Page 9
28.       All subproject proposals would be grouped into a development
program to be submitted each year by FDR to the Interministerial Technical
Committee for approval.
29.       Monitoring and evaluation of results obtained from investments in
subprojects are important to determine the benefits and effectiveness of the
"Fund." Under RDF I, this was not actively pursued due to manpower con-
straints.  However, under RDF II, a monitoring and evaluation system will be
established in FDR which will be run by two evaluation officers to be
appointed under UNDP assistance. This will cover all investments made under
RDF I and will be expanded from year to year to cover investments made under
RDF II. FDR will ultimately be responsible for evaluation, but ORDs, by
accepting investments from FDR, will undertake to collect all necessary data
for this purpose.
30.       The monitoring and evaluation system would be maintained at ORD
and/or HAÉR, duplicatea at-I1R neadquàrters.A file would be established
at the time o  camp etion for each subproject and would contain the major
physical and cost characteristics. After completion, further data would be
collected by ORD extension workers, which should measure the various bene-
fits of the subproject. Summary tabulations would be prepared quarterly
by ORDs and forwarded to FDR, together with the supporting details. FDR
would further process these data, and would, based on a 10% sample of all
subprojects ever financed by FDR, undertake actual verification. The annual
report of FDR would contain a separate volume which would detail evaluation
results. In addition, FDR would make specific subproject oriented evalua-
tion studies.
31.       Data to be collected would be determined by FDR.  However, it is
obvious that data collection would be different for "productive" versus "non-
productive" investment. Whereas it may always be possible to compare results
of productive investment with a sample of those farmers without investment,
such comparison would not be meaningful for nonproductive investment. In
order to obtain measurable benefits for nonproductive investments, one should
therefore collect data from the prospective beneficiaries prior to investment
and compare the same data after investment.
32.       Data collection requirements will be specified by FDR.  A few will
be highlighted below:
Evaluation data for productive investments:
(a) completion data (costs, physical characteristics);
(b)  measurement of inputs and agricultural supporting services pro-
vided by the ORDs;
(c)  measurement of output (yields and income);
(d) measurement of maintenance performance;



ANNEX 9
Page 10
(e)  measurement of farmer response to other agricultural supporting
services (e.g., credit) not directly related to the subproject;
(f)  data sample collection of farmers not benefiting from project in-
vestments.
Evaluation data for "nonproductive" investments:
(a) before investment data (for wells, for example, existing sources
of water supply in various seasons, number of livestock, water
supply related data such as health and use of water);
(b) after investment data (identical);
(c) determination of which before investment sources are still being
used and for what purposes;
(d) measurement of maintenance performance;
(e) measurement of perceived benefits by beneficiaries.
It is obvious that the above indicates that only few data are needed, and will
have to be refined and expanded in a continuous dialogue between ORDs and FDR
and between FDR and IDA.



ANNEX 9
Table 1
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Caloulation of Ektension Workers' Requirements
Year       Area          Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6   Year 7   Year 8   Year 9   Year 10
1975         300            6.o      3.0      2.0       1.5      1.5      1.5       1.5      1.5       1.5
1976       2,000            -       40.0     20.0      13.3     10.0     10.0      10.0     10.0      10.0
1977       2,600            -        -       52.0      26.o     17.3     13.0      13.0     13.0      13.0
1978       3,200            -        -        -        64.o     32.0      21.3     16.o     16.0      16.0
1979       3,800            -        _        _         _       76.o      38.0     25.3     19.0      19.0
11,900           6.0      43.0     74.0    104.8    136.8      83.8      65.8     59.5      59.5     59.5
3/          4/
1975           -            -        -        -         -        -         -        -        -         -        -
1976        75              -       15.0      7.5       5.0      3.75      3.75     3.75     3.75      3.75
1977        75              -        -       15.0       7.5      5.0       3.75     3.75      3.75     3.75
1978       175              -        -        -        35.0     17.5     11.7       8.75     8.75      8.75
1979       175              -        -        -         -       35.0     17.5      11.7      8.75      8.75
500             -       15.0      22.5     47.5      61.25    36.7     27.95    25.0      25.0      25.0
Total                       6       58       97       153      199      121        94       85        85       85
3/
Rounded                    40       60      100       150      200      120        90       85        85       85
1/  Bottomland and anti-erosion works together.
2/ Based on 1 extension worker for 50 ha in year 1; 1 for 100 ha in year 2; 1 for 150 ha in year 3; and 1 for 200 ha for
year 4 onwards.
3/ Irrigation and improved bottomlands together.
4/ Based on 1 extension worker for 5 ha in year 1; 1 for 10 ha in year 2; 1 for 15 ha in year 3; and 1 for 20 ha from
year 4 onwards.
5/ 40 extension workers already financed under RDF I (Credit 317-UV).



ANNEX 9
Table 2
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Schedule of Responsibilities in Subproject Cycle
Bottomlands               Erosion           Small         Village          Well 4/
Unidentified
Traditional          Improved      Control         Irrigation    Buildings      Construction
Every
Identification          ORD           ORD/HAER          ORD            ORD/HAER         ORD            HAER                     3/
Department
2/
Preappraisal            FDR              FDR            FDR               FDR           FDR        HAER/FDR               FDR
Engineering/                                               1/                              1/
ORD            HAER            ORD              HAER           ORD            HAER           By Identifying
Design                                                                                                               Department
2/
Appraisal               FDR              FDR            FDR               FDR           FDR             FDR               FDR
Implementation          ORD             HAER            ORD              HAER           ORD            HAER           By Identifying
Department
Technical
End             HAER/FDR        IRAER/FDR        HAER/FDR        HAER/FDR        HAER/FDR     HAER/FDR             HAER/FDR
Inspection   j_
Evaluation           FDR/ORD         FDR/HAER         FDR/ORD         FDR/HAER        FDR/ORD      FDR/RAER              FDR
Follow-up            ORD           ORD/HAER          ORD            ORD/HAER         ORD        ORD/HAER               ORD/
By Identifying
IDepartmnent
1/ General guidelines would be specified by HAER.
2/ On an annual approval basis for the program.
3/ Could be OPDs, HAER, or any other government department.
4/ Tubewell drilling would follow the same schedule of responsibilities.



ANNEX 9
Table a
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Schedule of Responsibilities for Agricultural Credit
1. Identification of
ORD
potential borrowers (all Year)
2.  First approval of                                                3/
ORD/BND
borrowers            (december)
3. Final of
FDR
borrowers            (January)
4.  Signing loan agreement (January)                        farmer/BND
5.  Disbursements         (March/April)                         FDR
6. Follow-up and
BND
repayments (throughout repayment period)
7.  Evaluation (throughout repayment period)                FDR/ORD
1/ BND's credit officer would visit all ORDs to assist in first approval
of borrowers.



ANNEX 10
Page 1
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Training
1.        General.  Lack of trained and experienced personnel remains a
major constraint to effective project implementation in Upper Volta. Com-
petent expatriate technical assistance is considered necessary in the fields
of evaluation, engineering and topographical survey.
2.        Training under the Project.  The training component under RDF
II 1/ has been determined by taking into account:
(a) the specific staff requirements of RDF II; and
(b) ongoing training activities.
and would comprise:
(a) training and scholarships for Voltaic counterparts of expatriate
project officers (evaluation officers, engineers, technicians);
(b) consultancy services to determine future training needs of exten-
sion workers and to design a master plan for their training;
and
(c) scholarships for short rural development courses for ORD staff
or villagers responsible for small rural development projects.
3.        The following scholarships for Voltaic counterparts would be pro-
vided under the project:
-    three scholarships for rural engineers who would study for three years
at the International School for Rural Engineers at Ouagadougou;
-    twelve scholarships for agricultural technicians who would study for
two years at the International School for Agricultural Technicians
near Ouagadougou; and
-    six scholarships for "Agents des Travaux Agricoles" who would study
at the Matourkou College near Bobo-Dioulasso.
In addition Voltaic evaluation officers would be trained under UNDP technical
assistance, which provides for 96 manmonths of training scholarships. However,
although scholarships obviously would be for agro-economic and technical eval-
uation, no school or institute where training would take place has yet been
selected.
1/   No training component was included under RDF I.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
4.        International School for Rural Engineers (Ecole Inter-Etats
d'Ingenieurs de l'Equipement Rural). The school is located in Ouagadougou,
and was established in 1968 by 13 African countries to provide training for
future high level officials responsible for rural engineering. Candidates
must have two years of university study, including irrigation, or pass a com-
petitive entrance examination. Study takes three years and main topics in-
clude: economics, planning procedures, infrastructure, health, energy, and
water resource management.
5.        International School for Agricultural Technicians (Ecole Inter-
Etats des Techniciens Superieurs de l'Hydraulique et de l'Equipement Rural
de Kamboinse). The school was established in 1965 and aims at providing
students with practical background in agricultural development. Candidates
must have a "baccalaureat" 1/ or pass a competitive entrance examination.
Two-year courses are given and among the topics studied are hydraulics,
topography and rural works. The School's Board of Directors is the same
as for the International School for Rural Engineers. Training capacity of
the school will be expanded from the present 30 students to 80 students.
6.        Matourkou.  Training facilities in Matourkou include:
(a) training of extension workers (one year); and
(b) training of "Agents des Travaux Agricoles" (four years).
7.        The Matourkou College provides training for "Agents des Travaux
Agricoles." Courses take four years to complete. A "Brevet d'Enseignement
Agricole" concludes the first three years of study. The first four months
of the fourth year are used for on-the-job training and the remainder of
the fourth year is used for general courses such as administration, manage-
ment and community development.  After final examinations the "Brevet d'Agent
Technique" is issued. Admission level is "Brevet d'Enseignement Premier
Cycle." 2/ There is no specialization during the first two years, but after-
wards students specialize in either agriculture, livestock, or forestry and
water resources.
8.        CESAO.  This center was established in 1960 and has since been
assisted by various aid agencies. Originally its purpose was to provide
two years education in economics and sociology. Since the advent of the
70s, however, foeus has shifted towards shorter courses directed towards
understanding of rural development, mainly at the village and lower project
executive levels. CESAO offers two types of courses: (a) "cycles", three-
month courses at the center for about 15 to 20 participants from different
countries in West Africa, but about half come from Upper Volta; and (b)
"sessions", courses of about one to two weeks given at the center or in
the field.
1/   "Baccalaureat" is the French secondary school completion degree.
2/   A certificate obtained at the end of the lower secondary cycle of
-    education.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
9.        Execution of Training Component.  The Director of FDR would
in principle be responsible for execution of the training component.
-    Candidates for scholarships at the International School for Rural
Engineering and the International School for Agricultural Tech-
nicians would be selected by the Director of FDR and the Director
of HAER.
-    Candidates for scholarships at the Matourkou College would be
selected by the Director of FDR in consultation with the Director
of HAER and the Directors of ORDs.
-    Candidates for evaluation training would be selected by the
Director of FDR in consultation with UNDP.
-    Candidates for courses at CESAO would be selected by the Director
of FDR in consultation with Directors of ORDs but also after con-
sultation with the Project Director of the Bank's Education Proj-
ect. 1/ The objective of the latter being that when these CESAO
courses are almost identical to the training component for
extension workers and managers of small projects under the Edu-
cation Project, most candidates would be selected from the Mossi
plateau ORDs not covered by the Education Project; when the courses
are different, the results will be compared with those obtained
under the Education Project.
After the proper selection procedures have been followed, the Director of
FDR would be responsible for the necessary follow-up action.
10.       Extension Study.  Matourkou provides training for about 100 ex-
tension workers annually, but has only limited staff. Some ORDs (report-
edly Ouagadougou, Kaya and Yatenga) have now organized their own training
programs for extension workers.  However, although output of extension
workers might be sufficient, from the narrow project point of view, there
are some doubts about quality of extension worker training and adequacy
of training facilities in relation to future overall manpower requirements.
Government is aware of this and has certain ideas on possible solutions
such as regionalizing Matourkou into three or four institutes. What is
needed however is a short study to pull the various elements and ideas
together and to provide a concise proposal for future action. This
could then be used to take decisions and if necessary form the basis to
approach aid agencies for necessary funding. Provision has been made under
the project for consultants to assist in making an extension training study.
Consultant(s) would be selected by the Ministry of Rural Development, but
the qualifications, terms of reference and terms of employment of these
consultants would be satisfactory to IDA. The aim would be to have the study
completed in 1977. For practical purposes the small disbursements involved
would be channeled through FDR.
1/   The Director of the Education Project is assisted by a Bureau of Pedagogy
which includes some 14 training specialists.



UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEvELOPMDIT FUND PROJECT
Illustrative Fa-r Budget (4 Da) - R.ineAd Crops With Erosion Control Work. 12/
0RTH-------- ---------N                    -   ------------------- ~~~~~~~~-~~----C E N T R ÀL; ------------------------    --------------------- S 0 U T H -----------------------
........  (Rinfal less  , than 700 m) .........    ............... (R.inf.l baet           00 ..ond 900 _) ..............    ............ (Rainf1 ..... ee di.g 900   ) .
Before Improvefent          Aftrer Improveent             Before Improveçent                    After 1mprove.ent              Before Improveeent              Aft-er Iareveeent
lIait     Cereais   Groudnuts    Cerenis   Groundnutt    Cere-in   Groundnuts   Cotton    Cereaes   Groundnuts   Catton    Cereals   Gro,udnut.    Cereals   Graund.ute   Cotton
Area                                      ha           3.8            0.2         3.8           0.2          3.6           0.2       0.2         3.6            0.2       0.2         3.8            0.2         3.0           0.2        0.8
Yield                                   kg/h.        400            350         460           400         500            450       300         650           585        500         600           550          870           800       700
Production                                kg       1,520            70       1,748             80       1,800             90        60       2,340           117        100      2,280            110       2,610            160       560
Far-g.te price                       CFAF/kg          22             25          22            25           22            25        39          22             25        39          22             25          22            25        39
Grn.s v-lue of production                CFAF    33,440           1,i50     38,456          2,000      39,600          2,250    2,340       51,480         2,925    3,900        50,160         2,750      57,420          4,000   21,8640
Total value of production               CFAF           35,190                     40,456                    44,190                               58,305                               52,910                     83,260
Agrirultura1 production -tst
Se edi                                CFAF         669 1/        450 2/      669 3/         450 3/      634 Il        450 3/       - 4/      634 3/        450 3/       - 4/     669 1/         450 2/      528 3/         450 3/      - 4/
Fertilizer                            CFAF                  -             -                  -             -                       -           -           350 6/   525 7/          -             -       5,250 9/         700 ID/ 4,200 11/
P.stitiden                            CFAF- -                                    -           -             -                     136 5         -             -       408 8à/        -             -            -             -    1.632 8/
Total                               CFAF         669           450         669            450         634           450       136          634           800       933         669            450       5,778          1,150    5,832
Net -a1ue of production                  CFAF    32,171          1,300      37,787          1,550      38,966          1,800    2,204       50,846         2,125    2,967       49,491          2,300      51,642          2,850   16,008
Total net value                                        34,071                     39,337                    42,970                               55,930                               51,791                     70,500
Incre-ental value of production
p-r f-rm                              CFAF           +5,266  (+15.5%)                                     12,968 (+30.2%)                                                         +18,709 (+36.1%)
M-ndays                                                   274                        274                        274                                 274                                  267                        297
Return pur manday                        CFAF             124                        124                        157                                 204                                   194                       237
1/  8 kg/ha at 22 CFAF/kg.
2/ 90 kg/ha et 25 CFAF/kg.
3/ Improved useed6 t 22 CFAF/kg for cereals, 25 CFAF/kg for groundnuts.
4/  Oueds are gi-e  te farmers hy A..octatien U.V./C.F.D.T.
5/  1 spray  per ha vf 2 litter  at 340 CFAF/1.
6/  50 kg/ha T.S.P. et 35 FCFA/kg.
7/  75 kg/hn N.P. fertilieer at 35 CFAF/kg.
8/ 3 sprays totaling 6 litera/ha et 340 CFAF/1.
9/ 50 kg/ha -rea ut 35 CFAF/kg.
10/  100 kg/ha T.S.F. at 35 CFAF/kg.
11/  100 kg/ha N.P. - 50 kg/ho  -rea at 35 CFAF/ha,
12/ Tir reotrl budget is u-ed for fuuther cencuJations in the report.



ANNEX 11
Table 2
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Illustrative Farm Budget (0.2 ha) - Paddy in Bottomlands and Improved Bottomlands
1/
After Improvement
Unit                     Bottomlands         Improved Bo.
Area                                ha                               0.2               0.2
Yield                               kg/ha                        1,500             2,200
Production                          kg                             300               440
Farmgate Price                      CFAF/kg                         35                35
Value of Production                 CFAF                        10,500            15,400
Agricultural Production Costs:
Seeds 2/                            CFAF                           700               700
Fertilizers                                                          P.M.              P.M.
Pesticides                                                           P.M.              P.M.
Total Agricultural Costs 3/         CFAF                           700               700
Net Value of Production             CFAF                         9,800            14,700
Incremental Net Value of
Production                        CFAF                         9,800             4,900
Mandays                             Days                            22                22
Net Income per Manday               CFAF                           445               668
1/  Most bottomlands are not cultivated before they are developed.
2/  14 kg at 50 CFAF
3/  Cost recovery not included as farmers themselves would be responsible for maintenance
of the works (bunds in case of traditional development and bunds and small irrigation
structures for improved bottomlands). Labor requirements for maintenance have been
estimated at 20 and 30 mandays respectively for traditional and improved bottomlands.



ANNEX.ll
Table 3
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
1/                                   2/
Illustrative farm budget (0.2 ha) - Paddy in small irrigation scheme
Unit       l ha          0.3 ha       0.3 ha
Production                               Kgs        3,500         1,050        1,050
Farmgate price                           CFAF/Kg       35            35           35
Gross Value of production                CFAF     122,500        36,750       36,750
Agricultural Productions Costs
Seeds 3/                                 CFAF       2,000           600          600
Fertilizer 4/                            CFAF      10,500         3,150        3,150
Pesticides                               CFAF       6,ooo         1,800        1,800
Cost recovery 5/                         CFAF      15,400           400        4,420 6/
Total production costs                   CFAF      33,900         5,950        9,970
Net Value of Production                  CFAF      88,600        30,800       26,780
Number of mandays                        Days         128            38.4         38.4
Return per manday                        CFAF         692           802          697
1/  Farmsize would be 0.2 ha and cropping intensity 150 (i.e., 0.1 ha double cropping)
this intensity is based upon average characteristics of reservoirs (capacity
evaporation) and replenishment conditions during the rainy season.
2/ Small irrigation scheme downstream from small dams.
3/ 40 kg/ha at 50 CFAF/kg
4/ 100 kg of ammonia phosphate at 35 CFAF/kg;
150 kg of urea at 35 CFAF/kg;
50 kg of potassium chloride at 35 CFAF/kg.
5/ Cost recovery is assumed as stipulated in decree no. 9 of September 5, 1973,
article 7, and is valid for irrigated perimeters; each farmer would pay as a cost re-
covery: (i) an "amortization" recovery of 13,400 CFAF per ha and per crop, starting
at year 4 and (ii) a maintenance recovery of 2,000 CFAF/ha per year to be paid
from year 1. Cost recovery is not strongly enforced so two budgets were calculated,
one with full, the other with partial recovery. In any case, according to the law
full recovery would not start until year 4.
6/ Amortization recovery: 13,400 x 0.3 = 4.020
Maintenance recovery:    2,000 x 0.2 =  .400
Total   = 4.420 CFAF



ANNEX Il
Table 4
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Illustrative Farm Budget (6 ha) with Oxen-Drawn Equipment _/
Cereals            Cotton          Total
Area                                  3.0                 3.0
Yield (kg/ha)                       870                 700
Production (kg)                   2>610              2,100
Farmgate Price (CFAF/kg)             22                 39
Gross value of Production
(CFAF)                       57,420              81,900         139,320
Agricultural Production
Costs (CFAF
Seeds                             528
Fertilizer                      5>250             15,750
Pesticides                     _  --               6,120
Total                         5 778             21,870           27,/648
Credit Repayments (CFAF)                                             21,194  /
Net Income (CFAF)                                                     90,478
Mandays (No)                        135                 261              396
Return per manday (CFAF)                                                 228
1/ Assumes a farm size of 6 ha, labor availability of about 4 active people,
and oxen drawn equipment.
2/  Based on equipment costs of CFAF 65,000 and credit of five years, with
one year grace, and interest at 8%.
Note:  A farmer could also make a profit on his oxen, in the sense that he
buys his oxen at 3 years old and sells them at 6 years old. The price dif-
ferential between purchase and sale would be more than sufficient to cover
feed costs (i.e., one ox 3 years old 25,000; 6 years old 45,000, estimated
feed costs 2,500 annually).



ANNEX 12
Page 1
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Economic Benefits
1.        The proposed project basically provides a line of credit to FDR
for investment in small-scale scattered subprojects, to be selected by
FDR in accordance with procedures detailed in Annex 9. Although benefits
can be identified for individual subprojects, as has been done for typical
holdings in the.farm budgets in Annex 11, economic calculations can only
be tentative since most investment decisions upon which the rate of return
ultimately will depend, are yet to be made. For purposes of calculating
the cost of the Rural Development Fund, a development program (see Annex 4)
for works to be executed during the project period has been established.
Assuming that the mix of subprojects in this development program will
materialize, calculations have been made to assess the economic impact of
the line of credit of FDR.
2.        Assumptions in calculating this economie rate of return are as
follows:
(a) Project Life
The project life is assumed to be 20 years and there is no residual
value after that period.
(b) Project Costs
The costs are basically those shown in Annex 7, however, with the
following adjustments;
(i) price contingencies have been omitted;
(ii) identifiable taxes have been excluded;
(iii) the project component for unidentified subprojects has been
excluded;
(iv) the costs for studies for economic development of areas freed
from onchocerciasis have been excluded (see Annex 6 for their
justification);
(v) costs of extension services are not confined to the project
period, but have been extended over the life of the project
in accordance with a schedule of extension workers needed.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
Equipment and operating costs have also been extended over
the life of the project (at 5%) to reflect other overheads
mainly of ORDs needed to provide services to project
beneficiaries;
(vi) maintenance needs for tubewells are reflected in extending
the costs of the maintenance well brigade throughout the
life of the project; and
(vii) hired skilled labor used in construction is valued at the
various prevailing rates for the specific kind of labor
required, but freely provided farm and village labor 1/ has
not been valued, as this is provided during the dry season
when there are no other employment opportunities.
(c) Incremental and Maintenance Costs
Incremental on farm costs have been calculated based on incre-
mental physical input requirements, as shown in the farm budgets
for land and water development subprojects in Annex 11. For
bottomland and irrigation development incremental and total re-
quirements are identical. Incremental farm labor requirements
have been valued at CFAF 100/day since labor is required and
employed during the agricultural season. Labor is also required
for maintaining land and water development schemes and this
would be provided by the farmers, but since maintenance would be
executed during the dry season when there are no other employment
opportunities, maintenance labor has been valued at zero. The
involvement of technical services in maintenance of more complex
works has been reflected by CFAF 2,000 service charge/ha for im-
proved bottomland and small irrigation works.
(d) Benefit
(i) Estimated output from land and water development projects
are in Table 1. Outputs occur the year after investments
since calculations are based on project years (July 1 -
June 30) rather than calendar years.
1/   Farm and village labor has been valued at CFAF 100/day--the prevailing
rural payment for labor--during the agricultural season, when most rural
labor is fully employed. In the dry season, there are no employment
opportunities (except for some self-help schemes) and rural labor in this
period has not been valued. Two different rates for labor during differ-
ent seasons have been used rather than one wage rate reflecting an aver-
age, which would take employment opportunities in the various seasons
into account, to be used in the whole year.



ANNEX 12
Page 3
(ii)  Economic prices for project output are ,alculated in Tables
2 to 5 and are as follows:
Cereals              39 CFAF/kilo
Paddy                50 CFAF/kilo
Groundnuts           43 CFAF/kilo
Cotton               85 CFAF/kilo
Economic prices for cereals and paddy are based on import
substitution values, those for groundnuts and cotton on
export parity.
(iii) Project output from small irrigation projects is based on
paddy production. Vegetables could also be produced. Al-
though this would be more profitable, this has not been
taken into account because division in paddy and vegetable
output from these projects would be very arbitrary.
(iv) Benefits from agricultural credit are twofold: saved mandays
and acreage expansion. Based on an average equipment cost of
CFAF 65,000 about 1,700 farmers would benefit. Manday savings
are estimated at 80 days per holding. These have been valued
at CFAF 100, since savings occur during the agricultural sea-
son.  During that season, a family has sufficient alternative
agricultural work to employ the labor thus saved. Benefits
from acreage expansion (assumed ta be 2 ha--I ha under cotton
and 1 ha under groundnuts) are based on net economic benefits
with labor costed at CFAF 100.
(v) Benefits for wells and tubewells are based on the same meth-
odology as used for RDF I, 1/ updated to reflect latest prices.
3.        Based on the above assumptions, FDR's investment package would yield
a rate of return of 16%. Actual cost and benefit streams are in Table 6 and
sensitivity analysis results are in Table 7. The latter are not particularly
relevant because of the flexible nature of the Rural Development Fund, but
should provide some indication about shifts in the rate of return.
I/   See Report PA-127a, Appraisal of a Rural Development Fund Project Upper
Volta, dated May 16, 1972. In calculating these benefits, the following
was taken into account: additional available days because of improved
health (5 men in the village to work an additional 300 days at CFAF 100);
saved calories because reduced walking to water supply sources (60 fami-
lies at 16 km/day during 8 months - 230,000 km at 23 calories/km at 1 ton
cereals for 3.3 million calories saves 1.6 ton cereals); and additional
milk production from goats (2,400 liters at 12 CFAF).



ANNEX 12
Page 4
4.        If the benefits for project wells and tubewells, as quantified
above, are not taken into account into the project's benefit stream and if
as a consequence the related investments are deducted from project costs
(see Table 6 where the various items are marked), the remaining investment
package would yield a rate of return of 21% (see also Table 7).
5.        It should be remembered that the above economic rate of return
calculations fail to capture two important aspects; namely, (i) that the
main benefits accrue to the poorest segment of the Voltaic population
and mainly in an area with difficult ecological and human conditions; and
(ii) there is a direct effect on human well-being especially from invest-
ments that result in improved water supply for villagers. It should also
be remembered that, although the various subcomponents are not especially
risky provided they are constructed correctly and maintained properly, as
is common with all agricultural activity in Upper Volta, benefit levels are
liable to sharp fluctuations due to a notoriously variable rainfall.
6.        The project provides a line of credit which will be used for in-
vestment in various subprojects, some of which will be productive and have
benefits which can easily be quantified, while others will have social and
health benefits for which quantification is either difficult or impossible
and less useful. The principal economic benefits of the various subprojects
would be as follows:  bottomlands - increases in wet season rice production;
small-scale irrigation - increases in rice and season vegetable production;
erosion control and medium-term credit - increased production of cereals and
groundnuts; warehouses - reduction of storage losses in both farm inputs and
farm outputs, plus induced increases in input use; and wells and tubewells -
improved labor productivity and increased livestock production. The project
will also provide important social and institutional benefits. Wells give
an assured water supply to the human population, who otherwise depend on
small often distant creeks which run dry for at least three months of the
year; there is also a significant health impact as the creeks contain water-
borne diseases. Institutional strengthening has already occurred under the
first project by improving the capacity of FDR, HAER, and ORDs to sponsor
and implement sound development. The proposed strengthening of these insti-
tutions under the project would further improve their development capacity.
7.        As explained above economic calculations are tentative because
the project provides basically a line of credit to FDR. Therefore, separate
rate of returns for various subcomponents are even more tentative and less
useful (except to a certain extent for ranking) especially since it would
be highly arbitrary to allocate overheads and to make final assumptions
about the annual pace of development and execution of works under various
subcomponents. However, to give an impression about ranking, based on
simple models using the development program in Annex 4, and assuming that
the benefits described in the farm budgets (Annex 11) will materialize
without allocating overheads to the various subcomponents, rates of return



ANNEX 12
Page 5
for the various productive components of the project would be as follows:
bottomlands, over 50%; erosion control, 30%; improved bottomlands, 18%;
small-scale irrigation, 16%; and agricultural equipment, over 50%. If
the same assumptions and benefits described in the footnote on page 3 are
used, the well and tubewell component will have a rate of return of 6%.
The latter indicates already that there are more than only quantifiable
economic considerations (health, farmer response, availability of re-
sources to be developed, etc.) which determine the selection of subproj-
ects to be financed by RDF.
8.        Overall it has been demonstrated that an investment package like
the one proposed under this project will yield economic benefits for Upper
Volta. It is also clear that the various subcomponents which have been
identified are justified either on economic or on social grounds or on a
combination of both. For projects not yet identified, appraisal by FDR will
include economic justification, and this will also be done in studies for
small-scale irrigation and improved bottomlands (see also Annex 9). Further-
more, evaluation will involve, from time to time, the verification of the
various subprojects' justification.



ANNEX 12
Table 1
UPPER VOLTA
SECONX  RURAL DEVELOPM1NET FUND PROJECT
Incremental Project Production
(Metric Tons)
1976/77      1977178      1978179     1979/80      1980/81       1981/1982
Onwards
A. Erosion Control Works  '
Cereals 2/
1975/76     200                    27           27           27           27           27           27
1976/77   1,500                                203          203          203          203          203
1977/78   2,000                                             270          270          270          270
1978/79   2,500                                                          338          338          338
1979/80   3,000                                              _405                                  405
Total Cenrla                         27          230          500          !r         1,243
Grounenuts 3/
1975/76     200                     1            1            1            1            1            1
1916/77   1,500                                 il           11           il           il           il
1977/78   2,000                                              141 14                    14           14
1978/79   2,500                                                           17           17           17
1979/80   3,000                                                                        21           21
Total Groundnute                      1           12           26           43           64           64
Cotton 4/
1975/76     200                     2            2            2            2            2            2
1976/77   1,500                                 15           15           15           15           15
1977/78   2,000                                              20           20           20           20
1978/79   2,500                                                           25           25           25
1979/80   3,000                                                                        30           30
Total Cotton                          2           17           37           62            92           92
B. Bottomlands 5/ (Paddy)
1975/76     100                   150          150          150          150          150          150
1976/77     500                                750          750          750          750          750
1977/78     600                                             goo          900          900          900
1978/79     700                                                        1,050        1,050        1,050
1979/80     800                                                                     1 200        1 200
150          900       1,800        2,850        4,00 
C.  Iniproved Bottoulande 6/ (Paddy)
1975/76        -                    -            -
1976/77       50                    -           35           35           35           35           35
1977/78       50                    _            -           35           35           35           35
1978/79     100                     -                         -           70           70           70
1979/80      100                    _           -n-                       -            70           70
-           35          70           i           210          210
D. Small Irrigation 7/ (Paddy)
1975/76        -                    -            _
1976/77       25                    -          131          131          131          131          131
1977/78       25                    _            -          131          131          131          131
1978/79       75                    -                         -          394          394          394
1979/80       75                    -            -            -            -          394          394
-         131            6          656        1,050        1,050
Total Paddy                         150        1,066        2,132        3,646        5,310        5.310
. ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~     _ __                      _ .6         h ._         _ __         _
1/  Based on farm budget for central region.
2/  Yield improvemerit 150 kg/ha (from 500 to 650 kg/ha);assi=ed 3.6 ha out of an average 4 ha planted
with cereals; thus incremental  output per proJect ha 135 kg.
3/  Yield improvement 135 kg/ha (from 450 to 585 kg/ha) ;a%sumed 0.2 ha out of an average 4 ha planted with
groundnuts; thus incremental output per project ha 7 kg.
4/  Yield improvement 200 kg/ha (from 300 to 500 kg/ha); aeseumed 0.2 ha cut ot an average 4 ha planted
with cotton; thus incremental output per project ha 10 kg.
5/ Yield estimated 1,500 kg/ha
6/ Yield improvement estimated at 700 kg/ha (from 1,500 to 2,200 kg/ha)
7/ Yield estimated 3,500 kg/ha, but assumed that half area double cropped; thus output per project
ha 5,250 kg.



ANNEX 12
Table 2
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Economic Price of Cereals _/
1975         1980
- - - - - us$ - - - - -
2/
Sorghum FOB Gulf  in current dollars                      (113)        (135)
in constant 1973 dollars                (84)         (69)
in constant 1975 dollars 3/             113           93
Ocean freight and insurance                                 30           30
CIF costs Abidjan (US$/ton)                                143          123
-    --  FAF -----
CIF costs Abidjan (CFAF/ton)                            32,175       27,675
Handling costs and port charges                          1,700        1,700
Costs of bags - bagging                                  2,900        2,900
Value landed                                            36,775       32,275
Railway transport to Ouagadougou                        15,700       15,700
Price in Ouagadougou                                    52,475       47,975
Local transport (less)                                   2,000        2,000
Marketing margins  (less)                                3 000        3,000
h2-,975
Losses 4/   (less)                                       4,315        3,905
Economic farmgate price of cereals 5/                   43,160       39,070
1/  Based on import substitution value.
2/  Forecast for grain sorghum (US No. 2 Milo Yellow, f.o.b. Gulf portâ).
3/ Obtained by applying international inflation index to commodity price forecast
in 1973 constant dollars (1973 = 100 and 1975 = 134.9)
4/ Estimated at 10% of field harvested weight.
5/ Official price for cereals is CFAF 22 per kg. This price has been used in the
farm budget analysis. For economic calculations a price of CFAF 39 per kilo
has been used.



ANNEX 12
Table 3
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Economic Price of Paddy _/
1975        1980
- - - - US$  - ---
2/
Rice, 5% broken, FOB-Bangkok , in current dollars         (370)       (471)
constant 1973 dollars       (274)        (240)
constant 1975 dollars 3/    370           323
20% reduction for lower grade (25% broken)                  74          65
296         258
Ocean freight and insurance                                 60          60
CIF - cost Abidjan (US$/ton)                               356         318
- - - - CFAF - - - -
CIF - cost Abidjan (CFAF.ton) 4/                       80,100       71,550
Handling costs and port charges                         1,700        1,700
Railway transport Abidjan-Ouagadougou                  15,700       15,700
Importers margin                                        2,500        2,500
Wholesalers price Ouagadougou                         100,000       91,450
Local transport from mill to market                     2,000        2,000
Value of rice ex-mill                                   98,000      89,450
Equivalent paddy value (65% outturn)                   63,700       58,150
Milling costs  (less)                                    6,500       6,500
Paddy collection costs (less)                           2,000        2,000
Economic farmgate price of paddy 5/                     55,200      49,650
1/  Based on import substitution value
2/ Forecast for rice, Thai, milled, 5% broken, f.o.b. Bangkok
3/  Obtained by applying the international inflation index to commodity price
forecast in 1973 constant dollars (1973 = 100 and 1975 = 134.9)
4/  US$1.00 = CFAF 225
5/ Official paddy price in 1975 was CFAF 35 per kg. Farmers, however, sell paddy ta
private merchants at prices ranging between 45 and 65 CFAF per kg. An economic
price of CFAF 50 per kg from 1980 has been used for economic calculations;
the price of CFAF 35 per kg (conservative estimate) has been used for farm
budget calculations.



Annex 12
Table 4
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Economic Price of Groundnuts 1/
1975        1980
-  -  --  -s$- - -  _
2/
Groundnuts CIF Europe  in current dollars                (490)       (475)
in 1973 dollars                  (363)        (242)
in 1975 dollars 3/                490          326
Ocean freight and insurance                                20          20
FOB Nigeria (US$/ton)                                     470         306
- - - - CFAF - - -  _
4/
FOB Abidjan  (CFAF/ton)                               105,750      68,850
Handling costs and port charges                         1,700       1,700
Railway transport to,Ouagadougou                       17,000      17,000
Price in Ouagadougou                                   87,050      50,150
Local transport                                         2,000       2,000
Marketing margins                                       3,000       3,000
82,050      45,150
Losses 5/                                               3,910       2,150
Economic farmgate price of groundnuts 6/               78,140      43,000
1/ Based on export parity value
2/ Forecast for groundnuts, Nigerian, CIF Europe
3/ Obtained by applying international inflation index to commodity price forecast
in 1973 constant dollars (1973 = 100 and 1975 = 134.9)
4/ Assured to be equal to FOB Nigeria price
5/ Estimated at 5% of field harvested weight
6/ Official prïce for groundnuts in CFAF 25 per kg.  This price has been used in
farm budget calculations. For economic calculations a price of CFAF 43/kilo
has been used.



ANNEX 12
Table 5
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Economic Price of Seed Cotton 1/
1975          1980
2/                                                    -----US ct/lb-------
Cotton CIF Europe  in current prices                                       56             84
in constant 1973 prices                                42             43
in constant 1975 prices 3/                             56             58
-_____TUS$____-    _
In constant 1975 prices per metric ton                                  1,235          1,279
Ocean freight and insurance                                                20             20
FOB Abidjan (US$/metric ton)                                            1,215          1,259
------CFAF--------
FOB Abidjan (CFAF/ton) 4/                                             273,4oo        283,300
Handling costs and port charges                                         1,700          1,700
Railway transport to Bobo                                              15,000         15,000
Ginning/handling                                                       20,000         20,000
Costs in Bobo                                                         236,700        246,600
Per ton seed cotton 5/                                                 89,900         93,700
Local transport, marketing margins                                      7,8o0          7,800
Economic value of cottonseed 6/                                        82,100         85,900
1/  Based on export parity value.
2/ Forecast for cotton, Mexican SM 1-1/16" CIF N. Europe.
3/ Obtained by applying the international inflation index to commodity forecast in 1973
constant dollars (1973 = 100 and 1975 = 134.9).
4/  US$1.00 = CFAF 225
5/ 38% would be for lint.
/ Value of seed not included. Official price (used in farm budgets) is CFAF 35/kilo.
For economic calculations a price of CFAF 85/kilo has been used.



AHRI 12
UFFER VOLTA                                                                                        Tabla 6
SECOND RURAL DESIEOPENr PMN  POIE?T
E-omuzir Rats of Retee  Calc.Ictien
(CFIP '000)
1985/M6
1975/76         1976/77         1977/78         1978/79         1979180        198i281         1981/82         1982/83         1983/84         1984/85         I2199 I9
A.  Feniant Cnet. 1j/
Bnttnnlauds                        4,170          20,850          25,020          29,190          33,360
Ernelo- W-kbs                      2,948         22,110          29,480          36,850          44,220
Eotended Bottrnlicds/
Seau1  -Irgarl.ns                  -            32,495          32,493          89,990          89,990
Villege Buildings                  7,605           8,896          12,699          16,501         20,304
* Oeil  15/                          -            202,830         107,360         119,500         106,185
*Tubemelîs                           -               -             52,110          63,110          32,110
Agriculture Ceedit 12/              -             28,123          28,125         28,125          28,125
luneortlnu Services
Personnel 2/                     49,990           71,980         91,780         136,800         151,900          54,000          40,500          38,250          38,250           38,250          19,125
Equipu..ut 13/                   23,500          49,400          36,000          21,300          16,600              830             830             830             830             850             830
Oper-rirg tests 13/               21,763          30,195         30,195          30,195          30,195            1.5190          1,310           1,510           1,510           1,510           1,510
Traiuiug                            -             12,540           5,620           6,320           5,540---                                                                                         -
R.lelard tu Oeils 4 Tubav11s                       11,135           8,635          10,265           9,865-                                           ----
*Meinte..a. s Brigade 2/             -9,700                         5,940           6,840           7,740           7,740           7,740           7,740           7,740           7,740           7,740
Terh.icsl  Aeeistsnra             23.100          6,8IJ1          65.917          68.192           3,536            -               -               -
Suirtote1                  133,076         562,117         531,376         665,178         599,670          64,080          50,580          48,350          48,350          48,330          29,205
Plus    Projecre Physiral
neigcir14/            7,319          41,061          38,123          49,511          45,887            -               -               -               --                              -
Legs   Eetis,sted Taxes.         10,011          45,256         45L857           52,673          5,7~,11        1,400             1,400           1.400           1.400           1,400           1.400
Tuts1 Frojeo  I~.tSuver cete     129,554         537,922        523,642         660,016         592,846          62,680          49,188          46,930          46,930          46,930           27,885
B.  Estixsted Ior,erlFc,Code
Supotu 4/                            430           3,642           7,405          13,443         20,030           20,030
Lshor  5/                          1.100          7LQ82           14f16           23.300          33,540          33L540
lubtota1                     1,530          10.722          21.565          36 743          5351            53,570          53.570          53.570          53.570          53.570          53.170
C.  Mniotee..nce Coure  6/                              -                 150            300             650           1.000          1....LQ          1.000           1.000          1,,Lfl            1.000
D.  TOTAI COSTS                      131,114         568,644         545,357         697,039         647,066         117,250         103,750         101,580         101,500         101,500          82,575
E.  Eetl,ssted Sru,n
Production frue Lsud i
Oster Oevelon-t Somms-1
Produotion, C.ecal.                 -1,053                         8,970          19,500          33,682         48,477          48,477
Psddy                  -7,500                       53,300         106,600         182,300         265,500         265,500
CIr.u.dructs                            43             516           1,118           1,849           2,752           2,752
Corton                                  170          1,4             3,4             5,270           7820            7.820          ___            ____
Subt.t.1                      -              0,766          64,231         130,363         222,101         324,549         324,549         524,549         324,549         324,549         324,549
F.  Oth-r Benefilt
Saved  -adays 9/                   3,400           6,800          10,300          13,600          13,600          13,600          13,600          15,600          13,600          13,600          13,600
Ac-uge lEpseele i.10/               -             24,225         48,450          72,675           96,900          96,900          96,900          96,900          96,900          96,900          96,900
nW.11. & Tubeselle  -l                                            -1212            33.936          58 176          84 840          84__840         _4_840         _4_ 40_840_4_4
Surtotsl                    32400           31,025          70J770         120%211         16,7            195340          195.340         19534           195J340         195.340         195.340
i.  TOTAL BINEFITS                      3,400         39,791         135,001         250,374         390,777         519,889         519,889         519,889         519,889         519,889         519,089
1/ Fo- detsils ses An..e 7, Table 1. Ezrluded Etro  rate of ctuten naculc.lees. are sldeetified projants (US$600,000) ced
otudies mcenoo-    develepert nI- aras  frn,  -nhoc..rniasle (0071,495,000),
2/ ESeenine  -eoba-  ere  -geede  alen  fter tira ptojent peeiod.  Trie le ba...d on th. Ochedrela of Aunez 9, Table 1. Af tac
10 yesn- Self tire nu-ha  taken juracoer
3/  ineseof tubevllu althrogh net rire reepnuslbility nf tira pejet                     ll have tu  hsrere    inois Os   flaotsd.
4/ Inorsieseral.t iseslpnte for lanA anA acter davalop-at sohe-.; lu-r.emanra1 physira1 raquirazents have beau nanulaItsd
froz baera" ed cIter fans budgets in Annez Il.
1/Ioa rl isSu  requlresete for Isnd anA s,ter daveloeset enhez, ierae talrquiremats have base ralruatsd
feu  before sod cft-e fane budgete lu Aunez 11.  ON.Iceeea  labe-  la required fer ani-rsi                     kveb  ced irpru-d
bottoelsed develop,..nt. LaSer v-ued at CAFA 100/day.
6/  sSu   -equlred fer  fsoe      un  laed and seere  daalopr-te subh-a  vslud at e-c   nd net raben into arroser le erdr
to reflent 1ack ni ..y ocre  meplny-te opporcuitiee oursidu th. ag....rl                  .asu.  A charge ef CFA? 2.000/ha
enflants HAER's invleezt lu nainte..ance of lnpeved brrtrlse.de sed .-Ial irrigation  suhessas
7/ Sue. Aurez 12, Tsbls 1 for quanntitis; prîces ara lu Ae-e  12, Tablas 2 to 5.
8/ 1-veter te  i gtcltra   c-dit vay wlAely.  Hovae, bse..d on au a-rega of CFA? 65,000 (oa e- an.                           uierd
ornee.bar), 1,700 fa-,r   -old benefit or 425 aunnlly.
9/ B...d o- a-  scrage holding (euAunez il fer eorhr  ann) ef 4 ira -ad  -adays betvee slith-aed  iithour-zn drame
onîtivetinu le 80 nandaye.
10/ Aeeueed st 2 ira (total holdings to go under rthat auosptiun irz 4 te 6 ha).   onE-n face budgets bave beau  .calrultrd
<output st  -cnic prinse  lame ipote and laber fer 100) for rbe  ddileeai rue ira for cortex aed grosedeure.
Th.ave-go Se...eii bert-e  tiro.e tun budgets le (r..uded3 CFA? 57fl2Q.
11/ Be-filte have bean nains Iard fo11iu,ig ..as - tehudelgy as .ud-n RDFI, updatad sh-r .u.....ary for ocheged nete ced
peines.  Althoogh, tubesseli  in rire utth c..uId benefit reazlng cartle ad laee  villagere, rir  a mae benefits have baee
use d to nalue both meus  sud tobemels.  B.-afit. par   ei1/rtbas11 CFA?F 712192
12 / Repleceset ni sgeicuirtel uquipeet unt takue itm  annue  aen   seeued replanczers rae ba pald fese profit zadas
suie niaf    as  shichir le ut taken jute accse  le benefirt.
13/ Aller projunr pannAd 31 taken ito  ncount ru -af tat noriuig              hvebeda zal,ly by ORD3..
14/ Frujont physicai centicgenciee mecludiug Chose for tire stdies  fi  oonexc deeIopaet of cessa fr-d feu   eneeries
I5,~Tn calculs  c  ...u.eic rurt-   me liSPs i-t-ste .11 th. cbove anars ced be..efit. bave b... tbk- jure accest. Oea-e,
ro detornica  cire ROR vithrnur inereel  -nd ba...fir. uf vele rb. irans virth A (ienlodlng relared pirysicai etee1is
have uon doducted feux th. choya.



ANNEX 12
Table 7
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis
Costs             Benefits               ROR 1/              ROR 2/
100                  100                  15.85               21.05
100                   90                  13.35               17.95
100                   80                  10.75               14.85
110                  100                  13.55               18.25
110                   90                  11.25               15.35
110                   80                   8.75               12.45
120                  100                  11.65               15.85
120                   90                   9.35               13.15
120                   80                   7.05               10.35
100                  delayed              12.65               16.35
one year
l/  Sensitivity for rate of return based on all costs
and benefits in Table 6 of this Annex.
2/  Sensitivity and rate of return for costs and benefits
in Table 6 minus costs and benefits for wells and
tubewells (see Table 6 footnote 15).






UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
MINISTRY OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT
RURAL DEVELOPMENT
MINISTER                  -   -                         COORDINATING
COMM ITTEE
CABINET                     |
PERMANENT SECRETARIAT                          I
SECRETARIAT
ARCHIVES, RECORDS AND INFORMATION OFFICE
ADMINISTRATION AND ACCOUNTING OFFICE
INSPECTION AND CONTROL OFFICE
RURAL DEVELOPMENT    |LIVESTOCK                                  |AGRICULTURAL                              YOUNG FARMERS
WORKS DEPARTMENT                        DEPARTMENT                        DEPARTMENT                        TRlDEAITNIN
R EG IONAL D EV ELOPM ENT OR GAN IZATI ONS                           
World Bank-16054






UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT ORGANIZATION <ORD)
ORGANIZATION CHART
conordiAnati          CommunitCo Rdral
and          ~~~Developmeni      Deeopment Wo rk
Hma oningOfficHoe Ofce                            Office
LivetkAgcuu Vil                Misce      Village     Rural Voulh   I   r                ViaMarketingA
Prdcivsok            Agrodcutural            Producllaneu              and                 Training              Cooperatives               and          ORO LEVEL
Production   l  Production   l   Production      Family Budget                                                            Credit
|  Team                                                                             SECTOR LEVEL
%  C.D.A.  L               G          R         O          U        P~~~~~~~~~.GOU  OF BASE COMMUNITIES LEVEL
r| Coordination  |                               Coordination 
|Home Economics                               Home Economics|
Agents                                        Agents     |
Village.D.A.  |          illage..A    C.D.A.          C...|||Vlacg.DA .
Extension             Extension               Extenon  n            Extension                             BASE COMMUNITY LEVEL
Worker                Worker                   Workeror
1/ Multisectoral Team lead by a Community Development Agent (CDA).                                                                                     Worid Bank - 15429






UPPER VOLTA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
RURAL DEVELOPMENT WORKS DEPARTMENT
ORGANIZATION CHART
3 tDirector
Cra  and          l          Rural Water    |l l                                       Basie Data &     l
Industrial        *and                                   Rural Works             Water Resources
Water SupplV            Land Development                                               Research
Central & Eastern                Western Area
Area Office                       Office
(Ouagadougou)                 (Bobo-Dioulasso)
Engineering     "                        Administration
|   & Design                            & Accounting
|  IIDams                      Land &W                                                        &
Projects Financed         Projects Financed                Pump Installation]        We[ l o nstrctio
by FED      by RDF                       &  ~~~~~~MaintenanceRF
World Bank - 15432






IBRD fl952
gutir- OF, UPPM: 90CA~~~,                          \---~
~SECO~D, RtJRA   DEVELOPMNT
J       ~~S A HE L                              -
t\Y~~~~~~~~Y
KU ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,UH
14. ~ ~    c
$  (~~~~"y<~~OBO  DIOLXASSO  K(IOM
Di~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
FAA-NGU  
tVORY      COA$T                                 ~.> 2p
G____ _n  ___                                                         ENKODOGO_ 



